Building for the

future

Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Contents

Strategic report

1 

2 

6 

Building for the future

Our investment case

Business overview

10  Chair’s statement

Directors’ report

Financial statements

90  Governance at a glance

158 

Independent auditors’ report

92  Board of Directors

168  Consolidated income statement

95  Group management team

96  Chair’s Q&A

169 

 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income

12  Chief Executive’s statement

97 

Building strong governance

16  Our business model

100  Board activities

21  Our market environment

101  Shareholder engagement

28 

30 

31 

 Market trends, opportunities 
and risks

Purpose, values and strategy

Performance and strategy

39  Operational review

43  Building for our customers

102  Workforce engagement

104 

 Board leadership

105  Monitoring culture

106  Diversity

107 

 Nomination and Governance 
Committee report

46  Building for our people

113  Audit Committee report

49  Materiality assessment

125  Compliance statement

129  Governance structure

130  Role of the Board

131  Remuneration Committee report

153 

 Statutory, regulatory and other 
information

50 

53 

69 

71 

74 

 Our commitment to the 
environment

 Task force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures

 Non-financial and sustainability 
information statement

Risk management

Principal Risks and uncertainties

78  Group financial review

82 

84 

Viability statement

 Stakeholder engagement 
and priorities

87 

Section 172(1) statement

170  Consolidated balance sheet

Our investment case

Our business model 

171 

 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity

172 

 Consolidated cash flow statement

173 

 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements

211  Company balance sheet

212 

213 

219 

 Company statement of  
changes in equity

 Notes to the Company  
financial statements

 Particulars of subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures

Read more on pages 2 to 5

Read more on pages 16 to 20

Operational review

Our commitment to the 
environment

Read more on pages 39 to 42

Read more on pages 50 to 52

226  Five year review

Our reporting suite

Shareholder information

227 

231 

 Notice of Annual  
General Meeting

 Notes to the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting

239  Shareholder facilities

Sustainability Summary 2023

Building for a 
sustainable future

Building for the

future

Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our 2023 Annual Report is an 
integrated report which includes 
key sustainability and financial 
disclosures.

More information on our materiality 
process, sustainability activities 
and policies can be found in our 
Sustainability Summary 2023.

Scan to view 
our online 
Annual Report 
2023

Scan for the full 
Sustainability 
Summary 2023

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBuilding for 
the future

In 2023 we delivered a good 
performance in the face of 
challenging market conditions. 
Going forward, we remain focused 
on driving value and ensuring we are 
ready and able to take advantage 
of opportunities. We are building 
for the future.

2023 was a challenging year for the industry and our customers with rising 
interest rates and cost of living pressures impacting affordability. 

Our clear purpose to build great homes and create thriving communities 
remains unchanged and is even more important today for our employees, 
customers, communities and partners.

With the benefit of a strong landbank and financial position and led by an 
experienced management team, Taylor Wimpey is well set to respond to 
changing market conditions in an agile way, building on momentum to 
ensure we optimise value and are poised for recovery and future growth 
from 2025, assuming supportive market conditions. 

1

We have a 
compelling 
investment 
proposition:

A strong and resilient 
business, well positioned 
for all market conditions

A high-quality landbank 
that differentiates us 

see page 2

see page 3

A sustainable and 
responsible business

see page 4

Reliable shareholder 
returns

see page 5

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur investment case

Strong and

resilient

Focused on operational excellence 
to optimise margin and drive attractive 
long term returns

2

Experienced senior 
leadership and highly 
engaged employees

Strong balance sheet

Tight control of cost and 
work in progress, ensuring 
build rates are aligned with 
sales rates at a site level

Leveraging Taylor Wimpey 
Logistics and our new timber frame 
facility to support security of supply, 
increase visibility and speed of build

Increased standardisation 
to drive quality, savings and 
incremental operational 
efficiencies

Increased use of 
technology on site and 
data monitoring to aid 
simplification and drive 
decision-making

4.89

Construction Quality 
Review average score 
(out of 6) 
(2022: 4.81)

13.4%

Operating profit margin*
(2022: 20.9%)

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur investment case continued

c.80k

plots in short term 
landbank
(31 Dec 2022: c.83k)

We have a balance sheet light, industry 
leading strategic pipeline of c.142k 
potential plots (31 Dec 2022: c.144k)

£61bn

potential revenue in our landbank 
across both the short term landbank and 
strategic pipeline
(31 Dec 2022: £61bn)

High-quality, well-located landbank 
in places people want to live

Differentiated by our

landbank

Our high-quality landbank together with 
an industry-leading strategic land pipeline 
provides optionality throughout the cycle

c.8k

plots converted from 
strategic pipeline
(2022: c.4k)

We remain selective in acquiring new 
sites but will be active where we see 
good opportunities to create value 
for shareholders

3

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur investment case continued

Sustainable and

responsible

ESG is embedded throughout the business 
for the benefit of all our stakeholders

We are driven by our 
purpose to build great 
homes and create thriving 
communities and by our core 
value to ‘do the right thing’

98%

of our employees agree 
that we take health and 
safety seriously
(2022: 98%)

Net Zero Transition Plan 
targets validated by 
Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi)

Read more about our commitment to 
the environment on pages 50 to 52

In 2023, we launched our zero carbon 
ready prototype homes trial in Sudbury, 
the first trial of its kind on a live 
development site testing low carbon 
technologies

Read more on page 36

4

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur investment case continued

7.5%

of net assets or at least 
£250 million annually 
throughout the cycle 
paid out via an ordinary 
cash dividend

Reliable shareholder

returns

We are committed to paying an annual 
ordinary dividend through the cycle, and 
returning surplus capital at the appropriate time

*  Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements. 

Please see page 81 for definitions.

5

4.79p

2023 final ordinary 
dividend per share
(2022: 4.78p)

9.58p

2023 total ordinary 
dividend for the year
(2022: 9.40p)

Highly cash generative business – 
allows for investment for growth and 
attractive shareholder returns

Established, differentiated Ordinary 
Dividend Policy aimed at providing 
investors with visibility of the annual 
income stream they can expect 
throughout the cycle, including during 
a normal downturn

Read more about our capital 
allocation priorities on page 37

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBusiness overview

We built over 10,000 homes in 2023, 
making us one of the UK’s leading 
homebuilders. We operate across five divisions 
and at a local level from 22 regional businesses 
in the UK, with a small operation in Spain.

Where we operate 
A national housebuilder operating at a local level.

Scotland, North East  
and North Yorkshire

North West  
and Yorkshire

4

regional businesses

3

regional businesses

Midlands  
and Wales

5

regional businesses

London and  
South East

5

regional businesses

Central, South  
West and Spain

5

UK regional 
businesses

6

1

Spanish 
regional 
business

Spain

Map key

  Head office

  Regional offices

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBusiness overview continued

Net zero 
by 2045

Our net zero targets have been 
independently validated by the 
Science Based Targets initiative, 
and we were only the second UK 
housebuilder to achieve this 

Read more about our Net Zero 
Transition Plan on page 51

ESG ratings and accreditations

7

More information about our 
approach to, and performance on, 
sustainability and ESG topics can be 
found throughout this report:

Environment

50 

53 

 Our commitment to the 
environment

 Task force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures

Social

43  Building for our customers

46  Building for our people

84 

 Stakeholder engagement 
and priorities

Governance

102  Workforce engagement

104  Board Leadership

104  Anti-bribery and anti-corruption

110  Succession planning

155  Modern Slavery Act

Built on a strong culture of doing the right thing

Respectful  
and fair

Better  
tomorrow

Take  
responsibility

Be proud

We are defined by our purpose

To build great homes 
and create thriving communities

To deliver superior returns for shareholders through 
our high-quality landbank and enhance value 
through sharper operational focus

Implemented through  
our strategic cornerstones

Read more about our strategic cornerstones on pages 31 to 38

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBusiness overview continued

Delivering a good 
performance by managing 
through the cycle

Group financial highlights

10,848

Group completions including 
joint ventures

£3,514.5m

Revenue

£470.2m

Operating profit*

2023

2022

2021

10,848

14,154

14,302

2023

2022

2021

£3,514.5m

£4,419.9m

£4,284.9m

2023

2022

2021

£470.2m

£923.4m

£828.6m

£473.8m

Profit before tax

9.57p

Total dividend per share  
paid in the year

£677.9m

Year end net cash*

2023

2022

2021

£473.8m

£827.9m

£679.6m

2023

2022

2021

9.57p

9.06p

8.28p

2023

2022

2021

£677.9m

£863.8m

£837.0m

*Alternative Performance Measures

The Group uses Alternative Performance Measures (APMs), such as 
those indicated above with a footnote symbol, as important financial 
performance indicators to assess underlying performance of the Group. 
The Group's two financial targets are operating profit margin and return 
on net operating assets. Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to 
the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the 
financial statements. Please see page 81 for definitions.

8

127.1p

13.4%

12.6%

Tangible net assets per share*

Operating profit margin*

Return on net operating assets*

2023

2022

2021

127.1p

126.5p

118.1p

2023

2022

2021

13.4%

20.9%

19.3%

2023

2022

2021

12.6%

26.1%

24.7%

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBusiness overview continued

UK highlights

92%

(2022: 90%)

151

(2022: 166)

35%

(2022: 26%)

Customer satisfaction  
8-week score

Annual Injury Incidence Rate (per 
100,000 employees and contractors) 

Reduction in operational CO2 
emissions (absolute) since 2019

4.89

(2022: 4.81)

47

(2022: 104)

Construction Quality Review  
average score (out of 6)

New outlets opened  
in the year

93%

(2022: 93%)

Employee 
engagement score

£370k

(2022: £352k)

Average selling price  
on private completions

9

c.80k

(2022: c.83k)

Plots in short term 
landbank

£405m

(2022: £455m)

Contributions to local communities, 
via planning obligations

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationChair’s statement

Optimising performance, 
investing in long term 
sustainability

We must optimise short term 
performance but continue  
to invest in areas that matter 
for the future sustainability of  
the business.”

Robert Noel
Chair

10

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Dear shareholder,

In 2023, customers’ affordability was significantly 
reduced by increased mortgage rates. This directly 
impacted Taylor Wimpey and the wider housebuilding 
sector’s volumes, and earnings. In my first year 
as Chair, I am very pleased to report that, despite 
this backdrop, we have delivered a good financial 
performance which was in line with expectations, 
with revenue of £3.5 billion (2022: £4.4 billion) 
and operating profit* of £470.2 million (2022: 
£923.4 million). We have also delivered a resilient 
performance across each element of ESG 
(environmental, social and governance) which is 
important to us and you can read more about this 
on page 7. 

As my predecessor, Irene Dorner, wrote in her letter 
last year, it is in changing market conditions where 
the experience and strength of our team really count. 
I am pleased to say that we have reaped the benefit 
of a very experienced management team, led by 
CEO Jennie Daly, who have responded proactively 
and decisively with an unwavering focus on cost 
and operating efficiency. I would also like to thank 
all our people and our partners for their continued 
hard work and dedication.

You can read more about our 2023 financial 
performance in Group Finance Director Chris 
Carney’s section and how this was achieved in 
Jennie Daly’s section and throughout this report.

Health and safety 

Health and safety remains our number one priority in 
all markets and it is the first topic covered in every 
Board, Group Management Team (GMT) and local 
regional management team meeting across the 
country. Building sites are inherently dangerous 
places and so it is essential that strict safety protocols 

are identified, embedded, monitored and enforced, 
and a clear, consistent and disciplined approach 
to safety is key throughout the organisation. I am 
therefore delighted that 98% of our employees 
agree that we take health and safety seriously. 

The Board is also pleased to see another year 
of progress in this area, even against a strong 
comparator, with our Annual Injury Incidence 
Rate (AIIR) for reportable injuries per 100,000 
employees and contractors down to 151 in 2023 
(2022: 166), remaining well below both the HBF 
Home Builder Average AIIR of 241 and the Health 
and Safety Executive construction industry average 
AIIR of 296. Maintaining and improving standards 
requires constant vigilance and part of this is 
identifying areas where we can do better. We are 
therefore reiterating and reinforcing our focus on 
health, safety and environmental compliance across 
the business, to include additional training. 

Building for the future

The theme of this report is ‘Building for the future’, 
which underscores that while we must optimise 
short term performance for today’s market, we 
have a long term focus and continue to invest today 
in areas that matter for the sustainability and 
success of the Company. I am pleased to say that 
your Board has the confidence that Taylor Wimpey 
has both the resilience and fundamentals in place 
to weather all market conditions and to capitalise 
on future market opportunities. 

This year, ‘Building for the future’ has another, more 
literal meaning, given we launched our zero carbon 
ready homes prototypes, the first of their kind on a 
live development site. We are pleased with our 
progress on this project and our preparedness well 
ahead of future regulation – you can read more 
about this throughout this report.

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationIn line with this, at the time of our full year results in 
February 2024, we announced a 2023 final ordinary 
dividend payment of 4.79 pence per share, which 
is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting. With the 2023 interim dividend 
payment of 4.79 pence per share, the total ordinary 
dividend for the year is 9.58 pence per share or 
approximately £339 million.

Looking forward

We operate in an undersupplied market, and 
remain determined to play our part in building 
much needed quality homes and creating thriving 
communities. We have a strong balance sheet, 
excellent landbank and highly experienced and 
engaged teams. We have a clear strategy to 
respond to all market conditions and are well 
positioned for future growth. 

Robert Noel
Chair

Chair’s statement continued

Stakeholder engagement

Governance

During my time as Board employee representative, 
I was privileged to hear the views of many of our 
colleagues first hand and to represent the employee 
voice in the boardroom. We continue to promote 
the employee voice through our local and national 
employee forums.

This year the Board has visited a number of regional 
business units and sites, including our Sudbury 
prototypes, which you can read about in more 
detail on page 36, and the strong and positive 
culture, to do the right thing, that permeates our 
organisation remains very evident.

Following interviews with all our key stakeholders, 
we have updated our material impacts which show 
the areas that are most material for our business, 
valued by our stakeholders and where we can have 
the most positive impact through our approach to 
every element of ESG. You can read more about 
this on page 49.

The executives and I have also continued to have 
a high level of engagement with institutional 
shareholders. We look forward to continuing this 
level of engagement at the AGM and in future 
institutional shareholder meetings. 

This year’s AGM will take place in person at the 
Crowne Plaza Hotel, Gerrards Cross. Like last year, 
a live audiocast of our AGM will be available to 
qualifying shareholders, to further encourage 
shareholder engagement and accessibility. 
Shareholders will also be able to submit their vote 
in advance by proxy and email questions in 
advance of the meeting.

Whilst the Board’s composition was unchanged 
during 2023 in terms of personnel, there were 
changes in April to a number of key roles and to the 
membership of the Remuneration Committee.

Following my appointment as Chair, my predecessor 
Irene Dorner continues on the Board as a non-
independent Non Executive Director and continues 
to give us the benefit of her wide experience.

Humphrey Singer succeeded me as Senior 
Independent Director and has over eight years’ 
experience of the Company and its Board, to draw 
upon when engaging with stakeholders.

Mark Castle took over my role as the Board’s 
Employee Champion and has further developed the 
Board’s interaction with employees at all levels 
across the Group and the promotion of their views 
into relevant Board discussions. Finally, Mark Castle 
and Clodagh Moriarty joined the Remuneration 
Committee.

Non Executive Directors visited an increased 
number of the Group’s regional businesses and 
sites during the year. We enjoyed and learned from 
the interaction with employees across the business.

ESG engagement at Board level was enhanced 
during 2023 with more regular and expanded 
reporting, supported by the introduction of a tracker 
of progress against key metrics.

Dividend

We are pleased to be able to provide a reliable 
return to our shareholders in line with our Ordinary 
Dividend Policy to return 7.5% of net assets 
per annum to shareholders throughout the cycle. 

*  Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements. 

Please see page 81 for definitions.

11

98%

of employees feel we take 
health and safety seriously

£339m

Total ordinary dividend for 2023

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationChief Executive’s statement

Delivering on what 
we set out to do and 
building for the future

Having successfully navigated 
through an uncertain 
18 months, our focus remains on 
optimising value across all areas 
of the business while investing 
in our long term success.”

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive

Scan to see 
Chief Executive 
Jennie Daly and 
Group Finance 
Director Chris 
Carney presenting 
our Full Year 
2023 results

12

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Dear shareholder,

We came into 2023 in a strong financial position, 
which stood us in good stead in what was a 
challenging year for the industry and for our 
customers, who were impacted by both cost 
of living challenges and significantly increased 
mortgage rates. With a strong balance sheet and 
landbank, experienced management team and 
a focus on execution and cost discipline, I am 
extremely pleased to report to you that we 
delivered a good set of results in these challenging 
market conditions.

We couldn’t achieve this without the dedication of 
our employees and supply chain partners. Almost 
60% of our staff are currently shareholders or are 
participating in one or more employee share plan, 
further directly aligning their interests with you, 
our shareholders.

Delivering in a challenging market 

2023 saw UK total housing transactions reduce 
substantially due to higher mortgage costs, cost 
of living pressures and lower consumer confidence. 
To give you a sense of the change experienced 
by our customers, in 2023, the base rate was at 
its highest since 2007, more than 15 years ago, 
and we entered the year with energy costs at 
historic highs.

Trading in the first quarter of 2023 was encouraging 
as mortgage rates eased back from the peak of 2022. 
However, higher than expected inflation in the second 
quarter led to rate increases culminating in the base rate 
rising to 5.25%, well above initial market expectations. 
Whilst remaining high compared to recent years, 
mortgage rates started to fall towards the end of the 
year. You can read more about the market 
environment on pages 21 to 29.

Against that backdrop, I am pleased we delivered 
Group completions, including joint ventures, of 
10,848 homes (2022: 14,154) and £470.2 million 
operating profit*, which was at the top end of 
guidance (2022: £923.4 million), with an operating 
profit margin* of 13.4% (2022: 20.9%). You can 
read more about our financial performance 
on pages 78 to 81.

We operate in a cyclical industry, therefore the ability 
to navigate changing economic conditions is central 
to our success and we are pleased that we have been 
able to perform strongly in a weaker market. 

Our business and strategy is deliberately set up 
to perform through the cycle and our differentiated 
Ordinary Dividend Policy reflects this and I’m very 
pleased that shareholders continue to see the 
benefit of this. Due to the strength of the balance 
sheet and having been tested against our clear 
capital allocation framework and Ordinary Dividend 
Policy, I am delighted we have continued to pay 
a dividend returning £337.9 million to our 
shareholders in 2023. 

2023 decisive management action

Given the challenging market conditions in 2023, 
our highly experienced teams focused on driving 
value through all the levers available to us. Cost 
discipline was a core focus, especially given the 
inflationary environment and we took appropriate 
action across all areas of operations. In particular, 
we tightened controls across our work in progress 
and restricted all discretionary spend, including 
recruitment.

In 2023, we conducted a detailed review to ensure 
our customer offering remains competitive which 
targeted cost savings.

In early 2023, we delivered annualised cost savings 
of £19 million with a one off cost to achieve these 
of £8 million.

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationChief Executive’s statement continued

We also significantly reduced land approvals. 
With our sector leading strategic land pipeline and 
the expertise of our teams, we benefitted from a 
high level of strategic conversion in the year at 
c.8k plots (2022: c.4k plots). Our strategic land 
pipeline is a key competitive advantage in a 
challenging planning environment and, accordingly, 
our short term landbank remains strong at c.80k 
plots (2022: c.83k plots). 

Building for the future

While much of our focus in 2023 has rightly been 
on protecting value and optimising the here and 
now, a key priority has been to continue to invest 
in the things that matter for the long term success 
of the business and to ensure we are poised for 
recovery and future growth, when conditions allow. 
This includes continuing to invest in training our 
highly engaged workforce to ensure they have the 
appropriate skills to drive the business forward. 
This is reflected by the theme of this year’s Annual 
Report and Accounts, ‘Building for the future’.

We believe a holistic future focus is needed for 
success across every area of the business which 
includes the important area of ESG. Continuous 
business improvement also remains fundamental 
to how we protect stakeholder value against a 
backdrop of increasing regulatory and economic 
demands. This includes componentisation, 
standardisation and modern methods of 
construction such as timber frame. Our approach 
to standardisation and simplification, which I first 
set out in May 2022, will play a crucial role in 
allowing us to protect value and scale up at the 
appropriate time and we have continued to embed 
this in the business. During 2023, as part of our 
investment in the future, we opened our own timber 
frame facility located adjacent to our logistics 
function in Peterborough to drive efficiencies, 

environmental benefits and enhance security of 
supply. In combination with our existing suppliers, 
our own facility will help us in our goal to increase 
timber frame usage to 30% of our production by 
2030. The first units will be delivered to our 
business in 2024. 

We are also ensuring a positive approach to 
continued innovation and R&D and we are pushing 
ourselves to be more ambitious, than we have 
been historically, in some areas such as IT which 
will benefit the business in the longer term.

This year we have launched our zero carbon 
ready homes prototypes as we prepare for the 
Future Homes Standard, a generational step 
change in building regulations. At our site in 
Sudbury, we delivered a Future Homes Standard 
pilot, which was an industry first on a live 
development site. Five prototype zero carbon ready 
homes tested a range of innovative technologies 
and over 450 stakeholders from employees, 
investors to MPs and customers have visited 
our site to ask questions and provide feedback. 
We fundamentally believe we have a responsibility 
to do what we can to support the wider sector, 
particularly smaller homebuilders (SMEs). 
Accordingly, we have shared the lessons and 
insights learnt on Sudbury with the Future Homes 
Hub and held a separate SME call and presentation. 

Delivering value through our purpose

Our purpose is to build great homes and create 
thriving communities. We believe having a shared 
purpose across our whole business and value chain 
is critical and I am delighted to say I see this in action 
every day on our sites and in our local businesses. 
While relatively simple, our purpose not only is 
vital for our customers but also has far reaching 
societal impacts of which we are extremely proud. 

Delivering for our 
communities

In 2023, we invested 
£405m in the 
communities in which 
we build via planning 
obligations, including:

Education 

£53.2m

(2022: £47.5m)

Public transport 

£6.0m

(2022: £4.8m)

Public open space /  
sports pitches / play areas 

£5.9m

(2022: £5.8m)

Highways 
£7.0m

(2022: £9.3m)

We build much needed homes, create new and 
enhance existing communities, deliver much 
needed infrastructure and are a significant 
contributor to local economies across the UK.

We are part of an industry that has the opportunity 
to transform not just places but the privilege to 
directly improve lives. New housing can contribute 
to improved economic and social mobility, 
community cohesion and renewal, better health 
outcomes and increased educational attainment. 

As a national builder operating at a local level 
throughout the UK, we want to be seen as a 
valuable partner to the communities we work in and 
welcome the responsibility that goes along with this. 
We work hand in hand with local residents and other 
businesses to not only demonstrate the value of 
what we can bring to a local area, but to hear their 
aspirations and concerns and, where we can, look 
to fulfil and address these. A key part of this is a 
commitment to deliver on our promises, and 
address the things that haven’t gone as we hoped, 
promptly and in the right way. 

During 2024, the UK will be holding local and 
mayoral elections across the country, in addition to 
a General Election expected in the second half of the 
year. We welcome the recognition from both main 
political parties of the importance of housebuilding 
to economic growth and prosperity in the UK and 
continue to engage with the full range of political 
stakeholders at every level of the business.

We have a strong culture at Taylor Wimpey 
which is very visibly demonstrated in our latest 
employee survey with a 93% engagement 
score. We can gain more insight through our 
local and national employee forums and all 
employee Q&A and engagement sessions which 
I personally run regularly with the senior team. 

13

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationChief Executive’s statement continued

I have spent a lot of this year out and about in the 
business and on site and speaking to employees, 
and their feedback has been extremely valuable. 
We are proud of our approach to talent 
development at Taylor Wimpey. 45% of our regional 
business unit management teams have been 
promoted from within Taylor Wimpey and 62% 
of Site Managers were promoted from within the 
business. We have a low voluntary turnover level of 
14.2% (2022: 17.7%). During 2023 we introduced 
a new employee recognition scheme, giving 
employees with long service additional holiday. 

While I am very pleased with the performance of 
the business, there are areas we need to continue 
to work on. Customer service was a real focus for 
2023 and while we have increased our 8-week 
‘Would you recommend score’ to 92% (2022: 90%), 
we have not yet seen the same increase in our 
9-month score and we will be ensuring that we 
address this area in 2024.

Strategy and 2024 priorities 

Our strategy is to build a stronger and more resilient 
business and deliver superior returns. This has 
been a consistent strategy for the Group over 
several years as we seek to manage the business 
through the cycle for the benefit of all stakeholders. 
Our strategy is centred on four strategic 
cornerstones: land, operational excellence, 
sustainability and capital allocation. These strategic 
cornerstones guide our principles of working but 
allow us to be flexible and agile even during 
challenging and volatile market conditions. 

This approach enables us to optimise value for 
our stakeholders and, through our differentiated 
Ordinary Dividend Policy, to provide a reliable 
income stream for our investors through the cycle. 

14

Our strategic cornerstones

Land

Operational 
excellence

Sustainability

Capital 
allocation

An agile approach to 
optimising value

Driving efficiency 
and execution

•  Focused on progressing 

land through the planning 
system to open quality 
outlets

•  Strong landbank a benefit 

in difficult planning 
environment and enables 
a selective approach to 
new land, balancing value 
and risk

•  Continued focus on 
driving performance

•  Investing in the long term 
success and sustainability 
of business

•  Advanced preparation 

for changing regulations 

•  Optimising value across all 

areas of the business

Investing to protect 
long term value for 
stakeholders

•  Continue to advance 
environment strategy 

•  Embed net zero plan 

in business

•  Creating thriving 

communities through 
placemaking 

•  Prioritise value over volume 

A clear and 
disciplined approach

•  Maintain a strong 
balance sheet 

•  Funding business needs 
including land investment 
and WIP

•  Clear and sustainable 

ordinary dividend to provide 
visibility to shareholders 

Read more on pages 31 to 32

Read more on pages 33 to 34

Read more on pages 35 to 36

Read more on pages 37 to 38

2024 priorities 
As we look forward in 2024 and beyond, we will continue to prioritise value over volume. Driving increased operating 
efficiency, cost savings and value improvement will remain a key focus for our business, but we will also continue to invest in 
areas that matter for the long term success and sustainability of the business to ensure we are poised for growth from 2025, 
assuming a supportive market.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information“ Our strong 
landbank and 
proactive approach 
to planning ensures 
we are well 
positioned for 
growth from 2025, 
assuming 
supportive market 
conditions.”

Chief Executive’s statement continued

Having successfully navigated through an uncertain 
18 months, our focus remains on optimising value 
across all areas of the business. Our strategy 
encompasses building greater discipline through each 
element of our business model to improve efficiency, 
protect value and ensure we are fit for the future. 
In this year’s Annual Report, we have increased 
disclosure in this important area to give you a 
greater insight into how we create, enhance and 
realise value at every stage. 

Our key performance indicators, which we use to 
measure success and progress, are aligned to our 
strategic cornerstones and you can read more on 
pages 31 to 38.

As we look forward in 2024 and beyond, we will 
continue to prioritise value over volume. Driving 
increased operating efficiency, cost savings and 
value improvement will remain a key focus for our 
business but we will also continue to invest in 
areas that matter for the long term success and 
sustainability of the business to ensure we are 
poised for future growth, from 2025, assuming 
a supportive market. 

Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
housebuilding market study 

Taylor Wimpey welcomes the CMA’s final report, 
published on 26 February 2024, from its 
housebuilding market study with its focus on 
improving the planning system, adoption of 
amenities and outcomes for house buyers. Taylor 
Wimpey notes the new investigation opened by the 
CMA under the Competition Act 1998, and we will 
cooperate fully in relation to this.

Current trading and outlook

Whilst still early in the year and at the beginning of 
the Spring selling season, current trading shows 
some encouraging signs of improvement with 
reduced mortgage rates positively impacting 
affordability and confidence in our customer base.

The year-to-date net private sales rate 
(w/e 25 February 2024) is 0.67 per outlet per 
week (2023 equivalent period: 0.62).

The cancellation rate is 12% (2023 equivalent period: 
17%) and the level of down valuations remains low.

Appointments and overall customer interest in our 
homes remain at good levels, supported by our 
quality product, site locations and focused sales 
and marketing efforts. However, conversions from 
enquiry to reservation continue to take longer 
when compared to pre Q2 2023.

As previously noted, we came into 2024 with a 
lower order book against a strong comparator. 
As at 25 February 2024, our total order book 
excluding joint ventures was £1,949 million 
(2023 equivalent period: £2,154 million), 
comprising 7,402 homes (2023 equivalent period: 
8,078 homes).

Accordingly, and given prevailing market conditions, 
we remain focused on optimising value and currently 
expect 2024 UK completions (excluding JVs) to be in 
the range of 9.5k to 10k homes, with completions 
weighted 45/55% in favour of the second half of the 
year. First half operating profit margin will reflect 
slightly lower pricing in the order book, build cost 
inflation embedded in work in progress of around 4% 
and investment in IT and timber frame to drive 
operational efficiencies.

The prevailing underlying annualised build cost 
inflation on new tenders is c.1% and reduces to zero 
when taking into account the savings arising from 
our value improvement programme. 

Despite significantly reduced land approvals 
over the last 18 months our landbank, as at 
31 December 2023, remains very strong at c.80k plots 
(2022: c.83k plots) and is underpinned by the supply 
of our industry leading strategic land pipeline. We will 
remain selective in our approach to land but will be 
active where we see opportunities that balance risk, 
reward and returns to create shareholder value. 
We have approved an additional c.1k plots in the 
year-to-date as we have crystallised deals that our 
teams have been working on for some time.

While the constraining impact of planning on site 
openings is unlikely to abate in the near-term for the 
sector, our strong landbank and highly experienced 
teams who take a proactive approach to generating 
high-quality planning applications, ensure we are 
well positioned for growth from 2025, assuming 
supportive market conditions. As a business in a 
strong financial position, we also continue to provide 
a reliable income stream to our investors via our 
differentiated Ordinary Dividend Policy to return 7.5% 
of net assets per annum, or at least £250 million 
annually throughout the cycle.

Looking ahead, Taylor Wimpey is a strong and resilient 
company with a strategy to manage the cycle over 
the long term. We operate in an attractive market with 
significant underlying demand for the quality homes 
we build. We have a clear strategy focused on driving 
value and operational excellence, while investing in the 
long term success and sustainability of the business. 

*   Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements. 

Please see page 81 for definitions.

15

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationWe are one of the UK’s leading 
homebuilders. We invest in land 
and develop high-quality homes 
and communities for customers 
in our 22 UK regional businesses 
and in our small Spanish operation. 
We manage the homebuilding 
process through the value 
chain from original land investment 
decision to customer completion 
and after sales service. 
We invest in our highly engaged 
and talented employees who are 
crucial to our success. 

Our value chain

Creating

Enhancing

Protecting

Make the right 
land investments 

Manage the  
planning process 

Design and develop 
sustainable homes 

Our business model

What  
we do

How we 
make 
money

Critical 
relationships 

Key 
resources

16

Optimising

Build efficiently  
and deliver for  
our customers 

Realising

Support customers 
through the 
homebuying 
process 

Reinvesting  
and returning

Reinvest for growth  
or return value to 
shareholders 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information2

Manage the planning process

Our highly experienced land teams work closely with 
local authorities and other regulators to deliver our 
developments, meeting increasingly complex 
technical, environmental and health and safety 
requirements. We strive to open our sites as efficiently 
as possible. However, the time between acquiring 
land and opening our sites is dependent on the 
site-specific planning status and conditions.

Working with local authority partners
Short term land is land that has some form of 
residential planning permission. The type of 
permission can vary from ‘resolution to grant’ (RTG) 
status or ‘outline planning’, meaning it is permitted 
for residential development but the nature of that 
development (aesthetics, housing mix, density etc.) 
is still to be agreed. Progressing our land from those 
stages to ‘implementable planning’ (when we are 
permitted to start on site), can take months or even 
years. During this process our land, design, technical, 
production and legal teams consult with local 
authority partners and other interested parties to 
resolve issues and achieve the required permits to 
move our projects forward. 

Preparation for infrastructure
Appropriately, there is a significant administrative 
burden to overcome before we can commence 
building. For example, we have to work with the 
Highways Agency, services such as electric, water 
and sewers, and establish infrastructure such as 
roads before we can start building homes on our sites. 

Our business model continued

1

What  
we do

How we 
make 
money

Critical 
relationships 

Key 
resources

Make the right land 
investments

We create value by buying land at the right price, 
using our longstanding land and planning expertise, 
enabling us to create high-quality developments in 
places customers want to live.
Our teams work to understand local housing needs 
in selecting the right locations and developing these 
through the planning system.
A detailed commercial assessment is established 
before we bid for land, including an assessment of 
local demographics, full costing of the site to 
development, and specific commercial and technical 
considerations. Site evaluation involves all areas of 
our regional business unit management teams, 
including land, sales and marketing, commercial, 
production, technical and finance.

Highly experienced teams
We invest in and develop our landbank and strategic 
land pipeline. There are two main types of land. Short 
term land, is land that has some form of planning for 
residential development, though it may still be months 
or years from attaining implementable planning 
allowing us to build. 
We are also highly experienced in developing a 
second type, strategic land, which is land without 
any form of approval for residential development.
Our highly experienced strategic land teams often 
work on land long before it is earmarked for 
development. The majority of our strategic pipeline 
is not owned but is controlled by option agreements.
There can be no certainty that strategic land will 
achieve planning permission, but we only include 
plots in our pipeline where we see a greater than 
50% probability of success. Our experienced team 
has a strong track record of identifying land that 
could become part of future local development plans, 
with over 50% of our landbank originating from the 
strategic pipeline. 

This crucial first step in

creating

value

Location

Good planning 
prospects

Right price

Right time  
in the cycle

17

Detailed planning 
The final stages are achieving ‘detailed planning’, and 
after satisfying any pre-commencement conditions, 
we attain implementable planning, allowing us to start 
on site. 
It is vital that we engage and consult with local 
communities to explain our plans throughout the 
planning process. Whilst we may not always achieve 
universal acceptance, we do our best to outline the 
benefits of our project and to minimise disruption to 
local residents.

Resolving issues
As stated, we engage with communities and key 
stakeholders on all of our proposed developments. 
However planning can be a contentious area. Our 
developments are sometimes challenged, and we 
may have to work with local residents and authorities 
to resolve issues and even appeal decisions through 
the legal process if a project has stalled and we 
believe we are fully meeting our obligations.

Affordable housing and community 
facilities
We create much needed housing and, as part 
of our planning obligations in 2023, 23% of our 
completions were affordable housing. We create 
significant local economic benefit, including 
employment, and through our planning obligations, 
build or fund the building of schools, leisure and 
recreational facilities.

Enhancing 

our land assets and our 
strategic land pipeline

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
Our business model continued

3 Design and develop 

sustainable homes

We design homes to meet the needs of our 
customers today and in the future. We build energy 
efficient homes that meet or exceed the regulatory 
requirements and we now deliver sites with greater 
biodiversity than prior to our involvement.

We use a digital platform called LEADR (Land and 
Environment Assessment of Development Risk) for 
assessing and managing sustainability and technical 
risks associated with land during the acquisition and 
construction process. (Read more on page 55) 

We focus on good placemaking which means that 
we consider how our developments work as a whole 
and how they will contribute to a thriving community. 
We design places where our customers can live well, 
feel part of a community and adopt an active, more 
sustainable lifestyle, establishing attractive 
landscaping, and shared communal and recreational 
areas. We design carefully considered street scenes 
and consider how our developments interact with 
existing nature and our nature enhancements. 

Our plotting expertise and standard house types 
enable us to protect value. Good plotting means 
we are using our land resources efficiently and our 
standard house types helps us maintain high quality 
through contractor familiarity with our processes and 
materials and our ingrained quality control processes. 
Our new house types were designed following 
extensive customer research and focus groups. 

Protecting

land use via plotting and value through our 
efficient design and standard house types

What  
we do

How we 
make 
money

Critical 
relationships 

Key 
resources

18

4 Build efficiently and deliver  

for our customers

The health and safety of our employees and 
subcontractors is our number one priority. 
Accurate budgeting and active management enable 
us to set up our sites to deliver on our targets. Our 
Taylor Wimpey Logistics and central procurement 
functions enable us to optimise our efficiency. 
We focus on optimising the value of our investments 
by managing sites consistently. 
We are delivering value by getting the basics right 
with right first time build leading to consistent delivery 
for customers and higher satisfaction. We are 
regularly one of the highest independently rated 
volume builders in terms of construction quality.
We aim to make Taylor Wimpey the partner of choice 
in our industry. Maintaining excellent supplier and 
subcontractor relationships is key to ensuring the 
highest standards on our sites.

5 Support customers through 

the buying process

We realise the value created through the preceding 
stages and create future value by maximising our 
sales potential and protecting and building our brand 
and reputation.
Our large database and IT systems, enable our highly 
trained sales teams to identify customers and 
effectively manage our interactions throughout the 
buying journey.
This includes status reports, lead generation, and up 
to date management dashboards. 
Our dedicated sales teams work with our customers 
to understand their needs, in relation to their 
preferred options that suit the way they want to live. 
This can include individually tailored incentives of 
home options or financial incentives to assist them 
in completing their homebuying journey.

Optimising

value, by working with our partners 
to focus on quality and efficiency

Realising

value created by focusing on creating a 
positive homebuying journey 

Reinvesting and returning 

By protecting and optimising value through the value 
chain we are able to maximise value to return to our 
shareholders and for reinvestment in the business.
Our Ordinary Dividend Policy is to return 7.5% of 
net assets to shareholders annually or at least 
£250 million, throughout the cycle. In 2023, we 
returned £338 million to shareholders through 
ordinary dividends paid in the year.

To read more about our capital 
allocation framework see page 37

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur business model continued

What  
we do

How we 
make 
money

Critical 
relationships 

A value mindset
We offer a high-quality standard 
product range which is adaptable 
to local planning requirements, to 
ensure a consistent high-quality offering 
for our customers. Our central logistics 
and procurement functions ensure we 
achieve the benefits our scale affords.

We have built up our expertise, national 
position and trusted reputation over 
many years.
In line with our culture of ‘doing the right 
thing’, our experienced teams and trusted 
partners – enabled by our capital and 
infrastructure – are focused on delivering 
a high-quality product for our customers.
We are focused on delivering quality homes 
for our customers and optimising value for 
our stakeholders. 

As one of the UK’s largest homebuilders, 
we have built a national presence via our 
22 regional businesses, enabling us to deliver 
for customers in England, Scotland and 
Wales, with a small business in Spain.
Whilst our business model is straightforward, 
delivery involves the management of complex 
partnerships and processes throughout our 
value chain while maintaining the agility to 
adjust to varying market dynamics.

UK regional businesses

22

covering England, Scotland 
and Wales, providing truly 
national coverage for 
our customers 

Upfront investment
Investing wisely in our land assets is the 
first step in establishing value, enabling us 
to use our expertise and tight operational 
controls to enhance and protect that 
value throughout the value chain.
We make our money when we complete 
a home, and our customer is able to 
move in. This can be several years on 
from our initial land investment decision. 

Our ability to effectively deploy our balance 
sheet and retain our focus on value from initial 
land acquisition to home completion is vital.
We manage our investment closely to ensure we 
are maximising stakeholder value, staying alert 
to opportunities in the land market and adjusting 
our work in progress to meet market demand.
Ahead of bidding for land, we conduct a land 
purchase exercise (LPE), which involves the 
detailed costing of a proposed development, 
determining the margin profile and risk 
parameters that are acceptable to us.

Alongside our owned landbank, our strategic 
pipeline allows us to develop land in a balance 
sheet efficient way. We own around a quarter of 
our strategic pipeline and control the remainder. 
For the controlled portion we pay an option 
fee giving us the right to buy land at certain 
milestones rather than buying it outright. 
We then buy this land when we have achieved 
a certain planning status. This enhances our 
visibility of future years land supply and allows 
us to be selective in the short term land market.

Land value

£3.3bn

(2022: £3.4bn)

Key 
resources

Key costs
Our key costs are land, building materials, 
labour and central overheads including 
design, finance, legal and administrative 
functions.

Margins
We protect our margin throughout 
our value chain. However, current 
margin has been impacted by falling 
industry demand and rising costs.

We operate with tight cost discipline and, 
over the past few years, have invested to 
improve management information systems, 
enabling us to keep close control on costs 
across our business. 
We have also invested in a customer 
relationship management system to enable 
us to better target potential customers and 
better manage our relationships with existing 
customers and support them through their 
buying journey.

By developing excellent long term partner 
relationships with suppliers and 
subcontractors and deploying modern 
methods of construction, we are able to  
drive efficiencies across the business. 
Increasing subcontractor familiarity with our 
processes enables us to build right first time.
Utilising standard product helps us to achieve 
economies of scale from our suppliers. 
Standard product and procedures improve 
the efficiency of our build. 

We embed margin into our initial LPE and 
closely monitor our progress through the 
design and development stages to ensure 
we are meeting our targets and utilising our 
enhanced planning and management 
information.
Against a backdrop of rising regulatory costs, 
we work on continuous business improvement 
to identify efficiencies and cost savings across 
the business. This allows us to optimise margin 
in times of higher demand whist minimising 
margin impact in times of lower demand.

We have made significant reductions in our  
cost base over the past two years to reflect 
lower demand and protect margin. However, 
we have maintained a national footprint to 
enable us to capitalise on a stronger market  
in future years.
Upgrade options and financial incentives for 
our customers are a useful tool to cement 
interest, particularly in weaker markets. We 
carefully manage our offer in this regard since 
this directly impacts our profit margin. All 
reported selling prices are net of incentives.

In 2023, we delivered

c.£19m

of annualised savings

Group operating margin* 

13.4%

(2022: 20.9%)

*  Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the 

financial statements. Please see page 81 for definitions.

Read more about our performance through our KPIs on pages 31 to 35 
and about our Principal Risks on pages 74 to 77

19

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur business model continued

What  
we do

How we 
make 
money

Critical 
relationships 

Key 
resources

20

Critical relationships across our value chain

Suppliers and subcontractors 
Our suppliers and subcontractors play a 
major role in our business. We choose 
suppliers carefully, selecting partners that 
share our values. We have quarterly meetings 
with all UK national suppliers. We provide 
training and support for subcontractors in 
areas such as health, safety and environment 
and engage with them in product development.
Group suppliers are required to confirm 
compliance with our standards via our digital 
tender system. Our subcontractors sign up 
to Taylor Wimpey’s code of conduct, agree 
to our quality standards and are added to 
our subcontractor portal to enable us to 
accurately monitor progress.

Key resources we rely on

Government 
We work with central government on issues 
connected to the UK housing and business 
agenda. We use our industry expertise to give 
central government our views on proposed 
legislation and policy changes.
We also engage with government agencies 
such as the Environment Agency and the 
Highways Agency.

Local authorities
We engage with local government across 
the UK as part of the planning process for 
our developments. We place significant 
importance on engaging with local 
government as it helps us reflect local 
priorities in our plans.
We engage with local authorities and parish 
councils and councillors and participate in 
the development of strategic frameworks, 
Local Plans and Neighbourhood Plans.
Wherever possible, we engage with planners 
through pre-application discussions.

Customers and communities 
Our customer proposition is closely tied to 
our purpose and centres on building great 
homes and creating thriving communities. 
We have a consistent and thorough community 
engagement process, with a framework in 
place that provides clear procedures for all 
of our regional businesses.
We engage with local communities at every 
site, from planning and throughout 
construction, including through meetings, 
exhibitions, workshops, newsletters, 
information boards, social media and 
our website. Engagement can be both 
face-to-face and virtual and helps us create 
developments that reflect local needs.

Materials
Our key materials include brick, timber and 
roof tiles. Other items include external and 
internal doors, insulation and we increasingly 
use triple glazing and solar panels on our 
homes. We use a small amount of steel, 
mostly related to fixings. Other common 
materials include wiring, paint, gypsum 
(plasterboard), flooring and white goods. 
We seek to minimise supply chain disruption 
by operating at least a dual supplier strategy 
for key components.

Environment and climate
It is important that we work with our 
environment in the least disruptive way 
possible to provide attractive places to live 
for our customers and help preserve the 
UK’s biodiversity. Building can be disruptive 
to the natural environment and construction 
is a major contributor to carbon emissions. 
We have targeted becoming net zero 
carbon by 2045, five years ahead of the 
Government target.
Our developments will now add to 
biodiversity (by at least 10% on site or via 
offsets where this is not achievable on site).

Workforce
Taylor Wimpey UK has around 4.5k 
employees. We have highly experienced 
and dedicated technical teams throughout 
our 22 regional businesses and in our head 
office, with expertise in land and planning, 
legal, commercial, production, technical, 
design and sales and marketing.
We manage each of our sites with our 
own team of Site Managers, health and 
safety personnel and Production and 
Technical Managers.

Regulatory and legal 
environment
We recognise the need for updated 
regulation to tackle areas such as limiting 
climate change and we regularly cooperate 
with the Government on consultations 
around changing building regulations such 
as the Future Homes Standard.
We believe changes to the current planning 
system are required to ensure there is 
sufficient future land supply to meet the 
UK’s housing needs.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur market environment

The 2023 market demonstrates 
the cyclical nature of our sector 
and this is reflected in the way we 
manage our business

UK house prices were strongest in lower priced 
regions in Scotland and Northern England 

Scotland

North West
Yorkshire
and Humberside

-0.40%

-0.20%

0.30%

0.50%

East
Midlands
West Midlands

Wales

East of England

South West

London

South East

-1.10%

-1.30%

-1.90%

-2.20%

-2.50%

Source: Zoopla, December 2023

21

1.80%

•  House prices and build costs – impacts the 
affordability of housing and the profitability of 
housebuilding

•  Secondhand transactions – set the price 

for the overall housing market

•  Population growth – impacts the availability 
of housing and therefore the demand and 
pricing dynamics 

•  Rental cost – influences the relative 

attractiveness of ownership versus renting and 
therefore affects demand for new homes

Weaker market conditions in 2023

As a new build developer, we are part of a wider 
market where secondhand homes generally 
account for 80-85% of total UK housing 
transactions. Therefore, market pricing is generally 
led by the secondhand market.

Overall, UK house prices began to consistently fall 
on a month by month basis from the third quarter 
of 2022, and by October 2023 had fallen by 1.2% 
on a year on year basis (source: ONS). However, 
prices began stabilising towards the end of the 
year and recent trends have shown price recovery. 

We manage our business with 
the cycle in mind, maintaining 
a strong balance sheet, tight 
operational controls and an agile 
approach, and we entered the 
changing market from a position 
of strength.

A cyclical industry

The UK housebuilding sector is cyclical therefore 
we manage our business to navigate changing 
market conditions.

We have focused on optimising value as the sector 
experienced lower transactions in 2023. 

It is, however, equally important to retain the ability 
to respond to a better market. There is a 
recognised UK housing shortage, estimated by 
some at over four million. Therefore, there is likely 
to be significant demand for the homes we build 
in the medium to long term. 

Some of the key factors that influence our 
market are:

•  Interest and mortgage rates – major factors 
in affordability and accessibility for customers

•  Employment and consumer confidence 

– affects the ability and confidence of consumers 
to purchase houses

•  Planning backdrop and land availability – 

impacts the supply and timing of land available 
for building, the industry’s ability to meet housing 
demand and affects land prices

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
Our market environment continued

Regionally, prices fell more in areas of higher price 
such as London and the South East. Real house 
prices (adjusted for inflation) have fallen in the last 
two years (see chart opposite). However, cost of 
living pressures have offset some of the positive 
impact on affordability of this fall. 

Underlying prices on our 2023 completions 
excluding mix impacts (relating to different house 
sizes as well as the geographic make up of sales) 
were 1% higher year-on-year.

Industry commentators have differing views on the 
house price outlook for 2024. Capital Economics 
now expects house price growth of up to 5% while 
Halifax predicts that house prices will fall by 
between 2-4% in 2024.

Given conditions in the land market and the economic 
backdrop in 2023, we were extremely selective in our 
landbuying, approving only c.3k plots, which was 
significantly below replacement levels. 

Market change resulted in reduced 
transactions levels

While price declines have been moderate during 
this downturn, the fall in transactions has been 
more significant. 

According to the ONS’s provisional estimate, April 
to November 2023 saw a greater than 20% decline 
in UK residential property transactions to 687.3k, 
against 863.2k for the comparable period in 2022. 

During 2023, we closely monitored our build rates to 
ensure our deliveries were matching market demand.

22

High build cost inflation moderated 
throughout 2023 

House prices have fallen in real terms (adjusted for inflation) in the 
last two years

£350,000

£300,000

£250,000

£200,000

£150,000

£100,000

5
8
9
1

7
8
9
1

9
8
9
1

1
9
9
1

3
9
9
1

5
9
9
1

7
9
9
1

9
9
9
1

1
0
0
2

3
0
0
2

5
0
0
2

7
0
0
2

9
0
0
2

1
1
0
2

3
1
0
2

5
1
0
2

7
1
0
2

9
1
0
2

1
2
0
2

3
2
0
2

Trend

Real House Price

UK house prices adjusted for inﬂation

Source: Nationwide Building Society

Build costs are driven by several factors, chief 
amongst these being the availability of labour and 
materials. Industry volumes and sector profitability 
play a large part in determining the supply and 
demand characteristics that impact build cost 
inflation or deflation. 

In times of strong industry growth, house price 
growth and tight labour and materials supply can 
drive build cost inflation, whilst surplus capacity, 
in times of downturn, can lead to lower inflation 
or deflation. However, the movement in labour 
and materials prices can often lag changing 
market conditions.

We experience housebuilding specific cost impacts 
as well as some in relation to the wider construction 
industry. For example, certain trades such as 
bricklayers and carpenters are more focused 
on new build whilst other trades such as 
groundworkers can have more of a crossover 
into commercial or infrastructure projects. 

In terms of materials, timber, steel, sand and 
cement are also widely employed in commercial 
and infrastructure projects. Therefore, competing 
demands for labour and materials (e.g. infrastructure 
projects such as HS2, home refurbishment, DIY, etc.) 
can also impact our market.

Additionally, the last few years have demonstrated 
underlying inflation in other input costs such as 
energy, and global commodities can have a major 
bearing on our cost environment.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur market environment continued

Mortgage rates impacted selling rates during 2023

%
e
t
a
r

e
g
a
g
t
r
o
M

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

1.00

0.90

0.80

0.70

0.60

0.50

0.40

0.30

0.20

0.10

0.00

e
t
a
r

s
e
a
s

l

e
t
a
v
i
r
p
t
e
N

Jan
2023

Feb
2023

Mar
2023

Apr
2023

May
2023

Jun
2023

Jul
2023

Aug
2023

Sep
2023

Oct
2023

Nov
2023

Dec
2023

Net private sales rate

2-year 75% LTV ﬁxed-rate mortgages

5-year 75% LTV ﬁxed-rate mortgages

Source: Bank of England, Taylor Wimpey

Under pressure household finances beginning to recover as pay growth 
exceeds inflation

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

-8%

-10%

23

7
0
0
2

8
0
0
2

9
0
0
2

0
1
0
2

1
1
0
2

2
1
0
2

3
1
0
2

4
1
0
2

5
1
0
2

6
1
0
2

7
1
0
2

8
1
0
2

9
1
0
2

0
2
0
2

1
2
0
2

2
2
0
2

3
2
0
2

Change in real pay (pay adjusted for inﬂation)

Source: Monthly Wages and Salaries Survey, ONS

2023 started with double digit levels of general 
UK (CPI) inflation and the building sector was not 
immune. We experienced prevailing rates of build 
cost inflation of 9-10% in the initial months of 2023. 
As stated, changes in market conditions (house 
price and production rates) generally feed into 
changes in our input costs, albeit with a time lag. 
Last year, build cost inflation moderated to reflect 
sector trading conditions, in particular falling output. 
Consequently, the build cost inflation we 
experienced in our operations reduced to around 
6% in the summer, around 2-3% in the final quarter, 
and, as we entered 2024, inflation was in the region 
of 0-1%.

Other key costs, such as the price at which we 
have bought land, are more permanent given that 
the land we build on today was typically purchased 
several years ago. 

Given it takes around nine months to complete a 
standard home, there is a natural lag in between 
prevailing rates of build cost inflation / deflation and 
when these costs are reflected in our results.

Potential easing of the interest rate 
tightening cycle

The last two years have seen interest rates rising 
from below 0.25% to the current base rate of 
5.25%. This led the average monthly mortgage 
rates for a five year fixed mortgage with a 75% loan 
to value (LTV) to increase from 1.6% in December 
2021 to 5.7% by July 2023, before moderating to 
4.68% in December 2023.

Interest rates have a significant bearing on the cost 
of borrowing and the affordability of homes for our 
customers. Therefore, it was unsurprising to see 
industry sales rates fall significantly, reflecting the 
higher cost of borrowing.

The Bank Rate was raised by the Bank of England 
five successive times in 2023, continuing the 
upward trend that began in December 2021, 
settling at 5.25%. On the last three occasions that 
the Monetary Policy Committee has met, the rate 
has been held at 5.25%.

Traditionally, performance in the UK housing market 
has been strongly correlated to the UK interest rate 
cycle. Mortgage rates reflect interest rate 
expectations so it was not surprising to see our 
own and industry sales reduce following mortgage 
rate increases (see chart: Mortgage rates impacted 
selling rates during 2023).

In 2023, sales rates across the industry were 
severely impacted by factors such as rising 
borrowing cost and consumer confidence. 
Uncertainty over house prices, the economic 
outlook, employment prospects and future interest 
rates are all areas of concern for consumers that 
are likely to impact their buying decisions. 

Rising mortgage rates particularly impacted first 
time buyers who generally require larger LTV ratios. 
Reduced market activity as a result of rising 
mortgage rates and other factors (particularly first 
time buyers) has knock-on effects for chains, 
impacting the overall health of the market.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
Our market environment continued

Easing inflation outlook

The Bank of England (BoE) has increased the 
interest rate primarily to combat inflation, which has 
been running significantly higher than its 2% target. 

External factors such as global conflicts, supply 
chain issues, energy and food prices have had a 
major bearing on interest rate policy in this rate 
cycle. Domestically, and partly as a consequence 
of these external inflationary pressures, public and 
private sector wage increases have also added 
to inflation.

4%

current rate of inflation

2%

estimate of inflation 
for April 2024

Inflation peaked at 11.1% in October 2022, 
reducing to 6.7% in the summer of 2023 and, as at 
February 2024, stands at 4%, mirroring earlier 
predictions by the BoE. Oxford Economics predicts 
that CPI inflation will reach 2% by April 2024, in line 
with BoE target. 

4.8%

average cost of a 
75% LTV two year 
fixed term mortgage

24

Opinion amongst commentators varies as to 
whether a rate cut may occur in the first quarter, 
second half or at all. Ultimately, the BoE’s mandate 
is to reach target inflation of 2%, and the inflationary 
backdrop is the key element in determining the 
future direction of interest rates. 

Capital Economics now expects interest rate 
reductions to start in June in 2024 and reach 3% 
in 2025 and mortgage rates have already moved 
to reflect an expected reduction in interest rates. 
Opinion around timing on a potential cut varies and 
the Governor of the Bank of England, Andrew 
Bailey, has repeatedly cautioned the market that 
interest rates may need to stay higher for longer.

Interest rate and mortgage rate reductions could 
help more people access housing, which would be 
a positive for our market. However, the extent to 
which they will impact our trading depends on if 
and when rate cuts occur. For example, a first 
quarter rate cut could have an impact on 2024 
sales, but a third quarter rate cut would likely mostly 
benefit 2025, given the time lag between sales in 
order book and completions.

Mortgage rates can, and often do, move ahead 
of the Bank Rate in anticipation of future moves. 
As Capital Economics points out, “the fall in some 
mortgage rates to below 4% means the effect of 
future cuts in Bank Rate are already being felt”.

Challenged affordability beginning to ease

The fall in transactions shows rising interest rates, 
coupled with the cost of living pressures, stretched 
the affordability of housing for many over the past 
18 months. 

However, following the BoE’s decision to hold 
interest rates at current levels, mortgage rates 
eased to their lowest levels in many months. 
According to Rightmove, as at 7 February 2024, 
the average cost of a two year fixed mortgage at 
a 75% loan to value (LTV) was 4.8%. On the same 
basis the average five year fixed mortgage rate 
was 4.55%.

Affordability and consumer confidence are also 
impacted by other factors such as wage growth, 
the general level of inflation and employment levels 
as well as the cost and availability of alternative 
rental properties. 

Wage growth now exceeds the level of house price 
inflation, which together with falling overall inflation is 
offsetting the impact of increased borrowing costs. 
However, whilst all the factors outlined here will 
help determine overall affordability, interest rates 
will generally have the greatest impact. 

Therefore, any rate decrease will offer the greatest 
benefit to our sector. 

Consumer service Which? estimates that a 0.5% 
rise in rates is likely to add around £64 per month 
to the average mortgage cost on the basis of a 
25-year mortgage with a £250k loan. It is worth noting 
that the cost is dependent on the homeowner’s 
LTV ratio with the increase higher for a high LTV 
(low deposit) mortgage and lower for those with 
more equity, meaning that first time buyers with 
lower deposits are most affected.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur market environment continued

Lack of distress in housing market

Long term housing need

Ageing housing stock

A lower level of transactions may mean that many 
people have chosen not to sell in a difficult market. 
However, there have been times, such as the global 
financial crisis, when people have been forced to 
sell owing to financial stress and indebtedness.

The Financial Conduct Authority expected around 
1.7 million existing fixed rate deals to expire in 
2023. This means many people will face higher 
mortgage payments this year than under their 
previous deals. 

Up until August 2022, there was a mandatory 
mortgage stress test in place to ensure customers 
seeking a mortgage would be able to afford 
payments in the event of a 3% rise over the 
standard variable rate. Therefore, though likely to be 
challenging, the more stringent lending criteria of 
the last decade should mean that increased 
payments are affordable for the majority of 
mortgage holders. 

Accordingly, there is good reason to believe that 
there should be relatively low levels of financial 
stress amongst homeowners and lower numbers 
of forced sellers than in previous downturns, which 
could be positive for house price stability.

High employment and real wage growth

UK unemployment was 3.8% in the three months 
to December 2023, a modest rise on the 3.7% in 
the three months to December 2022.

According to the ONS, annual growth in regular 
earnings was 7.3% in August to October 2023. 
This translated to annual growth in real terms 
(adjusted for inflation) of 1.3%.

Notwithstanding our sector’s cyclicality, the medium 
to long term fundamentals of the market remain 
strong. Data on UK population growth and 
changing demographics continue to underpin 
household formations and long term demand. 
There is a recognised housing shortage in the UK 
with new home completions significantly below the 
UK Government’s desired levels. Government 
planning amendments suggest a move away from 
a specific top-down target, but continue to suggest 
that 300k new homes per year are needed to fulfil 
UK housing demand, a level last achieved in 1977 
(source: Statista).

According to the think tank Centre for Cities, the 
UK has a 4.3 million housing shortfall that would 
take 50 years to fill even if the industry were to 
meet the 300k per year guidance for new housing. 
Given that this target has never been met, there is 
likely to be significant undersupply for some years. 

Population growth 

Demographics and population growth impact 
housing need. As the chart opposite shows UK 
population growth is not being matched by 
new housing. 

The UK Government’s English Housing Survey (EHS), 
suggests the home ownership rate is 65% in 
England. According the EHS, the average age of 
a first time buyer outside London is 33 (35 for a 
first time buyer in London), compared with 30.5 
in 2007/08. 

Therefore, having peaked at 71% in 2003 
(source: EHS 2022-23) the current level of home 
ownership is below the aspirations of both 
the Conservative Government and the 
Labour Opposition.

25

With 38% of our housing built pre-1946, the UK 
has the oldest housing stock in Europe. This is 
increasingly problematic when considering the UK’s 
2050 net zero carbon agenda, given only a small 
percentage of this old housing stock meets the 
highest energy efficiency ratings.

Existing housing stock is likely to require major 
retrofit of new technology. Statista estimates that 
around 78% of UK homes have gas central heating 
systems. The cost of converting this housing stock 
to electrical heating will be considerable. 

Financial website This is Money estimates the cost 
of electrification for an existing home to be £26,000. 
In addition, consumer group Which? suggests the 
cost of an air source heat pump (one of the world’s 
most widely used electric heating technologies) to be 
£10,000 on its own.

3.8%

UK unemployment, 
3 months to 
December 2023

65%

UK home ownership 
rate, compared to 
71% peak

33yrs

average age of first time 
buyer (excluding London)

UK population growth continues to drive housing need

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

-100

1
0
0
2

4
0
0
2

7
0
0
2

0
1
0
2

3
1
0
2

6
1
0
2

9
1
0
2

2
2
0
2

5
2
0
2

8
2
0
2

1
3
0
2

4
3
0
2

7
3
0
2

0
4
0
2

3
4
0
2

6
4
0
2

Growth in population (thousands)

Net additional dwellings England (thousands)

Source: ONS, DLUHC

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur market environment continued

Monthly rental once again rising above monthly mortgage costs for 
75% LTV loan

1,400

1,200

1,000

800

600

400

200

0

4
1
0
2

l

u
J

4
1
0
2
c
e
D

5
1
0
2
y
a
M

5
1
0
2
t
c
O

6
1
0
2
r
a
M

6
1
0
2
g
u
A

7
1
0
2

n
a
J

7
1
0
2

n
u
J

7
1
0
2
v
o
N

8
1
0
2
r
p
A

8
1
0
2
p
e
S

9
1
0
2
b
e
F

9
1
0
2

l

u
J

9
1
0
2
c
e
D

0
2
0
2
y
a
M

0
2
0
2
t
c
O

1
2
0
2
r
a
M

1
2
0
2
g
u
A

2
2
0
2

n
a
J

2
2
0
2

n
u
J

2
2
0
2
v
o
N

3
2
0
2
r
p
A

3
2
0
2
p
e
S

Average UK rental value

Monthly mortgage 75% LTV

Sources: Bank of England, Nationwide, Homelet Rental Index

English residential planning approvals continue to fall from 2021 peak

100,000

90,000

80,000

70,000

60,000

50,000

40,000

30,000

20,000

10,000

0

2
1
0
2

1
Q

2
1
0
2

3
Q

3
1
0
2

1
Q

3
1
0
2

3
Q

4
1
0
2

1
Q

4
1
0
2

3
Q

5
1
0
2

1
Q

5
1
0
2

3
Q

6
1
0
2

1
Q

6
1
0
2

3
Q

7
1
0
2

1
Q

7
1
0
2

3
Q

8
1
0
2

1
Q

8
1
0
2

3
Q

9
1
0
2

1
Q

9
1
0
2

3
Q

0
2
0
2

1
Q

0
2
0
2

3
Q

1
2
0
2

1
Q

1
2
0
2

3
Q

2
2
0
2

1
Q

2
2
0
2

3
Q

3
2
0
2

1
Q

3
2
0
2

3
Q

Private

Social

1 & 2 Units

26

Source: House Builders Federation (HBF)

In past markets, land prices have generally 
responded to changes in demand and industry 
output, rising in periods of high demand but 
reducing when industry output falls. In market 
downturns, it has often been possible to acquire 
cheaper land that benefited margin in future years.

However, over this period, given planning constraints, 
land has generally been in short supply and prices 
have not adjusted to reflect market conditions in the 
manner they have in previous downturns.

In December, the Government confirmed changes 
to the National Planning and Policy Framework 
(NPPF) that will place more emphasis on devolving 
planning decisions to a local authority level. 

Whilst there was emphasis from the Government 
statement on enforcement measures, the success 
of the NPPF has traditionally relied on a level of top 
down scrutiny that may not be present in the 
current regulation. In addition, the absence of the 
requirement for a five-year housing land supply is 
a key concern.

Other problems faced by our planning system are 
more structural in nature. Data from Institute for 
Fiscal Studies suggests an almost 60% reduction 
in real planning budgets over the 10 years to 2019. 
This lack of resources has contributed to a backlog 
of applications and at Taylor Wimpey we have seen 
a major increase in the number of plots we have in 
the planning system.

The homes we build at Taylor Wimpey are already 
around twice as energy efficient as an average 
existing secondhand home and it remains 
the Government’s intention that new build homes 
transition to be zero carbon ready from 2025. 

At that point the homes we produce will be fully 
electric and would be zero carbon ‘homes in use’ 
once the UK’s grid infrastructure is powered by 
renewable sources.

Rental market 

With low interest rates over recent years, monthly 
mortgage costs have generally been either cheaper 
or broadly comparable to the average cost of 
rental, despite rising house prices. This changed 
when rates spiked in September 2022 when 
mortgage costs rose above rental comparators. 

However, subsequent house price weakness and 
strong growth in rental costs now mean that the 
monthly cost of new homes is cheaper than the 
rental alternative for a number of our UK regions 
(see chart: Monthly rental once again rising above 
monthly mortgage costs for 75% LTV loan). 

The land and planning backdrop remains 
a bottleneck

A healthy and functioning housing market requires 
a reliable supply of land for developers to plan and 
build. In 2023, there was a significant slowdown in 
planning approvals as shown in the chart: English 
Residential Planning approvals.

The latest HBF Housing Pipeline report for Q3 2023 
shows planning permission grants are continuing to 
fall and are at the lowest levels since 2015, with 
c.246k plots approved in the 12-month period to 
September 2023. The HBF believes this could lead 
to as few as 200k plots being supplied in 2024. 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent studies commissioned by the HBF suggest 
new homes have a very low impact on Nutrient 
Neutrality. Therefore, Nutrient Neutrality is an issue 
that needs to be addressed by waste water 
authorities, to which, according to the HBF, 
homebuilders have paid £1 billion in the last three 
years to September 2023.

Evidence suggests relatively small movements in 
agricultural practices would offset the impact of 
new homes. 2023 saw a bill put forward by the 
Government in an attempt to unlock as many as 
100,000 affected plots between 2023 and 2030. 
However, this was later rejected by the House of 
Lords, meaning Nutrient Neutrality remains an 
ongoing issue, that has the potential to impact 
industry build volumes in future years.

Our market environment continued

Our teams have been extremely proactive and have 
tried, where possible, to ease the burden on the 
planning system.

Whilst progressing our land through planning 
remains a key priority for the business, a difficult 
planning system continues to impact our outlet 
openings and we currently have around 30k plots 
in the planning system, much higher levels than 
in prior years.

Improving planning may require further policy 
changes and greater resource allocation to local 
authority planning teams.

In 2024, scheduled local elections and the UK’s 
General Election are likely to lead to further 
disruption in the planning system.

Nutrient Neutrality

The Nutrient Neutrality issue relates to excessive 
growth of algae in water that can disrupt 
ecosystems and impact wildlife. This growth is 
predominantly caused by nitrates and phosphates 
entering the water course. 

The source of excess nutrients are wastewater 
and agricultural run-off (fertilisers and animal waste, 
which accounts for 70% of the overall nutrient load) 
with around 1% of the nutrient load relating to 
housing.

Prior to early 2022, this issue had been largely 
confined to the Solent and Somerset Levels. 
However, after March 2022 many additional 
catchments were added, resulting in development 
stops in 74 council areas and, in 2023, the HBF 
suggested this is affecting 150,000 homes at 
various stages in planning.

27

“ Progressing our 
land through 
planning remains 
a key priority for 
the business, as a 
difficult planning 
system continues 
to impact our 
outlet openings.”

Mark Skilbeck
Director of Planning

74

local councils affected 
by Nutrient Neutrality 
regulations

£1bn

paid by housebuilders 
to water authorities in 
three years

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationMarket trends, opportunities and risks

Key driver

Interest rates and mortgage availability
Link to Principal Risks

Material impacts

Employment, skills and labour availability
Material impacts
Link to Principal Risks

B:  Mortgage availability and 

 Our homes and places 

D:  Attract and retain high-calibre 

 Our people and suppliers

housing demand

C:  Availability and costs of materials  

and subcontractors

Interest rates and mortgage availability are key factors determining housing affordability 
and accessibility for our customers. The Bank of England (BoE) is mandated by the 
Government to maintain a 2% inflation target. Interest rates are the BoE’s main tool in 
managing economic demand to meet the inflation target. 
Mortgage providers use the Bank Rate as a base and charge an additional margin to 
their customers and often move ahead to factor in expectations of future interest rates.
UK Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation remained higher than expectations in the Q1 
2023, prompting significant increases in mortgage rates from lenders in Q2 as lenders 
anticipated that rate rises would be higher and longer lasting. 
Interest rates peaked last year at 5.25% against initial expectation of around 4.5% 
(source: Capital Economics). 
However, inflation fell from 10.5% in December 2022 to 4.0% by December 2023 as the 
impacts of rising energy prices unwound and BoE’s tightening policy took effect. 

2023 backdrop

Drivers, 
short term 
opportunities 
and risks

Drivers, 
long term 
opportunities 
and risks

As lenders anticipate future interest rate cuts, we are seeing mortgage rates below the 
current base rate widely available. UK inflation of 4% remains higher than the UK target of 
2% but is expected to fall sharply in 2024 with the Office of Budgetary Responsibility (OBR) 
predicting inflation of 1.5% in Q1 2024.
Wage growth in excess of house price growth and general inflation should help 
affordability and there may be potential for interest rate cuts this year. 
Lenders are offering longer term mortgages (beyond 30 years) to improve monthly 
affordability. There is potential for fiscal stimulus in the UK budget on 6 March 2024.
The Bank Rate is expected to moderate gradually downwards to 3% in 2025 (source: 
Capital Economics). This is a higher levels than most of the previous decade so the 
expense of monthly mortgage costs is also likely to remain higher. 
Wage growth may help improve affordability dependent on the level of future house 
price inflation.

28

employees

The UK employment rate has implications for consumer confidence and our customers’ 
desire and ability to buy homes. A healthy employment outlook is important for general 
consumer confidence, the housing market, and the wider economy. In previous cycles, 
higher unemployment has been a factor in weaker demand for housing.

Having peaked at 4.3% for May to July 2023, UK unemployment was 3.8% for the three 
months to December 2023 (3.7% for the three months to December 2022). According to 
the ONS, annual growth in regular earnings was 7.3% in August to October 2023 which 
translated to annual real term growth (adjusted for inflation) of 1.3%.
Wage increases have been a factor contributing to inflation. Labour market tightness 
meant pressure on both public and private sector wages with a number of high profile 
industrial actions, including in transport and the NHS. Job vacancy numbers fell from 
December 2022’s 1.2 million but remain significant at 949k for September to 
November 2023.
While there were still areas of tightness in the first half, labour cost inflation in the building 
sector was more moderate than materials cost inflation throughout the year. 
Construction labour availability improved because of falling industry output and, sector 
specific labour inflation was negligible by the end of the year.
Whilst there may continue to be some pressure on UK wages in 2024, there is potential 
that this lessens due to a number of multi-year settlements during 2023.
Economic forecasts vary for 2024. Some view stagnation likely given weak economic 
conditions and a difficult global geopolitical backdrop. However, other commentators are 
more optimistic, given the potential end of the rate tightening cycle. The 2024 spring 
budget may have a bearing on the outlook for the year.
Gov.uk predicts that unemployment will rise modestly to c.4.6% in 2024. This compares 
to a high of c.8.5% in 2011 following the global financial crisis.
The employment outlook will impact consumer confidence and is important for the 
housing sector and the wider economy. If the economic backdrop is benign then it is 
likely that future industry output could increase substantially to meet pent up demand, 
which offers both opportunity and risk. 
Attracting and retaining skilled workers to construction is key to the long term yet remains 
challenging. At Taylor Wimpey, a key focus is attracting new talent to the industry.
We are increasingly seeking ways to mitigate risk, driving efficiencies through modern 
methods of construction and have recently established our own timber frame facility.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationMarket trends, opportunities and risks continued

Key driver

Climate change
Link to Principal Risks

Material impacts

Land and planning
Link to Principal Risks

Material impacts

A:  Government policies, regulations 

 Our planet

A:  Government policies, regulations 

 Responsible and resilient business

and planning

and planning

H: Natural resources and climate change
The Future Homes Standard (FHS) outlines new regulations aimed at making new 
homes more energy efficient and is currently due to come into effect from 2025. At that 
point (and following any transitional arrangements) gas central heating systems will no 
longer be allowed in new developments.
From 15 June 2023, parts L, F, S and O changes to the Building Regulations requiring 
31% savings in carbon emissions (from a 2013 baseline) came into effect, following a one 
year transitional period. All of our homes started since then incorporate the material 
enhancements needed to meet the new standards.
We progressed our work in preparedness for the Future Homes Standards (FHS) 
regulation that will require a 75% reduction in carbon emissions from 2025, successfully 
launching our zero carbon ready homes trial in June 2023. We also launched our Net 
Zero Transition Plan publicly in 2023 and will continue to work towards our science-
based targets.
The Government announced that it would no longer go ahead with the proposal that 
rental properties would require an average Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating 
of C by 2025 for new tenancies and by 2028 for existing tenancies. Any change could 
mean costly retrofits for private landlords.
The 2025 FHS marks a major change in the way we will build. The transitional period for 
moving to the standard is yet to be confirmed. However, after mid 2025 and a suitable 
transitional period the homes we build will be zero carbon ready. 
Whilst we have a good understanding of the technology options we can employ, there 
remain risks until the Government outlines the final results of the consultation, allowing us 
to refine the specification of our homes.
Adjusting to this regulation will add further cost to our build process. This cost is 
generally reflected in residual land values.
Less than 2% of UK housing stock scores at the highest energy efficiency rating. We see 
potential for a competitive advantage and price premium for new, more energy-efficient 
homes. For example, we have already seen slightly cheaper ‘Green mortgages’ making 
new homes comparably cheaper to buy than less energy-efficient second-hand stock. 
Our future homes should benefit consumers who should not be exposed to the retrofit 
costs owners of older homes may face. In addition, depending on changes to energy 
tariffs, our customers could achieve meaningful savings in the cost of running their 
homes. A combination of these factors may mean that new homes can attract a future 
pricing advantage over older stock.

E: Land availability
Land is the key component for a housebuilder, therefore the availability of land suitable 
for development and the effectiveness of the planning system have a major effect on 
the medium to long term development of the industry and the supply of homes.

We continued to limit our land spend given the tightness in the land market and the 
economic backdrop. 
The land market continued to be challenging in 2023 with limited land available at an 
attractive value and a slow planning system. 
Delays and resource constraints in the planning system are impacting the supply 
of land for housing, with some of our developments also impacted by Nutrient 
Neutrality legislation.
Amendments to the National Planning Policy Framework announced by the Government 
in December 2023 removed the need for Planning Authorities to maintain a five-year 
supply of deliverable housing sites which could result in further delays and a shortfall in 
the supply of land available for development.

The backdrop will depend on the intentions of the party/ies that form/s the next 
Government following the 2024 General Election. 
However, there is recognition in political parties of the importance of housing.

The long term backdrop is uncertain, and it is unclear whether resources will be 
allocated to enable the planning system to function better. However, current proposed 
changes have the potential to reduce medium to long term land supply.
Following the 2024 General Election, there is potential for further changes to the planning 
regime by whichever party or parties form/s the next Government. With housing vital to 
growth in the UK economy we expect this to be a major focus during the next parliament 
and for the land and planning backdrop to improve, albeit from a low base.

2023 backdrop

Drivers, 
short term 
opportunities 
and risks

Drivers, 
long term 
opportunities 
and risks

29

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
Purpose, values and strategy

Focused on creating value 
for our stakeholders

Our purpose

Our values

Our strategy

We are defined by 
our clear purpose 
to build great homes 
and create thriving 
communities.

We seek to deliver superior 
returns for shareholders through 
our high-quality landbank and 
enhance value through sharper 
operational focus.

Built on a strong 
culture of doing the 
right thing

Our strategic cornerstones allow us to be flexible and agile

Respectful  
and fair

Take 
responsibility

Better tomorrow

Be proud

Land

Sustainability

An agile approach to optimising value

Investing to protect long term value 
for stakeholders 

Read more on pages 31 to 32

Read more on pages 35 to 36

Operational 
excellence

Capital 
allocation

Driving efficiency and execution 

A clear and disciplined approach 

Read more on pages 33 to 34

Read more on pages 37 to 38

30

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy

Land

Our excellent landbank and strategic pipeline enabled us 
to be highly selective in the land market in 2023.

Key performance indicators

Land cost as % of 
average selling price 
on approvals

Landbank years

% of completions 
from strategically 
sourced land

2023

2022

2021

15.2%

19.0%

16.1%

2023

2022

2021

c.7.7

c.6.0

c.6.1

2023

2022

2021

45%

52%

50%

Objective

Objective

Objective

To maintain at current levels or 
reduce our average land cost.

Definition

Cost of land as a percentage of 
average selling price on approvals.

Why it is key to our strategy

Maintaining a sustainable land cost 
percentage increases value for 
our shareholders.

To run an efficient landbank being 
mindful of the external environment 
such as planning environment.

Definition

The years of land supply in our short 
term landbank based at current 
completion levels.

Why it is key to our strategy

We seek to use our high-quality 
landbank more efficiently to deliver 
growth, both in the number and 
quality of homes built for a wider 
range of customers.

We aim to source more than 40% 
of our completions from the 
strategic pipeline per annum in 
the medium term.

Definition

Number of completions on land 
which originally did not have a 
residential planning permission 
when we acquired a commercial 
interest in it, expressed as a 
percentage of total completions.

Why it is key to our strategy

The strategic pipeline enhances our 
ability to increase the contribution 
per legal completion because of the 
inherent margin uplift from strategic 
plots. It also allows us to take a 
long term view of sites.

31

2023 highlights

•  Strong short term landbank of c.80k plots as 
at 31 December 2023 (2022: c.83k plots)

•  Balance sheet light, industry leading strategic 

pipeline of c.142k potential plots as at 
31 December 2023 (2022: c.144k plots)

•  High level of strategic conversions with c.8k 

plots converted from the strategic land 
pipeline to the short term landbank 
(2022: c.4k plots)

Priorities going forward

Short term

•  Remain highly selective in acquiring new 
sites but will be active where we see 
good opportunities

•  Progressing planning in our short term 

landbank to open new outlets 

•  Securing delivery from our strategic land 

pipeline, transferring assets to the 
operational business

Medium term

•  Continuing to invest in quality land at the 

right time 

•  Adding value by progressing land through the 
planning system and creating high-quality 
developments

Coronation 
Square, Leyton
This development is 
a regeneration project 
in partnership with 
Waltham Forest Council 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Land 
Strategic cornerstone in action

In 2023, we completed 
our first home 
compliant with new 
building regulations, 
Parts L and F

32

Herrington View, Penshaw

Located in the former mining village of Penshaw, near 
Sunderland, Herrington View is a good example of a 
site originating from Taylor Wimpey’s strong strategic 
pipeline. The site demonstrates the hard work and 
expertise and high-quality planning applications 
needed to successfully progress a strategic site. 
Herrington View also highlights our strategy to 
develop desirable locations, close to major transport 
and employment hubs with the potential to deliver 
a resilient performance through changing markets.

We originally optioned the land in 2016 with the 
agreement running until 2024. The strategic land 
team worked with Sunderland City Council to 
progress the land to development status with the 
authority allocating Penshaw to its Core Strategy 
Development Plan in January 2020.

Working in partnership with Sunderland council 

Sunderland council was early to recognise the 
benefits our development would bring to the area. 
Our teams meet regularly with the council to 
manage workload and expectations and, work 
together constructively to resolve any issues. 
The Decision Notice awarding hybrid planning was 
received in September 2022, allowing us to start 
work in January 2023, less than six years since the 
start of our option.

We began actively selling from the site in June 2023 
having established show homes and our sales 
centre, and first legal completions took place in 
November the same year.

Comprising 34 net acres, Herrington View will 
provide 440 new homes, of which 66 will be 
designated affordable housing. The first phase of 
116 homes has full planning permission, and the 
remaining 324 plots currently have outline planning. 

Carefully designed landscaped corridors will 
allow customers views of the historic Penshaw 
Monument and natural play areas within the 
development will provide a safe place for children 
to play and neighbours to meet. The site is adjacent 
to the Herrington Country Park, allowing our 
customers to get closer to nature. We are fitting 
bird and bat boxes to 88 plots and we are 
contributing towards Biodiversity Net Gain 
enhancements in the Herrington Country Park.

Well-located site

The site is close to larger towns and cities with 
Chester le Street four miles to the west and 
Sunderland five miles to the east, while Durham and 
Newcastle are less than 12 miles away. Herrington 
View has excellent nearby road links including the 
A19 and the A1(M), connecting our customers to 
major transport networks and employment hubs.

The site is also close to a wide range of local 
amenities including Doxford shopping and 
Washington Galleries.

Our first completions incorporating revised 
Building Regulations

Working with Group Technical, the local team 
decided on the early implementation of Part L and F 
of the Building Regulations. As a result, Herrington 
View is responsible for our first UK legal completion 
built to the new building regulations, making our 
homes 31% more energy efficient than homes built 
to the previous standard. 

Phase 1 of the site is expected to complete in 
2026. Depending on the market and our sales rate 
future phases of the scheme will then give us a site 
presence into the early 2030s.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Operational excellence

We seek to drive continuous improvement and efficiency 
benefits through relentless focus on operational excellence 
throughout the business.

Key performance indicators

Construction 
Quality Review
(average score/6)

Average reportable items 
per inspection

Health and Safety 
Injury Incidence Rate
(per 100,000 employees and 
contractors) rolling 12 months

Employee engagement
(annual survey)

2023

2022

2021

4.89

4.81

4.67

2023

2022

2021

0.28

0.32

0.26

2023

2022

2021

151

166

214

2023

2022

2021

93%

93%

91%

2023 remuneration measure. 
Read more on page 143

Objective

Objective

Objective

Objective

To achieve an average score of four 
out of six across Taylor Wimpey.

Reduce defects found during 
build stages.

Definition

Definition

The average score, out of six, 
achieved during an in-depth annual 
review of construction quality on a 
site-specific basis.

The average number of defects 
found per plot during National House 
Building Council (NHBC) inspections 
at key stages of the build.

Why it is key to our strategy

Why it is key to our strategy

Right first time continues to be a key 
priority within our customer-focused 
approach. Construction Quality 
Reviews focus on construction quality 
and understanding ‘why or how’ 
given levels of quality have resulted.

Reducing the number of defects 
per plot is crucial to ensuring we 
deliver consistently high-quality 
homes for our customers, whilst also 
minimising the cost of rectifications.

33

We are committed to providing a 
safe place in which our employees 
and subcontractors can work and 
our customers can live.

Definition

Reportable (all reportable) injury 
frequency rate per 100,000 employees 
and contractors (Annual Injury 
Incidence Rate).

We aim to maintain a high level of 
overall employee engagement.

Definition

Our employee engagement score 
measures a range of factors in terms 
of employees’ sense of belonging, 
how proud they are to work for 
Taylor Wimpey and their willingness 
to go the extra mile for the business.

Why it is key to our strategy

Why it is key to our strategy

•  Continuous business improvement including 

Health and safety is our non-negotiable 
top priority. As well as having a moral 
duty to maintain safety on site, 
accidents and injuries can have a 
detrimental impact on the business 
through additional costs, delays 
and/or reputational damage.

As a key part of our employee 
engagement strategy, the survey 
provides an opportunity for 
employees to provide feedback 
on all aspects of working at Taylor 
Wimpey. This leads to clear action 
plans at both a national and local 
level where improvements can 
continue to be made. Ensuring that 
the employee voice continues to be 
heard remains an important part of 
our overall engagement strategy.

investment in technology to protect 
stakeholder value against a backdrop of 
increasing regulatory demands

•  Continuing to invest in training our highly 

engaged workforce to ensure they have the 
appropriate skills to drive the business forward

2023 highlights

•  98% of our employees agree that we take 
health and safety seriously (2022: 98%)

•  Driving efficiencies through increased use 
of technology, data monitoring and trend 
analysis, and continued focus on defect 
prevention and continuous improvement

•  Conducted a detailed value exercise to 

ensure our customer offering continues to be 
of high-quality and the specification valued 
by our customers whilst at the same time 
targeting cost savings

Priorities going forward

Short term

•  Health and safety remains our number one 

priority in all markets

•  Optimising value across all areas of the 

business and increasing efficiency

•  Continue to ensure consistent high quality

Medium term

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Operational excellence 
Strategic cornerstone in action

34

Developing our own timber frame production

We took possession of our 240,000 square foot 
timber frame facility in the summer of 2023 and 
have since completed an extensive fit out. The large 
facility is ideally located in Peterborough, close to 
our Taylor Wimpey Logistics business. 

Alongside the efficiency benefits, increasing our use 
of timber frame will aid us in our carbon reduction 
goals, since the timber frame process produces 
less carbon than masonry construction. Timber 
frame construction is currently slightly higher cost 
than conventional brick and block construction but 
enables us to speed up build, allowing earlier 
commencement of all follow on trades whilst slightly 
reducing our reliance on bricklaying resources.

Increasing security and reliability of supply

In recent years, the supply and pricing of timber 
has been volatile due to global supply chain issues. 
In establishing our own facility, we can hold our 
own buffer stock enabling us to better manage any 
future supply chain challenges. As we progress, 
there is the potential to drive future savings for 
our businesses.

A measured roll out

Production commenced in early 2024 with first kits 
to be delivered to site in the first half of the year. 
We are taking a measured approach to rolling out 
our production. We have management with vast 
experience in timber frame to ensure that proper 
processes are in place before scaling up over the 
next two years.

Environment and 
efficiency benefits 
Timber frame could reduce 
embodied carbon from the 
materials in a typical home 
by around 15%

Our skilled employees will be provided with the 
necessary training in the fundamentals of timber 
frame production and health and safety. When fully 
operational, we expect to run two shifts employing 
around 100 people.

This year, the facility will produce several hundred 
units, with first deliveries to our sites in the first half 
of the year. At full capacity in two to three years’ 
time, we expect to produce around 3,000 kits per 
year which, in combination with our external 
suppliers, will support our goal of increasing timber 
frame usage to 30% of our production by 2030.

c.3k 

kits per year once at full capacity

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Sustainability

Investing to protect long term value for all stakeholders, 
prepare for regulatory change, continue to develop sustainable 
communities and play our part in limiting climate change.

Key performance indicators

Customer satisfaction 
8-week score ‘Would 
you recommend?’

Customer satisfaction 
9-month score ‘Would you 
recommend?’

Reduction in operational 
carbon emissions intensity
(measured at end of year)

2023

2022

2021

92%

90%

92%

2023

2022

2021

5%

77%

78%

79%

2023

2022

2021

15%

13%

2023 remuneration measure. 
Read more on page 143

2023 remuneration measure. 
Read more on page 143

Objective

Objective

Objective

We strive to achieve 90% or above 
in this question, which equates to a 
five-star rating.

Definition

Percentage of customers who would 
recommend Taylor Wimpey to a 
friend as measured by the National 
New Homes Survey undertaken by 
the NHBC on behalf of the HBF 
eight weeks after legal completion.

Why it is key to our strategy

Identifying and serving the needs 
of our customers by delivering a 
high-quality product is key to 
our ambition to become a 
customer-focused homebuilder.

We strive to improve this score and 
to understand the reasons behind 
(and underlying drivers) of this 
customer feedback.

Definition

Percentage of customers who would 
recommend Taylor Wimpey to a 
friend as measured by the National 
New Homes Survey undertaken 
by the NHBC nine months after 
legal completion.

Why it is key to our strategy

We think about how customers live 
in the homes and places we build 
for longer than the first few months 
after they move in. Ensuring our 
customer satisfaction remains high 
in the months following completion 
is important.

Reduce operational carbon 
emissions intensity by 36% by 2025 
from a 2019 baseline.

Definition

Our science-based carbon reduction 
target for scopes 1 and 2 emissions 
intensity tracks tonnes of emissions 
per 100 square metres of completed 
build. The target has been verified by 
the Science Based Targets initiative, 
and the data assured by the 
Carbon Trust.

Why it is key to our strategy

These are the emissions directly from 
our own business operations and as 
such are an indicator of our own 
performance and commitment.

35

2023 highlights

•  Rated five-star for customer service in the 
Home Builders Federation (HBF) survey

•  Published our Net Zero Transition Plan to 

reach net zero carbon emissions across our 
value chain by 2045, ahead of regulation

•  Delivered the UK’s first zero carbon ready 

scheme on a live site at Sudbury, including 
industry leading interactive models which will 
help communicate the benefits of the new 
technology to customers and sharing best 
practice with industry and SMEs

•  Net zero targets independently validated by 
the Science Based Targets initiative and 
achieved certification to the Carbon Trust’s 
Route to Net Zero Standard, Advancing level

Priorities going forward

Short term

•  Continue to invest in the long term 

sustainability of the business including 
training our highly engaged employees

•  Continue to prioritise value over volume and 
seek to increase volumes where market 
conditions allow in a value enhancing way

Medium term

•  Investing to protect long term value for all 

stakeholders

•  Further progress on our path to net zero

Cultivating 
biodiversity
We integrate 
hedgehog highways 
and bug hotels or 
bee bricks on new sites

Read more on page 52

Interactive 
models 
Helping to 
communicate 
the benefits of 
new technologies 
to customers

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Sustainability 
Strategic cornerstone in action

An industry first 
Taylor Wimpey installed 
the UK’s first roof 
mounted air source 
heat pump on a live 
development site

36

Scan to hear more 
about our trial homes 
at Sudbury

Developing net zero ready homes with our 
Sudbury prototypes

The Future Homes Standard (FHS), is due to take 
effect in England from 2025 (with associated 
transitional arrangements). We expect the FHS to 
require a 75-80% reduction in carbon emissions 
from new homes. In Scotland, the New Build Heat 
Standard is being introduced in April 2024.

This will represent a step change in the way we 
build as well as the way customers live, with the 
key requirement to move from gas central heating 
and hot water to all electric homes. 

Learning valuable lessons from the trials

In 2023, we completed our zero carbon ready 
homes trial at our Chilton Woods development in 
Sudbury, Suffolk. Zero carbon ready means the 
homes should be net zero in use once the UK 

energy grid is decarbonised.

The launch of the prototypes was a major milestone. 
The trial, comprising five multi-specification prototype 
homes, was the industry’s first research concept 
testing low carbon technologies on a live 
development site.

The homes have allowed us to review construction 
methodologies, determine the design and technical 
implications of integrating into Taylor Wimpey 
homes, review the skills required to install the 
new technologies and share lessons learnt across 
the business.

The trials will continue once the homes are sold, 
allowing us to measure performance of the new 
technologies, obtain customer feedback enabling us 
to optimise our approach, and refine our approach 
ahead of and in response to final regulation.

We tested a combination of fabric and technology 
solutions to achieve zero carbon ready homes, 
designed to ensure they meet customers’ 
living requirements.

In developing these homes, we adopted a ‘fabric 
first’ approach to raise the energy performance 
(addressing walls structure, doors, windows, 
insulation). Technology will continue to evolve, 
while the fabric will be there for the lifespan of the 
homes. Fabric enhancements include triple glazed 
windows, wider cavity walls to allow for greater 
thermal insulation and thermal lintels.

The five prototypes each tested different technology 
combinations such as air source heat pumps, 
underfloor heating, infrared panels, solar panels, 
battery storage and mechanical ventilation and 
heat recovery.

Preparing for the change

While innovative, these combinations are generally 
well established technologies that are widely used 
globally, so are relatively low risk. However, there 
remain significant educational challenges in terms 
of the supply, installation and importantly, customer 
readiness for these new solutions. 

Apart from one home deliberately designed to 
push the boundaries of what is possible, the homes 
were completed within budget, including the costs 
to meet changes in line with updates to the building 
regulations that came into place in June 2023. 
We factor these costs into the residual value 
calculations when we make land acquisitions. 

We are pleased these trials successfully delivered 
homes capable of meeting zero carbon ready 
status, within budget and well ahead of regulation.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Capital allocation

Our clear and disciplined capital allocation framework balances investment 
in our future with sustainable dividends and cash returns for investors at the 
appropriate time in the cycle.

Our capital allocation priorities

1. Maintain a strong 
balance sheet

Maintain low adjusted 
gearing* to reflect cyclical 
nature of the industry

3. Sustainable 
ordinary dividend

Ordinary Dividend Policy 
of 7.5% of net assets or at 
least £250 million annually 
throughout the cycle

4. Return 
excess cash

Excess cash returned after 
funding land investment, working 
capital, taxation and the ordinary 
dividend. The method of return 
(share buyback or special 
dividend) will be considered 
at the appropriate time

2. Investment in 
land and work in 
progress (WIP) to 
drive future growth

Focus on funding business 
needs, including land 
investment and WIP 
to drive growth

£677.9m

Net cash*
(2022: £863.8m)

£516.1m

Land creditors
(2022: £725.6m)

9.57p

Total ordinary dividend 
per share paid in the year
(2022: 9.06p)

37

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPerformance and strategy continued

Capital allocation 
Strategic cornerstone in action

Consistently evaluating capital allocation

Every day we make capital allocation decisions 
when we assess our land and commit capital to 
work in progress on our sites (the investment in 
labour, materials and direct costs attributable to 
our developments that is held in inventory until 
completion, when it is recognised in cost of sales).

Our investment criteria are subject to a rigorous 
process and includes detailed land assessment 
against numerous financial metrics, subject to sign 
off by senior management levels including the 
Chief Executive.

In 2023, we reduced our land commitments due to 
conditions in both the land and the wider housing 
market. We also tightly controlled release of work 
in progress with each of our businesses working 
hard to closely match our build output to levels of 
customer demand.

Providing visibility to investors

Our Dividend Policy has been established to 
provide shareholders with a reliable dividend and 
surplus cash return via special dividend or buyback 
at the appropriate time in the cycle. 

Our Ordinary Dividend Policy is to pay out 7.5% 
of net assets or at least £250 million annually 
throughout the cycle.

Our Ordinary Dividend Policy has been stress 
tested to withstand conditions beyond what we 
would consider a normal downturn, including up 
to a 20% fall in house prices and 30% decline 
in volumes.

In line with our policy, we announced a final 
Ordinary Dividend payment of 4.79 pence per 
share, which is subject to shareholder approval 
at the Annual General Meeting. 

With the 2023 Interim Dividend payment of 
4.79 pence per share, the total Ordinary Dividend 
for the year is 9.58 pence per share or 
approximately £339 million. 

It remains our policy to return to shareholders 
surplus cash generated by the business, and which 
is in excess of that needed by the Group to fund 
land investment, working capital, taxation and other 
cash requirements, and after the ordinary dividend.

9.58p

2023 dividend pence per share 

£339m

total dividend for the year

*  Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements. 

Please see page 81 for definitions.

38

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOperational review

In 2023 we increased focus on 
operational controls across the 
business. In light of reduced demand 
in our market, we continued to tightly 
manage costs and investment in work 
in progress and were highly selective 
in our land investment. 

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Financial statements

Shareholder information

What’s in this section

•  2023 sales, completions and pricing

•  Land

•  Central and local government

•  Supply chain

•  Opportunities in green building

•  Modern methods of construction (MMC)

•  Charity partnerships

Highlights for 2023

UK completions including 
joint ventures

Reduction in absolute operational 
carbon emissions intensity since 2019

Group operating  
profit margin*

10.4k

(2022: 13.8k)

39

35%

(2022: 26%)

13.4%

(2022: 20.9%)

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Operational review continued

Our operational review focuses on the UK (unless 
stated otherwise) as the majority of metrics are not 
comparable in our Spanish business. There is a 
short summary of the Spanish business in the 
Group financial review. 

2023 sales, completions and pricing

Total Group completions (including joint ventures) 
were 10,848 (2022: 14,154). UK home completions 
(including joint ventures) were 10,438 (2022: 13,773), 
which included 2,388 affordable homes (2022: 2,920) 
equating to 23% of total completions (2022: 21%). 
Completions from joint ventures in the year were 82 
(2022: 222). Our net private reservation rate for 2023 
was 0.62 homes per outlet per week (2022: 0.68). 
The cancellation rate for the full year was 18% 
(2022: 18%). 

UK average selling prices on private completions 
increased by 5.1% to £370k (2022: £352k) with the 
overall average selling price increasing by 3.5% to 
£324k (2022: £313k). 

We estimate that market-led house price growth for 
our regional mix was c.1% for completions in the 
12 months to 31 December 2023 (2022: c.8%). 

Underlying build cost inflation in 2023 was c.8.5% 
(2022: c.8%). At the start of 2024, prevailing build 
cost inflation is running at around 1% and reduces 
to zero when taking into account the savings arising 
from our value improvement programme.

During 2023, we continued to focus on using the 
levers within our control to reduce cost including 
retendering of site phases and a full review of 
specification to identify savings without impacting 
health and safety, quality or customer satisfaction. 

We ended the year with an order book valued at 
£1,772 million (31 December 2022: £1,941 million), 
excluding joint ventures, which represents 6,999 
homes (31 December 2022: 7,499 homes). In the UK, 
we traded from an average of 238 outlets in 2023 
(2022: 232). We ended the year with 237 outlets 
(31 December 2022: 259). 

Land

We have a strong short term landbank of c.80k 
plots as at 31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: 
c.83k). During 2023 we acquired 1,572 plots (2022: 
7,716) for the short term landbank. The average 
cost of land as a proportion of average selling price 
within the short term owned landbank remains low 
at 13.7% (2022: 14.0%). 

The average selling price in the short term owned 
landbank in 2023 increased by 1.6% to £327k 
(2022: £322k). Our focus is on progressing planning 
in our short term landbank to open new outlets 
and secure delivery from our strategic pipeline, 
transferring assets to the operational business. 

As at 31 December 2023, we were building on, or 
due to start in the first quarter of 2024, on 99.6% 
of sites with implementable planning.

Our strong land position has benefitted from 
conversions from our strategic pipeline. We saw 
fewer opportunities to buy land at attractive 
valuations in 2023 and accordingly were highly 
selective in land acquisition with approvals at 
c.3k plots (2022: c.7k). The quality of our 
strategic pipeline of c.142k potential plots 
(31 December 2022: c.144k), continues to 
provide differentiation offering optionality and 
flexibility for the foreseeable future. 

40

Benefiting from a  
strong land position
Our short term landbank 
is supported by a strong 
strategic pipeline, with 54% 
of our short term landbank 
strategically sourced

Our success in developing our strong strategic 
pipeline means that 54% of our short term landbank 
has originated from this source (2022: 50%). In the 
year, 45% of our completions were sourced from 
the strategic pipeline (2022: 52%). 

During 2023, we converted a further c.8k plots from 
the strategic pipeline to the short term landbank 
(2022: c.4k plots) and added a net c.6k new 
potential plots to the strategic pipeline (2022: c.3k). 

Despite continuing delays in plan-making across 
the country, our high-quality strategic pipeline 
remains a key strength, both as an important input 
to the short term landbank and in providing an 
enhanced supply of land with greater control over 
the planning permissions we receive. 

Central and local government

During 2024, the UK will be holding local elections 
across the country, in addition to a General Election 
expected in the second half of the year. We 
welcome the recognition from both main political 
parties of the importance of housebuilding to the 
country and continue to engage with all 
stakeholders at every level of the business.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information“ TWL provides value 
added services 
to our regional 
businesses primarily 
by providing 
pre-kitted build 
packs of products 
when they are 
needed at each 
build-stage of 
production on-site.”

Nick Wright
Manufacturing and 
Supply Chain Director

This aids production, improves speed of build and 
significantly reduces site traffic. In addition to 
delivery of pre-kitted products to site, it provides 
services that support our regional businesses 
including:

•  Take off and scheduling services

•  Strategic stock holding with annual pricing to 

safeguard against fluctuating supplier 
performance and price volatility

•  Ensuring adherence and alignment to our 

standardisation / stock keeping unit reduction 
procurement strategy

The benefit of TWL can be seen in our site 
deliveries. TWL supplies our businesses 99% on 
time in full (OTIF), compared to receiving its supplies 
87% OTIF. 

Supply chain 

We have worked on improving our supplier risk 
process for a number of years and, as a result, our 
visibility and understanding of our supply chain has 
increased considerably. This encompasses risks 
across the whole supply chain, rather than just our 
first-tier suppliers.

Supplier risk is measured as instability in the supply 
chain and can cover any number of scenarios, such 
as global or national shortages of products, supplier 
insecurity, including financial issues or supplier 
quality and delivery problems. Our supply chain 
strategy is to understand the risks at the various 
stages of the supply chain and put in place 
accordant strategies.

This work has resulted in a change to a number 
of our supply chain routes to improve material 
availability.

We are also developing our approach to 
environmental and social risks in our supply chain, 
integrating disclosure requirements into our tender 
processes for key group suppliers.

Taylor Wimpey Logistics (TWL)

TWL provides value added services to our regional 
businesses primarily by providing pre-kitted build 
packs of products when they are needed at each 
build-stage of production on-site.

Operational review continued

The planning environment continues to be very 
challenging with delays and resource pressures 
impacting housing land supply. Amendments 
to the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) 
announced by the Government in December 
include positive measures to support improved 
quality of design and placemaking. 

However, other changes, including softening of the 
requirement to meet local planning targets, the 
relaxation of the soundness test for plan-making 
and the removal of the need for planning authorities 
to maintain a five-year supply of deliverable housing 
sites, could result in further delays and a shortfall in 
the supply of sites. 

We continue to engage with industry, water 
authorities and central and local government on the 
issue of Nutrient Neutrality. We have established our 
internal Nutrient Working Group to help our regional 
businesses develop effective responses to this issue.

During 2023, Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG) 
requirements in England were published and came 
into effect in February 2024. We have published 
guidance and have held training sessions for our 
regional businesses to support them to manage 
the risks, costs and opportunities associated with 
Biodiversity Net Gain. BNG was effectively 
introduced via changes to the NPPF in 2018 so 
we have factored the associated costs into our 
land acquisition since that time. 

We published guidance on Mandatory Net Gain 
and land contracts in 2021 and run training 
sessions for our regional businesses and land 
teams to support them to manage the risks, 
costs and opportunities associated with net gain. 

41

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOperational review continued

Opportunities in green building

Over the next five years there will be significant 
changes to new build homes in the UK reflecting 
the UK’s climate change targets. Our target is to 
reduce emissions from customer homes in use 
by 75% by 2030, and we are testing a range of 
technologies and enhanced fabric standards to 
achieve this.

Changes to Building Regulations 

2023 was a transitional year for our build teams as 
we successfully adapted our production to meet 
the revised Building Regulations. Our homes have 
enhanced fabric standards following the phasing 
in of the Part L (conservation of fuel and power), 
and Part F (ventilation) of the Building Regulations 
in England from June 2022 (with a one year 
transitional period), Parts L & F from November 
2022 for Wales, and Section 6 in Scotland from 
February 2023. Additional features in our homes 
include wastewater heat recovery systems, triple 
glazing and photovoltaic (solar) panels. Collectively, 
this will achieve a 31% reduction in carbon 
emissions compared with our previous specification 
across England and similar carbon reductions 
across Wales and Scotland.

Future Homes Standard 2025

We are also preparing for the phase-out of gas 
central heating and hot water systems from 2025 in 
England and Wales and 2024 in Scotland. In 2023, 
we delivered the UK’s first zero carbon ready 
homes on a live development site at Sudbury to 
understand the opportunities and challenges posed 
by the Future Homes Standard. 

“ 2023 was a 
transitional year for 
our teams as we 
adapted our designs, 
specifications and 
production to meet 
the revised building 
standards. We were 
also proud to deliver 
the UK’s first zero 
carbon ready 
homes on a live 
development site.”

Stephen Andrew
Group Technical Director

75%

target reduction in carbon 
emissions for homes in use 
by 2030

Over 450

stakeholders visited our 
future homes prototypes

This included industry leading interactive augmented 
reality models which will help communicate the 
benefits of the new technology to customers. Over 
450 stakeholders have visited the site and we have 
shared best practice and our lessons learnt with 
small and medium enterprises (SMEs). 

Feedback from the visits and a customer focus 
group showed that 81% of visitors felt that the use 
of low carbon technologies enhances the value of 
new homes. 

Read more on page 36

Modern methods of construction (MMC)

Componentisation and other modern methods 
of construction also form part of our strategy 
for dealing with a skills shortage in our industry. 
Whilst products such as smart roofs (where the 
roof structure is manufactured off site and the 
components are craned into place on site), which 
we use for our ‘room in a roof’ homes, provide both 
health and safety and efficiency benefits.

Developing our own timber frame production

A key part of our strategy is to increase the use 
of timber frame in our construction, to 30% of 
our production by 2030. Alongside efficiency 
benefits, use of timber frame can reduce embodied 
carbon in materials by around 15%, compared to 
traditional brick and block building techniques, 
supporting progress towards our net zero target.

In 2023 we established our own timber frame 
facility that will enable us to increase security and 
reliability of supply. In combination with our existing 
suppliers, our own facility will help us in our goal to 
increase timber frame usage to 30% of our 
production by 2030. 

Read more on page 34

Charity partnerships

During 2023, we continued our partnership with 
our national charities as well as local charity 
partners across the UK. Our national partners are 
Youth Adventure Trust, Every Youth (previously End 
Youth Homelessness), Crisis, Magic Breakfast, and 
St Mungo’s.

In total, during 2023, we donated and fundraised 
c.£1 million for registered charities (2022: c.£1 million). 
This included supporting St Mungo’s Construction 
Skills Training Centres to help people recovering 
from homelessness to gain new skills and find 
employment in the construction industry. 

*   Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements. 

Please see page 81 for definitions.

42

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStrategic report

Directors’ report

Financial statements

Shareholder information

Building for our customers

Our customers are central 
to our purpose ‘to build great 
homes and create thriving 
communities’. We are an industry 
leader in build quality and, whilst 
already a 5-star rated builder, 
enhancing our customer service 
was a key priority in 2023.

What’s in this section

•  Customer service

•  New Homes Ombudsman 

•  Build quality 

•  Placemaking

•  Cladding fire safety

Highlights for 2023

Customers in 8-week survey who 
would recommend us to a friend

Construction Quality Review 
average score (out of 6)

Trustpilot rating

92%

(2022: 90%)

43

4.89

(2022: 4.81)

4 out of 5

(2022: 4 out of 5)

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Building for our customers continued

Customer service

Customer service was a major focus for 2023 and 
we are delighted to have increased our Home 
Builders Federation (HBF) 8-week ‘would you 
recommend?’ score to 92% (2022: 90%) and 
retained our five star rating. However, we have not 
yet seen the same increase in our 9-month score 
which gives us insight into how customers feel 
about the homes and places we build over the 
longer term. Our score for 2023 was 77% (2022: 
78%) and we will be prioritising improvements in 
this area in 2024. 

We encourage customers to leave reviews on 
Trustpilot. At the end of 2023, with 8,950 reviews, 
we had a 4 out of 5 star rating (end of 2022: 4 out 
of 5) with a trust score of 3.9 out of 5 (2022: 3.9 
out of 5).

44

92%

five star customer 
service rating
(2022: 90%)

3.9

out of 5 trust score
(2022: 3.9 out of 5)

We have prioritised working with all our partners to 
deliver excellent customer service and leverage our 
customer database capabilities, in order to build a 
strong order book. In a more challenging market, 
understanding our customers is more important 
than ever. 

We are using the data insights provided by our fully 
integrated customer relationship management 
system to better support our customers and align 
our marketing strategy. 

Our systems enable us to identify potential new 
leads, be proactive with our current customers 
(with visibility of key customer and plot dates) 
and pre-empt potential issues.

As part of our drive to ensure we are delivering 
for our customers, in 2023 we have conducted 
more widespread and consistent follow up with 
customers to understand their views after they 
have moved into their new home.

New Homes Ombudsman 

We signed up to the New Homes Quality Code 
in November 2022 and aligned our processes to 
its requirements. Customer-facing employees are 
trained on the Code as well as many colleagues in 
our commercial and technical functions and some 
of our subcontractors. 

In 2023, we introduced a policy on how to support 
potentially vulnerable customers as part of our 
alignment to the Code requirements. This has now 
been rolled out to our businesses.

Build quality 

We continue to see improvements in our build 
quality as measured by the NHBC Construction 
Quality Review (CQR) score, which measures build 
quality at key build stages. In 2023, we scored an 
average of 4.89 (2022: 4.81) from a possible score 
of six. This compares with an industry benchmark 
group average score of 4.67. 

We aim to further improve this by ensuring our 
quality assurance processes are embedded at 
every stage of the build. We clearly communicate 
our quality standards to subcontractors and invest 
in training, process improvements and regular 
inspections throughout the build process to ensure 
consistently high standards and prevent quality 
issues from occurring.

Construction Quality  
Review scores (out of 6)

2023

2022

2021

4.89

4.81

4.67

Quality is incentivised from the top of the 
organisation, with a proportion of our Executive 
Incentive Scheme linked to customer service and 
build quality, and this is also one of our Principal 
Risks. We also integrate customer service and 
quality into our all employee bonus scheme.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBuilding for our customers continued

Placemaking

Cladding fire safety

Good placemaking ensures our teams plan, design, 
and deliver schemes that become successful and 
sustainable new communities, where our 
customers can enjoy a good quality of life.

We have clear placemaking standards based on 
Building for a Healthy Life and aligned with the 
National Design Guide and National Model Code. 
There is an internal design review process for all 
new schemes to ensure consistent design quality. 

Our schemes are also reviewed more than once 
during design development by our Director of 
Design (a qualified architect and urban designer) 
and must be signed off before they can proceed 
to planning application.

Access to transport and local infrastructure and 
facilities contributes to the success of our schemes. 
In 2023, we contributed £405 million to local 
communities in which we build across the UK via 
planning obligations (2022: £455 million). 

This funded a range of infrastructure and facilities 
including affordable housing, green space, 
community facilities, commercial and leisure 
facilities, transport infrastructure, heritage buildings 
and public art. 

We aim to install infrastructure at an early stage of 
the build process to enhance our schemes and help 
the new community become established quickly. 
We also invest in public and community transport, 
walkways and cycle paths. In 2023, 70% of our UK 
completions were within 500 metres of a public 
transport node and 90% were within 1,000 metres.

It is our long held view that leaseholders should 
not have to pay for the cost of remediation and 
our programme started several years prior to 
signing the Government Building Safety pledge. 
We voluntarily signed the Government’s Building 
Safety Pledge for Developers in April 2022, the 
Welsh Government’s Pact in September 2022, 
and the commitment letter to the Scottish Accord 
in June 2023. 

In total, we have made provisions amounting to 
£245 million, which remains our best estimate of 
the cost of our commitments to bring affected 
buildings in line with the standards as set out in 
the agreements reached with the governments.

We have identified 214 buildings that are within the 
scope of our provisions, around half of which we 
have either remediated, started work on or expect 
to commence work on this year. To date, we have 
fully completed 38 buildings with another nine 
remediated and awaiting paperwork. A further 19 
buildings had works underway at the end of 2023.

We have a dedicated team in place to manage our 
remediation programme, progress our work on 
these buildings as quickly as possible and to ensure 
high-quality delivery. It is expected, given the size 
and nature of the projects, the multiple stakeholders 
involved and the availability of appropriately 
qualified consultants and contractors, that work will 
take around five years to complete in its entirety.

45

70%

of UK completions within 
500 metres of public 
transport node 

90%

of UK completions 
within 1,000 metres of 
public transport node

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBuilding for our people

Our people and culture  
are key to our progress. 
We have a highly talented 
and engaged workforce 
that continues to drive 
Taylor Wimpey forward for 
the benefit of all stakeholders.

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Financial statements

Shareholder information

What’s in this section

•  Health and safety

•  Culture and people

•  Skills

•  Equality, diversity and inclusion

Highlights for 2023

Employee engagement score

Quality awards

Voluntary employee turnover

93%

(2022: 93%)

46

51

(2022: 62)

14.2%

(2022: 17.7%)

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Building for our people continued

Health and safety

Health and safety remains our number one priority 
in all markets and it is the first topic covered in 
every Board, Group Management Team (GMT) and 
local regional management team meeting across 
the country. Building sites are inherently dangerous 
places and so it is essential that strict safety 
protocols are identified, embedded, monitored and 
enforced and a clear, consistent and disciplined 
approach to safety is key throughout the 
organisation. 98% of our employees agree that 
we take health and safety seriously (2022: 98%). 

Our Annual Injury Incidence Rate (AIIR) for 
reportable injuries per 100,000 employees and 
contractors was 151 in 2023 (2022: 166), remaining 
well below both the HBF Home Builder average 
AIIR of 241 and the Health and Safety Executive 
construction industry average AIIR of 296. 

However, our commitment goes beyond industry 
benchmarks and we will continue to seek to 
improve this. Around 37% of accidents are slips, 
trips and falls. Our AIIR for major injuries per 
100,000 employees and contractors was 65 in 
2023 (2022: 68).

Culture and people

We have a strong culture at Taylor Wimpey which 
we and our employees are proud of. This is 
demonstrated in our latest employee survey with 
an overall employee engagement score of 93% 
(2022: 93%), with a 69% response rate. Our 
overarching value is ‘do the right thing’. Our Taylor 
Wimpey Inspire Awards recognise our employees 
who go above and beyond. 

47

We are proud of how committed our employees are 
to the long term success of the Company and we 
seek feedback from and engagement with all 
employees. This includes regular email updates 
from the Chief Executive as well as updates from 
the GMT and other senior management. 

It is important that management is accessible and 
visible so in addition to regular visits to the regional 
businesses we operate a National Employee 
Forum, National Young Person’s Forum and Local 
Employee Forums in our regional businesses, 
where employee representatives are able to 
feedback to and ask questions of members of the 
Board and other senior management directly.

During 2023, our voluntary employee turnover rate 
was 14.2% (2022: 17.7%). 

We are pleased to report that Taylor Wimpey was 
once again recognised in the NHBC Pride in the 
Job Awards, achieving a total of 51 Quality Awards 
(2022: 62) and 13 Seal of Excellence Awards 
(2022: 15).

Skills

During 2023, we directly employed, on average, 
4,618 people across the UK (2022: 5,140) and 
provided opportunities for, on average, a further 
9.3k operatives (2022:11.1k) on our sites.

We are proud of our approach to talent development 
at Taylor Wimpey. 45% of our regional management 
teams have been promoted internally and 62% of Site 
Managers were promoted from within the business. 

We recognise that building the skills of our current 
and future workforce is essential to address current 
and potential future skills gaps in our industry and 
subcontractor base. 

“ I believe strongly 
that having a diverse 
workforce is crucial 
to strengthening 
our business for 
the future, and this 
becomes even 
more important 
in a challenging 
market.”

Anne Billson-Ross
Group Human 
Resources Director 

To support entry level Trainees, competency 
levelling was launched in April 2023. Competency 
levelling enables Trainees to have a clear path of 
progression into a target role, as well as rewarding 
them according to their experience and 
competence as they progress through their training. 

We support our regional businesses to develop local 
links with colleges, universities and schools and 
encourage a diverse range of candidates to consider 
careers in housebuilding. In 2023, we strengthened 
our schools outreach programme working with a 
specialist company and developed our career 
converters programme for ex-service personnel.

Working with partners to promote industry skills

We continue to work closely with our partners, peer 
companies, industry associations and educational 
organisations to identify and address skills gaps 
and upskill our workforce, and also share best 
practice within the industry bodies.

In 2023, we led a collaboration with five other major 
housebuilders to identify tangible ways in which we 
could address the skills shortage facing our sector, 
leading to the creation of a Sector Skills Plan

Recognising that the majority of our trades on site 
are performed by our supply chain, Taylor Wimpey 
has been instrumental in developing a support 
model with the CITB whereby we provide free 
support to our subcontractors to enable them to 
recruit, train, manage and claim grant funding for 
their apprentices.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information62%

Female representation in 
our graduate programme

6%

Gender pay gap in 
favour of men

The calculations cover all staff employed by Taylor 
Wimpey UK Limited as at 5 April 2023. Our latest 
data shows that our mean gender pay gap was 6% 
in favour of men (2022: 2% in favour of women) and 
median pay gap 2% in favour of men (2022: 1% in 
favour of men). 

The shift in our pay gap this year reflects a number 
of factors, including a reduction in the overall size of 
our workforce, more highly paid women than men 
leaving the business, and a reduction in 
commission due to market conditions which affects 
our sales function, which is 83% women. 

We will continue to focus on our programmes to 
increase female representation across different 
functions and levels of the business which will 
reduce the pay gap over time. 

More information on the programmes and our road 
map to further improvement can be found in our 
Diversity and Inclusion Report on our website.

Building for our people continued

We have seen some early successes with 
subcontractors based in Exeter and the Midlands, 
where the plan has helped provide recruitment 
support as well as identifying colleges and signing 
apprentices up for courses. In addition, we have 
seen the plan has helped subcontractors to claim 
funding to offset the cost of their apprenticeship 
training – in some cases helping with backdated 
claims that they were unaware would be eligible. 

The pilot will be extended to others in the Sector so 
that more subcontractors can take advantage of this 
free of charge support structure. We are proud of our 
approach to talent development at Taylor Wimpey.

Equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) 

We remain committed to creating a more diverse 
workforce and will publish our second Diversity and 
Inclusion Report in 2024. We have set quantitative 
targets to improve gender balance at all levels 
and to increase ethnic minority representation. 
Our targets are aspirational, but we believe that 
it is important to be ambitious and hold ourselves 
to account. 

Our aim is to create a workplace where colleagues 
feel championed and supported regardless of their 
background and identity. By truly embracing our 
colleagues’ diverse perspectives we can deepen 
our understanding of our customers and 
stakeholders, enhance innovation and creative 
thinking and continue to drive the business forward 
and achieve success. 

Investment in ED&I is a long term commitment for 
Taylor Wimpey, supported by our Board, and all 
levels of our leadership. Alongside our successes, 
we remain focused on the areas we still need 
to progress.

Our workforce is not yet reflective of the UK’s ethnic 
diversity. As at 31 December 2023, 5.7% of our 
employees were from a Black, Asian or other 
minority ethnic background (2022: 5.0%) and 3.7% 
at regional business management level (2022: 2.5%). 

We had a gender mix of 66% male (2022: 67%) 
and 34% female (2022: 33%) across the Company. 
Our GMT was 33% female (2022: 38%) and our 
Board of Directors was 44% female (2022: 44%). 
Women in the GMT and direct reports to GMT rose 
to 28% (2022: 21%). The proportion of women in 
management roles across the Group rose to 38% 
from 30% in 2022. 

We have more work to do in our regional business 
management teams to address gender balance. 
Women made up 27% of these roles in 2023 
(2022: 31%). Whilst the employment freeze 
impacted our efforts in terms of graduate and 
trainee manager recruitment, our pipeline is strong, 
with females accounting for 62% of our graduate 
programme (2022: 64%).

In line with the Gender Pay Gap regulations, we 
calculated our 2023 gender pay gap based on data 
at the ‘snapshot date’ of 5 April 2023 and bonuses 
paid over the preceding 12 months. 

*   Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements. 

Please see page 81 for definitions.

48

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationMateriality assessment

We have updated our materiality 
assessment, which helps us to 
identify the most relevant and 
significant impacts for our 
business and our stakeholders.

We have taken a ‘double materiality’ approach to 
identify the socio-economic and environmental 
issues that have most impact on the value of our 
business and those where our business activities 
have most impact on people or the environment. 

Comparing the significance of different types of 
impacts is not straightforward, particularly where 
quantitative and comparable data is not available. 
We will continue to develop our approach to 
materiality and impact assessment and we will 
regularly update our assessment. 

Our methodology

Key steps in our methodology include:

•  Identifying impacts – we identified a long list 

of impact areas based on our previous materiality 
processes and a review of external reporting 
standards.

•  Evaluation and prioritisation – we used 
stakeholder input and analysed a range of 
sources to prioritise the identified impact areas. 
This included stakeholder interviews, a media 
and policy review, reference to sector-specific 
standards, multi-stakeholder and corporate 
benchmarks, and alignment with our business 
strategy and risk management process. 

•  Review and validation – the findings were 

Our material impacts

reviewed by members of our senior leadership, 
and some minor adjustments were made to 
reflect business priorities.

Key findings

Some of our most material impacts relate to our 
product – the new homes and communities we 
build. This reflects the significant impact that homes 
and communities have on the wellbeing and quality 
of life of customers and future residents, as well as 
people’s ability to lead a more sustainable lifestyle. 
Our other most material impacts include the health 
and safety of people working on our sites, and our 
impact on the climate and nature.

We set targets for many of our material impacts 
and a full list can be found in our Sustainability 
Summary 2023
In recognising the important link between the 
Company’s material impacts and risk management, 
our material impacts have been aligned to our 
Principal Risks, as set out on pages 74 to 77

Stakeholder impact

Financial impact

High

Medium

Material impacts

Medium

High

1. Our homes and places

 Customer wellbeing in our homes*

Quality and sustainability of new communities

Affordability and accessibility of new homes

2. Our people and suppliers

Health, safety and wellbeing

Inclusion and equality

Skills development

Employment practices

Responsible sourcing and human rights

3. Our planet

Climate change

Nature 

Resource use and waste

Water quality and management

Site environmental impacts

4. Responsible and resilient business

Financial performance  
and economic contribution

Governance and transparency

Ethical and responsible  
business practices

49

*   Includes customer service.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
Our commitment to the environment

Our Environment Strategy, 
Building a Better World, sets 
out how we will play our part in 
creating a greener, healthier future 
for our customers, colleagues 
and communities, while reducing 
and mitigating environmental risks 
to our business.

It includes ambitious targets up to 2030 and 
we have committed to achieve net zero 
emissions by 2045, five years ahead of the 
Government’s target.

Highlights from 2023

Our net zero target was 
validated by the Science 
Based Targets initiative

50

Reduced operational 
emissions by 

35%

since 2019 (absolute)

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Financial statements

Shareholder information

What’s in this section?

•  Climate change

•  Our net zero target

•  Nature

•  Resources and waste

•  Task Force on Climate-related 

Financial Disclosures

•  Non-financial information and 

sustainability statement

3.5k

wildlife enhancements 
installed on our sites 
since 2021

279

98%

sites with hedgehog 
highways since 2021

of construction waste 
diverted from landfill

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Our commitment to the environment continued

Absolute 
reductions

100%

2019 
baseline

25%

Reduction

Science 
based target 
(scope 1 and 2)

46%

Reduction

Science 
based target 
(scope 3)

All homes zero 
carbon ready

0%

External 
milestones

2024
Net Zero ready 
homes in Scotland

2025
Net Zero ready homes 
in England and Wales

2030

61%

Reduction

75%

Reduction

100%

Reduction

All operations 
net zero

Taylor Wimpey plc

A net zero 
Business

2040

2045

2035
UK electric grid 100% 
decarbonised

Ban on sales of 
petrol/diesel cars

Climate change and net zero

We have set an ambitious target to be net zero 
aligned in our operations by 2035 and reach 
net zero across our value chain by 2045 – 
ahead of the UK’s national target.

Our net zero target for 2045 has been 
independently validated by the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi). It is supported by our 
Transition Plan and four-stage roadmap, 
detailing the actions we will take, including the 
construction of low and zero carbon homes, 
use of low carbon construction materials, 
transitioning to 100% renewable electricity, 
reducing and replacing fossil fuels and 
decarbonising our fleet. Our target and 
roadmap will enable us to reduce emissions in 
line with the 1.5°C ambition of the Paris Climate 
Agreement and support the wider transition to 
a low carbon economy through zero carbon 
ready homes for customers and collaboration 
with suppliers. 

More detail and a summary of our roadmap is included 
in our Net Zero Transition Plan 
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate/sustainability/net-zero

2035

operations will be 
net zero aligned

90%

reduction in value chain 
emissions by 2045 
and neutralising 10% 
residual emissions 

51

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationOur commitment to the environment continued

Nature

Resources and waste

We want to create space for nature on our sites 
and contribute to improving biodiversity to benefit 
both our customers and the environment. Our 
approach starts with site design and layout, and 
encompasses use of green infrastructure, habitat 
improvements, wildlife enhancements and wildlife 
friendly planting.

We published our first biodiversity policy in 2023 
and have prepared our teams for the Biodiversity 
Net Gain requirements which came into force in 
England in February 2024. 

Wildlife enhancements can play an important role 
in supporting native species. We aim to integrate 
enhancements on all suitable new sites and have 
started with hedgehog highways, bee bricks, bug 
hotels, and bird and bat boxes. 

We partner with nature organisations to ensure our 
actions reflect best practice. Our current partners 
are Hedgehog Street, a campaign by the British 
Hedgehog Preservation Society and People’s 
Trust for Endangered Species, and Buglife – 
the Invertebrate Conservation Trust.

We recognise our business dependencies on nature 
and the ecosystem services provided by the natural 
world. We are reviewing the recommendations of 
the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures 
and will publish our first disclosure against its 
recommendations in our sustainability reporting.

Our Towards Zero Waste strategy and action plan 
sets out a three-year programme of action and 
capacity building across all stages of development 
from land acquisition to construction, occupancy 
and end of life. It focuses on:

•  Achieve and build on the resource targets in our 

Environment Strategy

•  Quantify value chain resources and waste to 

improve our data and enable us to adopt more 
circular approaches. This covers soils, demolition, 
packaging, materials and construction waste

•  Other actions including setting targets, 

incentivising resource-efficient behaviours, 
supplier engagement and action plans for key 
waste streams

We are working with our suppliers to reduce waste 
from packaging, increase recycling and identify 
opportunities to increase use of sustainable and 
recycled materials.

We publish a Sustainability Summary with additional 
data which includes the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) recommended disclosures 
for our sector.

57,800

paint cans recycled 
in 2023

105,180

pallets returned 
in 2023

52

ESG credentials

We participate in several global and sectoral benchmarks. 
We are a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe 
Index and included in the S&P Sustainability Yearbook 2024. 
We are a part of FTSE4Good, have an AAA rating from MSCI 
and have received an ESG Risk Rating of Low from 
Sustainalytics and been included in its 2023 Top-Rated ESG 
Companies List. We are a member of Next Generation, the 
sustainability benchmark for UK housebuilders, and ranked 
joint third with a gold rating in 2023. We disclose our 
performance to CDP and scored: CDP Climate Change A- 
(2022: A-), CDP Water B (2022: B), and CDP Forests C for 
deforestation and forest risk commodities (2022: B-).

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Financial statements

Shareholder information

We seek to understand and 
address the impacts of climate 
change on our business, and to 
build new homes and communities 
that enable customers to adopt a 
lower carbon lifestyle.

We use the Task Force 
on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures 
and IFRS Sustainability 
Disclosure Standard 2 
to report on our 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities. 

A-

CDP Climate score

35%

reduction in operational carbon 
emissions since 2019 (absolute)

48%

reduction in operational 
carbon emissions since 
2013 (absolute)

53

The Financial Conduct Authority requires UK 
premium listed companies to report against the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework in Listing Rule 9.8.6R. 

We believe our disclosures in this section are 
consistent with the four recommendations and 
11 recommended disclosures set out in the 
TCFD report ‘Recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures’. 
We have taken into account the guidance in the 
TCFD Annex including the Guidance for All Sectors 
and the Supplemental Guidance for Non-Financial 
Groups in relation to the Materials and Buildings 
Group. A summary is included on pages 66 to 67. 

In 2023, we reviewed our reporting against the 
new IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standard 2 – 
Climate-related Disclosures and believe our 
reporting covers the majority of its criteria. We will 
look to further increase our alignment over the next 
few years including in relation to the anticipated 
financial effects of climate-related risks and 
opportunities in the medium and long term.

In preparing our disclosures we have also referred 
to the SASB standards and drawn on the 
outcomes of our materiality process, our risk 
assessment process, our climate scenario analysis 
and stakeholder feedback. 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Board of Directors
Oversight of the business response to climate risks and opportunities

Group Management Team
Review and approve climate strategy, scrutinise performance, review progress on climate strategy and targets

Legacy, Engagement and 
Action for the Future (LEAF)
Committee 
(functional oversight)
Analyse climate risk and 
opportunities and develop 
the business response, 
monitor progress

Managing Directors
(operational implementation)
Drive implementation at 
local level

Cross-functional 
working groups
Road to Net Zero Carbon 
Working Group

Construction Waste Group

Groundworks Group

Governance for climate change

Board level: Our Board of Directors is responsible 
for oversight of our environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) initiatives including climate-
related risks and opportunities. The Board receives 
an ESG update at every meeting, including a 
quarterly ESG scorecard with key performance 
indicators and progress towards climate targets. 
The Board visited our zero carbon ready trial homes 
in Sudbury in 2023. The Board has conducted a 
mapping exercise to ensure that all ESG matters 
are considered by the Board or one of its 
Committees. Board ESG competencies are 
indicated on page 94.

Executive level: Our Chief Executive has ultimate 
responsibility for achieving our climate targets. 
Sustainability (including climate change) is a 
standing agenda item for GMT meetings and 
members receive a monthly update from the 
Director of Sustainability. The GMT members have 
received briefings on climate change risks and 
opportunities to deepen their understanding of this 
topic. A scope 1 and 2 carbon reduction measure 
was included in the incentive plans for senior 
management and regional management in 2023, 
to support progress on our near term carbon 
reduction targets. We updated our Environment 
Policy in 2023, which covers climate change and is 
reviewed and approved by our Chief Executive.

LEAF Committee: Ingrid Osborne, Divisional Chair 
for London and South East and a member of our 
GMT, was executive sponsor for our Environment 
Strategy. In 2023, Ingrid chaired our LEAF 
Committee, which is responsible for reviewing 
climate strategy, risks and opportunities; it meets 
four times a year. LEAF members include the heads 
or senior leaders of our sustainability, technical, 
production, procurement, commercial, customer 
and design functions and representatives from our 
strategic land and regional businesses. 

The Director of Sustainability is responsible for 
monitoring climate-related issues and updating 
our Climate Change and Sustainability Risk and 
Opportunity Register. He oversees our reporting 
and disclosures on climate change, and the 
assurance of our climate data. He reports to our 
Group Technical Director who has responsibility 
for low and zero carbon homes, leads our Road 
to Net Zero Carbon Working Group, and reports 
directly to our Chief Executive. 

Cross-functional working groups, including our 
Road to Net Zero Carbon Working Group, support 
effective governance of climate change. 

Operational level: The Managing Director in each 
regional business has responsibility for achieving 
our climate change targets at the local level. 
They have a nominated Sustainability Sponsor 
within their management team and a Sustainability 
Champion to assist with implementation and data 
collection. Each regional business has annual 
energy and carbon reduction targets up to 2025. 
Business Unit Management Teams receive a 
quarterly report on carbon, energy and resource 
use, which enables them to compare performance 
against targets and other regional businesses. 

54

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

The teams are kept updated about climate-related 
issues and we build knowledge and expertise 
through training workshops, masterclasses and 
briefings. A scope 1 and 2 carbon reduction 
measure was included in the medium term incentive 
plans for regional management from 2023.

We use a digital platform called LEADR (Land and 
Environment Assessment of Development Risk) 
for assessing and managing sustainability and 
technical risks associated with land during the 
acquisition and construction process. This draws 
on external environmental databases to help us 
manage risks associated with land, including 
climate-related risks such as flood risk. It includes 
a pre-acquisition screening and risk assessment 
process for potential new sites. Environmental risks 
during construction are managed through our 
environmental management system, including risks 
relating to climate change.

Stakeholder engagement

Our stakeholder engagement informs our approach 
to climate change. We collaborate with suppliers 
through the Supply Chain Sustainability School 
and our procurement processes, and with others 
in our industry through the Future Homes Hub 
(FHH). We chair and are involved in a number of 
FHH working groups including those on metrics, 
embodied and whole life carbon and zero-carbon 
ready homes. Read more about our stakeholder 
engagement on pages 84 to 86.

We work with the Carbon Trust on many aspects 
of climate change. From 2017 to 2023 we held the 
Carbon Trust Standard for our overall approach to 
carbon management, including our policy, strategy 
and verification of our data and processes. We 
were the first volume homebuilder to achieve this. 
In early 2024, we achieved certification to the 
Carbon Trust’s Route to Net Zero Standard, 
Advancing level, the only housebuilder to hold 
this new standard.

Strategy 

Climate change presents risks and opportunities 
for our business, including those related to the 
transition to a lower carbon economy and those 
associated with the physical impacts of climate 
change. Sustainability is one of our four strategic 
cornerstones, reflecting the importance of climate 
change and other environmental matters to our 
business and stakeholders. 

We assess climate risks and opportunities using 
short term (to 2025), medium term (to 2030) and 
long term (beyond 2030) horizons, looking at their 
potential impacts on our business, strategy and 
financial planning. Our approach is informed by 
our materiality assessment and climate scenario 
analysis. We also refer to industry-based guidance 
such as criteria set by the SASB Standard for the 
Home Builders sector, the Next Generation 
benchmark and the work of the Future Homes Hub, 
a collaboration for the UK new homes sector.

We participate in CDP Climate Change and publish 
our submission on our website. We received a 
score of A- for 2023 (2022: A-). We were included 
on the Financial Times Europe’s Climate Leaders 
list 2023. Our Net Zero Transition Plan has been 
shortlisted in the Edie Awards for 2024.

Climate risks and opportunities are relevant across 
our value chain and business model. In cases where 
risks and opportunities are concentrated on particular 
aspects of our business model or value chain, we 
have indicated this in the tables on pages 58 to 61 
and in the metrics section on pages 62 to 63. 

For example, some climate risks are more relevant 
to our supply chain, while others impact our 
construction sites or customers and homes in use.

Transition plan

We have published a detailed Net Zero Transition 
Plan setting out how we will respond to our 
identified climate risks and opportunities and 
achieve our net zero target. This includes our 
roadmap up to 2045 incorporating workstreams 
such as the construction of low and zero carbon 
homes, increasing the use of construction materials 
with lower embodied carbon such as timber frame, 
transitioning to 100% renewable electricity, reducing 
or replacing fossil fuels and decarbonising our fleet. 
The Transition Plan is available on our website at 
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate/sustainability/
net-zero.

Climate scenario analysis

We have analysed the resilience of our business 
model and strategy, taking into consideration 
different climate-related scenarios. We conducted 
climate scenario analysis in 2022, commissioning 
WTW (formerly Willis Towers Watson) to conduct 
an assessment of climate transition risks and 
opportunities across short term (to 2025) and 
medium term (to 2030) horizons. The analysis 
considered our level of exposure to 15 transition 
risks in a low carbon economy where temperature 
rises would be limited to 1.5oC this century as well 
as modelling the physical impacts of climate 
change on our assets and supply chain in two 
temperature scenarios (1.5oC and 4oC warming). 
Impacts were estimated and likelihoods assessed 
and aligned to our ERM (Enterprise Risk 
Management) rating criteria. The process involved 
subject matter experts from across our key 
functions as well as members of our GMT.

55

New Carbon Trust 
Standard – In early 2024 
we achieved certification 
to the Carbon Trust’s 
Route to Net Zero 
Standard, Advancing level, 
and are the only 
housebuilder to hold this 
new standard.

Taskforce on 
Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures

We participated in 
the Taskforce on 
Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) 
Forum. Our first 
disclosure against the 
TNFD recommendations 
will be published on 
our website.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

In relation to transition risks, the analysis showed a 
moderate to high level of residual risk exposure in 
the short term, levelling out to moderate exposure 
in the medium term. This reflects, among other 
factors, the short term impact from complying with 
the UK’s incoming Future Homes Standard, as well 
as from moving to lower emission technologies and 
securing sufficient electrical power supply. It also 
showed minor to moderate opportunities from the 
transition to a low carbon economy, including 
market share gains as demand for low carbon 
homes grows and potential reputational benefits 
with employees, investors and other stakeholders. 

regulatory change, changes to interactions with 
customers, investors and planners, and to how and 
what we build.

Impact on financial statements

Climate-related risks and opportunities have 
not significantly affected our financial position, 
financial performance or cash flows during the year 
and we do not foresee any significant financial 
impact over the next annual reporting period. 
We are reviewing how we can enhance our reporting 
on the anticipated financial effects of climate-related 
risks and opportunities in the medium and long term.

In relation to physical risks, it showed moderate 
exposure to risks relating to windstorms, flooding 
and drought. The analysis showed that the cost risk 
from the physical impacts of climate change will be 
mitigated by building to the standards of the day 
and including the additional build costs within the 
assessment of land values. In addition, we 
conducted modelling with the Carbon Trust of 
our scope 3 emission reductions, see page 68. 

We used the findings to inform development of 
our Net Zero Transition Plan, including the cost 
of investment needed to achieve our targets. 
The findings have also been integrated into our 
risk assessment process. 

Our analysis in 2022 built on our preliminary 
scenario analysis conducted with the Carbon Trust 
in 2020. This reviewed three scenarios: orderly 
transition (the goals of the Paris Climate Change 
Agreement are met), climate breakdown (warming 
of 4oC – 6oC), and disorderly transition (the goals 
of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change are not 
met in time but climate breakdown is avoided). 
Workshops looked in more detail at a ‘disorderly 
transition’ scenario and the impact of significant 

Cost allocation and margin recognition

We include known costs associated with regulation 
designed to affect the impact of climate change 
e.g. building regulations Part L (conservation of 
fuel and power) and Part F (ventilation) within the 
assessment of the value of inventory charged to 
cost of sales. Where a forecast site margin is 
affected by a change in estimated costs to complete, 
the impact is recognised across all plots completed 
on that site in the current and future years. See 
page 181 for further details of the accounting 
policies in relation to cost allocation and recognition.

Inventories

The carrying value of work in progress and land is 
assessed via a net realisable value exercise and any 
adjustments required are made within the financial 
statements. In particular, in relation to land and the 
possible impact from climate change, the Group 
uses the latest environmental reports to assess 
the impact from flooding on the viability of the land. 
The accounting policy for inventories is described 
on page 180 and the outcome of the net realisable 
value exercise is disclosed on page 191.

56

Delivered the

UK’s first

multi-specification zero 
carbon ready scheme 
on a live development site 
in Sudbury

Goodwill and intangible assets

The Group does not have goodwill, or other 
intangible assets, that would be subject to an 
annual impairment assessment and thus the impact 
of climate change on the future cash flows required 
to perform this assessment are not required. 

Going concern and viability 

‘Natural resources and climate change’ is one of 
the Group’s Principal Risks, but given the time 
frame over which both going concern and viability 
are considered (12 months and five years 
respectively) the future impact of climate change on 
the operating costs of the business and its supply 
chain, beyond those costs (such as estimates for 
the Future Homes Standard) already included within 
the Group’s forecasts, are not considered material. 

In addition, the Group’s viability assessment 
considers a reduction in volumes which, although 
not explicitly linked, could come about through 
tighter planning requirements to address the impact 
of climate change or through the reduced availability 
or increased cost of materials due to restrictions in 
the supply chain due to climate change.

Sustainability linked loan

In July 2023 Taylor Wimpey signed a new Revolving 
Credit Facility containing three sustainability linked 
performance targets which are to adjust the interest 
margin up or down by a small amount. The three 
performance targets are: (1) reductions in scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions; (2) reductions in waste; and 
(3) reductions in carbon emissions of the homes 
we build. 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Risk management

The Board has overall responsibility for risk 
management and holds formal risk reviews at least 
half yearly and routinely considers risk at each 
Board meeting as appropriate. Our risk management 
approach involves a top-down review of risks by 
senior management and the Board, combined with 
a bottom-up review by each individual function and 
regional business. 

The assessment, mitigation and monitoring of 
sustainability and climate-related risks is included 
as part of our overall risk management process, 
which has remained unchanged since the previous 
reporting period. The individual sustainability and 
climate-related risks are considered through 
functional and regional business risk registers, 
our Climate Change and Sustainability Risk and 
Opportunity Register. Management consider the 
impact they may have on the Group’s strategy, 
looking at short, medium and in particular longer 
term emerging risks which may arise as the area 
continues to evolve. 

In identifying risks, both internal and external factors 
are considered, and they are assessed using 
quantitative and qualitative (reputational, customer, 
health and safety, employees, environmental, 
operational, legal and regulatory and IT) criteria. 
The top-down review of key, Principal and 
emerging risks by our GMT considers their 
relative significance to the business, including 
climate-related risks. This process covers the 
whole of Taylor Wimpey Group. 

The Group’s Principal Risk ‘Natural resources and 
climate change’ (see page 77), recognises the 
increasing significance of the transition to a low 
carbon economy for both our operations and the 
world in which we live and conduct business. 
This Principal Risk is monitored by the Audit 
Committee and senior management, together with 
all other Principal Risks, as detailed on page 71, 
as part of our risk management process, assessing 
their impact on the Group’s strategic objectives 
and ensuring appropriate mitigations are in place. 

Our Environment Risk Register guides the climate 
change adaptation of our business practices and 
the homes we build. Our climate scenario analysis 
is one of the inputs into the risk register. For each 
climate-related risk and opportunity the register 
identifies: risk driver, description of risk, potential 
impact, time frame, whether the risk or opportunity 
is direct or indirect, likelihood and magnitude of 
impact. This is a standing item on every LEAF 
Committee agenda. The Committee makes 
recommendations to the GMT on how to mitigate, 
transfer, accept, or control climate-related risks.

During 2023, we have updated our process for 
monitoring scope 1 and 2 emissions to a quarterly 
basis for all our regional businesses to enable us 
to better monitor short term risks relating to our 
performance against our climate targets. 

Read more about our risk management process on 
pages 71 to 73

57

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Our risks and opportunities 
The table below summarises the findings from our latest climate scenario analysis which focused on transition risks in the short term (up to 2025) and medium term (up to 2030) in a 1.5oC 
scenario and physical risks in the medium and long term (up to 2030 and beyond) in a 1.5oC and a 4oC scenario. We have summarised the mitigating actions we are taking and shared the impact 
and likelihood for the more significant risks and opportunities that were identified. Residual risk after mitigation relates to a 1.5oC scenario unless stated. The impact and likelihood ranges and 
scores are based on Enterprise Risk Management rating scales.

Where we identified additional risks or opportunities that are not currently considered significant, we have listed these.

The table outlines our risks primarily in relation to our operations in the UK. We have also looked at risks in relation to our operations in Spain. We did not identify any material risks in relation to 
our Spanish operations but will keep this under review.

Policy and legal

Residual risks or opportunities (moderate to high):

Risk type: Transition (policy and legal)

Time frame analysed: Short term (up to 2025), Medium term (up to 2030) 

Description

Example risks / opportunities

Our mitigations

R Increasingly stringent 

regulatory requirements 
(e.g. Future Homes 
Standard) 

Risk of delays and more expensive 
design in order to deliver homes in 
accordance with the Future Homes 
Standard (FHS)

Potential for unexpected national 
policy actions to impact the value 
of strategic land pipeline

Risk of delay and increased cost as 
local councils introduce additional 
local planning requirements or go 
beyond the requirements of the FHS

R Increasingly stringent local 
planning requirements 
(e.g. in relation to flooding 
and biodiversity) and 
potential for variation 
in standards between 
authorities

•  We engage and consult regularly with government to understand its priorities

•  We have established a Research & Development (R&D) programme and 

internal Road to Net Zero Carbon Working Group to prepare our business for 
regulatory changes

•  We participate in Future Homes Hub to support the Future Homes Delivery Plan 

– a sector-wide plan to embed key environmental issues into housebuilding

•  We engage with land owners to ensure that the cost of regulation / compliance 

with latest standards is reflected in the assessment of land values

•  We engage with planning authorities to understand and integrate their 
requirements, including participating in the development of strategic 
frameworks, Local Plans and Neighbourhood Plans

•  We engage with land owners to ensure that the cost of compliance with 

planning requirements is reflected in the assessment of land values

•  We have established guidance for our regional businesses in respect of 

biodiversity, flooding and other matters to address planning requirements.

•  We also engage with Future Homes Hub and UK government to encourage 

a consistent approach

Residual risk after mitigation (1.5oC scenario unless stated)

Short term moderate risk exposure and almost certain likelihood with 
the impact on the financial statements considered immaterial as costs 
associated with the known regulatory changes have been included in 
current costs and forecasts as appropriate. Medium term moderate 
risk exposure, balanced likelihood with any financial impact 
considered within the future cost of land and, where appropriate, 
sales price of new homes.

Short term moderate risk exposure, likely with impact on the financial 
statements not considered material as risk impacts local areas rather 
than being nationwide. Medium term moderate risk exposure, 
balanced likelihood with any financial impact considered within the 
future cost of land.

R Climate change-related 
litigation claims bought 
by stakeholders 

Risk of claims relating to our 
approach to climate change 
adaptation, our disclosure of 
climate-related material financial risks 
or green marketing claims 

•  We disclose our climate change approach and performance and continually 

review and improve our data

•  We have asked our agencies to confirm their review process for validating 

green marketing claims

Short term moderate risk exposure, likelihood considered rare with 
impact on the financial statements considered immaterial as we build 
to latest regulations. Medium term moderate risk exposure, unlikely 
with impact on the financial statements considered immaterial as we 
comply with the latest building regulations and any associated costs 
would be embedded within the future cost of land.

Other residual risks or opportunities (currently identified as low):

•  Enhanced emissions reporting obligations
•  Potential future carbon pricing
•  Cost of purchasing emissions offsets

Key
R  Risk 

58

  O  Opportunity

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Technology

Residual risks or opportunities (moderate to high):

Risk type: Transition (technology)

Time frame analysed: Short term (up to 2025), Medium term (up to 2030) 

Description

Example risks / opportunities

Our mitigations

Residual risk after mitigation (1.5oC scenario unless stated)

Risk of delays and costs due to 
insufficient power in the grid to 
service new homes and/or 
construction sites and/or lack of 
reliable lower emission infrastructure

Risk of increased costs and delays 
associated with needing to build or 
upgrade primary sub-stations

•  We integrate power supply and infrastructure into site planning accounting for 

the shift to lower emission alternatives

•  We are engaging with government on its efforts to address insufficient power 

supply and develop a smart network

•  We are exploring innovative local solutions to power supply storage such as the 

sustainable energy and heat hub at our development in Sudbury

Short term major risk exposure, almost certain likelihood with impact 
on the financial statements is not considered material as the risk is 
considered to be localised rather than national.

Medium term major risk exposure, balanced likelihood with impact on 
financial statements mitigated through assessment of future land 
purchases and planning requirements.

•  Communicating risk to regional teams

Risk of increased costs associated 
with new technologies and potential 
availability challenges

•  We have an ongoing R&D and programme supplier engagement to identify 

beneficial new technology and test its performance against our quality, safety, 
sustainability and technical standards

Risk that current new technology 
solutions quickly become outdated

Short term moderate risk exposure, almost certain likelihood with the 
impact on the financial impacts considered immaterial as known 
costs associated with the regulatory change have been included in 
current costs and forecasts as appropriate.

Medium term moderate risk exposure, balanced likelihood with 
impact on financial statements considered immaterial where any cost 
of change in regulation is included in the future cost of land or passed 
on through house prices.

Risk of shortfall in supply of suitably 
qualified professionals 

•  We are mapping the expected skills profile for our business and subcontractor 
base and addressing potential skills gaps through training, recruitment and 
work with subcontractors 

Short term insignificant risk exposure, almost certain likelihood with 
impact on financial statements considered immaterial based on 
timing of implementation of current regulations.

•  We have led a collaboration with housebuilders and the HBF to create a sector 

wide skills plan and are partnering with the Construction Industry Training 
Board, the Home Building Skills Partnership and some of our mid-sized 
sub-contractors to help more sub-contractors to recruit apprentices

Medium term minor risk exposure, almost certain likelihood with impact 
on financial statements dependent on extent of skills shortage.

R Power supply and 
infrastructure – 
increasing focus on 
electricity as an energy 
source for homes, 
transport, machinery 
and infrastructure as 
the economy moves 
away from fossil fuels

R Substitution of existing 
technologies with lower 
emission alternatives 
(eg PV panels, EV 
charging infrastructure, 
all electric homes and 
construction equipment) 
to comply with the 
Future Homes Standard 
and emissions reduction 
targets

R Skills shortages 

impacting ability to 
install low carbon 
technologies

Key
R  Risk 

59

  O  Opportunity

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Market and reputation (stakeholder)

Residual risks or opportunities (moderate to high):

Time frame analysed: Short term (up to 2025), Medium term (up to 2030)

Risk type: Transition (market, reputation) 
Opportunity type: Products, markets

Description

Example risks / opportunities

Our mitigations

O Changing customer 

demands in relation to 
low carbon homes as 
sustainability awareness 
grows, green mortgages 
evolve, and existing 
building stock becomes 
comparatively more 
expensive to run

R Changing customer 

demands in relation to 
low carbon homes 

R Increased cost of raw 

materials as carbon pricing 
and investment in low 
carbon plant, equipment 
and facilities impacts the 
cost of materials such as 
steel and cement

R Increased investor 

expectations in relation 
to sustainability 
performance and 
disclosure 

O Increased investor 

expectations in relation 
to sustainability 
performance and 
disclosure

Opportunity if more efficient and 
lower emission homes become 
more attractive to customers than 
secondhand market.

•  We conduct regular research to monitor and understand changing customer 

attitudes to sustainability issues, including low carbon homes

•  We engage customer, sales and marketing teams and marketing agencies 

to ensure the benefits of new low carbon homes are communicated effectively

•  We partner with peers through the Future Homes Hub and engage with 

government to ensure the benefits of low carbon homes are communicated, 
and to support further development of green mortgages

Residual risk after mitigation (1.5oC scenario unless stated)

Short term minor opportunity and considered likely with impact on 
financial statements potentially reflected in increased revenue which 
could be material, but is not possible to quantify reliably.
Medium term major opportunity and considered balanced likelihood 
with impact on financial statements potentially reflected in increased 
revenue which could be material, but is not possible to quantify reliably.

Risk that customers may resist 
installation of new low carbon 
technologies or be dissatisfied 
with their performance
Risk of reputational damage if low carbon 
homes are not delivered to customers 
in line with changing expectations

•  We will be communicating with customers and training customer, sales and 

marketing teams to ensure customers are supported to use new technologies

•  We take a ‘Fabric-first’ approach to home energy efficiency to minimise 

complexity and maintenance for customers where possible

•  We invest in research and product trials to ensure quality, performance and 

ease of use, e.g. our FHS trial homes

Short term minor risk exposure, likely with impact on financial 
statements expected to be immaterial based on current regulatory 
changes.
Medium term major risk exposure, unlikely with impact on financial 
statements dependent on extent customer demands change, which 
is not possible to reliably estimate.

Risk of increased development costs 
that the business will need to absorb

•  We will be monitoring carbon pricing developments and engaging with suppliers 

on how carbon taxes and transition costs may affect raw material prices

Risk that failing to meet changing 
investor expectations affects revenue 
and investment streams

•  We have an ongoing R&D programme into lower carbon materials and resource 

efficient ways of working

•  We are purchasing 100% Renewable Guarantee of Origin (REGO) backed 

green electricity for all new sites, reducing carbon taxation on energy 
consumption

•  We have made sustainability (including climate change) one of four strategic 

cornerstones for the business

•  We disclose climate strategy and ESG performance to investors through 

reporting, benchmarks, meetings and investor roadshows

•  We complete a regular materiality update (every three years) to ensure we focus 

on priority ESG topics

Short term major exposure, balanced likelihood with impact on 
financial statements potentially material on existing developments.
Medium term major exposure, unlikely with impact on financial 
statements dependent on ability to include costs in land valuations 
and/or pass onto customers via house prices.

Short term minor exposure, unlikely and medium term major 
exposure, unlikely. Impact on financial statements considered to 
be indirect through potential reputational damage from poor 
performance which is not possible to quantify reliably.

Opportunities to attract increased 
investment by differentiating on 
sustainability performance

•  We have made sustainability (including climate change) one of four strategic 

cornerstones for the business

•  We disclose climate strategy and ESG performance to investors through 

reporting, benchmarks, meetings and investor roadshows

•  We complete a regular materiality update (every three years) to ensure we focus 

Short term minor opportunity and likelihood considered balanced, 
with medium term opportunity increasing to moderate and no change 
to likelihood. Impact on financial statements would be an opportunity 
of increased revenues through enhanced reputation in the market, 
but this is not possible to quantify reliably.

on priority ESG topics

Other residual risks or opportunities (currently identified as low):
•  Cost of capital impacted by sustainability performance 
•  Risks and opportunities associated with growing interest and expectations in relation to climate change performance among employees 
•  Risks and opportunities associated with meeting changing local authority and central government expectations on climate change

Key
R  Risk 

60

  O  Opportunity

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Physical impacts

Residual risks or opportunities (moderate to high):

Risk type: Physical (acute and chronic)

Time frame analysed: Medium term (up to 2030), Long term – (beyond 2030) 

Description

Example risks / opportunities

Our mitigations

R Changing weather 

patterns and an increase 
in number and severity of 
extreme weather events, 
including issues relating 
to heat stress, flooding, 
drought, wildfire, 
windstorm, subsidence

Risk of production delays or damage 
to construction sites from storms, 
floods, wildfires and droughts

Risk of increased costs relating to 
adapting sites and homes to the 
changing climate (e.g. due to 
increased subsidence risk or impact 
of heat and water stress)

Risk that climate change impacts 
sites in the strategic land pipeline 
which means that the carrying value 
of land may need to be written down 
and land costs may increase

Risk of supply chain disruption and 
increased costs of materials due to 
climate-related impacts e.g. flooding 
of supplier facilities or shortages of 
raw materials

•  We consider flood risk from the start of the landbuying process and identify 
potential flood risk as part of our site selection process. We do not buy land 
unless we can mitigate flood risk. We use the Environment Agency’s flood 
mapping tools and integrate sustainable drainage features on our sites to 
manage water run off and reduce flow rates

•  We monitor weather conditions and have safety procedures in place to prevent 

injuries or damage to our sites due to windstorms

•  We are increasing the amount of sustainability related data from suppliers to 

inform our approach to mitigating material supply risks

•  We are updating our policies and processes to reflect climate change mitigation 

and adaptation of risks and opportunities

•  Longer term impacts, including flooding, heat, drought, and drought-related 
subsidence, are best managed through updating industry-wide standards. 
We are working and will continue to work collaboratively with organisations 
that set or influence standards

Other residual risks or opportunities (currently identified as low):
•  Assets 1.5oC (2030 and beyond 2030) – flooding, heat stress, drought, wildfire, subsidence
•  Assets 4oC (beyond 2030) – heat stress, wildfire, subsidence
•  Supply chain 1.5oC (2030 and beyond 2030) – heat stress, drought, and wildfire
•  Supply chain 4oC (2030 and beyond 2030) – heat stress and wildfire 

Residual risk after mitigation (1.5oC scenario unless stated)

We did not categorise likelihood for physical risks. The assessment 
of the impact below shows an increasing exposure to physical risks 
as temperatures rise.

Assets 1.5°C (medium and long term) – impact from windstorm 
considered moderate. 

Assets 4°C (long term) – impact from flooding, drought and 
windstorm moderate. 

Supply chain 1.5°C (medium and long term) – impact from flooding 
and windstorm moderate. 

Supply chain 4°C (medium and long term) – impact from flooding 
high, windstorm and drought moderate. 

Impact on financial statements to be mitigated through assessment 
of land viability and associated cost of land during acquisition and 
planning stages.

Key
R  Risk 

61

  O  Opportunity

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Metrics and targets 

We have established metrics and targets to enable 
us to manage and mitigate our identified climate 
risks and ensure we capitalise on opportunities 
relating to the transition to a low carbon economy. 
This includes our net zero commitment. Metrics 
and targets apply to the whole Group unless stated. 

Our targets

Our net zero target for 2045 has been validated by 
the SBTi confirming that it is aligned with the SBTi’s 
1.5°C mitigation pathways for reaching net zero by 
2050 or sooner. This is currently the most ambitious 
designation available through the SBTi process. 
The SBTi has also approved our scope 1 and 2 
near term reduction target and determined that it is 
in line with a 1.5°C trajectory and determined that 
our long-term targets for scope 1, 2 and 3 are 
aligned with the SBTi’s 1.5°C mitigation pathways 
for reaching net zero by 2050 or sooner.

Our net zero target was developed with the Carbon 
Trust in line with the requirements of the SBTi 
Corporate Net Zero Standard. In developing our 
target we have also taken into account the ‘Metrics, 
Targets, and Transition Plans’ guidance issued by 
TCFD. We have modelled the costs and investment 
required to reach our goals as well as our approach 
to neutralising residual emissions.

Our near term scope 1 and 2 science-based 
carbon reduction target is based on absolute 
emissions reduction and is expressed as an 
intensity reduction, which enables us to monitor 
progress more effectively during different stages 
of the housing cycle.

62

Our carbon and energy use data is externally 
assured by Carbon Trust Assurance to a limited 
assurance level. This includes verification to 
ISO 14064 for our scope 1 and 2 footprint, and 
three selected scope 3 categories (Purchased 
Goods and Services, Fuel and Energy-related 
Activities and Use of Sold Products).

We monitor performance on energy and carbon 
emissions for each of our regional businesses on 
a quarterly basis. Progress against our targets is 
reviewed by the GMT and Board of Directors at 
least annually.

Use of carbon credits

We do not currently use carbon credits. Once we 
have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 
at least 90% we will neutralise the remaining 
emissions through the removal and storage of 
carbon from the atmosphere, in line with SBTi 
requirements. There is a high likelihood that we will 
need to use carbon removal offsets from 2035 for 
operational emissions and 2045 for value chain 
emissions. In our Net Zero Transition Plan we have 
set out three principles to guide our approach to 
neutralising emissions. We will use standards such 
as the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), Gold 
Standard Verified Emissions Reduction (GS VER), 
Voluntary Offset Standard (VOS) and Climate 
Community and Biodiversity Standards (CCB).

Our baseline

Our 2019 carbon footprint (used as our baseline) 
was calculated in accordance with the 
measurement requirements of the Carbon Trust 
Standard and in accordance with the principles 
of the World Resources Institute (WRI) / World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) GHG Protocol. 

We plan to re-baseline our Purchased Good and 
Services (supply chain) 2019 footprint using the 
more accurate measurement methodology that 
we implemented in 2022, which is based on the 
quantities of materials purchased. We will use 
this to adjust our overall scope 3 baseline and 
report progress against this. We were not able 
to complete this process in 2023 but plan to do 
so in 2024. 

Measurement approach, inputs and 
assumptions

We measure progress against our targets by 
calculating emissions in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (2004). We use emission 
factors from the UK Government’s GHG Conversion 
Factors for our corporate reporting and data from 
Environmental Product Declarations provided by 
our Group suppliers where these are available and 
up to date.

The majority of our footprint is CO2 but N2O and 
CH4 are included in conversion factors, for example 
in relation to gas and diesel usage. We currently 
exclude refrigerants (HFCs, PFCs, SF6) from our 
footprint as these are not material for our business. 

More detail is included in the footnotes on page 68. 
We also publish our carbon reporting methodology on our 
website www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate/sustainability

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

TCFD cross-sector metrics

Industry-based metrics

Up to 100% of our business activities and revenues 
are aligned with climate-related opportunities in 
connection with the delivery of low carbon, 
energy-efficient homes. Up to 100% of business 
activities may be impacted by transition risks in 
relation to changing regulatory requirements, 
low carbon homes and increasing pressure on 
power generation and distribution during the net 
zero transition.

The proportion of business activities vulnerable 
to physical risks varies by impact. For example, 
any site could be impacted by windstorms and we 
estimate that around 42% of our plots are built in 
areas of high water stress, based on the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) Water Risk Atlas tool, 
Aqueduct. Our approach to mitigating physical risks 
is explained on page 61.

The nature of our business means that our main 
investment is in land. Our business model and 
financial forecasts take account of the latest 
regulatory requirements, including those directly 
linked to reducing the impact of climate change, 
to satisfy these regulations. Whilst we do not 
separately disclose the quantum of this investment, 
it is embedded within our build costs and land 
values reported in the financial statements and 
included within the annual budget and forecasting 
process. We believe this incorporates all known 
significant investments relating to the potential 
impacts of climate change.

We do not currently set an internal carbon price. 
Emissions data is included on page 64 and 68 and 
information on remuneration on page 143.

We report against the criteria and metrics 
established by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Standard for the Home 
Builders sector in our Sustainability Summary 2023.

We are active participants in the Future Homes 
Hub, an industry collaboration for the UK new 
homes sector, that is working to deliver the targets 
established in the Future Homes Delivery Plan – 
the UK homebuilding sector’s climate and 
environment plan. Our Sustainability Director chairs 
the working group established to develop a shared 
set of metrics on climate change and sustainability 
performance for the industry. 

Performance in 2023

In 2023, our absolute operational carbon emissions 
(scopes 1 and 2) reduced by 13.1% year on year 
but our operational emissions intensity increased 
by 12.2%. While we completed fewer homes, there 
was only a small reduction in the number of outlets 
which meant we continued to use energy for site 
compounds, street lighting and pumping stations 
as well as our fixed facilities such as offices, 
IT systems and our logistics warehouse.

Since 2019, our absolute operational emissions 
have fallen by 35.3% and operational emissions 
intensity has decreased by 5%. This reflects the 
drop in completions in 2023 and the impact of our 
carbon reduction measures, including increased 
use of renewable electricity, energy efficiency 
improvements, a reduction in diesel use on our 
sites and decarbonisation of the UK’s national grid.

63

Our total carbon footprint (scopes 1, 2 and 3) was 
1.94 million tonnes in 2023 (2022: 2.54 million 
tonnes). Total intensity was 187 tonnes per 100 sqm 
of build (2022: 190.0 tonnes per 100 sqm).

We are re-baselining our scope 3 emissions 
following an update to our methodology. This will 
enable us to report progress against our net zero 
and scope 3 target. 

More detail on our performance is included in our 
Sustainability Summary.

20%

of homes included 
PV panels in 2023

72%

EV or hybrid cars in our fleet 

79%

of electricity from REGO-backed 
renewable sources

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Progress against climate targets

Key climate targets

Progress

Link to TCFD risks 
and opportunities

By 2045 we will reach net zero greenhouse 
gas emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) across our 
value chain on a 2019 base year (comprising 
at least a 90% reduction and neutralising 
residual emissions)

We will re-baseline our Purchased Good and Services (supply chain) 2019 footprint using the more accurate measurement 
methodology that we implemented in 2022 based on the quantities of materials purchased. We will use this to adjust our 
overall scope 3 baseline and report progress against this target. We were not able to complete this process in 2023 but 
plan to do so in 2024.
This target has been approved by the SBTi.

Policy and legal
Technology
Market and reputation 
Physical

Operational emissions (scope 1 and 2)

36% reduction in operational carbon 
emissions intensity by 2025 from a 2019 
baseline (based on a reduction of 25.8% in 
absolute emissions against the base year) 
and reach net zero emissions by 2035

Since 2019, our absolute operational emissions (scopes 1 and 2), have fallen by 35.3% and operational emissions intensity has 
decreased by 5%. The decrease in absolute emissions is due to a reduction in the number of completions in 2023 as well as 
carbon reduction measures including our use of green electricity and hybrid generators, and decarbonisation of the UK’s 
national grid. Our emissions intensity increased by 12.2% year on year in large part due to the impact of challenging 
economic conditions. While we completed fewer homes, there was only a small reduction in the number of outlets which 
meant we continued to use energy for site compounds, street lighting and pumping stations as well as our fixed facilities such 
as offices, IT systems and our logistics warehouse. We remain focused on meeting our reduction target by 2025. 
The emissions reduction element of this target has been approved by the SBTi.

Policy and legal
Technology
Market and reputation 
Physical

32% reduction in operational energy intensity 
for UK building sites by 2025

Operational energy use on UK building sites was 77,215 MWh. This is a 21.4% reduction on 2019, however energy use 
intensity increased by 17.5% over the same period. This reflects the reduction in completions in 2023 but continued 
energy use needed to run our sites. We have further work to do to meet our target on energy efficiency.

Policy and legal
Technology

Purchase 100% REGO-backed green 
electricity for all new sites

We purchased 100% REGO-backed renewable electricity for new sites during construction, offices, show homes, sales areas 
and plots before sale. This is around 79% of our total Group electricity consumption (2022: 70%).

50% reduction in car and grey fleet emissions 
by 2025

We have reduced company car and grey fleet emissions by 21.1% since 2019. Around 72% of vehicles in our company car 
fleet are now electric or hybrid (2022: 55%).

Policy and legal
Technology
Market and reputation

Policy and legal
Technology

Homes in use and supply chain emissions (scope 3)

By 2030 all our homes will be zero carbon 
ready (becoming truly net zero on 
decarbonisation of the electricity grid)

In 2023, we started to roll-out changes to our homes in line with the updates to Building Regulations Parts L and F. 
In England, these are, on average, 31% more carbon efficient in use compared to our previous specification, with 
similar reductions in Scotland and Wales. We are also piloting technologies to explore how we will move towards zero 
carbon ready homes from 2025 in England and Wales and 2024 in Scotland.

Policy and legal 
Technology
Market and reputation

Reduce scope 3 emissions by 52.8% per 
100 sqm of completed floor area from a 2019 
base year (based on a reduction of 46.2% in 
absolute emissions against the base year)

21% reduction in embodied carbon per home 
by 2030

We will report progress against this target once the re-baseline of our scope 3 footprint is complete. 
This target has been approved by the SBTi.

Policy and legal
Technology

We will report progress against this target once the re-baseline of our scope 3 footprint is complete. We are working with 
suppliers to identify and select products with a lower carbon footprint and have established our timber frame facility to 
increase our use of timber frame which can reduce embodied carbon from materials. 

Policy and legal
Technology

75% reduction in emissions from customer 
homes in use by 2030

We are developing our measurement systems to enable us to report progress against this target. Around 20% of our 
homes included PV panels in 2023. 

Policy and legal
Technology
Market and reputation

64

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Key climate targets

Progress

Adaptation and beyond our value chain

Link to TCFD risks 
and opportunities

Make it easier for 40,000 customers to work 
from home and enable more sustainable 
transport choices through 36,000 EV 
charging points and 3,000 additional bike 
stands by the mid 2020s

Update our policies and processes to reflect 
the risks and opportunities from a changing 
climate by 2022

Cut our waste intensity by 15% by 2025 
and use more recycled materials. By 2022, 
publish a ‘towards zero waste’ strategy for 
our sites

We are rolling-out our new standard house types which have a design principle to include at least one study area with 
space for a desk and easy access to broadband and electricity sockets, to enable working from home. We installed over 
1,380 EV charging points in 2023, and over 3,700 since 2019. We expect the number of charging points installed to 
increase more quickly as we roll out the new specification for our homes.

Technology
Market and reputation

We conducted scenario analysis in 2022 and have used the results to inform our Net Zero Transition Plan, our TCFD 
disclosure and risk management processes. We published an updated environment policy in 2023 and are working to 
further embed climate risks into our environmental management system. We will no longer report progress against this 
target from 2024.

The volume of waste produced in 2023 was 28% lower than in 2019, however our waste intensity increased by 9.8% 
against our 2019 baseline. We believe the increase in intensity this year is partly due to disruptions in our build programme 
as a result of market challenges which led to materials being stored for longer on site. 98% of construction waste was 
diverted from landfill. We have further work to do to meet our target and will continue to focus on this in 2024. At the time 
of publication, our waste data was undergoing verification by the Carbon Trust. We will publish the final audited figures on 
our website on completion of this process which could differ from those reported here. We have launched our Towards 
Zero Waste Strategy and Action Plan to guide our progress on waste reduction and increased use of recycled materials. 

Technology
Market and reputation
Physical

Policy and legal

Reduce operational mains water intensity 
by 10% from a 2019 baseline by 2025

Water consumption has reduced by 28% since 2019, however, water intensity has increased by 9.3% over the same 
period. We believe the increase in intensity this year is due to the drop in number of completions. While we completed 
fewer homes there was only a small reduction in the number of outlets which meant we continued to use water for 
activities such as dust suppression and in our offices and site compounds. 

Physical

65

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Implementing the TCFD recommendations – progress to date

TCFD recommendation 

Progress to date 

Governance
Disclose the organisation’s 
governance around climate-related 
risks and opportunities

Describe the board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.

Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities. 

We have established and disclosed responsibility for climate risks at Board 
level. Key, Principal and emerging risks, including those related to climate 
change, are reviewed and approved twice a year by the Audit Committee 
and Board and inform strategic planning and business decision making. 
Read more on pages 71 to 73.

We have established and disclosed responsibility for climate risks at 
Executive, Director and operational level, outlined on page 57. In 2023, 
a carbon reduction target was included in the incentive plans for senior 
management and regional management, read more on page 143. Climate 
change has been included within the Principal Risk ‘Natural resources and 
climate change’. Read more on page 77.

Next steps 

To further embed climate risks into 
business planning and decision 
making processes.

A carbon reduction target will be 
included in senior and regional 
management incentive plans again in 
2024. We will look to strengthen our 
governance on climate-related and other 
environmental risks and opportunities 
through reviewing the role of our LEAF 
group and improving operational 
integration through our working groups.

Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information 
is material

Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organisation 
has identified over the short, 
medium, and long term.
Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on 
the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.

Describe the resilience of the 
organisation’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2oC 
or lower scenario.

The tables on pages 58 to 61 include the risks and opportunities we have 
identified and reflects our updated climate scenario analysis from 2022. The 
table explores transition risks in the short and medium term in a 1.5oC 
scenario and physical risks in the medium and long term.

There remains considerable uncertainty 
about the physical and transition 
impacts of climate change so we will 
undertake regular scenario analysis.

We have used the findings of our scenario analysis, summarised on pages 
55 and 56, to enhance our understanding of the impact of climate risks on 
financial planning and business strategy. We have quantified some of these 
potential impacts and the costs of our net zero commitment to support our 
financial planning though we do not currently disclose these figures.
Our scenario analysis in 2022 explored the resilience of our strategy to a 
1.5oC scenario (transition risks) and 1.5oC and 4oC scenarios (physical risks). 
The findings are summarised on pages 55 and 56. We have previously 
considered the impacts of a disorderly transition scenario. Our first Net Zero 
Transition Plan outlines how we will decarbonise our business up to 2045. 
It is available on our website.

We will undertake further analysis 
to quantify the potential impacts of 
climate change on the business, 
strategy and financial planning and look 
to increase our disclosure in this area.
We will update our Transition Plan 
regularly and at least every three years. 
We will undertake regular scenario 
analysis.

66

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

TCFD recommendation 

Progress to date 

Next steps 

Risk management
Disclose how the organisation 
identifies, assesses, and manages 
climate-related risks

Describe the organisation’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.

Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and targets 
used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and 
opportunities where such 
information is material

Describe the organisation’s 
processes for managing 
climate-related risks.

Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing, and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organisation’s overall risk 
management.

Disclose the metrics used by 
the organisation to assess 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy 
and risk management process.

Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, 
if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks.

Describe the targets used by the 
organisation to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.

This process is outlined in risk management on page 57 and in Principal 
Risks and uncertainties on page 77. We have linked our climate targets to the 
risks and opportunities as set out by TCFD, pages 64 and 65. The top-down 
review of key, Principal and emerging risks by our GMT considers their 
relative significance to the business, including climate-related risks.
This process, including our Climate Risk Register is outlined in risk 
management on page 57 and in Principal Risks and uncertainties on page 
77. We have linked our climate targets to the risks and opportunities as set 
out by TCFD on pages 64 and 65. Our planned key actions are outlined in 
our Net Zero Transition Plan.
Climate change is fully integrated into our top-down and bottom-up risk 
management process and is included within the Principal Risk ‘Natural 
resources and climate change’. The Principal Risk is monitored by the Audit 
Committee and senior management, assessing its impact on the Group’s 
strategic objectives and ensuring appropriate mitigations are in place. 
Read more on page 57.

We publish a range of performance data and performance measures to 
support our Environment Strategy, including our net zero commitment and 
supporting targets page 51, and 64 to 65. We report against several of the 
cross-industry, climate-related metric categories recommended by TCFD. 
Industry-specific metrics are included in the SASB Index in our Sustainability 
Summary and ESG Addendum. 

We disclose greenhouse gas emissions data for scopes 1, 2 and 3 on 
page 68.

We will continue to further strengthen 
our risk processes in relation to climate 
change.

Continue to further strengthen our risk 
processes in relation to climate change.

Climate risks will continue to be monitored 
and evaluated, and we will further 
enhance our approach as appropriate. 
The outputs from our scenario analysis 
have been used to develop our transition 
plan which will inform our business 
strategy going forward.

We will continue to keep our climate 
reporting under review and to develop 
additional metrics where needed to 
support disclosure to investors and 
other stakeholders.

We are committed to continuous 
improvement in our data processes and 
data quality.

We published our net zero commitment in early 2023 and this has now been 
validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our ambitious 
scopes 1 and 2 science-based carbon reduction target for 2025 has also 
been approved by the SBTi, see page 51. We have targets relating to energy 
and resource-efficiency, the carbon performance of our homes in use and 
embodied carbon.

We will continue to keep our climate 
targets under review and to disclose our 
progress against them. We will review 
the potential for including financial 
metrics in future reports.

For our SASB disclosure please see our Sustainability Supplement and ESG Addendum.

67

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes of CO2e) and energy use (MWh)

Scope 1 GHG emissions – combustion of fuel
Scope 2 GHG emissions – market based
Scope 2 GHG emissions – location based
Total scopes 1 and 2 – market based
Emissions per 100 sqm completed homes (scope 1 and 2)
Total scope 3 emissions**
Purchased goods and services
Waste generated in operations
Business travel
Fuel and energy-related activities
Downstream leased assets
Use of sold products
Upstream transport and distribution
End of life treatment of sold products 
Employee commuting 
Emissions per 100 sqm completed homes (scope 1, 2 and 3)
Total scope 3 emissions (previous methodology)**
Energy use 
Operational energy use (fuel and electricity consumption from sites, offices and fleet)
Operational energy intensity (site and office fuel and electricity intensity – MWh/100 sqm) MWh/100 sqm

tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e/100 sqm
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e
tonnes CO2e/100 sqm
tonnes CO2e

MWh

2023
14,275
1,628
4,649
15,902
1.53
1,922,202
852,593
18,294
2,087
4,591
7,008
914,417
46,064
24,627
52,521
187
–

2022
15,975
2,331
4,279
18,306
1.37
2,519,103
1,309,017
15,089
1,553
4,886
6,399
1,044,294
34,351
29,166
74,348
190
–

 2021
17,464
 2,272
 5,406
 19,736
 1.41
2,383,398
1,413,410 
15,446 
1,464 
5,802 
6,592 
1,107,417 
39,891 
29,210 
13,189
190
2,632,421 

2020
16,522
1,981
5,272
18,503
1.96
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
1,961,431

2019
21,018
3,563
6,172
24,581
1.62
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
3,869,583

85,741
8.27

92,312
6.9

104,870
7.5

85,422
9.3

101,352
6.8

Our carbon and energy use data is externally assured by Carbon Trust Assurance to a limited assurance level. Our scopes 1 and 2 
footprint, and three selected scope 3 categories (Purchased Goods and Services, Fuel and Energy-related Activities and Use of 
Sold Products) are verified to ISO 14064.

Data is provided as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) for all operations. Scopes 1 and 2 emissions are from our sites, 
offices, show homes and sales areas, plots before sale and car fleet and other infrastructure such as feeder stations and streetlights 
where these have remained unadopted. We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition) for data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Mandatory Carbon Reporting (MCR) requirements, and emission factors 
from the Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for our corporate reporting. We use the market-based method of the revised version 
of the GHG Protocol scope 2 Guidance for calculating our scope 2 emissions. We also disclose scope 2 emissions calculated using the 
location-based method. This reporting meets the SECR (Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting) requirements.

We have reported on the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions noted. The reported sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements and are 
for emissions over which we have financial control. We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in 
our consolidated statement. The following sources of emissions were excluded or part-excluded from this report:

1.  Fugitive emissions (refrigerant gases): excluded on the basis of expected immateriality and difficulty in acquiring data

2.  Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions of this type

3.  Certain emissions from District Heating Schemes: where we are receiving a rebate from customers prior to handover to the 

long term operator

See our Carbon Reporting Methodology Statement at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate/sustainability/our-approach/climate-change 
for more detail.

**Scope 3 emissions

We report on nine of the 15 scope 3 categories identified in the GHG Protocol. The remaining six categories are not material to our 
business. In 2022, we developed a more accurate methodology for measuring scope 3 supply chain emissions (Purchased Goods 
and Services), using a combination of quantity-based data (drawing on data on the quantity of materials purchased and emissions 
data from environmental product declarations) as well as spend data. Our previous methodology relied on spend data only. Following 
the update, our data is no longer comparable with emissions calculated using the previous methodology. For transparency, we 
continue to report scope 3 emissions prior to 2021 using our previous methodology. 

Energy data and energy efficiency measures

The energy consumption figure in the table is a Group figure. 98.4% of this total energy consumption is from the UK and offshore 
areas and 1.6% from Spain. 97.8% of total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are from the UK and offshore areas and 2.2% from 
Spain. During the last year, we have worked to reduce energy and emissions through our purchase of green tariff electricity for our 
sites during construction, by using our Energy Dos and Don’ts Guide, setting energy use targets for each regional business and 
integrating carbon reduction targets into our PSP and MTIP schemes, trialling hybrid generators and through the efforts of our 
Sustainability Champions including working with Site Managers to increase the use of natural ventilation methods for drying out 
homes and checking thermostats in show homes to ensure heating is only used when necessary.

Based on advice from the Carbon Trust we updated our methodology for calculating emissions in relation to some joint ventures, 
joint projects and central London sites from 2023 onwards. Under the previous methodology the operational intensity figure for 2023 
would be 1.56 tonnes CO2e/100 sqm completed build.

68

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationNon-financial and sustainability information statement

The following table constitutes our Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement in compliance with Sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. The information listed is 
included by cross-reference. Further Non-Financial Information is available in our Sustainability Summary and on our website.

Reporting requirement and 
key performance information

Environmental matters

•  Published our Net Zero Transition Plan 
and our net zero target was validated by 
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 

•  48% reduction in direct carbon 

emissions since 2013

•  Published our ’Towards Zero Waste’ 

strategy

Climate-related financial disclosures

•  Reported against the recommendations of 
the Task force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and IFRS Sustainability 
Disclosure Standard 2 criteria

Employees

•  96% of employees feel proud to work 

for Taylor Wimpey

•  95% of employees feel that they can 

be their authentic self at work
•  44% of plc Board positions held 

by women

Human rights

•  Continue to train employees to identify 
signs of modern slavery and human 
trafficking for which we operate a zero 
tolerance policy

69

Relevant policies

Read more 
on pages

Environment Policy – Outlines our commitment to the environment and incorporates our 
policies on climate change, nature, waste and resources, sustainable timber and water
Health Safety and Environmental (HSE) Policy – Outlines our ongoing commitment 
to continual improvement of our HSE performance
Supply Chain Policy – Sets out our commitment to work with trusted partners and 
ensure our homes are built using carefully sourced materials

Environment Policy 

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy – Outlines our commitment to create 
an inclusive workplace and a workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities 
in which we operate
Grievance and Harassment Policy – Ensures that any reports are investigated 
and addressed appropriately

Anti-Slavery, Human Trafficking and Human Rights Policy – The measures we 
uphold to safeguard against modern slavery
Supplier Code of Conduct – The principles that our suppliers, contractors and 
business partners are required to adhere to in ensuring human rights are respected and 
modern slavery is not taking place
Supply Chain Policy 

More information can be found within:
Strategic cornerstones – Sustainability
TCFD

Operational review

35 to 36
53 to 68

39 to 42

Related Principal Risks:
H: Natural resources and climate change 
G: Health, safety and environment

More information can be found within:
TCFD

53 to 68

Related Principal Risks:
H: Natural resources and climate change

More information can be found within:
Stakeholder engagement 
and priorities
Building for our people

Nomination and Governance 
Committee report

84 to 86

46 to 48

107 to 112

Related Principal Risks:
D: Attract and retain high-calibre employees

More information can be found within:
Stakeholder engagement 
and priorities
Building for our people

84 to 86

46 to 48

Related Principal Risks:
A: Government policies, regulations and planning 
C: Availability and costs of materials and 
subcontractors

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationNon-financial and sustainability information statement continued

Reporting requirement and 
key performance information

Social matters

•  Contributed £405 million to 

communities via our planning 
obligations

•  In 2023, around 23% of our 

completions were designated 
affordable

Anti-bribery and anti-corruption

•  Continue to train our employees and 
raise awareness of the procedures 
in place

•  Strict rules in relation to recording, 

giving or receiving of gifts

Business model

•  c.10.4k new homes completed for 

customers in the UK in 2023, including 
joint ventures

•  Strong short term landbank of c.80k 

plots, as at 31 December 2023

Non-financial KPIs

•  Achieved a recommend score of 92% 

in the HBF 8-week survey which 
equates to a five-star rating

•  Our Annual Injury Incidence Rate (AIIR) 

for reportable injuries per 100,000 
employees and contractors was 151 
in 2023

70

Relevant policies

Read more 
on pages

Community Policy – Outlines our commitment to be a responsible homebuilder, 
building homes and communities that enhance the local area to meet the needs of new 
and existing residents
Donations Policy – Our approach to making charitable donations and our policy not to 
make political donations
Charity and Community Support Policy – Our commitment to supporting charities 
and local community groups in the areas we operate

More information can be found within:
Stakeholder engagement 
and priorities

Building for our customers

84 to 86

43 to 45

Related Principal Risks:
B: Mortgage availability and housing demand

Anti-Corruption Policy – Our approach to combat risks of bribery, including the key 
principles employees should follow
Fraud Mitigation and Response Policy – This policy formalises the Company’s attitude 
to fraud and its response to instances, or allegations, of fraud against its employees or 
third parties
Whistleblowing Protected Disclosure Policy – Includes the procedures to be followed 
in making a disclosure of wrongdoing within the Company or related to its business

More information can be found within:
Board leadership

Audit Committee Report

104

113 to 124

Related Principal Risks:
A: Government policies, regulations and planning

Community Policy 
Environment Policy 
Customer Service Policy – Our approach and commitments to provide excellent 
customer service

More information can be found within:
Business model

16 to 20

Related Principal Risks:
E: Land availability

Customer Service Policy 
Health Safety and Environmental Policy 
Communications and Investor Relations Policy – Sets out our commitment 
to conduct clear, open and accurate communication with all of the Company’s 
stakeholder groups

More information can be found within:
Performance and strategy

Stakeholder engagement 
and priorities

Board activities

Board leadership

Related Principal Risks: 
F: Quality and reputation 
G: Health, safety and environment

31 to 36

84 to 86

100

104

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRisk management

As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces 
risks and uncertainties in the course of its 
operations. It is only by timely identification, 
effective management and monitoring of these 
risks that we are able to deliver our strategy 
and strategic goals.

Governance

The Board has overall responsibility for risk 
oversight, for maintaining a robust risk management 
and internal control system, and for determining the 
Group’s appetite for exposure to the Principal Risks 
to the achievement of its strategy.

The Audit Committee supports the Board in the 
management of risk and is responsible for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control processes during the year.

The Board recognises the importance of identifying 
and actively monitoring our strategic, reputational, 
financial and operational risks, and other longer 
term threats, trends and challenges facing the 
business.

The Board takes a proactive approach to the 
management of these and regularly reviews both 
internal and external factors to identify and assess 
the impact on the business and in turn identify the 
Principal Risks that would impact delivery of the 
Group strategy.

The Chief Executive is primarily responsible for the 
management of the risks, with the support of the 
Group Management Team (GMT) and other senior 
managers located in the business. In line with the 
2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board 
holds formal risk reviews, at least half yearly, and 
routinely considers risk at each Board meeting 
as appropriate.

The formal assessment includes a robust 
consideration of the Principal and emerging risks to 
ensure they remain appropriate as well as a review 
of the key risks identified by the business, their risk 
profiles and mitigating factors. At the Board 
meeting in February 2024, the Board completed 
its annual assessment of risks. This followed the 
Audit Committee’s formal assessment of risks in 
December 2023, which was supported by a 
detailed risk assessment by the GMT and its review 
of the effectiveness of internal controls in mitigating 
the risks. The diagram on page 72 illustrates the 
internal governance process within the Group 
around risk management.

71

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRisk management continued

Our risk management approach involves a top-down review of risks by 
senior management and the Board, combined with a bottom-up review 
by each individual function and regional business.

Risk management framework

Identification of risks

Our risk management and internal control 
frameworks define the procedures to manage and 
mitigate risks facing the business, rather than 
eliminate risk altogether, and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.

Identifying risks is a continual process and risk 
registers are maintained throughout the Group at 
an individual site level, at the regional business level 
and at Group-wide functional levels.

The regional business and functional registers are 
reviewed twice a year as part of our formal risk 
assessment process. In determining the risk, 
consideration is given to both internal and external 
factors. 

The registers document both the inherent risks 
before consideration of any mitigations and residual 
risks after consideration of effective mitigations.

A consolidated view of the risk environment, 
including potential emerging risks, is discussed, 
challenged and approved by the GMT and Audit 
Committee before being presented to the Board, 
ensuring all significant risks known to the Group 
are being actively monitored and appropriate 
mitigations/actions are in place to ensure each 
risk falls within the tolerance set by the Board.

72

Board
approval

Audit Committee
review

GMT review of key,
Principal and emerging risks

M

o

n

i
t

o

r
i

n

g

Consolidation of key risks

g

ortin

p

d re

n
n a
atio
nic
u
m

m
o
C

Functions and regional business risk identiﬁcation and assessment

Inputs (e.g. business change, external factors, workshops)

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRisk management continued

Evaluation of risks

Risk appetite and tolerance

A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure risks are 
evaluated on a consistent basis. Our matrix 
considers likelihood based on probability of 
occurrence and impact based on financial, 
reputational, customer, health and safety, 
employees, environmental, operational, legal and 
regulatory and IT perspectives, to help determine 
those risks that are considered to be key in 
delivering our strategy. Key risks are defined as 
those with a residual score equal to or greater 
than 12 and these are reviewed and monitored 
by the Board as part of our bi-annual risk 
assessment process.

Each risk is evaluated at the inherent and residual 
levels, with consideration given to the target risk 
based on our risk appetite and tolerance levels. 
All identified risks are aligned to our Principal Risks 
to help validate the continuance of such or the 
identification of potential new Principal Risks.

Management of risks

Ownership and management of the Principal, 
key and emerging risks is assigned to members 
of the GMT or senior management as appropriate. 
They are responsible for reviewing the operating 
effectiveness of the internal control systems, for 
considering and implementing risk mitigation plans 
and for the ongoing review and monitoring of the 
identified risk. This includes the monitoring of 
progress against agreed KPIs as an integral part 
of the business process and core activities.

The risk appetite and tolerance levels for the Group 
are set by the Board. In setting these, the Board 
has considered the expectations of its shareholders 
and other stakeholders and recognises the 
distinction between those risks we can actively 
manage, for example around our landbank, and 
those against which the Group would need to be 
responsive as and when they became known, 
for example transitional arrangements for changes 
to building regulations.

As part of the risk management process, the risk 
appetite and tolerance levels were reviewed and 
approved by the Board in December 2023 to 
ensure they were still appropriate in the current 
operating climate. The conclusion was reached 
that no changes were required and that they 
represented an appropriate level of risk acceptance 
for the Group.

Approved risk appetite levels for each of our 
Principal Risks are detailed in the Principal Risk 
tables on pages 75 to 77. The residual risk ratings 
of all our Principal Risks continue to be within their 
respective established risk tolerance levels.

Emerging risks

Emerging risks are defined as those where the 
extent and implications are not yet fully understood, 
with consideration given to the potential time frame 
of occurrence and velocity of impact that these 
could have on the Group. As part of our 
risk management process, these are identified, 
monitored and reviewed on an ongoing basis 
and discussed with and agreed by the Board.

Our emerging risks are grouped into the categories 
listed in the table below, which also contains some 
narrative description against each category 
indicating example focus areas into which the 
identified emerging risks fall.

Specific risk areas other than the 
Principal Risks

The Group considers other specific risk areas, 
recognising the increasing complexity of the 
industry in which it operates, and which are 
in addition to its identified Principal Risks. 
We continue to monitor and mitigate the impacts 
on our supply chain and labour force and the overall 
economic market impacting mortgage availability 
and demand.

Housing and fire safety still remain high on the 
agendas of the Government and the main political 
parties, with the sector continuing to face 
increasing scrutiny and pressure from social media 
and pressure groups, together with greater 
oversight from the Government through a single 
New Homes Ombudsman. We endeavour to deliver 
both the letter and the spirit of regulations and 
maintain this same ethos in our relationships with 
our customers.

Emerging risks

Category

Example focus area

Environmental / climate

Unpredictable weather patterns

Operational / build

Political / economic

Technological

Social

Governmental

Adaptation of building methodologies

Geopolitical uncertainty

Artificial intelligence

Customer demographics and preferences

Changing government policies

73

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPrincipal Risks and uncertainties

Principal Risks overview

The table below summarises the Group’s 
Principal Risks and uncertainties, showing 
how each links to our corporate values, 
strategic cornerstones and our material 
impacts, which are detailed on page 49. 
Control of each of these Principal Risks is 
critical to the ongoing success of the 
business. As such, their management is 
primarily the responsibility of the Chief 
Executive and the GMT, together with the 
roles noted in the Principal Risks tables on 
pages 75 to 77.

During the year, three of our Principal Risks 
(‘Government policies, regulations and 
planning’, ‘Mortgage availability and 
housing demand’, and ‘Quality and 
reputation’) have seen an increase in their 
inherent and residual risk profiles, and our 
‘Cyber security’ Principal Risk has seen an 
increase in its inherent profile, as reflected 
in the table below and on pages 75 to 77. 

These movements are primarily driven 
by the ongoing economic, political and 
increasing regulatory environment we are 
operating in.

The Board has finalised its assessment 
of these risks and of any changes to the 
residual risk profile during the year.

Principal Risks heat map

The heat map below illustrates the relative inherent 
and residual positioning of our Principal Risks from 
an impact and likelihood perspective. Further 
information on our Principal Risks is detailed in the 
Principal Risk tables on pages 75 to 77.

Our values

Strategic 
cornerstones

Risk change in year

Inherent 
risk change 
in year

Residual 
risk change 
in year

Material 
impacts

Category

A   Government policies, regulations and planning

B   Mortgage availability and housing demand

C   Availability and costs of materials and subcontractors

D   Attract and retain high-calibre employees

E   Land availability

F   Quality and reputation

G   Health, safety and environment

H   Natural resources and climate change

I   Cyber security

Key to our values

Key to our strategic cornerstones

Key to risk change

Key to material impacts

  Respectful and fair

  Take responsibility

  Better tomorrow

  Be proud

  Land

  Operational excellence

  Sustainability

  Capital allocation

  Increased risk

  No change

  Decreased risk

  Our homes and places

  Our people and suppliers

  Our planet

  Responsible and resilient business

74

Key

  Inherent     

  Residual

h
g
H

i

d
o
o
h

i
l

e
k
L

i

A

B

C

H I

D

H

I

C

F

A

E

G

B

F

D

E

G

w
o
L

Low

Impact

High

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Risks and uncertainties continued

Principal Risk

A   Government policies, regulations and planning

B   Mortgage availability and housing demand

C   Availability and costs of materials and subcontractors

Inherent risk 
change in year
Residual risk 
change in year
Residual rating

Risk appetite

Link to values

Link to strategic 
cornerstones
Description

Key mitigations

Moderate

Low

Moderate

Low

Moderate

Low-moderate

A decline in the economic environment, driven by sustained growth in 
interest rates, increased cost of living, low wage inflation or increasing 
levels of unemployment, could result in tightened mortgage 
availability and challenge mortgage affordability for our customers, 
resulting in a direct impact on our volume targets.

Increase in housing demand and production or a breakdown 
within the supply chain may further strain the availability of skilled 
subcontractors and materials and put pressure on utility firms to 
keep up with the pace of installation, resulting in increased costs 
and construction delays.

The industry in which we operate is becoming increasingly regulated. 
Failure to adhere to government regulations could impact our 
operational performance and our ability to meet our strategic objectives.

Changes to the planning system or planning delays could result in 
missed opportunities to optimise our landbank, affecting profitability 
and production delivery.
•  Research conducted to update technical specification of our new 
house type range, in preparation for the Future Homes Standard 
(FHS), including a trial of five FHS-compliant plots

•  Consultation with government agencies
•  Cladding fire safety remediation and signing of the Government’s 

Building Safety Pledge for Developers

•  Engagement with national and local government
•  Working with HBF and other stakeholders
•  Member of Future Homes Hub

•  Increase outlets to provide greater customer choice and flexibility 

to respond quickly to changing market conditions

•  Review of pricing and incentives offered
•  Monitor external market data (e.g. HBF and mortgage lenders)
•  Strong relationships with mainstream lenders
•  Work with financial services industry to ensure customers receive 

appropriate advice on mortgage products

•  Central procurement and key supplier agreements
•  Supplier and subcontractor relationships
•  Disaster recovery and business continuity plans with all key suppliers
•  Buffer stock with key suppliers
•  Contingency plans for critical path products
•  Direct trade and apprenticeship programmes
•  Key commodity risk assessment matrix
•  Regular checks on all key suppliers
•  Monitoring of the supply chain
•  Material and trade shortages
•  Material and trade price increases
•  Level of build quality and waste produced from sites
•  Longer build times
•  Number of skilled trades
•  To develop and implement different build methods as alternatives 

to conventional brick and block

Example key risk 
indicators

•  New government regulations (e.g. around planning and climate)
•  Delays in planning
•  Sentiment towards the industry (e.g. cladding fire safety 

remediation)

Opportunities

•  To build enhanced collaborative networks with stakeholders and 

peers, to monitor the implications of regulatory change

•  Lead the business in addressing pressing environmental issues, 
including reducing our carbon footprint and targeting biodiversity

•  Interest rate increases
•  Levels of unemployment
•  Volume of enquiries/people visiting our developments
•  UK household spending/levels of disposable income
•  Loan to value metrics
•  To continue to develop strong working relationships with 

established mainstream lenders and those wishing to increase 
volume in the new build market

Link to material 
impacts
Accountability

  Our planet   

  Responsible and resilient business

  Our homes and places   

  Responsible and resilient business

  Our people and suppliers

•  Group Technical Director
•  Director of Planning
•  Regional Managing Directors

•  UK Sales and Marketing Director
•  Regional Sales and Marketing Directors

•  Supply Chain Director
•  Procurement Director
•  Group Commercial Director

Key to our values

Key to our strategic cornerstones

Key to risk change

  Respectful and fair

  Better tomorrow

  Land

  Sustainability

  Take responsibility

  Be proud

   Operational 
excellence

  Capital allocation

  Increased risk

  No change

  Decreased risk

75

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Risks and uncertainties continued

Principal Risk

D   Attract and retain high-calibre employees

E   Land availability

F   Quality and reputation

Low

Moderate

Low

Moderate

Moderate

Low

Inherent risk 
change in year
Residual risk 
change in year
Residual rating

Risk appetite

Link to values

Link to strategic 
cornerstones
Description

An inability to attract, develop, motivate and retain high-calibre 
employees, together with a failure to consider the retention and 
succession of key management, could result in a failure to deliver 
our strategic objectives, a loss of corporate knowledge and a loss 
of competitive advantage.

An inability to secure land at an appropriate cost, the purchase of 
land of poor quality or in the wrong location, or the incorrect timing 
of land purchases in relation to the economic cycle could impact 
future profitability.

Key mitigations

•  Production Academy and Production Manager succession 

development programme
•  Schools outreach strategy
•  Collaboration with major organisations on a sector skills plan
•  Graduate and apprenticeship programmes
•  Management training
•  Enhanced remote working procedures
•  Educational masterclasses
•  Salary benchmarking
•  Employee engagement score
•  Number of, and time to fill, vacancies
•  Employee turnover levels

Example key risk 
indicators

•  Critically assess opportunities
•  Land quality framework
•  Engagement with national and local government
•  Review of land portfolio
•  Obtaining specialist environmental and legal advice

The quality of our products is key to our strategic objective of being a 
customer-focused business and in ensuring that we do things right 
first time.

If the Group fails to deliver against these standards and its wider 
development obligations, it could be exposed to reputational 
damage, as well as reduced sales and increased costs.
•  Customer-ready Home Quality Inspection 
•  Consistent Quality Approach 
•  Quality Managers in the business
•  Customer-driven strategy
•  Enhanced data analytics
•  Ombudsman readiness

•  Movement in landbank years
•  Number of land approvals
•  Timing of conversions from strategically sourced land

•  Customer satisfaction scores (8-week and 9-month)
•  Number of NHBC claims
•  Construction Quality Review (CQR) scores
•  Average reportable items per inspection found during NHBC 

inspections at key stages of the build

Opportunities

•  To further develop in-house capability, expertise and knowledge

•  A strong balance sheet allows us to invest when land market 

•  To better understand the needs of our customers, enabling 

Link to material 
impacts
Accountability

  Our people and suppliers

•  Group HR Director
•  Every employee managing people

conditions are attractive

increased transparency of our build profile

•  To lead the industry in quality standards (our CQR score) and 
reduce the number of reportable items identified through 
monitoring defects at every stage of build

  Our homes and places

  Our homes and places   

  Responsible and resilient business

•  Divisional Chairs
•  Regional Managing Directors
•  Regional Land and Planning Directors
•  Managing Director Group Strategic Land
•  UK Business, Land and Development Director

•  Customer Director
•  UK Head of Production
•  Director of Design

Key to our values

Key to our strategic cornerstones

Key to risk change

  Respectful and fair

  Better tomorrow

  Land

  Sustainability

  Take responsibility

  Be proud

   Operational 
excellence

  Capital allocation

  Increased risk

  No change

  Decreased risk

76

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inherent risk 
change in year
Residual risk 
change in year
Residual rating

Risk appetite

Link to values

Link to strategic 
cornerstones
Description

Key mitigations

Principal Risks and uncertainties continued

Principal Risk

G   Health, safety and environment

H   Natural resources and climate change

I   Cyber security

Low

Low

Moderate

Low

Moderate

Low-moderate

The health and safety of all our employees, subcontractors, visitors 
and customers is of paramount importance. Failure to implement and 
monitor our stringent health, safety and environment (HSE) procedures 
and policies across all parts of the business could lead to accidents 
or site-related incidents, resulting in serious injury or loss of life.

•  Embedded HSE system
•  HSE training and inductions
•  Mental health training and support for all employees
•  Robust monitoring and reporting procedures
•  Utilisation of certified operatives
•  Identification, review and evaluation of the impact of new 

construction methods and materials

An inability to reduce our environmental footprint, the challenges of a 
degraded environment including the impacts of climate change, nature 
loss and water scarcity on our business, supply chain scarcity due to 
environmental change and the increasing desire of our customers to live 
more sustainably could impact our reputation, ability to attract investment 
and obtain planning permission and the delivery of our strategic targets.
•  Net Zero Transition Plan
•  Published Environment Strategy
•  Adopted and verified science-based targets
•  Climate change governance, including LEAF Committee and 

sustainability champions

•  Achievement of Carbon Trust Standard
•  HBF and investor liaison
•  Training and development in-house and in our supply chain
•  External benchmarking
•  Collection and interpretation of data to drive relevant actions

The Group places increasing reliance on IT to conduct its operations 
and the requirement to maintain the accuracy and confidentiality of 
its information systems and the data contained therein. A cyber 
attack leading to the corruption, loss or theft of data could result in 
reputational and operational damage.

•  Complex passwords policy and multi-factor authentication for 

remote access

•  Regular security patching and penetration testing
•  Risky logins check
•  Intrusion detection and prevention systems
•  Suspected phishing emails process
•  Mandated cyber training for all staff
•  Cyber insurance
•  Dedicated Head of Cyber Security
•  Cyber security KPIs
•  Enhanced end-point protection software implemented across the 

IT estate

•  Blocked traffic originating from countries deemed a threat to the UK
•  Number of devices with critical and high open vulnerabilities
•  Number of devices without latest patching in place
•  Phishing test results
•  Cyber training completion statistics
•  Number of users with administrative privileges to critical systems
•  Together with our service partners, provide a level of security to 

reinforce our reputation as a trusted partner

Example key risk 
indicators

•  Increase in near misses and fatalities
•  Health and safety audit outcomes
•  Number of reportable health and safety incidents

•  Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions
•  Biodiversity net gain %
•  Construction waste generation and waste to landfill

Opportunities

•  To lead the industry in health and safety and to reduce the amount 

and level of incidents

•  Sustainable homes and developments attractive to customers
•  A sustainable business of choice for investors
•  Advantageous planning positions

Link to material 
impacts

Accountability

  Our people and suppliers   
  Responsible and resilient business
•  Head of Health, Safety and Environment
•  Regional Managing Directors

  Our planet

  Our homes and places   

  Our planet

  Responsible and resilient business

•  Director of Sustainability
•  Regional Managing Directors

•  IT Director

Key to our values

Key to our strategic cornerstones

Key to risk change

  Respectful and fair

  Better tomorrow

  Land

  Sustainability

  Take responsibility

  Be proud

   Operational 
excellence

  Capital allocation

  Increased risk

  No change

  Decreased risk

77

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group financial review

Focused on driving 
performance and 
protecting value

I am pleased with the operational 
discipline our teams have shown 
in controlling costs and managing 
working capital to protect 
stakeholder value.”

Chris Carney
Group Finance Director

78

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Income statement

Value distributed during 2023

Group revenue was £3,514.5 million in 2023 
(2022: £4,419.9 million), with Group completions, 
excluding JVs, being 22.7% lower at 10,766 
(2022: 13,932). The UK average selling price on 
private completions increased by 5.1% to £370k 
(2022: £352k), due to both house price inflation and 
positive mix. The increase in the total UK average 
selling price was 3.5% to £324k (2022: £313k) as a 
result of the greater proportion of affordable housing 
in 2023 (23%) than the prior year (2022: 21%), and 
a small increase in the UK average selling price on 
affordable housing to £168k (2022: £166k).

Group gross profit decreased to £716.5 million 
(2022: £1,132.4 million), the impact of build cost 
inflation and fixed build and selling costs being 
absorbed over fewer completions, resulting in a 
gross margin of 20.4% (2022: 25.6%).

Net operating expenses were £248.7 million 
(2022: £304.9 million), the comparative including 
£80.0 million of exceptional costs relating to the 
cladding fire safety provision following the signing 
of the Government’s Building Safety Pledge for 
Developers in April 2022, with no such amount 
in the current year. Excluding exceptional costs, 
the net operating expenses were £248.7 million 
(2022: £224.9 million), which was predominantly 
made up of administrative costs of £232.7 million 
(2022: £220.7 million). The increase in administrative 
costs over the comparative period was driven 
mainly by the non-recurring costs associated with 
the change programme announced at the start of 
the year and the annual pay review process, partially 
offset by a portion of the savings associated with 
the change programme. This resulted in a profit on 
ordinary activities before financing of £467.8 million 
(2022: £827.5 million), £467.8 million (2022: 
£907.5 million) excluding exceptional items.

Contribution to 
local communities 
via planning obligations

£405.2m

(2022: £454.6m)

Employment

£270.7m

(2022: £290.0m)

Dividends paid in year

£337.9m

(2022: £323.8m)

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGroup financial review continued

Completions from joint ventures in the year were 82 
(2022: 222). The lower level was a result of both the 
current market and the status of the joint ventures’ 
developments. As a result of the decreased joint 
venture completions, the share of joint ventures’ 
profit in the period was £2.4 million (2022: £15.9 
million). When including this in the profit on ordinary 
activities before financing, the resulting operating 
profit* was £470.2 million (2022: £923.4 million), 
delivering an operating profit margin* of 13.4% 
(2022: 20.9%). The total order book value of joint 
ventures as at 31 December 2023 decreased to 
£6 million (31 December 2022: £26 million), 
representing nine homes (31 December 2022: 56).

The net finance income of £3.6 million (2022:  
£15.5 million expense) represents interest earned 
on deposits in the current year, more than 
offsetting the imputed interest on land acquired 
on deferred terms, bank interest and interest on 
the pension scheme.

Profit on ordinary activities before tax decreased 
to £473.8 million (2022: £827.9 million). The total 
tax charge for the period was £124.8 million 
(2022: £184.3 million), a rate of 26.3% (2022: 22.3%); 
the prior year included a credit of £17.6 million in 
respect of the exceptional charge recognised in 
that year and a £1.7 million credit arising from the 
remeasurement of the Group’s UK deferred tax assets 
following the introduction of the new Residential 
Property Developer Tax. The pre-exceptional tax 
charge was £124.8 million (2022: £201.9 million), 
representing an underlying tax rate of 26.3% 
(2022: 22.2%).

As a result, profit for the year was £349.0 million 
(2022: £643.6 million).

Basic earnings per share was 9.9 pence 
(2022: 18.1 pence). The adjusted basic earnings 
per share* was 9.9 pence (2022: 19.8 pence).

Spain 

Our Spanish business primarily sells second homes 
to European and other international customers, 
with a small proportion of sales being primary 
homes for Spanish occupiers. The business 
completed 410 homes (2022: 381) with the average 
selling price increasing to €400k (2022: €383k), 
due to regional mix. The total order book as at 
31 December 2023 increased to 490 homes 
(31 December 2022: 448 homes).

Gross margin decreased to 28.1% (2022: 29.7%), 
due to timing variances on the recognition of sales 
commissions that had a positive impact on the prior 
year; this flowed through to an operating profit* of 
£35.3 million (2022: £32.6 million) and an operating 
profit margin* of 24.7% (2022: 26.2%).

The total plots in the landbank stood at 2,755 
(31 December 2022: 2,544), with net operating 
assets* of £94.0 million (31 December 2022: 
£89.8 million).

2023 Group results

Completions including joint ventures
Revenue (£m)
Operating profit* (£m)
Operating profit margin* (%)
Profit before tax and exceptional items (£m)
Profit for the year (£m)
Basic earnings per share (p)
Adjusted basic earnings per share* (p)

79

UK
10,438 
3,371.7 
434.9 
12.9 

Spain 
410 
142.8 
35.3 
24.7 

Group
10,848 
3,514.5 
470.2 
13.4 
473.8 
349.0 
9.9 
9.9 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGroup financial review continued

Balance sheet 

Net assets at 31 December 2023 increased 
marginally to £4,523.4 million (31 December 2022: 
£4,502.1 million), with net operating assets* 
increasing by £204.2 million, 5.6%, to £3,823.7 million 
(31 December 2022: £3,619.5 million). Return on 
net operating assets* decreased to 12.6% 
(31 December 2022: 26.1%) primarily due to the 
reduction in Group operating profit in the year, and 
to a lesser extent by the increase in average net 
operating assets. Group net operating asset turn* 
was 0.94 times (31 December 2022: 1.25), 
reflecting the decreased revenue in the year.

Land

Land as at 31 December 2023 decreased by 
£158.8 million in the year to £3,269.5 million as the 
highly selective approach to acquiring new land 
continued throughout the year, resulting in land 
creditors decreasing to £516.1 million 
(31 December 2022: £725.6 million). Included 
within the gross land creditor balance is £44.9 million 
of UK land overage commitments (31 December 
2022: £43.0 million). £301.2 million of the land 
creditors is expected to be paid within 12 months 
and £214.9 million thereafter.

As at 31 December 2023, the UK short term 
landbank comprised 80,323 plots (31 December 
2022: 82,830), with a net book value of £2.8 billion 
(31 December 2022: £2.9 billion). Short term owned 
land had a net book value of £2.7 billion 
(31 December 2022: £2.8 billion), representing 
61,190 plots (31 December 2022: 63,088). 
The controlled short term landbank represented 
19,133 plots (31 December 2022: 19,742).

80

The value of long term owned land decreased to 
£242 million (31 December 2022: £311 million), 
representing 34,319 plots (31 December 2022: 
36,646), with a further total controlled strategic 
pipeline of 107,676 plots (31 December 2022: 
107,739). Total potential revenue in the short and 
long term owned and controlled landbank was 
£61 billion (31 December 2022: £61 billion).

Work in progress (WIP) 

Total WIP investment, excluding part exchange and 
other, increased to £1,871.0 million (31 December 
2022: £1,725.9 million) due primarily to build cost 
inflation. This also resulted in average WIP per UK 
outlet to increase to £7.6 million (31 December 
2022: £6.4 million).

Provisions and deferred tax 

Provisions decreased to £286.7 million 
(31 December 2022: £290.3 million), primarily due 
to utilisation of the cladding fire safety provision 
(£16.8 million) as works have been carried out, 
which was offset by increases in other provisions 
which largely relate to remedial works on a limited 
number of sites around the Group.

Our net deferred tax asset of £23.4 million 
(31 December 2022: £26.0 million) relates to our 
pension deficit and UK and Spanish provisions that 
are tax deductible when the expenditure is incurred. 

Pensions 

As a result of the 31 December 2019 triennial 
valuation, a funding arrangement was agreed 
with the Trustee of the Taylor Wimpey Pension 
Scheme (TWPS) that committed the Group to 
paying up to £20.0 million per annum into an escrow 
account between April 2021 and March 2024. 

“ As at 31 December 
2023, the UK 
short term 
owned landbank 
comprised 61,190 
plots, with a 
net book value of 
£2.7 billion.”

 Chris Carney
Group Finance Director

Pension contributions

£22.2m

(2022: £22.5m)

Taxes

£155.9m

(2022: £208.7m)

Following an initial contribution totalling £10.0 million, 
all further payments into the escrow account are 
subject to a quarterly funding test, effective from 
30 September 2021. Should the TWPS Technical 
Provisions funding position at any quarter end be 
100% or more, payments into the escrow account 
are suspended and would only restart should the 
funding subsequently fall below 98%. The funding 
test at 30 September 2021 showed a funding level 
of 103% and has remained above 100% since then 
and therefore escrow payments were suspended 
on, and from, 1 October 2021. The most recent 
funding test at 31 December 2023 showed a 
surplus of £54 million and a funding level of 103.3% 
and as a result no payment into escrow is due in 
the first quarter of 2024.

The Group continues to provide a contribution for 
Scheme expenses (£2.0 million per year) and also 
makes contributions via the Pension Funding 
Partnership (£5.1 million per year). Total Scheme 
contributions and expenses in the period were 
£7.1 million (2022: £7.1 million) with no further 
amounts paid into the escrow account (2022: nil). 
At 31 December 2023, the IAS 19 valuation of 
the Scheme was a surplus of £76.7 million 
(31 December 2022: £76.6 million). Due to the 
rules of the TWPS, any surplus cannot be 
recovered by the Group and therefore a deficit 
has been recognised on the balance sheet under 
IFRIC 14. The deficit is equal to the present 
value of the remaining committed payments under 
the 2019 triennial valuation. Retirement benefit 
obligations of £26.5 million at 31 December 2023 
(31 December 2022: £29.9 million) comprise a 
defined benefit pension liability of £26.3 million 
(31 December 2022: £29.6 million) and a post-
retirement healthcare liability of £0.2 million 
(31 December 2022: £0.3 million).

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGroup financial review continued

The Group continues to work closely with the 
Trustee in managing pension risks, including 
management of interest rate, inflation and longevity 
risks. The triennial valuation of the TWPS with a 
reference date of 31 December 2022 is in progress.

Net cash and financing position 

Net cash decreased to £677.9 million at 
31 December 2023 from £863.8 million at 
31 December 2022, due to the settlement of land 
creditors and payment of dividends in the year. 
Average net cash for the year was £606.6 million 
(2022: £595.7 million).

The decrease in completions caused cash 
generated from operations to decrease in the year 
and resulted in a cash conversion* of 61.4% of 
operating profit for the year ended 31 December 
2023 (2022: 76.3%).

Net cash, combined with land creditors, resulted in 
an adjusted gearing* of (3.6)% (31 December 2022: 
(3.1)%).

At 31 December 2023, our committed borrowing 
facilities were £687 million, of which the revolving 
credit facility was undrawn throughout the year. In 
July 2023, the Group renewed its revolving credit 
facility, increasing it to £600 million with a maturity 
of July 2028 and the option to request an 
extension for two further years. In December 2022, 
the Group entered into an agreement to refinance 
the €100 million 2.02% senior loan notes due June 
2023 with €100 million 5.08% senior loan notes 
due June 2030. The weighted average maturity of 
the committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 
2023 was 4.8 years (31 December 2022: 1.9 years). 

The new revolving credit facility includes three 
sustainability-linked performance targets, which 
adjust the margin by a small amount. The three 
performance targets are: (1) reductions in scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions; (2) reductions in waste; and 
(3) reductions in carbon emissions of the homes 
we build.

Dividends

Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM 
scheduled for 23 April 2024, the 2023 final ordinary 
dividend of 4.79 pence per share will be paid on 
10 May 2024 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 2 April 2024 (2022 final 
dividend: 4.78 pence per share). In combination 
with the 2023 interim dividend of 4.79 pence per 
share, this gives total ordinary dividends for the year 
of 9.58 pence per share (2022 ordinary dividend: 
9.40 pence per share).

The dividend will be paid as a cash dividend, 
and shareholders have the option to reinvest all of 
their dividend under the Dividend Re-Investment 
Plan (DRIP), details of which are available on our 
website www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate.

Going concern

The Directors remain of the view that the Group’s 
financing arrangements and balance sheet strength 
provide both the necessary liquidity and covenant 
headroom to enable the Group to conduct its 
business for at least the next 12 months. 
Accordingly, the financial statements are prepared 
on a going concern basis, see Note 1 of the 
financial statements for further details of the 
assessment performed.

*  Definitions and reconciliations of our APMs to the equivalent statutory measures are included in Note 32 of the financial statements.

81

Definitions of APMs

•   Operating profit is defined as profit on ordinary activities before financing, 

exceptional items and tax, after share of results of joint ventures. 

•  Operating profit margin is defined as operating profit divided by revenue.

•   Return on net operating assets (RONOA) is defined as rolling 12 months’ 
operating profit divided by the average of the opening and closing net 
operating assets of the 12-month period, which is defined as net assets less 
net cash, excluding net taxation balances and accrued dividends. 

•   Tangible net assets per share is defined as net assets before any accrued 
dividends excluding intangible assets divided by the number of ordinary 
shares in issue at the end of the period.

•   Adjusted basic earnings per share represents earnings attributed to the 

shareholders of the parent, excluding exceptional items and tax on 
exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of shares in 
issue during the period.

•   Net operating asset turn is defined as 12 months’ rolling total revenue 

divided by the average of opening and closing net operating assets of the 
12-month period.

•   The Annual Injury Incidence Rate (AIIR) is defined as the number of incidents 
per 100,000 employees and contractors, calculated on a rolling 12-month 
basis, where the number of employees and contractors is calculated using a 
monthly average over the same period.

•  Net cash is defined as total cash less total borrowings. 

•   Cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow divided by operating profit 
or loss on a rolling 12-month basis, with operating cash flow defined as cash 
generated by operations (which is before income taxes paid, interest paid 
and payments related to exceptional charges).

•  Adjusted gearing is defined as adjusted net debt divided by net assets.

•  Adjusted net debt is defined as net cash less land creditors.

A reconciliation of Alternative Performance Measures to statutory measures is 
disclosed in Note 32 of the financial statements.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationViability statement

Viability disclosure

Assessment of prospects

In accordance with the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Directors and the senior 
management team have assessed the prospects 
and financial viability of the Group for a period longer 
than the 12 months required for the purpose of the 
‘going concern’ assessment. 

Time period 

The Directors have assessed the viability of the 
Group over a five-year period, taking account of the 
Group’s current financial position, current market 
circumstances and the potential impact of the 
Principal and Emerging Risks facing the Group. 
The Directors have determined this as an 
appropriate period over which to assess the viability 
based on the following: 

•  It is aligned with the Group’s bottom-up five-year 

budgeting and forecasting cycle.

We consider the long term prospects of the Group 
in light of our business model. Our strategy to 
deliver sustainable value is achieved through 
delivering high-quality homes for our customers, 
in the locations where people want to live, whilst 
carefully managing our cost base and the Group’s 
balance sheet.

In assessing the Group’s prospects and long term 
viability, due consideration is given to:

The Directors identified the Principal Risks that have 
the most impact on the longer term prospects and 
viability of the Group, and as such these have been 
used in the modelling of a severe but plausible 
downside scenario, as: 

•  Government policies, regulations and planning (A).

•  Mortgage availability and housing demand (B).

•  Availability and costs of materials and 

subcontractors (C).

•  The Group’s current performance and the 

Group’s financing arrangements. 

•  Quality and reputation (F). 

•  Cyber security (I).

•  The wider economic environment and mortgage 

market, as well as changes to government 
policies and regulations, including those 
influenced by sustainability, climate change and 
the environment, that could impact the Group’s 
business model.

A range of sensitivity analyses for these risks 
together with likely mitigating actions that would be 
adopted in response to these circumstances were 
modelled, including a severe but plausible 
downside scenario in which the impacts were 
aggregated together. 

•  Five years represents a reasonable estimate of the 

•  Strategy and business model flexibility, including 

typical time between purchasing land, its 
progression through the planning cycle, building 
out the development and selling homes to 
customers from it.

Five years is also a reasonable period for 
consideration given the following broader 
external trends: 

customer dynamics and approach to land 
investment.

•  Principal Risks associated with the Group’s 

strategy and business model, including those 
which have the most impact on our ability to 
remain in operation and meet our liabilities as 
they fall due.

•  The cyclical nature of the market in which the 
Group operates, which tends to follow the 
economic cycle.

•  Consideration of the impact of government policy, 
planning regulations and the mortgage market.

•  Long term supply of land, which is supported by 

our strategic land pipeline.

•  Changes in technology and customer expectations.

Principal Risks 

The Principal Risks, to which the Group are subject, 
have undergone a comprehensive review by the 
GMT and Board in the current year. Consideration 
is given to the risk likelihood based on the 
probability of occurrence and potential impact 
on our business, together with the effectiveness 
of mitigations.

The impact from ‘Natural resources and climate 
change’ (H) is not deemed to be material within 
the five-year forecast period, as costs associated 
with the regulatory changes have been included 
in the modelling. 

Assessment of viability 

The Group adopts a disciplined annual business 
planning process involving the management teams 
of the UK regional businesses and Spain, and the 
Group’s senior management, and is built on a 
bottom-up basis. This planning process covers a 
five-year period comprising a detailed budget for 
the next financial year, together with a forecast for 
the following four financial years (‘forecast’).

82

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationViability statement continued

The financial planning process considers the 
Group’s profitability and Income Statement, 
Balance Sheet including landbank, gearing and 
debt covenants, cash flows and other key financial 
metrics over the forecast period. These financial 
forecasts are based on a number of key 
assumptions, the most important of which include:

•  Timing and volume of legal completions of new 
homes sold, which includes annual production 
volumes and sales rates over the life of the 
individual developments.

•  Average selling prices achieved.

•  Build costs and cost of land acquisitions, 

including the impact from the Future Homes 
Standard.

•  Working capital requirements.

•  Capital repayment plan, where we have assumed 

the payment of the ordinary dividend in line 
with the current policy, which is a minimum of 
£250 million or 7.5% of the Group’s net assets 
per annum, throughout the period.

Stress testing our risk resilience 

The assessment considers sensitivity analysis on 
a series of realistically possible, but severe and 
prolonged, changes to principal assumptions. In 
determining these we have included macroeconomic 
and industry-wide projections as well as matters 
specific to the Group. 

The severe but plausible downside scenario reflects 
the aggregated impact of sensitivities, taking 
account of a further decline in customer confidence, 
disposable incomes and mortgage availability than 
has been experienced during 2023. To arrive at our 
stress test we have drawn on experience gained 
from managing the business through previous 
economic downturns and the COVID-19 pandemic. 

We have applied the market dynamics encountered 
at those times, as well as the mitigations adopted, to 
our 2024 expectations in order to test the resilience 
of our business. As a result, we have stress tested our 
business against the following severe but plausible 
downside scenario, which can be attributed back to 
the Group’s Principal Risks that have been identified 
as having the most impact on the longer term 
prospects and viability of the Group.

Volume (Principal Risk: A, B, C, F) – a further 
decline in total volumes of 10% in 2024 from 2023 
levels, before recovering back to 2023 levels 
by 2026.

Price (Principal Risk: B) – a reduction to current 
selling prices of 10%, remaining at these levels 
across 2024 and 2025 before recovering to 2023 
levels by 2026.

One-off costs (Principal Risk: A, F, I) – a one-off 
exceptional charge and cash cost of £150 million 
for an unanticipated event, change in government 
regulations or financial penalty has been included 
in 2024. 

Within the scenario, build costs are forecast to 
reduce across 2024 and 2025 with lower volumes 
reducing demand for materials and resources and 
land cost remaining broadly flat as the possible 
increase in availability due to lower volumes is offset 
by a restriction in supply. An estimate for the cost 
of the Future Homes Standard has been assumed.

The mitigating actions considered in the model 
include a continued reduction in land investment, 
a reduction in the level of production and work in 
progress held and further reducing our overhead 
base to reflect the lower volumes.

If this scenario were to occur, we also have a range 
of additional options to maintain our financial 
strength, including: a more severe reduction in land 
spend and work in progress, the sale of assets, 
reducing the dividend, and/or raising debt.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had a cash 
balance of £765 million and access to £600 million 
from a fully undrawn revolving credit facility, 
together totalling £1,365 million. The combination 
of both of these is sufficient to absorb the financial 
impact of each of the risks modelled in the stress 
and sensitivity analysis, individually and in aggregate.

Confirmation of viability

Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period 
of their assessment.

83

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStakeholder engagement and priorities

We believe engaging with 
all our stakeholders and 
hearing their feedback 
will make us a better business.

During 2023, we continued to engage with our 
stakeholders, seeking their views, listening to 
and responding to their feedback.

Read more about stakeholder engagement 
and climate change on page 49

84

Our customers

Buying a home is likely to be the biggest and 
most personal purchase any of us ever make. 

Customer engagement, at all stages of the 
journey, is very important to ensure we are 
delivering the high-quality product and service 
our customers expect. 

While we strive to deliver excellent customer 
service, we know we don’t always get it 
right. Feedback is key to ensure we continue 
to improve.

How we engage

Priorities for 2024

•  Embedding a consistent sales journey 

communication plan 

•  Customer education on the implications of 

new technology

•  Increasing 9-month customer satisfaction

Material impacts

  Our homes and places
  Our planet
  Responsible and resilient business

Relevant KPIs

•  Customer satisfaction 8-week score ‘Would you 

•  We engage with customers throughout the 

recommend?’

•  Customer satisfaction 9-month score ‘Would you 

recommend?’

•  Construction Quality Review

•  Average reportable items per inspection

Strategic cornerstones

 Land

 Operational excellence

 Sustainability

customer journey – at our developments, over the 
phone, via email, letters, our customer portal 
(Touchpoint) and through social media

•  We have a dedicated customer Hub

•  We monitor customer views through focus groups, 

satisfaction surveys, Trustpilot reviews and 
customer research on specific issues

•  We have a clear complaint process and are fully 
signed up to the New Homes Ombudsman 

•  Our website is updated with relevant information 

and ‘how to’ videos 

•  All customers receive a full ‘From House to Home’ 
pack with information on their home and contact 
details

Key challenges

•  Maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction 

•  Increasing longer term customer satisfaction

Engagement performance metrics and 
highlights in 2023

•  Updated our sales communication toolkit which is 
aligned to our Customer Journey key principles

•  Industry first roll out of interactive QR codes in show 
homes to educate customers on new technology 

•  Customer research into views of FHS and implications

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStakeholder engagement and priorities continued

Our employees

Our employees are key to our success and 
we strive to ensure all our employees have 
a voice, and feel supported and valued.

How we engage

•  Annual employee survey 

•  Company-wide emails 

•  Regular Q&A Teams meetings with CEO and 

senior management 

•  Dedicated employee helpline available to 

all employees

•  National Employee Forum, Local Employee Forums, 

Young Persons Forum

Priorities for 2024

•  Continued commitment to diversity

•  Continue to offer a number of engagement and 
communication channels including introducing 
monthly newsletter for all employees and 
site-specific quarterly newsletter 

•  Implementation of new HR system

Material impacts

  Our people and suppliers
  Responsible and resilient business

Relevant KPIs

Our partners

We value collaboration with our partners and 
seek to support them. 

How we engage

•  Supply Chain Sustainability School

•  Letters, emails, calls, meetings, conferences, 

site visits 

•  Training sessions 

•  Supporting our local and national charities, 

overseen by our Charity Committee

•  Through membership of industry organisations 

such as HBF and the British Property Federation

•  Health and Safety Injury Incidence Rate

Key challenges

Priorities for 2024

•  Further improve health and safety and 

environmental protection 

•  Continue to engage with suppliers and 

subcontractors

•  Continue to engage with local and national 

stakeholders

•  Continue to engage with government and across 

political parties

•  Maintain engagement with industry bodies across 

key areas 

Material impacts

  Our homes and places
  Our people and suppliers
  Our planet
  Responsible and resilient business

Relevant KPIs

•  Health and Safety Injury Incidence Rate

•  Reduction in operational carbon emissions intensity

Strategic cornerstones

 Land

•  Understanding and highlighting risk across whole 

supply chain 

Engagement performance metrics and 
highlights in 2023

•  Introduced new subcontractor portal

•  Donated or fundraised £1 million for national and 

local charities (2022: £1 million)

•  Industry first zero carbon ready homes pilot testing 

new technology on a live site, using our own 
subcontractors and suppliers

•  Led a collaboration with five other major 

 Operational excellence

housebuilders, helping create a Sector Skills Plan 
to provide free support to our subcontractors in 
relation to skills and training (in particular 
apprenticeships)

 Sustainability

•  System of employee networks sponsored by 

senior management to support employees and 
actively promote diversity 

•  Employee engagement

Strategic cornerstones

 Operational excellence

 Sustainability

Key challenges 

•  Ensuring all employees across the business 

feel heard 

•  Attracting and retaining the best people in 

the industry 

•  Driving high engagement with site-based 

employees

•  Increasing diversity 

Engagement performance metrics and 
highlights in 2023 

•  Employee engagement score of 93% (2022: 93%)

•  Low voluntary turnover of 14.2% (2022:17.7%)

•  51 Pride in the Job Quality Awards (2022: 62) and 

13 Seals of Excellence (2022: 15) 

•  Published second Diversity and Inclusion Report

85

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStakeholder engagement and priorities continued

Our investors

Engaging with investors at regular intervals 
ensures they are well informed and have 
access to accurate information. We aim to be 
accessible and transparent.

How we engage

•  Results presentations, meetings, roadshows, 

conferences

•  Emails, calls and video conferences 

•  Site visits 

•  Website 

•  Benchmarks and disclosure initiatives 

Key challenges 

•  Ensuring investors understand the investment 

proposition and what differentiates Taylor Wimpey

Engagement performance metrics and 
highlights in 2023

•  Site visit with investors and analysts to Sudbury 

•  Stakeholder interviews 

•  Award-winning Annual Report and awarded Silver 

for our Sustainability Supplement 

Priorities for 2024 

•  Continued commitment to best practice disclosure 

•  Continue to regularly engage with existing and 

prospective investors

Material impacts

  Our homes and places
  Our people and suppliers
  Our planet
  Responsible and resilient business

Relevant KPIs

•  Land cost as % of average selling price on 

approvals

•  Landbank years

•  % of completions from strategically sourced land

•  Customer satisfaction 8-week score ‘Would you 

recommend?’

•  Customer satisfaction 9-month score ‘Would you 

recommend?’

•  Employee engagement

•  Construction Quality Review

•  Average reportable items per inspection

•  Reduction in operational carbon emissions intensity

Strategic cornerstones

 Land

 Operational excellence

 Sustainability

 Capital allocation

Accreditation

86

Our communities

Housebuilding can be disruptive but brings 
huge benefits to existing communities. 
Engaging with new and existing communities 
throughout the life cycle of a development 
enables us to hear their aspirations, concerns 
and, where possible, incorporate their 
feedback in our plans.

How we engage

•  Meetings, exhibitions, workshops

•  Newsletters, information boards 

•  Surveys 

•  Social media 

Key challenges 

Priorities for 2024

•  Continued commitment to local engagement

•  Remain focused on strong placemaking 

Material impacts

  Our homes and places
  Our people and suppliers
  Our planet
  Responsible and resilient business

Relevant KPIs

•  Customer satisfaction 8-week score ‘Would you 

recommend?’

•  Customer satisfaction 9-month score ‘Would you 

recommend?’

•  Reduction in operational carbon emissions intensity

•  Ensuring communities understand the value 

that Taylor Wimpey can bring to their local area 

Strategic cornerstones

Engagement performance metrics and 
highlights in 2023

•  Invested £405 million in local communities 

via planning obligations 

•  Supported local community organisations 

•  Utilised our Engagement Academy to equip 
our land, planning and technical teams with 
best practice

 Land

 Sustainability

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationSection 172 (1) statement

How the Board considered 
stakeholders during the year

Our Directors are bound by their duties under 
the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit of our 
shareholders as a whole, having regard to our 
other key stakeholders. 

We believe that in order to progress our strategy 
and achieve long term sustainable success, the 
Board must consider all stakeholders relevant to a 
decision and satisfy themselves that any decision 
upholds our culture of ‘doing the right thing’. 

Our values, as set out on page 30, are key to 
how we do business and are closely aligned to the 
matters the Directors must consider as part of their 
Section 172 duties. 

The Board recognises that stakeholder engagement 
is essential to understand what matters most to 
our stakeholders and the likely impact of any key 
decisions. We have a long history of engaging with 
all of our stakeholders and the Board continues to 
highly value the feedback that this engagement 
provides. Details of how we engaged with our 
different groups of stakeholders during 2023 and 
how this informed what the Board considers 
matters to them most can be found on pages 100 
to 103.

The Board receives an update from the Executive 
Directors at each Board meeting which details any 
substantial engagement since the last meeting. 

In addition, there were standing agenda items at 
each meeting to ensure that the Board received 
relevant updates on all of our key stakeholders; 
such as the regular reports from Customer Service, 
HR, Investor Relations and the Divisional Chairs. 
The Board had an annual schedule of ‘teach-in’ 
sessions with our key Heads of Function (such as 
Sales and Marketing, Land and Planning, Customer 
Service, Investor Relations, Sustainability and Supply 
Chain) where they received in-depth updates about 
each group of stakeholders. In addition, the Board 
regularly engaged directly with our investors and 
employees, and further information around the 
direct engagement that took place in 2023 can be 
found on pages 101 and 103. 

The Board is aware that in some situations, 
stakeholders’ interests will be conflicted and they 
may have to prioritise interests. The Board, led 
by the Chair, ensures that as part of its decision 
making process, the Directors assess the impact 
of the decision on our stakeholders and the likely 
consequences of any decision in the long term. 
The table to the right shows how the Board 
approaches its decision making. 

On the next page, we have set out examples of 
key decisions made by the Board and provided 
further details about the decision making process.

Read more on page 100

87

Setting our culture, values and strategy

The Board sets our strategic direction, culture and values; and these are key 
to how we do business and how we achieve our purpose.

Diverse set of skills, knowledge and experience

The Directors collectively have a diverse set of skills, knowledge, experience 
and stakeholder expertise which assists the Board in making decisions. 
This contributes to their ability to make well informed decisions which 
promote our long term sustainable success for all stakeholders.

As part of a Director’s induction, they receive a detailed briefing on their 
duties as a Director.

Board information

The Board receives comprehensive papers from Management which provide 
details on the likely long term impact of a decision and how stakeholders 
have been considered in the development of the proposal, including any 
relevant engagement.

The Board also has an annual schedule of ‘teach-ins’ where the Heads of 
Functions deliver updates on key activities during the year which feeds into 
the decision making process.

Board discussion and decision

As part of its discussion, the Board provides rigorous evaluation, risk 
management and challenge to ensure a decision promotes long term 
sustainable success. The Board uses the stakeholder engagement 
summarised on pages 100 to 103 to inform their decision making process.

Monitoring

The Board receives regular updates on key decisions and the actions taken 
in respect of them.

This is done through regular reports submitted by Management to each 
Board meeting and verbal updates as necessary.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationSection 172 (1) statement continued

Diversity and Inclusion Report

Audiocast at AGM

One of the key decisions made by the Board in the past year 
was to approve the Diversity and Inclusion Report, which 
outlined our progress and challenges in promoting diversity, 
equality and inclusion across our organisation.

The Board decided to continue using an audiocast facility for 
the 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM), enabling 
shareholders to join and participate remotely. 

Criteria considered

A, B, C, D, E, F

Relevant stakeholders

•  Employees

•  Customers

•  Investors

•  Communities

Criteria considered

A, B, D, E, F

Relevant stakeholders

•  Employees

•  Investors

•  Regulators

Board decision making: Market 
Conditions and Macroeconomic Context
The Board deliberated on critical decisions impacting our 
business. Informed by market dynamics and the broader 
economic landscape, discussions centred around strategic 
choices that would shape our future.

Criteria considered

A, B, C, D, E, F

Relevant stakeholders

•  Employees

•  Customers 

•  Investors

•  Communities

Decision making process

Decision making process

Decision making process

•  The Board recognised the importance of this issue for our employees, 
customers, partners and society at large, and committed to taking 
further actions to improve our performance and culture in this area.

•  The Group HR Director, prepared a draft Report, disclosing data from 
the Gender Pay Gap Report and the progress against key diversity 
and inclusion focus areas and targets.

•  The draft Report was presented to the Nomination and Governance 
Committee which discussed the stretching nature of the targets and 
the initiatives to drive progress.

•  The Committee agreed with the content of the draft Report, 

suggested some adjustments to the commentary and resolved to 
recommend the aspirational targets to the Board for approval, 
subject to the amendments.

•  The draft Report, with the recommended amendments was 
presented to the Board and recommended for approval.

•  The Board approved the Diversity and Inclusion Report, and it was 

published in March 2023.

•  In response to changing circumstances and technological 

•  The Board discussed the market conditions and macroeconomic 

advancements, the Board deliberated on enhancing shareholder 
engagement at the AGM, with the aim of facilitating broader 
participation while maintaining transparency and compliance.

context in the UK and Spain, including challenges and opportunities 
faced by stakeholders, such as interest rate changes, government 
policies, and housing market developments.

•  The Board discussed the audiocast facility to be used and approved 
the implementation of using an audiocast for the AGM; a decision 
that allows shareholders to listen to proceedings and send in 
questions, virtually.

•  The Board deliberated on the company’s performance and outlook, 
and approved various financial and operational decisions, such as 
the dividend payment, the timber frame strategy, the 2024 Budget 
and Business Plan, and the approach to cladding remediation.

•  The audiocast facility also enables employee shareholders, who 

•  The Board reviewed and noted the progress and actions taken on 

would have otherwise been working, to access the meeting. This 
also includes the Share Incentive Plan (SIP) shareholders who are 
provided with login access to the meeting.

•  The Board’s decision to continue with audiocasting for the AGM 

reflects a commitment to modernising shareholder interactions and 
enhancing engagement.

the health, safety and environmental aspects of the business, and its 
impact on the communities we serve. Updates on the ESG balanced 
scorecard, investor feedback, and the external economic outlook 
were also received and deliberated on by the Board.

Further information can be found on pages 97 to 98

Further information can be found on page 108

Further information can be found on page 227

Approval of the Strategic report

This Strategic report on pages 1 to 88 was approved 
by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by

Key to decision criteria

A:  The likely consequences of any 

decision in the long term

B:  The interests of our employees

C:  The need to foster our business 
relationships with suppliers, 
customers and others

E:  The desirability of maintaining a 
reputation for high standards of 
business conduct

D:  The impact of our operations on 

F:  The need to act fairly as between 

the community and the 
environment

members

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive

88

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationIn this section

90  Governance at a glance

92  Board of Directors

95  Group Management Team

96  Chair’s Q&A

97 

Building strong governance

100  Board activities

101  Shareholder engagement

102  Workforce engagement

104 

 Board leadership

105  Monitoring culture

106  Diversity

107 

 Nomination and Governance Committee report

113  Audit Committee report

125  Compliance statement

129  Governance structure

130  Role of the Board

131  Remuneration Committee report

153 

 Statutory, regulatory and other information

Directors’ 
report

89

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGovernance at a glance

Your Board is committed 
to high governance standards

We firmly believe that good 
corporate governance is 
essential to enable us to 
deliver our purpose for all of 
our stakeholders and remains 
a top priority for the Board.

The Company is committed to the 
principles of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), published 
by the Financial Reporting Council 
(the FRC), which sets out standards 
of good practice for listed companies 
such as Taylor Wimpey.

The Company has generally sought to 
comply with new provisions of the Code 
in advance of their formal application. 
We are reviewing the recent 
announcement of the revised 2024 
edition of the Code to assess whether 
and to what extent we can and should 
comply in advance of its formal 
application from 1 January 2025. 
This will be reported on more fully 
in next year’s Annual Report and 
Accounts.

Good governance 
is a top priority for 
your Board”

Robert Noel
Chair

Our commitment to 
good governance 
helps us to deliver our 
Company purpose”

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive

The Company is 
committed to strong 
financial governance”

Chris Carney
Group Finance Director

Actions taken in 2023

Actions for 2024

Additional reporting on 
succession and development 
plans was introduced to 
facilitate the Board’s close 
attention to progress and 
future plans in these areas, 
explained in more detail 
on page 110.

The Board undertook 
increased engagement with 
members of the Group 
Management Team and 
Heads of Functions, 
explained in greater detail 
on page 112.

The Board’s agenda layouts 
were amended and an ESG 
scorecard introduced, in 
order to facilitate a better 
understanding of the 
Company’s ESG priorities 
and progress towards their 
achievement, as described 
in more detail on page 104.

Action to give greater focus 
to Board preparation and 
discussions, including 
summaries of key matters 
and greater time for 
Non Executive Director 
input and challenge.

Action to give additional 
focus to people issues; 
leadership development; and 
general succession planning.

Arranging a greater 
proportion of external input 
into discussion of key topics 
in order to promote collective 
discussion whilst taking into 
account opposing views.

90

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGovernance at a glance continued

Proportion of the Board that 
is independent

56%

Board ethnic diversity

Board gender diversity

11%

person from minority ethnic 
background

44%

female

Fully compliant

with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance 
Code from 27 April 2023, when the 
composition of the Remuneration 
Committee was changed.

Read more on page 130

Read more on page 106

Read more on page 106

Read more on pages 125 to 128

Mean gender pay gap

6%

Gender diversity among 
senior Board positions

25%

female

Workforce engagement sessions

Investor engagement sessions

26

119

Read more on page 150

Read more on page 106

Read more on page 102

Read more on page 101

Board roles

Board age diversity

Non Executive Director tenure

Year
1

Year
2

Year
3

Year
4

Year
5

Year
6

Year
7

Year
8

Year
9

Robert Noel
Humphrey Singer
Mark Castle
Irene Dorner
Jitesh Gadhia
Scilla Grimble
Clodagh Moriarty

 Chair
 Executive Director
 Non Executive Director

1
2
6

 40-50
 51-60
 61-70

3
5
1

91

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBoard of Directors

Building on  
our board 
leadership

Key

A Audit Committee

R Remuneration Committee

N Nomination and Governance Committee

Committee Chair

92

Robert Noel
Chair

N R

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive

Chris Carney
Group Finance Director

Chair

Executive Director

Executive Director

Date of appointment 
Appointed as a Non Executive Director on 
1 October 2019
Appointed as Chair on 27 April 2023

Date of appointment
Appointed as Group Operations Director on 
20 April 2018
Appointed as Chief Executive on 26 April 2022

Date of appointment
20 April 2018

Board tenure
5 years

Board tenure
4 years

Board tenure
5 years

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  A former commercial business leader with a 
long track record in the property sector and 
operating in a cyclical environment

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Exceptional leadership and a razor-sharp focus 

on operations and strategy execution

•  Broad knowledge of the housebuilding and land 

•  Experience of chairing a FTSE 250 company

and planning sectors

•  Ability to challenge whilst working collegially 

and developing strong relationships amongst 
key stakeholder groups

•  Proactive approach to stakeholders and their 
key priorities with extensive customer and 
people-focused skills

Career and experience
Robert was Chief Executive of Land Securities 
Group plc from 2012 to 2020 and was previously 
Property Director at Great Portland Estates plc and 
a director of Nelson Bakewell, the property services 
group. He is a former President of The British 
Property Federation.

External appointments
•  Chairman at Hammerson plc

•  Trustee of the National History Museum

•  Non Executive Director at GMS Estates Limited

Career and experience
Before becoming Chief Executive, Jennie had been 
Group Operations Director since 2018. Jennie joined 
the Company from Redrow plc in 2014 as UK 
Planning Director, progressing to UK Land Director 
in 2015. Jennie’s previous roles include Managing 
Director of Harrow Estates Plc and strategic land 
oversight at Westbury plc.

External appointments
•  Member of the Board at the Home Builders 

Federation

•  Non Executive Director at New Homes Quality 

Board Limited

•  Member of the Government’s AI Opportunity 

Forum

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  A wealth of experience in the housebuilding 

industry

•  Extensive knowledge of the Company’s 

operational affairs, including treasury, pensions, 
information technology and tax matters

•  In-depth insight into the Company’s risk 

environment

Career and experience
Chris is a Chartered Accountant and has worked in 
private practice with Deloitte and in-house for 
Associated British Foods plc. Since joining in 2006, 
he has successively held the roles of Group Financial 
Controller, Finance Director of Taylor Wimpey UK, 
Managing Director of the Company’s South Thames 
regional business, and Divisional Chair for the 
London and South East Division.

External appointments
None

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBoard of Directors continued

Humphrey Singer
Senior Independent Director

Mark Castle
Independent Non Executive Director

Irene Dorner
Non-independent Non Executive Director

Lord Jitesh Gadhia
Independent Non Executive Director

A N

Senior Independent Director

A N R

Independent Non Executive Director

N

Non-independent Non Executive Director

N R

Independent Non Executive Director

Date of appointment
Appointed as a Non Executive Director on 
9 December 2015
Appointed as Senior Independent Director on 
27 April 2023

Date of appointment
Appointed as a Non Executive Director on 
1 June 2022
Appointed as the Board’s Employee Champion on 
27 April 2023

Board tenure
8 years

Board tenure
1 year

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Wealth of executive finance experience and 

acumen with a focus on both digital solutions and 
customer service

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Extensive operational insight and knowledge of 
the construction sector, with particular focus on 
supply chain, production and innovation

Career and experience
Humphrey was previously Chief Finance Officer of 
Marks and Spencer Group plc, Group Finance 
Director of Dixons Retail plc and also held senior 
finance related roles within Dixons and Coca Cola 
Enterprises.

External appointments
•  Chief Financial Officer at Belron Group

Career and experience
Mark was Chief Operating Officer of Mace Group 
and previously held executive roles at Structuretone 
Inc and Wates Group Ltd. In addition, Mark was 
Chair of Build UK from 2017 to 2019.

External appointments
•  Chair of Eleco plc

•  Chair of Triangle Group 

93

Date of appointment
Appointed as a Non Executive Director on 
1 December 2019
Appointed as Chair on 26 February 2020
Stepped down as Chair and appointed as a 
Non Executive Director on 27 April 2023

Board tenure
4 years

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Engaging and inclusive leadership style with 

significant experience of chairing boards of both 
public and private companies

•  Strong communicator and ability to manage and 

develop stakeholder relations

•  Extensive experience of operating in highly 

regulated industries

Career and experience
Irene has held a number of senior positions at 
HSBC including CEO of HSBC Malaysia, CEO and 
President of HSBC in the United States, Group 
Managing Director of HSBC Holdings and member of 
the Group Management Board. Irene was Chair of 
Virgin Money (UK) plc, Non Executive Director 
of AXA SA and Chair of its Audit Committee, and 
Non Executive Director of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc 
and Chair of its Remuneration Committee.

External appointments
•  Chair of Control Risks Limited

Date of appointment
1 March 2021

Board tenure
3 years

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Extensive involvement in public affairs and 

corporate governance, following his executive 
career in finance

Career and experience
Jitesh has over 20 years’ executive experience, 
principally in banking and private equity, having held 
senior roles at Blackstone, Barclays Capital and 
ABN AMRO. He previously supported the Letwin 
Review of the build out rate of residential homes, 
and was a Non Executive Director at UK Financial 
Investments Limited, Senior Independent Director 
of Calisen plc and a Member of the Board of UK 
Government Investments Limited. Jitesh also has 
extensive remuneration committee experience, 
across both public and private companies.

External appointments
•  Member of the House of Lords since 2016

•  Non Executive Director of the Court of Directors 

of the Bank of England

•  Non Executive Director at Compare The Market 

Limited

•  Non Executive Director at Rolls-Royce Holdings plc

•  Director at Accord Healthcare Limited

•  Honorary Fellow of St. Anne’s College, Oxford

•  Chair and Trustee of the British Asian Trust

•  Trustee of the South East Asia Rainforest 

•  Non Executive Director at Bard Topco Limited

Research Partnership

•  Chair of the Trustees at the Hampstead Theatre

•  Member of the Council of Chatham House

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBoard of Directors continued

Scilla Grimble
Independent Non Executive Director

Clodagh Moriarty
Independent Non Executive Director

A N

Independent Non Executive Director

N R

Independent Non Executive Director

Date of appointment
1 March 2021

Board tenure
3 years

Date of appointment
1 June 2022

Board tenure
1 year

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Valuable knowledge and executive experience 

in corporate finance, property and retail

Career and experience
Scilla has significant finance, risk and technology 
related experience in customer facing environments, 
having been Chief Financial Officer at 
Moneysupermarket.com Group plc and held senior 
roles at UBS, Tesco plc and Marks and Spencer 
Group plc.

External appointments
•  Chief Financial Officer at Deliveroo plc

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Strategic, digital and customer focused executive 

experience with a focus on delivering an 
enhanced customer experience

Career and experience
Clodagh started her career at Bain & Company, Inc 
and has since held a range of positions at 
J Sainsbury PLC, including Head of Strategy and 
Chief Digital Officer. Clodagh was also a Non 
Executive Director of Sainsburys Bank.

External appointments
•  Chief Retail and Technology Officer at 

J Sainsbury PLC

Ishaq Kayani
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary

Date of appointment
21 February 2023

Skills and attributes which support strategy 
and long term success
•  Deep knowledge of the operational and 

legal framework of the Company and the 
housebuilding industry

Career and experience
Ishaq, a solicitor, joined the Company in 2009 as the 
Group’s Dispute Resolution Solicitor and over the 
last 14 years has taken on additional responsibilities 
including legal and regulatory compliance, 
commercial legal matters and legal operations. 
In 2021, Ishaq was appointed as UK Legal Director 
and became Interim General Counsel in 2022. 
Ishaq was previously a partner at one of the 
country’s leading housebuilder law firms.

External appointments
None

2023 Board attendance

Audit 
Committee
1/1
–
–
3/3
3/3
–
–
3/3
–

Board
9/9
9/9
9/9
9/9
9/9
7/9
9/9
9/9
9/9

Nomination  
and  
Governance 
Committee
3/3
–
–
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
3/3

Remuneration 
Committee
5/5
–
–
–
2/2
3/3
5/5
–
2/2

Robert Noel
Jennie Daly
Chris Carney
Humphrey Singer
Mark Castle
Irene Dorner
Jitesh Gadhia
Scilla Grimble
Clodagh Moriarty

There was full attendance at all meetings, except Irene 
Dorner who was unavailable for two Board meetings; and 
Jitesh Gadhia who was unavailable for one Nomination and 
Governance Committee meeting. Prior to those meetings, 
the Non Executive Directors’ views on the meeting agenda 
items were sought and subsequently shared with the other 
Board or Committee members during the meeting. 
Following the meeting they were briefed on the business of 
the respective meeting and any decisions that were taken.

Board skills

Skill

Number of Directors

Operational
Financial
Property
Customer service
Economics
Public sector
Risk
IT
ESG
Strategy
Construction

9

9

7

7

8

2

2

5

5

4

4

94

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGroup Management Team

Our strong and 
experienced 
management team

The strength and depth of our management team positions 
us well for changing market conditions. With a combined 
total of over 150 years’ experience at Taylor Wimpey and 
longer in the housebuilding and construction sector, our 
Group Management Team has extensive experience of 
managing across a wide range of market conditions.

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive
Jennie was appointed Chief 
Executive in 2022, having been 
with the business for eight years 
and with over 30 years’ experience 
in land, planning and housing. 
Previous roles within Taylor Wimpey 
have included Land and Planning 
Director, Group Operations Director 
and Divisional Chair. As head of 
the GMT, Jennie’s responsibilities 
include key strategic and operational 
decisions, sustainability, customer 
service and health and safety.

Chris Carney
Group Finance Director
Since joining in 2006, Chris has 
held a number of roles in the 
Company, including Group Financial 
Controller, Managing Director and 
Divisional Chair. As Group Finance 
Director, Chris’s role covers all areas 
of finance, including tax, treasury 
and managing the Group’s defined 
benefit pension scheme, as well as 
overall responsibility for our 
information technology function.

Anne Billson-Ross
Group Human Resources 
Director
Anne joined Taylor Wimpey in 2014 
and has over 30 years’ experience 
within Human Resources. Anne has 
responsibility for all areas of human 
resources, driving a clear employee 
value proposition, which focuses on 
culture, skill acquisition, pay, total 
reward, benefits, talent identification 
and development, succession 
planning, wellbeing, driving high 
performance and employee 
engagement. Anne also oversees 
the implementation of the Company’s 
Diversity, Equality and Inclusion 
Strategy and the charitable aims 
of the business.

Ishaq Kayani
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Ishaq was appointed as Group 
General Counsel and Company 
Secretary in February 2023. In this 
role, lshaq oversees legal 
compliance, regulatory obligations 
and manages the Company’s 
Legal and Secretariat departments. 
lshaq joined the business in 2009 
as the Group’s Dispute Resolution 
Solicitor, having spent 12 years with 
a leading UK law firm. Ishaq is a 
member of the IT Steering Committee 
and the Treasury Committee.

95

Ingrid Osborne
Divisional Chair, London and 
South East
Ingrid has been with the business 
for 23 years and was previously 
Managing Director for our Central 
London business. As a Divisional 
Chair Ingrid oversees our North 
Thames, South East, South Thames, 
London and West London regional 
businesses. Ingrid is a member of 
the Treasury Committee and is the 
sponsor of the Working Parents 
Network at Taylor Wimpey.

Nigel Holland
Divisional Chair, Central, 
South West and Spain
Nigel has been with the business 
for 30 years, with a background in 
sales and marketing. In his role as 
Divisional Chair, Nigel oversees our 
East Anglia, South Midlands, 
Bristol, Southern Counties and 
Exeter regional businesses as well 
as our Spanish business. He was 
Chair of our Equality, Diversity and 
Inclusion Committee until the end 
of 2023.

Shaun White
Divisional Chair, Midlands 
and Wales
Shaun joined the Company over 
23 years ago and has held a 
number of roles in the business 
including Finance Director, Land 
and Planning Director and 
Managing Director. As a Divisional 
Chair Shaun oversees our Midlands, 
North Midlands, West Midlands, 
East Midlands and South Wales 
regional businesses. As of January 
2024 Shaun is a member of our IT 
Steering Committee.

Ian Drummond
Divisional Chair, Scotland, 
North East and North 
Yorkshire
Ian joined the business as Land 
Director in 2013, and has also 
held the roles of Managing Director 
and Divisional Managing Director. 
As Divisional Chair, Ian oversees 
our East Scotland, West Scotland, 
North East and North Yorkshire 
regional businesses. As of January 
2024, Ian is Chair of our LEAF 
Committee.

Lee Bishop
Group Managing Director, 
Strategic Land and 
Divisional Chair, North West 
and Yorkshire
Lee joined the business in 1984 
and has held Managing Director 
and Divisional Managing Director 
roles. Lee now oversees our 
divisional North and South Strategic 
Land teams and is Divisional Chair 
overseeing our Manchester, North 
West and Yorkshire regional 
businesses. As of January 2024, 
Lee is Chair of our Equality, 
Diversity and Inclusion Committee.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationChair’s Q&A

What have been the key highlights for the 
Board this year?

Our team have delivered a good performance, 
despite the challenging market conditions that 
continued throughout 2023.

The way in which we run our business remains of 
paramount importance to us and is what enables 
Taylor Wimpey to successfully deliver on our 
purpose to build great homes and create thriving 
communities. Our long term success relies on us 
having strong governance standards to underpin 
our activities and as a Board, we have ensured 
that we remain well positioned as a business to 
optimise performance, deliver quality homes to 
our customers and deliver long term value to all 
of our stakeholders. This includes remaining agile 
and making robust decisions at the right time 
throughout the year.

A
&
Q

More information about key Board activities can be 
found on page 100

How has the Board engaged with 
its stakeholders during 2023?

The Board always has the interests of all of our 
stakeholders at the heart of our decision making 
throughout the year.

During the year, we continued to engage with our 
shareholders proactively, including meetings with 
institutional investors to discuss a range of topics 
which are of mutual interest to the Company and 
its shareholders in relation to performance, 
market outlook, and macro-economic influences.

In 2023, Mark Castle became the Board’s 
Employee Champion. Mark has since visited a 
number of regional businesses, discussing key 
matters with our employees across the business. 

96

The key actions resulting from the evaluation were 
to enhance preparations for Board discussions; to 
allow additional time for thoughts and reflections; 
to increase reporting on talent management, 
leadership development and succession planning; 
and to increase external input on key topics.

More information about the 2023 external Board 
evaluation process and outcomes can be found on 
page 111

What are the key priorities for the Board 
in 2024?

Looking to 2024, the priorities for the Board are 
to continue to operate a strong Board to support 
and challenge our Group Management Team in 
delivering our strategy and creating long term 
success for our stakeholders. We will remain 
focused on our strategic cornerstones, and ensure 
we remain well positioned to optimise performance 
in all market conditions.

More information about 2024 priorities can be found 
on page 15

Robert Noel
Chair

In addition, our Non Executive Directors also visited 
regional businesses and development sites across 
the country to engage with employees and see our 
culture in action.

More information about key Board activities can be 
found on page 100. More information on engagement 
with our employees and shareholders can be found on 
pages 101 and 102

How does the Board take into account 
ESG matters?

The Board’s engagement with ESG matters was 
enhanced during 2023 with the introduction of a 
regular report at every Board meeting which sets 
out key ESG matters and tracks progress against 
a framework of key metrics. This enhanced 
engagement with ESG matters has led to increased 
discussion at Board meetings on key matters and 
will continue to support the Board’s delivery of 
long term sustainable value for our stakeholders.

In addition, equality, diversity and inclusion 
continues to be a regular agenda item for the 
Board, and the Nomination and Governance 
Committee, and is a key area of focus as we build 
on the progress we have made towards the targets 
we have set for ourselves.

More information about ESG matters can be found on 
page 104

What was the outcome of the external Board 
evaluation and what are the next steps?

The external Board evaluation concluded that the 
Board is functioning well, governance is strong, 
with a good degree of trust, confidence and a 
healthy level of respect between all Board 
members. The Board has committed Non Executive 
Directors, who are knowledgeable and well 
prepared for meetings. They bring strong, diverse 
perspectives and experience to Board discussions.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDear Shareholder

I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance 
Report for 2023, which sets out the key areas 
considered by the Board and its Committees 
during the year and in preparation for 2024.

Despite challenging market conditions during 2023, 
the Company maintained its progress and 
underpinned this with a focus on strong 
governance, which I have been proud to lead since 
my appointment as Chair in April 2023.

During 2023 and into 2024, the Board has carefully 
monitored and reviewed progress and performance 
against our strategic cornerstones whilst paying 
close attention to the further development of our 
initiatives in the areas of stakeholder engagement; 
championing the ‘employee voice’ in the Boardroom; 
progressing towards our ESG targets; improving 
diversity and inclusivity throughout the Group as 
well as at senior levels; and structuring the Board 
and its discussions to give additional time 
to consideration of these key areas.

This report seeks to explain how the Board ensures 
that the progress we are making in our operations 
is married to our continuing belief that business 
should be carried on in a responsible and compliant 
manner, which can be summed up as ‘doing the 
right thing’ by all of our stakeholders.

Key to this approach is the culture within which 
we approach our business, to ensure that we have 
effective systems and processes in place to monitor 
how we do business, including actively recognising and 
managing risks arising from our operations and the 
macroeconomic conditions within which we operate, 
and continuing to strive for continuous improvement 
and innovation in our business practices.

That ensures that business decisions are made in 
the right way, as described more fully on page 100 
of this Corporate Governance Report.

Stakeholder engagement

Our Board continues to place the interest of 
stakeholders at the forefront of decision making. 
We believe this is the correct way in which to 
progress our strategy and deliver sustainable, long 
term success. Further details on how we, as a 
Board, have fulfilled our duties under section 172(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006, to consider 
all stakeholders relevant to a decision and satisfy 
ourselves that each decision is in line with our 
business culture, is set out on page 101 and an 
explanation as to how we engaged with 
our different stakeholders during 2023 can be 
found on pages 84 to 88.

Building strong governance

I look forward to 
maintaining our strong 
relationships with both 
shareholders and key 
stakeholders.”

Robert Noel
Chair

97

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationPreparing for planned financial 
governance changes

A significant area of focus during 2023 was on the 
FRC consultation around proposed changes to the 
Code to introduce the principles designed to meet 
the Government’s consultation on ‘Restoring Trust 
in Audit and Corporate Governance’. Details on 
how we have prepared to meet the new 
compliance requirements are set out in the 
Audit Committee Report on page 120.

The Board will continue to ensure that all applicable 
laws and regulations are complied with, and we 
remain confident that the business continues to 
operate in a controlled and well-managed way.

Building strong governance continued

We continued our practice of engaging with our 
shareholders in a proactive manner, holding 119 
meetings with institutional investors, including 10 
visits to our operations, to discuss a variety of key 
themes, including results and performance, current 
trading, market backdrop and outlook, responding 
to market conditions, upcoming changes to 
regulation and ESG matters. We held 10 site visits 
with both analysts and investors including visits to 
our net zero ready prototype homes in Sudbury. 
(Read more about our prototype homes on page 36.) 
We also held a number of management meetings 
for analysts of the 17 investment brokers covering 
the sector on behalf of investors.

Employee voice

When I was appointed Chair in April 2023, my 
previous role as the Board’s Employee Champion 
was passed to Mark Castle. I am delighted with 
the way he has further developed the ongoing 
consultation and communication channels between 
the Board and the Group’s employees ensuring that 
their views are properly explained and championed 
to the Board, and taken into account, when making 
decisions that could affect them.

In addition to these ongoing communication and 
consultation channels, the Non Executive Directors 
visited 11 regional businesses and 18 sites across 
the country and took these opportunities to see our 
culture in action as evidenced by their interactions 
with employees during these visits.

Further information on shareholder and employee 
engagement during the year can be found on 
pages 101 to 103

Focused on ESG

Our ESG initiatives were a constant feature of 
Board discussions during 2023 and the agendas 
of Board and Board Committee meetings were 
reorganised during the year in order to give these a 
more prominent position in Directors’ deliberations 
at meetings.

Progress against our ESG strategy, with 
independently verified science based targets and 
performance reviews, is carefully monitored by 
the Board, which ensures that these remain 
aligned to our purpose of ensuring that we play 
our part in creating long term sustainable value 
for our stakeholders.

During the year, the Board received regular reports 
on the progress of our Net Zero Transition Plan. 
Further information on the Board’s actions during 
2023 to drive this element of our strategy are set 
out on pages 7 and 36.

Further developing equality, diversity 
and inclusion

Equality, diversity and inclusion remain key priorities 
for the Board. The Nomination and Governance 
Committee received an update during the year on 
progress made towards achieving our Equality, 
Diversity and Inclusion aspirations and increasingly 
becoming a more diverse and inclusive employer, 
where everyone is welcome.

Further details on progress made during 2023 and our 
plans for 2024 can be found on page 106

98

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationThe Board monitors a number of cultural indicators, 
including information and impressions gained 
during the interaction with executives and other 
employees at all levels of the Company, during 
Board presentations and visits to Company offices 
and operations by the Board and individual Directors.

More details of these indicators and the insight gained 
from them, appear on page 105

Conclusion

Finally, I would like to again take this opportunity 
to thank all of my Board colleagues, the Group 
Management Team and all of our employees 
across the business, for their dedication, loyalty 
and hard work which has underpinned our strong 
performance for 2023 in tough conditions, and our 
prospects for 2024.

Robert Noel
Chair

I believe the Company’s culture remains strong and 
the Board will continue to consider a wide range of 
indicators during 2024 to ensure that this continues 
to be the case.

Annual General Meeting

This year’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) will 
take place in person in the Gerrards Suite at the 
Crowne Plaza Hotel in Gerrards Cross on Tuesday 
23 April 2024 at 10:30am. I hope you will be able 
to attend and the Board looks forward to meeting 
shareholders and to hearing their views; and 
answering any questions that you may have. 
We are pleased to provide an electronic facility for 
shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM 
in person, so they may follow remotely and submit 
questions to the Board on the business of the 
meeting should they wish to do so. More details 
of the AGM and the business to be considered, 
are set out on pages 227 to 238.

Building strong governance continued

Board composition

After a period of transition on the Board during 
2022, this year saw a settled Board focusing 
on driving the strategy and progressing key 
governance initiatives described in this letter and 
in more detail throughout this report.

The only changes to the Board during the year 
were to the roles of individual Directors:

On 27 April 2023 I succeeded Irene Dorner as 
Chair; Humphrey Singer succeeded me as 
Senior Independent Director; and Mark Castle 
took over my former role as the Board’s Employee 
Champion. Irene kindly agreed to remain as a 
Non Executive Director and continues to bring her 
deep commercial experience and strong cultural 
principles to the Board.

Appropriate changes were also made at that time 
to the composition of certain Board Committees, 
which remain in full compliance with the Code.

Culture

The key to maintaining strong governance 
principles across an organisation is having 
a culture of doing the right thing. The Board 
recognises the importance of having a strong 
culture and appropriate values embedded 
throughout the organisation and it is responsible 
for defining and setting the culture from the top 
and leading by example.

99

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBoard activities

Board meetings

In addition to the regular topics discussed, the Board also considered and approved the matters set out below.

Strategy

Matters approved
•  Business restructure plans which

right-sized the business in response to 
market challenges

Read 
more Matters considered

•  Business restructure plans
•  Updates on ESG initiatives
•  Investor feedback on results announcements and 

investor events

•  Managing market changes
•  Regular review of the Company’s strategic dashboard
•  External review of the UK housing market outlook

•  Land acquisitions
•  Land sale
•  Fire safety and cladding updates

31
31
115

•  Customer service performance and progress update
•  Supply chain management performance and 

progress update

During 2023, the Board held nine formal meetings, 
one of which was a business update call. The 
Board considers that the usual eight meetings plus 
one business call per year remains appropriate and 
there are processes in place to convene additional 
Board meetings when considered necessary.

There was full attendance at all Board meetings, 
except Irene Dorner who was not available for 
two meetings. Prior to each meeting, Irene’s views 
on the meeting agenda items were sought and 
subsequently shared with the other Board 
members during the meeting. Following the 
meeting, Irene was briefed on the business of the 
meeting and any decisions taken.

Matters considered and approved at 
Board meetings during 2023

Board meeting agendas are derived from the 
Board’s annual plan which is approved at the end  
of each year and sets out the topics expected to  
be discussed during the following year. The Chair, 
Chief Executive and Company Secretary meet in 
advance of each Board meeting to discuss and 
agree the agenda for the next meeting, as well as  
to discuss progress made on actions arising from 
the previous meeting. Any additional topics are  
then added to the agenda.

During 2023, the Board considered a number of 
topics regularly, including:

• Health, safety and environment reports
• Chief Executive reports
• Group Finance Director reports
• Reports from each Board Committee following

Committee meetings

• Governance and legal matters
• Employee engagement feedback
• Reports from each operating division, HR and

Link to strategic 
cornerstones

Operations

Link to strategic 
cornerstones

Finance

Link to strategic 
cornerstones

Governance

Link to strategic 
cornerstones

Read 
more

104
101

Stakeholders 
considered
•  Customers
•  Employees
•  Investors
• Communities
•  Partners

• Customers
• Employees
• Communities
• Partners

41

31

• Employees
• Investors

•  Sales and Marketing performance and progress update
•  Divisional updates
•  Land position update
•  Employee survey results and resulting action plan
•  Employee value proposition
•  Updates on engagement with the Competition and Markets 
Authority in respect of the Housebuilding Market Study

•  Regular review of the strategic dashboard indicators
•  Forward strategic plans for 2024-2028
•  Annual forecasts for 2024-2028
•  Finance projections versus strategic plans and budgets

•  Reports from the Board’s Employee Champion
•  Regular review of whistleblowing reports and response
•  Annual report from the National Employee Forum
•  Review of progress and plans on employee engagement
•  Review of progress on diversity and inclusion strategy
•  Board evaluation outcomes
•  Preparations; draft structure and messaging for 

Annual Report

• Customers
• Employees
• Investors
• Communities
• Partners

102
104

102
106
111

•  Results announcements and trading 

statements

•  Dividend payments to shareholders
•  The Company’s Principal and emerging 

Risks, including risk appetite

•  Annual Budget for 2024
•  Annual review of Treasury Policies

•  Board and Committee changes
•  Diversity and Inclusion Report
•  Modern Slavery Statement
•  Board evaluation action plans for 2022 

and 2023

•  Board annual plan for 2024
•  Annual review and confirmation of 
governance framework documents

•  Updates to conflicts register

78 

78
71 

78
78

99
108
155
111 

109 

104

Customer Service

 Land 

 Operational excellence 

 Sustainability 

 Capital allocation

100

Key to our strategic cornerstones

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationChair meetings

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

Shareholder engagement

The Board actively seeks and encourages 
engagement with investors, including its major 
institutional shareholders and shareholder 
representative bodies. During 2023, the Company 
has continued to engage with shareholders in a 
proactive manner.

The charts below set out the number of meetings 
held with shareholders by the Chair, Executive 
Directors, the GMT and our Investor Relations 
team. These meetings include one-to-one 
meetings, group and conference meetings.

Irene Dorner, prior to stepping down as Chair on 
27 April 2023, and Robert Noel, following his 
appointment as Chair on that date, held a total of 
three meetings with key institutional shareholders 
representing c.5% of our issued share capital.

Key themes discussed at those meetings were our 
results and performance, current trading, market 
backdrop and outlook, responding to market 
conditions, upcoming changes to regulation and 
ESG matters.

Number of shareholder meetings in 2023

Investor relations programme

We operate a structured investor relations 
programme, based around formal announcements 
and publication of the full year and half year results. 
The Board is kept regularly apprised of the investor 
relations programme and receives a detailed report 
at each meeting, including specific consideration of 
investor feedback following key engagements.

Our corporate brokers also attend Board meetings 
as required to give their perspective on institutional 
shareholder sentiment.

Remuneration consultation

During 2023 Jitesh Gadhia, in his capacity as 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee, wrote to our 
major institutional shareholders to explain, and seek 
feedback on the Remuneration Committee’s 
proposals for applying the Remuneration Policy 
adopted by shareholders at the 2023 AGM.

 Chair
 Non Executive Directors
 Executive Directors
 GMT and Directors
 Investor Relations

3
1
61
10
44

Investor and analyst updates

We hosted visits for institutional investors and 
analysts over four days, in June and September 
2023, to view our flagship zero carbon ready 
homes trial at our Chilton Woods development 
in Sudbury, Suffolk.

101

We look forward to engaging with our retail 
shareholders at the AGM, which will again be held 
in person. We are pleased to again provide an 
audiocast facility for shareholders who are unable 
to attend the AGM in person, so they may follow 
proceedings remotely and submit questions to the 
Board on the business of the meeting should they 
wish to do so. Shareholders are also invited to 
submit questions via email in advance of the AGM, 
which will be answered during the meeting itself.

Further details on the 2024 AGM can be found in 
the Notice of Meeting on page 227.

Percentage of the share register met in 2023

Chair

4.9%

Non Executive Directors

14.1%

Executive Directors, 
GMT and Directors*

GMT and Directors

Investor Relations

*  Investor Relations also attended.

41.1%

33.5%

31.2%

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationWorkforce engagement

Employee champion

Informal engagement sessions

The Employee Champion is responsible for 
championing the ‘employee voice’ in the 
boardroom and strengthening the link between 
the Board and employees.

The Board’s Employee Champion is Mark Castle, 
who took the position when the previous 
Champion, Robert Noel, was appointed Chair 
in April 2023. Mark regularly engages with the 
workforce to gather their views through a variety 
of formal and informal channels (as set out in the 
diagram opposite). As part of this engagement, 
Mark identifies any areas of concern and feeds 
these back to the Board to consider.

Over 20,000 individual comments were reviewed 
and the key themes and trends were addressed. 
The next page explains five matters raised by 
employees during employee engagement sessions, 
actions taken in response to those matters and 
the outcome.

National Employee Forum and Local 
Employee Forums

The National Employee Forum (NEF) members 
represent all parts of the business. The NEF is 
chaired by a regional managing director and the 
Employee Champion attends each meeting.

Each regional business also has its own Local 
Employee Forum (LEF) and comprises members 
from each function and department 
or a representative for groupings of smaller 
departments. Each LEF is responsible for 
communicating feedback from the NEF to their 
regional business and to feed any areas of concern 
up to the NEF.

The Employee Champion meets with small groups 
of junior to mid-level employees to gather feedback 
directly from employees outside of the NEF in an 
informal setting and without Senior Management 
being present, to further encourage openness.

Engagement in practice

plc Board

Employee 
Champion

Informal
engagement
session

National
Employee 
Forum

Local
Employee
Forum

Mark Castle
The Board’s Employee Champion

The Board recognises the importance of engaging 
with the workforce and has therefore adopted two 
of the methods set out in Provision 5 of the Code: 
a designated Non Executive Director and a formal 
workforce advisory panel.

The diagram opposite shows how both these 
methods feed into boardroom discussions.

102

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationWorkforce engagement continued

Communication

When

January 2023

Long service

January 2023

Uniforms

April 2023

Expenses

April 2023

Employee value proposition

January 2024

Matter raised

Facilitating communication between 
Executives and Employees by way 
of webinars

Recommended a review of how the 
Company recognises and rewards 
long service

Concerns regarding the range 
of sizes of uniforms available and 
whether the interim wear is compliant 
with tax regulations

Recommended a review of the 
expenses policy, with regard to the 
cost of hotel accommodation outside 
central London

Views were sought on the way in which 
we articulate our employee value 
proposition

Action taken

The process and timings for accessing 
future webinars was reviewed

A full review of long service awards was 
undertaken

Impact/
Outcome

The live webinar session sign-up 
process was changed to make it easier 
to access and future live sessions are 
also being delivered within a core 
period of the day

New reward enhancements have been 
introduced, which celebrate significant 
milestones for long service and provide 
additional holiday days for long-serving 
employees

A review of uniform policies was 
undertaken which took into account 
the ability to order any gender uniform; 
ensure a larger range of boot sizes was 
available; and that interim wear 
is compliant with tax regulations

A review was undertaken to assess the 
current cost of hotel accommodation 
when travelling on business

A focus group was arranged, 
including the NEF representatives, 
to ensure that their voice was 
represented in the design of our 
employee value proposition

All of the feedback from the NEF has 
been incorporated into the current 
uniform review and trials

As a result of the review, changes were 
made to the expenses policy 
with regard to hotel accommodation

All of the feedback from the NEF has 
been incorporated into the design of 
our employee value proposition

Engagement activities throughout the year

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

• • • •
•
•

Board meeting

Employee Champion update to 
the Board

• •
•

Employee Champion engagement 
with employees

•

Chair and Non Executive Director 
site and regional business visits

•
• • • • •

Teams Q&A sessions

Employee survey

• •

•

103

Dec

•
•

• •
• •
• • •
•
•

• •
•

•

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationBoard leadership

Operational and strategic oversight

Policies and procedures

The Board sets the strategic direction of the 
Company and agrees the annual budget, whereby 
the necessary resources to achieve sufficient 
progress towards achievement of the agreed 
strategy, are made available.

The execution of our strategy and the day to day 
management of the Company’s operations is led 
by the Chief Executive who is assisted by the GMT. 
This is a vastly experienced team that has operated 
in a variety of market conditions, both with the 
Company and in the industry generally, and its 
members, and their respective roles, responsibilities 
and experience, are set out on page 95.

The Board receives at each meeting a detailed 
update on progress and plans towards the 
achievement of the strategy, and the day to day 
performance and prospects for the Company, 
from the CEO, together with similar reports from 
each GMT member for their respective areas. 
These are supplemented by reports from certain 
key Heads of Function who provide updates on 
key stakeholder groups; performance in the period 
and employee matters.

The Board conducts regular reviews of actual 
results and future projections with comparisons 
against budget and prior year performance.

There is a framework of delegated authorities, 
approved by the Board, within which individual 
responsibilities of senior executives of Group 
companies are identified and can be monitored.

The Board also receives regular reports and 
minutes from the Company’s Treasury Committee 
which is chaired by the Group Finance Director.

Conflicts of interest

Directors are required to notify the Group General 
Counsel and Company Secretary of any potential or 
actual conflicts of interest and these will be reported 
to the Board for consideration and, if appropriate, 
approval. The Nomination and Governance 
Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible 
for monitoring the content of the Conflicts of Interest 
Register annually. During 2023, four proposed 
external appointments were considered by the Board, 
Jennie Daly’s appointments as a member of the 
Business Council, and as a member of the AI 
Opportunity Forum, Mark Castle’s appointment as 
Chair of Eleco plc, and Irene Dorner’s appointment 
as a Member of the Council of Chatham House. 
In all cases, it was agreed that there was no 
evidence of a conflict.

Whistleblowing

The Board maintains overall responsibility for the 
Company’s Whistleblowing Policy (the Policy). 
The Policy is well communicated to employees both 
in regional businesses and on site. It provides a 
clear procedure for employees to report concerns 
either to their line manager or through a third party 
whistleblowing hotline (the Hotline).

The Hotline is also available for use by suppliers, 
subcontractors, customers and members of the 
public, for reporting any matters of concern to 
the Company. 

All whistleblowing cases are investigated by the 
Head of Internal Audit, Group HR Director and/or 
the Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary depending on the nature of the concern, 
and (where appropriate) the Head of HSE.

104

The Board receives half yearly updates which set 
out any whistleblowing issues raised during the 
period and interim updates on significant matters. 
The updates provided are anonymous and 
summarise the result of any investigation.

The Board is satisfied that the Policy, the Hotline, 
and their administration remain effective.

Anti-bribery and anti-corruption

The Company has written policies on its 
zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. 
The risks associated with bribery and corruption 
are mitigated by training for senior managers and 
by issuing an annual reminder, which includes the 
current version of the policies, to all regional 
businesses and key departments. This annual 
exercise requires written confirmation of continuing 
compliance and a completed copy of the relevant 
gifts and hospitality register; and a requirement 
to review training videos on anti-corruption, 
anti-money laundering and competition law.

ESG

ESG is an important part of working for Taylor Wimpey and how we do 
business, and the Board is responsible for overseeing our ESG initiatives. 
During 2023, the Board received regular briefings and updates on progress 
towards the achievement of our Net Zero Policy; our science based targets; 
our Environmental Policy; and the strategic cornerstone of ‘sustainability’ as 
part of our overall Strategy with its associated specific key performance 
indicators.

The Board also receives regular updates on progress against key topics, 
such as diversity and inclusion, the environment and stakeholder matters.

The implementation of ESG initiatives across the Group is led by the CEO 
and the GMT. Social and governance aspects of ESG are considered 
‘business as usual’ and this is evident in our key performance indicators 
and stakeholder interactions.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationMonitoring culture

The Board recognises the importance of a healthy company culture and considers the Company’s culture of ‘doing the right thing’ as a key strength of the business. The Board is responsible for 
defining and setting the Company’s culture from the top, and the Board and GMT as a whole are responsible for leading by example. The Board’s number one priority will remain health and safety 
for everyone who works on or visits a Taylor Wimpey site.

Purpose

Culture

To build great homes and 
create thriving communities

Values

Respectful and fair

Take responsibility

Better tomorrow

Be proud

105

The Board reviewed a number of cultural indicators throughout 2023, including the following:

151

Annual Injury Incidence Rate 
per 100,000 employees 
and contractors (2022: 166)

34%

93%

98%

of our employees are women 
(2022: 33%)

employee engagement score 
(2022: 93%)

of employees agreed that Taylor Wimpey 
takes health and safety in the 
workplace seriously (2022: 98%)

6

30

Employee Champion 
engagement sessions 
(2022: 7)

Non Executive Director 
visits to regional businesses 
(2022: 10)

14.2%

voluntary employee turnover 
(2022: 17.7%)

95%

of employees agreed that Taylor Wimpey 
is committed to supporting charities doing 
important work around issues connected to 
our business and the surrounding communities 
(2022: 97%)

5.7%

20

of employees are from ethnic 
minorities (2022: 5.0%)

Non Executive Director 
visits to sites (2022: 9)

96%

95%

of employees are proud 
to work for Taylor Wimpey 
(2022: 96%)

of employees agreed that Taylor Wimpey 
offers opportunities for employees of 
all backgrounds to progress (2022: 95%)

During 2023, the Board undertook a 
number of additional actions to further 
support and monitor the Company’s culture, 
including reviewing the Company’s approach 
to diversity and inclusion, supporting the 
work to articulate our employee value 
proposition, and representatives attending 
the National Employee Forum.

After considering the Company’s cultural 
indicators throughout 2023, there have 
been a number of actions taken to further 
support and monitor the Company’s 
culture, including:

•  The Board members undertook a 

•  The Board and GMT continued to 

programme of regional business and site 
visits during 2023, at which they engaged 
with employees at all levels of the 
business or site; seeking their views on 
the Company, its performance, and their 
contribution to its success. These visits 
will continue during 2024.

•  The Board and GMT considered feedback 
from the Employee Survey and oversaw 
action plans designed to address various 
matters raised.

consider employee feedback resulting 
from the various employee engagement 
methods as set out on pages 102 and 
103 and monitored actions taken as 
a result.

These processes continue into 2024, when 
the Board will continue to consider a wide 
range of cultural indicators and will take 
action as considered appropriate 
throughout the year.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
Diversity

FCA diversity disclosure table

Gender diversity
Men
Women
Other categories
Not disclosed/prefer not to disclose

Ethnic diversity
White British or other white
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of 
Board 
members 
5
4
–
–

Percentage of 
the Board
55.6%
44.4%
–
–

Number of 
Board 
members
8
–
1
–
–
–

Percentage of 
the Board
88.9%
–
11.1%
–
–
–

Number of 
senior 
positions on 
the Board
3
1
–
–

Number of 
senior 
positions on 
the Board
4
–
–
–
–
–

Number 
in executive 
management
6
3
–
–

Percentage 
of executive 
management
66.7%
33.3%
–
–

Number 
in executive 
management
8
–
1
–
–
–

Percentage of 
executive 
management 
88.9%
–
11.1%
–
–
–

Diversity data

Our diversity data is collated through our 
HR management system. We encourage all to 
self-report information such as gender, gender 
identity, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, 
disability and military background, and include 
the option to ‘prefer not to say’.

Board diversity

Board diversity is supported by the Board Diversity 
Policy which specifically applies to the Board and 
its Committees and supports the Company’s wider 
approach to diversity. This Policy was reviewed 
and approved during 2023 and is available on 
our website.

The Board fully supports the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review target of 40% female representation on 
the Board and the Leadership Team by 2025. 

The definition of Leadership Team includes our 
Group Management Team and their direct reports. 
Whilst we are pleased to report that we have 
exceeded this target in relation to our Board 
membership, we recognise that further progress 
needs to be made in relation to female 
representation in our Leadership Team. 

The Board also fully supports the Parker Review’s 
‘Beyond One by 21’ recommendation and is 
pleased to confirm compliance with this 
recommendation as at 31 December 2023.

The Board is pleased to report compliance with the 
FCA’s diversity disclosure requirements, as set out 
in the table above. At Taylor Wimpey, ‘executive 
management’ is defined as the Group Management 
Team. The figures in the table are stated as at 
31 December 2023.

106

Diversity remains a key consideration during 
recruitment and will continue to be referenced 
in all search and recruitment processes.

Employee diversity

Employee diversity remains a key priority for the 
Board, and across the Company as a whole. 

In 2023, the Board oversaw the progress and 
development of a number of activities in this area, 
including the embedding of the revised Equality, 
Diversity and Inclusion Policy introduced in 2021, 
the development of a number of aspirational 
diversity metrics to be achieved by 2025, and the 
publication of our Diversity and Inclusion Report. 

The Company’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy is based on three key areas of focus:

•  21st century leadership – Ensure that line 

managers understand their role and responsibility 
in developing a more diverse and inclusive culture 
through the provision of relevant training and 
building awareness across the Company.

•  Employer of choice – Ensure that our working 

environment, policies, procedures and 
development and progression opportunities 
support greater diversity and inclusion. 

•  Expanding our reach – Develop broader 

recruitment channels and take positive action to 
expand the diversity of candidates attracted to 
the Company, including designing development 
programmes to attract and support new 
employees. 

Detailed information about the Company’s 
employee diversity policies, practices and progress 
in this area can be found in our Diversity and 
Inclusion Report on our website.

34%

of our workforce 
identify as women

33%

of GMT positions  
held by women

28%

of Leadership Team 
positions are held 
by women

5.7%

of the workforce is 
from a minority ethnic 
background

44%

of our Board are 
women

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationNomination and Governance Committee report

The Committee has 
maintained high 
standards of governance 
and talent development.”

Robert Noel
Chair of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee

Key activities and areas of focus

• Reviewed and recommended the approval of an externally

facilitated Board evaluation

• Oversaw the appointments of Humphrey Singer as the Senior
Independent Director and Mark Castle as Board Employee
Champion

• Reviewed the Group Management Team, Heads of Functions

and wider workforce talent and succession plans

• Reviewed and recommended the approval of the Company’s
equality, diversity and inclusion activities, progress and targets

“ The Committee 
has been 
committed to 
identifying and 
overseeing the 
nomination of 
visionary leaders 
and creating a 
pipeline of 
succession that 
upholds the 
Company’s values 
and strategic 
focus.”

 Robert Noel
Chair of the Nomination 
and Governance 
Committee

Committee members

1. Robert Noel (Chair)(a)
2. Humphrey Singer
3. Mark Castle
4. Irene Dorner
5. Jitesh Gadhia(b)
6. Scilla Grimble
7. Clodagh Moriarty

Meeting 
attendance
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
3/3

(a)  Robert Noel was appointed as Chair on 27 April 2023.

(b) Jitesh Gadhia was unavailable for the meeting on 25 May 2023.

Committee meetings were also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive, Group HR Director, Group General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, members of the Company Secretariat team, Head of Talent, Head of HR, 
Chair of the National Employee Forum, Future Talent Development Manager and Co-Chairs of the Proud2Be 
Employee Network.

107

Quick links

108   Equality, diversity and inclusion

109  Corporate governance

110  Board changes

111  Board evaluation

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationNomination and Governance Committee report continued

Dear Shareholder

Corporate governance

Our responsibilities as a Committee include 
oversight of the Company’s corporate governance 
practices and we have continued to develop our 
processes to ensure corporate governance best 
practice is complied with at all levels of the 
organisation. More information about our activities 
in this area can be found on page 100.

Embedding good corporate governance throughout 
the Company will remain an important area of focus 
for the Committee throughout 2024.

External Board evaluation

I am pleased to report that the results of our annual 
Board evaluation concluded that the Board 
continues to be effective, with appropriate 
challenge and support at Board meetings. 
The 2023 Board evaluation was externally facilitated 
by Manchester Square Partners. 

Whilst conducting the 2023 Board evaluation, 
we also reviewed the key actions identified in the 
2022 Board evaluation and reviewed progress 
made against these actions during 2023.

More information about the outcomes of the 
2023 external Board evaluation can be found 
on page 111.

As Chair, I am pleased to present the 2023 report 
of the Nomination and Governance Committee 
(the Committee) on behalf of the Board. 

2023 Priorities

The Committee met three times during the year and 
reviewed various matters, including:

• An external evaluation of the Board, its

committees, and individual directors, as well as
the feedback and action plans arising from the
evaluation process.

• Board Succession Planning and Group

Management Team performance, development
and organisation structure.

• The Diversity and Inclusion Report (including the
approval of diversity targets) as well as progress
made towards achieving the Board’s diversity
objectives, including gender, ethnic, and cultural
diversity.

• The corporate governance framework and

practices of the Company, including the review
and approval of the annual corporate governance
disclosures and assessing alignment with best
practices and regulatory requirements.

As a Committee, we have overseen the 
appointments of Humphrey Singer as Senior 
Independent Director, and Mark Castle as the 
Board’s Employee Champion, as well as the 
transition from Irene Dorner to me as Chair. More 
information on the Board changes can be found on 
page 110.

108

“ We have made 
significant progress 
in advancing our 
strategic priorities 
and enhancing our 
governance 
standards.”

 Robert Noel
Chair of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee

Equality, diversity and inclusion

Our focus on equality, diversity and inclusion 
remains unchanged. It would be easy, in times of 
challenge, to reduce activities and attention to this 
important area of work. 

In 2023, we made progress on our aspirational 
targets, became a Level 2 Disability Confident 
employer, undertook a wide range of actions led by 
our employee affinity groups, and most importantly, 
our employees have told us in our engagement 
survey that they recognise that we are working hard 
to become as diverse as the communities in which 
we operate. 

We will be publishing our second Diversity and 
Inclusion Report with the full details of our 
achievements in this area.

Whilst we are pleased with our progress, 
we recognise that in reality our Company is still 
working towards diversity and we will continue to 
aspire to be reflective of the communities in which 
we operate; to this end we have set diversity 
targets in line with the Parker Review.

More information about our future focus on equality, 
diversity and inclusion can be found on page 106 
and also in our Diversity and Inclusion Report which 
can be found on our website. 

Robert Noel
Chair of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee
27 February 2024

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationNomination and Governance Committee report continued

Committee purpose and responsibilities

The main objectives of the Committee are to ensure 
that there are formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedures for the appointment and induction of 
new Directors to the Board, its Committees and 
other senior positions in the Company; and to keep 
the Board’s corporate governance arrangements 
under review and to ensure that both the Company 
and the Board operate in a manner consistent with 
corporate governance best practice. 

More information about the Committee’s purpose 
and responsibilities can be found in the 
Committee’s Terms of Reference which are 
available on our website.

Governance

During 2023, the Committee oversaw a number 
of governance matters, including:

•  Approved the 2023 Notice of Annual 

General Meeting

•  Confirmed compliance with the Committee’s 

Terms of Reference

•  Reviewed the corporate governance 

framework and reported to the Board that 
it remains appropriate

•  Recommended to the Board the annual approval 
of the Directors’ Conflicts of Interest Register

•  Approved the 2023 external Board evaluation 

process

•  Approved the Committee’s annual plan for 2024

Each Director is required to seek election or 
re-election, as appropriate, at each year’s Annual 
General Meeting. As part of this election and 
re-election process, the Committee has assessed 
each Non Executive Director’s independence and 
is satisfied that five of the seven Non Executive 
Directors remain independent in nature and there 
were no circumstances identified that are likely to 
impair, or could impair their independence. In 
addition, the Committee is satisfied that the Chair 
was independent in accordance with the Code, 
when he became Chair of the Board.

Irene Dorner, having stepped down from the role 
of Chair of the Board in 2023, is now considered 
a non-independent Non Executive Director. The 
Committee considers the balance of independent 
and non-independent Directors appropriate and will 
keep this under review.

The Directors are required to notify the Company of 
any changes to their external commitments in order 
that these roles can be considered in relation to the 
potential for a conflict of interest to arise. These 
external roles are considered by the Committee and 
during 2023 it has been concluded that no conflicts 
of interest have arisen. In addition, the Committee 
also considers that each Director is able to allocate 
sufficient time to the Company effectively. This not 
only included Board and Committee meeting 
attendance, but also preparation time, site visits 
and other additional time commitments required 
during the year.

Accordingly, at the 2024 Annual General Meeting 
each Director, irrespective of their appointment 
date, will be submitted for re-election. More 
information can be found on page 229.

109

Governance documents

The below governance related documents can be 
found on our website.

•  Articles of Association

•  Matters Reserved for the Board

•  Division of Responsibilities

•  Terms of Reference for the Board Committees

•  Board mandated policies

Board balance and skills

During 2023, following a number of Board changes, 
the Committee considered the structure, size, and 
diversity of the Board, as well as the skills, 
knowledge and experience of each Board member.

The Committee concluded that the balance, as at 
31 December 2023, of the Chair, two Executive 
Directors and six Non Executive Directors remains 
appropriate. This balance will be kept under review 
during 2024. In addition, the skills of each member 
of the Board, as set out on pages 92 to 94, along 
with the balance of Executive and Non Executive 
Directors is considered to be appropriate to provide 
constructive challenge as well as guidance and 
support in order to continue to deliver the 
Company’s strategy.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationContingency planning

During 2023, the Committee reviewed the 
Company’s contingency cover to ensure that 
the Company can respond to the unforeseen 
unavailability of any member of the Board, GMT 
or other senior roles without impacting the current 
and long term performance of the Company. 
Following this review, the Committee was confident 
that all key roles have an appropriate contingency 
plan in place.

Nomination and Governance Committee report continued

Board appointments

The Committee ensures that all Board 
appointments are subject to formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedures, are based on merit and 
objective criteria and promote diversity of gender, 
social and ethnic background, and cognitive and 
personal strengths. 

There were no new appointments made to the 
Board during 2023; Humphrey Singer was 
appointed the Senior Independent Director and 
Mark Castle, the Board’s Employee Champion.

More information on the Board changes during 2023 
can be found on pages 99, 102, and 108

Succession planning

The Committee is conscious that the Code does 
not consider a Non Executive Director to be 
independent after they have served on the Board 
for nine years and therefore is mindful of the tenure 
of each Non Executive Director. When reviewing its 
annual agenda plan, the Committee is aware of any 
likely upcoming Board changes as a result of this, 
and is therefore in a position to begin the 
succession and recruitment process at an early 
stage. To this end, the Committee will begin, 
in early 2024, to make arrangements for the 
succession and recruitment of a new Non Executive 
Director as Humphrey Singer finishes a nine year term.

During 2023, the Committee considered the 
succession planning for both the Group 
Management Team and Heads of Functions, 
as well as wider workforce planning for certain 
roles including regional managing directors. The 
Committee has visibility of a range of employees 
who have been identified as potential succession 
candidates in the short, medium and long term. 
The Committee reviews the development 
programmes for these individuals to ensure they 
continue to develop in line with the succession plan.

The Committee is supported in this by the Group 
Talent Management Board and Divisional Talent 
Management Boards which regularly review 
succession plans and related development 
requirements across roles within the Company. 
During 2023, actions taken to support succession 
plans included Senior Management development 
and engagement, the discussion of aspirational 
diversity targets, and early talent capability levelling.

One aspect of a senior individual’s development 
plan is for those below Board level to be given the 
opportunity to attend Board meetings to present 
on specialist topics, project work and divisional 
performance. This process not only provides 
valuable exposure to the Board but it is also 
valuable for the Board and Committee to assess 
the strength and depth of the succession plans in 
place. During 2023, a number of individuals were 
invited to present to the Board on topics including 
customer service, sales and marketing, production, 
supply chain, employee engagement, and land.

110

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationNomination and Governance Committee report continued

Board evaluation

The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
its Committees, the Chair and individual Directors on an annual basis. This process follows 
a three year cycle, with the 2023 Board evaluation being externally facilitated by Manchester 
Square Partners (MSP). MSP also carried out the 2017 and 2020 externally facilitated 
evaluations and it was considered that their insight into the significant evolution of the Board 
since 2017 (which has included two Chair changes, a new Chief Executive, various Non 
Executive Director changes and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary changes) 
would be invaluable. The Committee noted that MSP have no other connection to the 
Company and were chosen for their constructive and direct evaluation style.

Stage 1
May 2023
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee reviewed and approved 
the proposal to appoint MSP to 
conduct the 2023 externally 
facilitated Board evaluation. 

Stage 2
June 2023
The Chair and MSP agreed the 
scope of the Board evaluation and 
developed an outline framework to 
ensure that the specific objectives 
of the Board evaluation were met. 
MSP were provided access to the 
Board and Committee papers for the 
prior 12 months. MSP observed the 
June Board meeting.

Year 1 (2023)

Externally facilitated Board 
evaluation by MSP

Year 2 (2024)

Internal evaluation facilitated by the 
Chair and Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary

Year 3 (2025)

Internal evaluation facilitated by the 
Chair and Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary

111

Stage 5 
September 2023
MSP prepared a summary paper 
of key findings and themes for an 
initial discussion with the Chair. 

Stage 4 
August 2023
Individual interviews were 
conducted with each of the Board 
members and the Group General 
Counsel and Company Secretary.

Stage 3 
July 2023
MSP observed the July Board and 
Audit Committee meetings.

Stage 6 
October 2023
MSP produced a report to the 
Board on their findings and 
recommendations and attended 
the October Board meeting to 
discuss the report.

Stage 7 
December 2023
The Board agreed a set of actions to be 
implemented during 2024 which will 
address the points raised in the 
evaluation report.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
Nomination and Governance Committee report continued

MSP concluded that the Board functions well and 
governance is strong at Taylor Wimpey. There is a 
good degree of trust, confidence and healthy 
respect between the Directors; with all Directors 
being aligned in respect of the role of the Board 
over the next few years. MSP confirmed that the 

relationship between the Chair and Chief Executive 
is developing well with regular open dialogue. The 
Committees are functioning effectively with praise 
for the work and rigour the respective Committee 
Chairs bring. The Non Executive Directors are 
committed, knowledgeable and well prepared; and 
bring strong diverse perspectives and experiences. 

Some areas for further enhancements were 
identified and the Board developed an action plan 
designed to address the findings of the evaluation, 
which will be actioned during 2024. In addition, 
the Committee reviewed progress made against 
the agreed 2022 Board evaluation actions. Further 
information can be found in the tables below.

2022 recommendations

Actions taken in 2023

2023 recommendations

Proposals planned for 2024

Increase exposure 
to members of 
Senior Management

The Group Management Team and Heads 
of Functions met with the Board on a more 
frequent basis during 2023, through a mixture 
of additional meetings and dinners. 

Additional external input 
on key topics to provoke 
collective discussion and 
hear opposing views

Additional items will be included on Board 
agendas throughout the year for one or two 
external speakers to present on key topics. 

Increase reporting 
on succession and 
development plans

Ensure progress 
against ESG initiatives 
are clear

The Committee received regular updates 
on talent and succession planning at all levels 
of the business, from early entry to the GMT. 
As part of these updates, the Committee 
were provided with overviews of the 
development plans in place to strengthen 
our succession pipeline. 

An ESG balanced scorecard has been 
developed during 2023 which the Board 
reviews at least on a quarterly basis. The 
scorecard captures key areas of importance 
to Taylor Wimpey and increases visibility of 
progress. There is also a standing ESG item 
at each Board meeting which provides 
key ESG updates since the last meeting. 
More information can be found on pages 98 
and 104.

Further enhance discussions 
at Board and Committee 
meetings

All papers submitted to the Board to include 
an executive summary which note any 
particular questions Management would like the 
Non Executive Directors to consider in advance 
of the meetings. A brief biography of all 
presenters to be included in the Board packs.

Development of an Employee 
Value Proposition

The Board to contribute to the development 
of an Employee Value Proposition throughout 
2024 to ensure an interconnection between 
purpose, values and culture.

112

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report

The Audit Committee supports 
the Board in fulfilling its 
corporate governance 
responsibilities to maintain the 
integrity of the Group’s financial 
reporting within a framework of 
strong internal controls."

Humphrey Singer
Senior Independent Director

Committee members

1. Humphrey Singer (Chair)
2. Robert Noel(a)
3. Scilla Grimble
4. Mark Castle

Meeting 
attendance
3/3
1/1
3/3
3/3

(a)  Stepped down from the Committee on 27 April 2023 when he became Chair of the Board.

Committee meetings were also attended, by invitation, by the Chair, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, 
other Non Executive Directors, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in his capacity as Secretary to 
the Committee, other members of the Company Secretariat team to minute proceedings, Group Financial Controller, 
Head of Internal Audit, Head of Tax, Head of Group Reporting, Group IT Director, and the external Auditors.

All members of the Committee are independent Non Executive Directors as 
required by the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The Board has 
determined that Humphrey Singer, Chair of the Committee, has recent and 
relevant financial experience as required by the Code. More information can be 
found on page 117.

113

“ The Audit Committee 
is focused on 
maintaining strong 
financial governance 
and welcomes its 
further enhancement 
through the latest 
revisions to the Code 
by the Financial 
Reporting Council.”

 Humphrey Singer
Chair of the  
Audit Committee

Key activities and areas of focus

•  Sought and received assurance that management action on, 
and investment in, cyber security, and the programme to 
digitise the Company’s production procedures, will each 
further strengthen our overall control environment

•  Monitored the Group’s readiness for the adoption of any 

financial governance and ongoing corporate reporting changes 
resulting from any regulatory requirements instigated by the 
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) 
or the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)

•  Sought and received assurance that key business controls, 

in particular segregation of duties and delegation of authority, 
remain effective following the change programme undertaken 
early in 2023

2024 key areas of focus

•  To gain assurance that the transition to a new IT service 

provider is appropriately managed, minimising operational 
disruption and associated risks

•  To oversee the development of the changes 
required in response to the 2024 Corporate 
Governance Code

•  To gain assurance that the new HR and 
Payroll system is implemented within a 
robust framework

Quick links

114  Committee changes

116  Committee activities during 2023

117  Committee meetings

122  Group assurance approach

124 

 Recommendation to the Board

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Dear Shareholder

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the 2023 report of the Audit Committee 
(the Committee).

We fulfil the Committee’s responsibilities through 
the activities undertaken throughout the year, 
as detailed on pages 116 to 117.

Committee changes

As foreshadowed in last year’s report, Robert Noel 
stood down from the Committee on 27 April 2023, 
in compliance with the Code, upon his appointment 
as Chair of the Board.

In preparation for that change, we considered the 
Committee’s composition and the balance of its 
experience and expertise, and are confident that 
the remaining three members of the Committee 
are sufficient in number and experience, including 
recent and relevant financial experience, to 
continue the work of the Committee on behalf of 
shareholders, in an effective and compliant manner.

Key areas of focus during 2023

Our key areas of focus during 2023 were 
addressed as set out below:

Cyber security and digitisation of production 
procedures

We oversaw, and received regular updates on, 
plans and progress to maintain and enhance 
the resilience of the Company’s cyber defences, 
through the implementation of a new end point 
protection service using a new XDR (Extended 
detection and response) service from a specialist 
security service provider.

114

We also monitored progress in the digitisation of 
the Company’s production procedures, through 
the delivery of new devices and mobile apps and 
sought and received assurance from Management 
and the Executive Directors that these will deliver 
appropriate controls across the Company’s UK 
business.

Further information on our activities during 2023 
and plans for 2024 in meeting the revised 
requirements of the Code; the wider responsibility 
to ensure that all applicable laws and regulations 
are complied with; and to assure ourselves that the 
business continues to operate in a controlled and 
well-managed way, are set out on page 120.

Key business controls

We sought and received assurances from 
Management, underpinned by the summary 
findings from Internal Audit reports conducted 
during the year, that key business controls, 
including proper segregation of duties and 
appropriate delegation of authority, remained 
effective throughout the reporting period and to the 
date of this report.

More information on our activities during 2023 in 
this area can be found on page 123.

Our interim review of progress and our final review 
prior to signing this report each concluded that all 
of those key areas of focus were satisfactorily 
addressed or progressed during 2023.

More information on the ways in which, during 
2023, we drove further improvements in cyber 
resilience and business controls, and plans for 
further enhancements during 2024, are set out 
on page 121.

Preparing for planned financial governance 
changes

We continued and built upon the work commenced 
during 2022 in preparation for the recently 
announced changes to the Code to reflect the 
outcome of the Government’s consultation on its 
initiative, by BEIS, entitled ‘Restoring Trust in Audit 
and Corporate Governance’.

The primary change is to require an explanation in 
each year’s Annual Report as to how the Board has 
monitored the Company’s risk management and 
internal control framework during the year and 
carried out a review of its effectiveness.

Whilst these changes do not apply until later 
reporting periods, we will be continuing to prepare 
for compliance and will also be considering whether 
it is possible and appropriate to introduce systems 
and processes to enable us to comply with some 
of the provisions during 2024.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Significant items

In addition to the key areas of focus during 2023, the other key area addressed by 
the Committee, as it does every year, were the significant items raised during the 
preparation and audit of the Group’s accounts for 2023. The following significant 
items are those that the Committee has identified and considered in discharging 
its duties and in considering the financial reporting of the Group:

Significant item description

Action taken

Margin recognition and site forecasting

The cost allocation framework used across 
the Group controls the way in which the 
inventory is costed and allocated across 
each development. It also ensures that any 
costs in excess of the original budget are 
recognised appropriately as the site 
progresses.

Cladding fire safety provision

The Company entered into the Developer 
Remediation Contracts with the UK 
Government on 13 March 2023 and the 
Welsh Government on 18 April 2023. These 
were legally binding agreements which 
followed the commitments previously given 
under the Pledge and Pact respectively. 
Under these agreements the Company 
pledged to bring all Taylor Wimpey 
apartment buildings built since 1992 up to 
the standard required by the PAS9980 
guidance.

115

The Committee reviewed reports and 
recommendations from the GMT in relation 
to areas of the business recognising cost 
excesses, and also reviewed the 
work undertaken by PwC which included 
testing of the Group-wide controls to 
monitor cost allocation. The Committee 
carefully considered the judgements 
and assumptions involved, challenging 
Management where appropriate. 

Following these reviews, together with 
enquiries of the GMT and the external 
Auditors, the Committee concluded that 
there continued to be appropriate systems 
and internal controls in place, which 
ensured that consistent principles were 
applied; the treatment and presentation 
on the income statement of the costs 
incurred by the business were appropriate; 
and that the external Auditors agreed with 
the conclusions reached. 

The Committee reviewed and challenged 
Senior Management’s assessment of the 
costs to comply with these obligations. 

The Committee also reviewed updates on 
the progress of the rectification of buildings 
together with utilisation and estimates of the 
remaining provision. The Committee was 
satisfied that the provision represented 
Management’s best estimate of the 
expected remediation costs.

Audit oversight

Continuing compliance

Throughout the year we met the FRC guidance on 
Audit Committees which was incorporated into the 
Code. The aim of the guidance is to further improve 
good governance around the Committee’s 
competence; induction for new members; audit 
rotation; independent assessment of areas of 
judgement; and sufficiency of resourcing; all with 
the aim of ensuring that it is able to perform its 
primary function of protecting shareholders’ 
interests in relation to the Company’s financial 
reporting and internal control.

More information about how we complied with the 
guidance can be found on pages 125 to 128.

Humphrey Singer
Chair of the Audit Committee
27 February 2024

We continue to hold individual meetings with the 
external Auditors and with the Head of Internal 
Audit, independent of the Executive Directors, to 
discuss matters within our remit and any issues 
arising from the external and internal audits. This 
provides each audit activity with direct access in the 
event that they wish to raise any matters without 
the presence of Management.

The audit of the 2023 financial results has been 
improved and enhanced by lessons learned, 
both by the external Auditors and the Company, 
following our detailed annual evaluation of the 
external audit process and the outcome of the 
external audit of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2022.

Detection and prevention of fraud

The first full year of the new Head of Internal Audit 
has focused particularly on assessing and further 
improving the continued effectiveness of the 
Company’s processes; controls; and reporting 
mechanisms for the detection and prevention of 
fraud in the Company’s business activities. More 
information is set out on page 119.

Key areas of focus during 2024

Alongside fulfilling our statutory and governance 
functions as normal during 2024, we will give 
particular focus to certain key areas which we 
believe are important for the coming year. These 
are set out on page 113.

These areas are key from a Group perspective 
because they will influence our ways of working on a 
day to day basis from an IT service perspective and 
the assurance we have over our control environment.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Committee activities during 2023

The February 2024 meeting concluded the Committee’s activities with regard to the Group’s 2023 reporting cycle which have accordingly been included in the table below.

Topic

Activity/review

February
2023

July
2023

December
2023

February
2024

Topic

Activity/review

February
2023

July
2023

December
2023

February
2024

Financial 
reporting

Reviewed year end matters including the 
draft Annual Report and Accounts (and 
assessed the processes which ensure it 
is fair, balanced and understandable), 
significant accounting and audit issues, 
the draft full year results announcement 
and the going concern statement

Reviewed the draft half year statement, 
including significant accounting issues, 
materiality, and the external Auditors’ 
report on the statement

Reviewed accounting issues and 
Accounting Standards in preparation 
for year end reporting

External 
audit

Recommended to the Board the 
re-appointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) 
as external Auditors

Reviewed PwC’s plan for the scope of 
the audit of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023, including key audit risks 
and regional checks conducted around 
the business, and the progress of the 
audit to date

Disclosed relevant audit information to 
the external Auditors and the required 
evidence in support of it

Conducted a review of the effectiveness 
of the year end external audit process 
and reporting outcome for 2022, 
including PwC’s performance, and 
oversaw certain improvements and 
enhancements flowing from the 
review’s outcome

Reviewed and approved the external 
Auditors Non-Audit Services Policy

116

Internal 
control 
and risk

Reviewed the fraud risk assessment 
incident and response report

Concluded the prior year’s risk review 
including agreeing Principal Risks, 
consideration of emerging risks, and 
monitoring progress on mitigation 
actions

Completed a detailed review of Principal, 
Key and emerging risks, together with 
mitigation and assessment against the 
Company’s risk appetite

Reviewed the viability model

Reviewed the Governance assurance 
map

Monitored the developing BEIS 
recommendations and the preparations 
by the Company to comply with its 
expected new requirements in terms of 
legislation and amendments to the Code

Committee 
governance

Reviewed the Committee’s performance 
against its Terms of Reference and 
objectives for the previous year and set 
objectives for the next year

Reviewed progress on the Committee’s 
areas of focus

Reviewed and agreed the Committee’s 
annual plan for the next year

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Committee activities during 2023 continued

Topic

Activity/review

February
2023

July
2023

December
2023

February
2024

Internal 
audit

Data and 
systems 
security

Received activity reports 
from Internal Audit

Agreed Internal Audit’s 
programme of work for 
the year

Reviewed progress against 
Internal Audit’s priorities 
and work plan for the year

Reviewed the effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit

Received an update on the 
Group’s data and systems 
security, technology, cyber 
resilience and further 
protective measures in 
relation to key business 
systems

Compliance Received an update on 

legal and regulatory 
compliance requirements 
across the Group and 
confirmation that these 
continued to be met

117

In carrying out these activities, the Committee relies 
on regular reports from Management, Internal Audit 
and from the external Auditors. In monitoring the 
financial reporting practices, the Committee reviewed 
accounting policies, areas of judgement highlighted 
by Management and the external Auditors, the going 
concern assumptions and compliance with accounting 
standards and the requirements of the Code.

Committee meetings

The Committee met individually and privately with 
the Head of Internal Audit and with representatives 
from the external Auditors during appropriate 
Committee meetings in 2023, in order to provide 
a forum to raise and discuss any matters which 
either may wish to raise in confidence.

The Committee considers guidance as to the 
number of Audit Committee meetings considered 
to be appropriate for FTSE 100 companies such as 
ours, in relation to the Committee’s annual plan for 
each year. We currently believe that three meetings 
per year remains appropriate and sufficient to 
effectively discharge the Committee’s responsibilities. 
There are processes in place for the Committee to 
meet on additional occasions, when necessary, 
as it has done so on occasion in the past.

Committee purpose and responsibilities

The main objective of the Committee is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance 
responsibilities relating to the Group’s financial 
reporting, internal and external auditing, risk, and 
internal control framework, and any other matters 
referred to it by the Board.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference can be found 
on our website and are reviewed each year, when 
assessing performance against each one, to ensure 
that they remain appropriate.

Committee competence

One of the key requirements of the FRC’s guidance 
on Audit Committees is that each Committee 
member should have sufficient knowledge, training 
and expertise to contribute effectively to the 
Committee’s deliberations, and that the Committee 
as a whole should have sufficient recent and 
relevant financial experience as required by the Code.

Humphrey Singer, the Committee Chair, has been 
a member of the Audit Committee since December 
2015 and its Chair since February 2018. He has 
extensive experience of the financial reporting 
requirements of FTSE 100 companies; of financial 
reporting preparation and compliance for public 
companies, and of dealing with internal and 
external auditors, from his current role as Chief 
Financial Officer of Belron Group and from previous 
roles with Marks and Spencer Group plc and 
Dixons Carphone plc. This depth of experience 
has given Humphrey insight into key areas of 
shareholder concern and independent experience 
of robustly challenging and holding Management, 
and the external and internal auditors, to account.

The Committee Chair is assisted on the Committee 
by the knowledge and experience of two other 
Non Executive Directors:

Mark Castle has significant operational experience 
in all aspects of the construction sector from his 
time as Chief Operating Officer of Mace Finance Ltd 
and previously from executive roles at Structuretone 
Inc and Wates Group Ltd. This particularly assists 
the Committee in its assessment of operational risk.

Scilla Grimble has over 17 years’ executive 
experience in corporate finance; is currently the 
Chief Financial Officer at Deliveroo plc; and brings 
significant financial and risk-related experience.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Prior to stepping down from the Committee, 
in accordance with good governance, upon his 
appointment as Chair of the Board, Robert Noel 
brought considerable experience of the property 
sector and wide commercial experience as Chair of 
Hammerson plc and previously as Chief Executive 
of Land Securities Group PLC.

When Robert Noel stepped down from the 
Committee, its composition was considered in 
relation to its annual plan, areas of focus, and 
expertise, and it was decided that an additional 
appointee was not necessary.

The Committee believes that its members 
collectively have the necessary competence 
relevant for the housebuilding sector and that its 
composition, balance, and expertise can give 
shareholders confidence that the financial reporting, 
internal and external auditing, risk, and control 
processes of the Group are subjected to the 
appropriate level of independent, robust and 
challenging oversight.

As described in the Nomination and Governance 
Committee Report on page 110, there is a formal 
process of induction for new Directors, which 
includes specific reference to supporting 
competence in relevant Committee areas through 
exposure to the appropriate areas of the Group’s 
operations and performance. This same thorough 
induction process, suitably tailored as appropriate 
to the appointee’s experience and expertise, will be 
undertaken by any new Non Executive Directors 
appointed to the Committee.

118

Committee evaluation

The Board Evaluation for 2023, which is described 
more fully on page 111, and which was externally-
facilitated by Manchester Square Partners, included 
an appraisal of the performance of the Audit 
Committee and individually of its Chair and other 
members.

The outcome of the appraisal was that the 
Committee was considered to continue to operate 
effectively; with the necessary level of expertise; 
with no specific actions arising requiring further 
improvement; and is chaired effectively and in a 
way that ensures a good level of debate and 
positive challenge.

External Auditors

Re-appointment

PwC’s audit of the Company’s 2023 accounts and 
reports was its third since appointment as the 
external Auditors at the 2021 AGM. The Audit 
Partner is Sonia Copeland, who has held the role 
since PwC were appointed as external Auditors.

The Committee considers that the relationship with 
PwC is well established and is satisfied with the 
effectiveness of the overall external audit process. 
PwC’s performance has been kept under regular 
review by the Committee and reported to the Board 
as appropriate.

As in previous years, a full evaluation of PwC’s 
performance in relation to the audit of the full year 
results for 2022 was performed. The process 
followed was as set out below:

A questionnaire was distributed to the Board 
and key stakeholders in the audit process to 
evaluate the effectiveness of the external 
audit process.

The Committee considered the nature and 
extent of the non-audit work performed 
by PwC during the year.

The Committee considered whether PwC had 
appropriately challenged Management’s 
estimates and judgements.

In particular the Committee noted during the course 
of the audit that the external Auditors challenged 
Management’s judgements and assertions on the 
following matters:

•  Margin recognition and site forecasting.

•  Cladding fire safety provision.

In relation to each of these judgements the external 
Auditors confirmed that the approach adopted by 
Management in accounting for these in the financial 
statements was appropriate.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

The Committee considered the responses to all 
these areas of assessment, and concluded that the 
audit process continues to be effective; that the 
quality and sufficiency of the resources provided by 
PwC’s engagement team remains appropriate; that 
PwC remains independent; and that there continues 
to be effective and independent reporting lines 
available to the external Auditors direct to the 
Committee and its Chair.

The Committee also assessed Management’s 
proposals for incorporating into the Annual 
Report and Accounts consideration of material 
climate-related matters. More details appear on 
pages 53 to 68.

Based upon its assessment, as set out above, 
the Committee recommended to the Board, which 
in turn is recommending to shareholders in 
Resolution 12 at the 2024 AGM (in the Notice of 
AGM on page 229), that PwC should continue as 
external Auditors to the Company.

The Company will of course keep the matter under 
regular review, taking into account the annual 
performance review to be conducted by the 
Committee in 2024.

The recommendation of PwC was free from 
influence by a third party and no contractual term 
of the kind mentioned in Article 16(6) of the Audit 
Regulation has been imposed on the Company 
whereby there would be a restriction on the choice 
to certain categories or lists of audit firms in the 
Company’s selection of its external auditors.

Appointment of the external Auditors for 
non-audit services

The Committee has a formal policy, reviewed on 
a regular basis, as to whether the Company’s external 
Auditors should be employed to provide services 

119

other than audit services. In line with the Code, 
the Committee has regard to the relevant ethical 
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by PwC.

A review of the policy has been undertaken and it 
was confirmed that the policy is in accordance with 
the Revised Ethical Standard 2019 (the Standard) 
issued in December 2019 by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC), which limits the non-audit 
services which the external Auditors may provide to 
the Company.

In all circumstances where it is proposed to engage 
the external Auditors to perform non-audit work in 
accordance with this policy, this is subject to the 
approval of the Audit Committee after it has 
properly assessed potential threats to the 
independence of the external Auditors and the 
safeguards applied in the Standard.

The Board, acting on guidance from the Committee 
following its review of the continuing effectiveness 
of this policy, is satisfied that it meets the Standard, 
and will be conducive to the maintenance of good 
governance, best practice and auditor 
independence and objectivity.

PwC undertook non-audit services:

•  In the form of assurance work carried out in 
connection with the announcement of the 
Company’s 2023 half year results. This non-audit 
service is of direct benefit to shareholders.

•  By making available access to its subscription 

service providing online technical resources such 
as factual updates and changes to applicable 
law, regulation, and accounting and auditing 
standards, at a notional value of £2,000.

•  By providing a report for the Spanish authorities, 

which was required to come from the subsidiary’s 

external Auditors, to support an application 
for property taxes available for land under 
development.

The Committee recognises and supports the 
importance of the independence of auditors. 
It reviewed each separate proposed non-audit 
procedure; and PwC’s overall performance of 
non-audit services during 2023; and is satisfied that 
it did not, and will not going forward, impair the 
independence of the external Auditors. The value 
of non-audit services work by PwC was £0.1 million 
in 2023 (2022: £0.1 million) which represents 
approximately 9% (2022: 10%) of the audit fee as 
set out in Note 6 to the Accounts on page 184.

Internal Audit

Internal Audit’s primary role is to support the Board 
and the Group Management Team (GMT) to protect 
the assets, reputation and sustainability of the 
Group. The function is led by the Head of Internal 
Audit who directly reports to the Chair of the 
Audit Committee, with a secondary reporting line 
to the Group Finance Director, and has regular 
direct contact with the Chair of the Board, the 
Chief Executive and other senior Management, as 
required. The reporting line to the Chair of the Audit 
Committee protects the function’s independence.

The most recent independent evaluation of Internal 
Audit’s independence and performance was carried 
out during 2021, as described in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2021, and found that Internal Audit 
continues to operate effectively, with no areas of 
non-conformance with recommended practice as 
set out in the International Professional Practice 
Framework. Continuous improvement initiatives 
agreed at that time, have been implemented, to 
ensure the Internal Audit function continues to meet 
both current best practice and the evolving needs 
of the Group.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationeffective; that they meet the requirements of the 
Code; and that their implementation and 
embedding into the Company’s processes is 
progressing satisfactorily.

Further details on how the Company will comply 
with these new measures for reporting periods 
2025 and 2026 will be included in next year’s 
Audit Committee Report.

Risk management and internal control

During 2023, the Board, assisted and advised by 
the Audit Committee, has carried out a robust 
assessment of the Company’s emerging and 
Principal risks.

The Group has an established ongoing process 
of risk management, which is detailed further on 
pages 71 to 77. The Committee monitors the 
Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems, including their effectiveness, on behalf 
of the Board and provides advice to the Board in 
connection with the Board’s own risk review.

Audit Committee report continued

Internal Audit reviews the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the systems of internal control in place 
to safeguard the assets; to quantify, price, transfer, 
avoid or mitigate risks; and to monitor the activities 
of the Group in accomplishing established 
objectives. Internal Audit’s mandate is Group-wide 
and their reviews during 2023 have considered 
financial, operational and compliance controls.

The Internal Audit plan, and the individual audits 
conducted in line with that plan, are driven 
primarily by the Group’s strategy and its key risks. 
Following each review, an Internal Audit report is 
provided to both the Management responsible for 
the area reviewed and the GMT. These reports 
outline Internal Audit’s opinion of the management 
control framework in place together with actions 
proposed or made, as appropriate, where 
improvements are recommended. The Chief 
Executive, the GMT and Senior Management 
consider the reports on a regular basis and are 
responsible for ensuring that improvements are 
made as agreed. A database of audit 
recommendations and improvement initiatives is 
maintained. Follow-up and escalation processes 
ensure that such improvements are implemented 
and fully embedded in a timely manner. Summaries 
of all Internal Audit reviews and other key activity 
and resulting reports are also provided to the 
Audit Committee for review and discussion.

The Group belongs to and participates in 
industry-wide forums and other initiatives aimed 
at combating fraud within the housebuilding and 
construction industry.

The Internal Audit function also reviews proposed 
related-party transactions, including employees’ 
house purchases from the Group, to provide 
assurance that the formal policy and proper 
procedures are followed.

120

Preparation for planned financial 
governance changes

The Committee has overseen preparations to 
comply with the recently-published UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2024, which embodies regulatory 
changes, including the minimum standards for 
Audit Committees, resulting from the BEIS 
consultation into restoring trust in audit and 
corporate governance. The likely general 
requirements have been clear for some time 
previously, and accordingly preparatory work has 
been taking place throughout 2023 and into 2024, 
overseen by the Committee, to ensure the 
Company is ready to comply from the required 
application timescale of 1 January 2025 
(1 January 2026 for certain measures).

These preparations involved establishing a project 
dedicated to preparing for the Corporate Governance 
Reform requirements. The project steering committee 
is chaired by the Group Finance Director and its 
membership includes the Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, 
IT Director and Head of Internal Audit.

The initial scope of the project focused on internal 
controls over financial reporting, which confirmed 
that there continue to be strong processes in place, 
including the Operating Framework and a 
comprehensive Finance Manual.

The scope of the project has evolved in response 
to FRC updates and will move into preparing for the 
known requirements. This will be an area of focus 
for the Committee in 2024 as noted on page 113.

These actions have been overseen and monitored 
by the Committee during 2023 and will continue 
to be monitored into 2024, to ensure that they are 

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

The Committee’s objectives in relation to risk are:

•  To ensure the Group’s risk profile remains within 
its agreed risk appetite and tolerance levels and 
is adequately monitored and reviewed as 
appropriate to reflect external and internal 
changes;

•  To comply with the revisions to the Code in 

respect of strengthening the reporting on internal 
controls over financial, operational and 
compliance reporting;

•  To continue to develop the Group’s risk 

processes in light of evolving best practice; and

•  To consider emerging risks that could impact 

on the Group’s longer term strategy.

sufficiency of the associated provision, and 
reviewing updates on usage and the balance of 
the provision during the year.

Updates were received on key IT risks, including 
the resilience of the Group’s systems to cyber 
attack and action taken to maintain and improve 
the security of systems and data.

The Board was advised by the Committee in its 
assessment of emerging risks, including potential 
velocity and impact on the Group’s longer term 
strategy, further details of which can be found on 
page 73.

The Committee also oversaw the further 
embedding of improvements in the area of risk. 
These related to:

To achieve these objectives, the Committee 
undertook the following during 2023:

Cyber security

Detailed risk reviews were conducted twice during 
the year, at the Committee’s July (half year) and 
December (full year) meetings and covered both 
the systems used and the reported risks. These 
considered the outputs from a bottom-up and 
top-down review of risk in all areas of the business 
and included taking account of ESG considerations, 
and climate change, over various time horizons. 
These assessments use an established 
methodology and include regularly reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
control in providing a responsible assessment and 
mitigation of risks.

Regular updates were received on the continuing 
review of relevant historical and current 
developments and actions taken by the Group to 
comply with the Government guidance on fire 
safety. This included assessing and advising the 
Board on the continuing appropriateness and 

Recognising the evolving threat landscape, we have 
strategically allocated resources to further 
strengthen our cyber defences and resilience. 
Investments have been made in advanced threat 
detection and incident response capabilities which 
both formed part of the Cyber Security Roadmap 
which set out the programme of activity for the 
coming years. Internal Audit, with external subject 
matter expert support, reviewed the development 
of the roadmap and their conclusion was that it was 
comprehensive and delivery of the roadmap 
initiatives is well managed. We have also focused 
employee training and awareness on the threats in 
this area as we recognise the important role of our 
employees in helping to identify and report potential 
cyber breaches. Training completion is regularly 
checked by Internal Audit and we have seen the 
completion rate improve year on year both from 
Internal Audit’s support and the benefits of our 
awareness programmes.

Production processes

The programme to digitalise our production 
processes made good progress during 2023. Its 
objective is to deliver an improvement in production 
build quality, efficiency and productivity, and site 
staff wellbeing through the better use of technology, 
including simple applications and user-friendly 
devices. Internal Audit attends the programme board 
meetings and updates the committee on progress. 
The Committee also receives updates directly on 
these important initiatives from the IT Director.

Change programme

The Group delivered a change programme at the 
beginning of 2023, the objective of which was to 
right-size the business in response to the changing 
and uncertain market conditions. The Committee 
sought assurance that key business controls, in 
particular segregation of duties and delegation of 
authority remain effective. Internal Audit considered 
this in their workplan and has confirmed that key 
business controls remain effective.

Action to mitigate the effect of each risk is led by 
the Chief Executive in conjunction with the relevant 
member of the GMT.

Risk management and mitigation systems cannot 
eliminate risks but rather seek to manage both the 
likelihood of their occurrence and the extent of their 
impact and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.

The Principal Risks facing the Company and the 
Group, as assessed by the Board, are set out on 
pages 74 to 77 together with information on the 
mitigations for each risk.

121

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

The Committee also oversees the actions being 
taken to monitor IT initiatives which aim to either 
directly protect against and reduce the risk of 
cyber-related attacks and fraud; support and 
enhance the current IT environment including data 
protection; or that are crucial in their contribution 
to key business initiatives aiming to enhance the 
experience of customers, suppliers and/or employees.

At its meeting in February 2024, the Board, having 
conducted its own review and after reviewing more 
detailed assessments from the Audit Committee, 
remained satisfied that the system of internal 
control continued to be effective in identifying, 
assessing, and ranking the various risks facing the 
Group; and in monitoring and reporting progress in 
mitigating their potential impact on the Group.

The Board also approved the statement of the 
Principal Risks and uncertainties set out on pages 
71 to 77 of this Annual Report and Accounts.

IT operating environment

Cyber resilience

A Principal Risk area identified by the Board is the 
potential vulnerability of the Group’s IT systems to 
the various forms of cyber attack and a key area 
of focus for the Committee during 2023 was 
continuing to ensure that the IT operating 
environment remained robust, supporting the 
business needs in a year of planned changes to 
core systems and also that key systems were 
protected against cyber and other threats.

The Committee reviewed details of the proposed 
enhancements to the Group’s cyber resilience and 
assured itself, prior to their introduction, that they 
were appropriate and could reasonably be 
expected to deliver enhanced protection to the 
Group’s key operating systems.

122

The Head of Internal Audit attends the IT Steering 
Committee meetings; and Internal Audit is 
represented on key project teams, including the 
upgrade of the financial consolidation and reporting 
system and the bank payment system.

Internal Audit has taken on the function of Business 
Continuity and will be improving response planning 
to a business impacting level incident in 2024.

Both our Logistics and financial consolidation and 
reporting solutions were upgraded during 2023 
with both hardware and software improvements 
completed.

Other improvements included:

•  Increased resources and improved approach to 

working with projects to ensure security is 
embedded by design.

•  Extending our security controls to cover a wider 

range of IT services.

•  A step improvement in monitoring vulnerabilities 

and remediating them promptly.

•  Introducing a more extensive testing regime for 

security vulnerabilities in legacy systems.

Plans for further enhancements to cyber resilience 
during 2024 include:

Group assurance approach

The overall structure of the Group’s internal controls and assurance processes 
are as set out below:

•  Available online for all employees, 

with controls to ensure compliance 
or appropriate pre-approval of 
any variation

•  Includes clear levels of delegated 

authority, responsibility and 
accountability

Operating Framework

•  Primary source of the Group’s 
system of internal control for 
business operations

•  Gives wider assurance over 

the financial and non-financial 
information produced around 
the Group

•  Approved by the GMT
•  Subject to regular review by the 
GMT and updates to ensure it 
remains appropriate, with any 
significant proposed amendments 
independently assessed by 
Internal Audit

Detailed process manuals

•  Relating to the operation of the 
main functions of the Group

•  Support the Operating Framework 
at a more granular level of detail

•  Further development of our business continuity 

readiness plan, being undertaken by Internal Audit.

GMT

Internal Audit

•  Transition to a new approach for managing 
IT services within the Group, including new 
security services.

•  Improving our monitoring of key suppliers’ 

cyber security ratings.

  Read more about cyber risks and our response and 

mitigation processes on page 77

•  Consider and, if appropriate, 

•  Independently assess 

approve matters requiring prior 
approval under the Operating 
Framework

appropriateness of, and 
compliance with the Operating 
Framework and detailed manuals

•  Monitor adherence to the 
Operating Framework and 
detailed manuals

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Key processes and controls

Going concern

Viability statement

The Group has prepared forecasts, including 
various sensitivities, and has taken account of 
the Principal Risks and uncertainties identified 
on pages 71 to 77. The Committee reviewed the 
forecasts and the Directors’ expectations based 
thereon; questioned Management as to the source; 
robustness; and efficacy of them; and agreed that 
they were reasonable. In consequence, the 
Committee advised the Board that in its view 
they appropriately supported an assessment 
that the Company remains a going concern. 
Having independently considered these forecasts 
and the advice thereon from the Committee, 
the Directors remain of the view that the Group’s 
financing arrangements and capital structure 
provide both the necessary facilities and covenant 
headroom to enable the Group to conduct its 
business for at least 12 months from the date of 
this report. Accordingly, the consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis.

Read more about our Principal Risks on pages 71 to 77

The viability statement is designed to be a longer 
term view of the sustainability of the Group’s 
strategy and business model and related resourcing, 
in light of projected wider economic and market 
developments. The Committee considered the 
methodology; the outputs; and whether there 
should be any change to the five-year period chosen 
for the statement. The Committee also reviewed the 
Executive Directors’ expectations; the criteria upon 
which they were based; and the sensitivities applied, 
including how these linked to the Principal Risks 
faced by the business; and agreed that they were 
reasonable. The outcome of this assessment was 
that they advised the Board that in their view, the 
Company can give the viability statement 
incorporated into this Annual Report and Accounts, 
and that the five-year period over which it applied, 
continued to be appropriate, taking into account the 
balance sheet strength and confirmation from the 
Executive Directors that this period continues to 
broadly align to the development cycle for new land. 

The statement appears on pages 82 to 83 together 
with details of the processes, assumptions and 
testing which underpin it.

Another key area of focus for the Committee during 
2023 was gaining assurance on required changes 
to key processes and controls that might have been 
affected by known legislative changes impacting 
the industry through 2023 and into 2024, in 
particular the requirements of the New Homes 
Quality Code (NHQC), Parts L and F of the Future 
Homes Standard and expected requirements of the 
FRC’s Corporate Governance reforms.

Key processes to enable the Company to comply 
with the NHQC and the New Homes Ombudsman 
Service, were successfully introduced across the 
business. These included mandatory training for 
employees and subcontractors; updating 
procedures and systems to reflect the NHQC 
requirements; and automation of the processes.

Internal Audit will continue to monitor performance of, 
and compliance with, NHQC mandatory requirements.

Group assurance map

A Group assurance map has been developed to 
provide a summary of the three lines of assurance: 
management, oversight function and Internal Audit; 
to the GMT, the Audit Committee and the Board. 
Assurance is mapped against our recognised key 
risks and is based on a comprehensive and shared 
view as discussed with appointed risk owners 
together with Heads of Function and others who 
have key oversight responsibilities. This then 
enables the GMT, the Audit Committee and the 
Board to identify and confirm their assurance 
needs and any actions required to fulfil those 
needs. The Head of Internal Audit coordinates 
this process and updates the Audit Committee 
at its July and December meetings.

123

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationAudit Committee report continued

Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Fair, balanced and understandable

The Committee considered whether, in its opinion, 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, 
and that it included the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s position, 
performance, business model and strategy. 
The process followed in making that assessment 
was as follows:

The Committee monitors the integrity 
of the Group’s reporting process and 
financial management and the work 
of the external Auditors.

The Committee challenges any 
significant financial judgements and 
estimates made by Management and 
the external Auditors’ review of them.

The Committee ensured that there 
is a clear and unified link between 
the Annual Report and Accounts 
and the Company’s other external 
reporting, and between the three 
main sections of the Annual Report 
and Accounts.

The review of the Company’s 
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
took the form of a detailed 
assessment of the collaborative 
process of drafting them, which 
involves the Company’s Investor 
Relations; Company Secretariat; 
and Finance functions, with 
guidance and input from other 
relevant functions and external 
advisers, all overseen by the 
Executive Directors and 
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary.

The Committee considers the 
output from the review process and 
reviews the full year and half year 
financial statements before 
proposing them to the Board for 
consideration and approval.

In particular, the Committee 
considered the following in 
relation to this Annual Report 
and Accounts:

•  Reviewed all material matters, 
including the significant items 
set out on page 115.

•  Reviewed with Management 
the overall presentation of 
Alternative Performance 
Measures (APMs), which the 
Company uses as important 
financial performance indicators 
to assess the underlying 
performance of the Group, 
to ensure the APMs are not 
given undue prominence and 
that any adjustments are 
explained clearly.

•  Considered the Directors’ 

statements as to the amount 
and availability of distributable 
reserves in relation to dividends 
proposed by the Board.

•  Ensured that it correctly reflected 
the Group’s performance in the 
reporting year.

•  Ensured that it presented a 

consistent message throughout.

•  Ensured that it correctly reflected 
the Group’s business model.

•  Ensured that it correctly 

described the Group’s strategy.

•  Considered whether it 

presented the information in 
a clear and concise manner, 
illustrated by appropriate KPIs, 
to facilitate shareholders’ 
access to relevant information.

124

Recommendation to 
the Board

The outcome of the above process, 
together with the views presented by 
the External Auditors PwC, was that the 
Committee recommended to the Board 
that it could give the confirmation on 
page 156, that the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and 
provides the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, business model 
and strategy.

More detail on how the Board and the 
Audit Committee have addressed the 
assessment, control and mitigation of 
risk, and the oversight of the internal and 
external audit functions, appear in this 
Audit Committee report.

Statement of compliance

The Company has complied throughout 
the reporting year with the provisions 
of The Statutory Audit Services for 
Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationCompliance statement

Our compliance statement sets out how the principles of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) have been applied for the year ended 31 December 2023.

The Company complied with all provisions of the Code throughout the year, having eliminated at the end of 2022 the non-compliance with Provision 38 (executive director pension contributions) 
as reported in last year's Annual Report and Accounts, save for Code Provision 32 (Remuneration Committee composition) in respect of which the non-compliance ended with the appointment 
of two additional independent Non Executive Directors, Mark Castle and Clodagh Moriarty to the Remuneration Committee on 27 April 2023. More information can be found on page 152.

1. Board leadership and Company purpose

Principle

Application

A. A successful company is led by an effective 
and entrepreneurial board, whose role is 
to promote the long term sustainable 
success of the company, generating value 
for shareholders and contributing to 
wider society.

B. The board should establish the company’s 
purpose, values and strategy, and satisfy 
itself that these and its culture are aligned. 
All directors must act with integrity, lead by 
example and promote the desired culture.

C. The board should ensure that the necessary 
resources are in place for the company to 
meet its objectives and measure performance 
against them. The board should also 
establish a framework of prudent and 
effective controls, which enable risk to be 
assessed and managed.

D. In order for the company to meet its 
responsibilities to shareholders and 
stakeholders, the board should ensure 
effective engagement with, and encourage 
participation from, these parties.

E. The board should ensure that workforce 

policies and practices are consistent with the 
company’s values and support its long term 
sustainable success. The workforce should 
be able to raise any matters of concern.

125

The Taylor Wimpey plc Board is collectively responsible for creating the sustainable long term success of the business for the mutual benefit of 
all of our stakeholders. The Board does this by providing strategic and entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of strong governance and 
effective controls.
The Company’s clear and effective governance structure is a key foundation to success. This framework is clearly documented in the Articles of 
Association, Division of Responsibilities, Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and Terms of Reference for each Board Committee, which 
can all be found on our website. Our governance structure ensures that the Board and its Committees, the Group Management Team (GMT) 
and Senior Management are able to make decisions effectively for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.

The Board ensures that the Company’s purpose, values, strategy and culture are aligned.
Our purpose is to build great homes and create thriving communities and our values are to be respectful and fair, take responsibility, create a 
better tomorrow and to be proud. The Board recognises the importance of a healthy culture and considers the Company’s culture of ‘doing the 
right thing’ as a key strength of the business.
The Board is responsible for defining and setting the Company’s culture from the top, and the Board and GMT as a whole are responsible for 
leading by example.

Our Chief Executive leads the GMT in the execution of our strategy and the day to day management of the Company’s operations. The GMT is 
a vastly experienced team that has operated in challenging market conditions, with collectively over 150 years of service at Taylor Wimpey and 
even longer in the housebuilding industry.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives updates from each GMT member, along with key Heads of Functions to provide updates on key 
stakeholder groups, performance in the period and employee matters. The Board also receive regular reports and minutes from the Company’s 
Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
There is a framework of delegated authority approved by the Board, within which the individual responsibilities of Senior Management are 
identified and can be monitored.

The Board actively seeks and encourages regular engagement with all of our stakeholders and believes that responding to feedback supports 
the long term sustainability of our business.

The Company has a number of workforce policies and practices which are available on our website.
The Whistleblowing Policy provides a clear procedure for employees to report concerns either to their line manager or through a third party 
whistleblowing hotline if they wish to remain anonymous. All whistleblowing cases are investigated by the Head of Internal Audit, Group HR 
Director, the Head of HSE and /or the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, depending on the nature of the matter. The Board 
receives half yearly whistleblowing updates which set out any issues raised during the period and interim updates on significant matters. 
The updates provided are anonymous and summarise the result of any investigation.
The Company has policies on its zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption which are shared across the business annually. Individuals 
are requested to review training videos on anti-corruption; anti money laundering and competition law and are asked to confirm continued 
compliance with the policies.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationCompliance statement continued

2. Division of responsibilities

Principle

Application

F.  The chair leads the board and is responsible 
for its overall effectiveness in directing the 
company. They should demonstrate objective 
judgement throughout their tenure and 
promote a culture of openness and debate. 
In addition, the chair facilitates constructive 
board relations and the effective contribution 
of all non executive directors, and ensures 
that directors receive accurate, timely and 
clear information. 

G. The board should include an appropriate 

combination of executive and non executive 
(and, in particular, independent non executive) 
directors, such that no one individual or small 
group of individuals dominates the board’s 
decision making. There should be a clear 
division of responsibilities between the 
leadership of the board and the executive 
leadership of the company’s business.

H. Non executive directors should have sufficient 

time to meet their board responsibilities. 
They should provide constructive challenge, 
strategic guidance, offer specialist advice 
and hold management to account.

I.  The board, supported by the company 
secretary, should ensure that it has the 
policies, processes, information, time and 
resources it needs in order to function 
effectively and efficiently.

The roles and responsibilities of the Chair, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Employee Champion are reviewed annually and 
signed by the relevant parties. The Division of Responsibilities document is available on our website.
To support the effective discharge of the Board’s responsibilities, the Chair and Chief Executive maintain regular dialogue outside of the 
boardroom to ensure an effective and ongoing flow of information.
The Chair is also in contact with the Group Finance Director and Non Executive Directors on a regular basis between meetings.

The Board consists of nine Directors, including the Chair, two Executive Directors, five independent Non Executive Directors and one non 
independent Non Executive Director. The Board considers this balance to remain appropriate and will continue to keep this under review 
during 2024.
The roles of the Chair and the Chief Executive are separate; clearly defined in detail; and reviewed annually.
The Board and individual Directors are supported by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, to whom they have access at 
all times.

In between Board meetings, Non Executive Directors have access to Senior Management at all times. Non Executive Directors are encouraged 
to visit regional businesses and sites. In 2023, the Non Executive Directors completed 30 regional business visits and 20 site visits. In 2024, 
each Non Executive Director is requested to visit at least one regional business or site per quarter.

The Directors receive information one week before meetings take place to allow sufficient time for a detailed review of the documentation. 

126

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationCompliance statement continued

3. Composition, succession and evaluation

Principle

Application

J.  Appointments to the board should be subject 
to formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, 
and an effective succession plan should be 
maintained for board and senior 
management. Both appointments and 
succession plans should be based on merit 
and objective criteria and, within this context, 
should promote diversity of gender, social 
and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and 
personal strengths. 

K. The board and its committees should have 
a combination of skills, experience and 
knowledge. Consideration should be given to 
the length of service of the board as a whole 
and membership regularly refreshed.

L. Annual evaluation of the board should 

consider its composition, diversity and how 
effectively members work together to achieve 
objectives. Individual evaluation should 
demonstrate whether each director continues 
to contribute effectively. 

All Board appointments are subject to formal, rigorous and transparent procedures, are based on merit and objective criteria and promote 
diversity of gender, social and ethnic background, and cognitive and personal strengths.
The Nomination and Governance Committee considers the succession plans for the Board, GMT, Heads of Functions as well as wider 
workforce planning for certain roles including our regional businesses’ managing directors.

The Board members’ skills, experience and knowledge are considered to be varied and appropriately balanced.
The Nomination and Governance Committee consider the tenure of Non Executive Directors and are conscious that the Code does not 
consider them to be independent after they have served on the Board for nine years.

The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chair and individual Directors on 
an annual basis. At least every three years, this process is externally facilitated, most recently for the 2023 Board evaluation. 

4. Audit, risk and internal control

Principle

Application

M. The board should establish formal and 
transparent policies and procedures 
to ensure the independence and 
effectiveness of internal and external audit 
functions and satisfy itself on the integrity 
of financial and narrative statements.

N. The board should present a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment of the 
company’s position and prospects.

The Audit Committee evaluated the performance of the external Auditor and concluded that the audit process continues to be effective; that the 
quality and sufficiency of PwC’s engagement team remains appropriate; that PwC remain independent; and that there continue to be effective 
and independent reporting lines available to the external Auditors direct to the Committee and its Chair.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee, with a secondary reporting line to the Group Finance Director, 
which protects the function’s independence. The most recent independent evaluation of Internal Audit’s independence and performance was 
carried out during 2021, as described in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021, and found that Internal Audit continues to operate effectively, 
with no areas of non-conformance with recommended practice as set out in the International Professional Practice Framework. Continuous 
improvement initiatives agreed at that time, have been implemented, to ensure the Internal Audit function continues to meet both current best 
practice and the evolving needs of the Group.

The Audit Committee considered whether, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable, and that they include the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position, performance, business model 
and strategy. The Audit Committee completed a review process and recommended to the Board the approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023.

127

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
Compliance statement continued

4. Audit, risk and internal control continued

Principle

Application

O. The board should establish procedures to 
manage risk, oversee the internal control 
framework, and determine the nature and 
extent of the Principal risks the company is 
willing to take in order to achieve its long term 
strategic objectives.

The Company has an established ongoing process of risk management and the Audit Committee monitors the risk management and internal 
control systems, including their effectiveness, on behalf of the Board and provides advice to the Board in connection with the Board’s own 
risk review.

5. Remuneration

Principle

Application

P.  Remuneration policies and practices should 

be designed to support strategy and promote 
long term sustainable success. Executive 
remuneration should be aligned to company 
purpose and values, and be clearly linked to 
the successful delivery of the company’s 
long term strategy.

Q. A formal and transparent procedure 
for developing policy on executive 
remuneration and determining director and 
senior management remuneration should be 
established. No director should be involved in 
deciding their own remuneration outcome.

The Remuneration Committee ensures that the remuneration of Executive Directors and Senior Management is aligned to the Company’s 
strategic objectives. It is key that the Company is able to attract and retain leaders who are focused and also appropriately incentivised to deliver 
the Company’s strategic objectives, within a framework that is aligned to the long term interests of the Company’s stakeholders. 

The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the Remuneration Policy (the Policy) and it is put to a shareholder vote at least every three years. 
The Committee considers that the Policy aligns with market practice, the Code requirements and investor guidelines.
No Director or Senior Management is involved in any decisions about his or her own remuneration.

R. Directors should exercise independent 

judgement and discretion when authorising 
remuneration outcomes, taking account of 
company and individual performance, and 
wider circumstances.

The Remuneration Committee recognises that the exercise of discretion must be undertaken in a careful and considered way as it is an area 
that will rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders and other stakeholders. The Committee confirms that any exercise of discretion would 
be within the available discretions set out in the Remuneration Policy and that the maximum levels available under any relevant plans would 
not be exceeded. There would be full disclosure in the following Directors’ Remuneration Report and major shareholders would be consulted 
if appropriate.

128

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationGovernance structure

The Company’s  
clear and effective 
governance structure 
is a key foundation  
of our strong corporate 
governance. 

Our governance structure ensures that the Board 
and its Committees, the Group Management 
Team (GMT) and Senior Management are able 
to make decisions effectively.

129

Shareholders
Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the Company and play an important role in the governance structure. 

More information about engagement with our shareholders can be found on page 101

The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long term sustainable success of the Company and generating value  
for all stakeholders. 

More information about the Board’s responsibilities can be found in the Matters Reserved for the Board document on our website

The Board’s Committees

Audit Committee

Nomination and Governance Committee

Remuneration Committee

The objective of the Audit Committee is to 
assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate 
governance responsibilities relating to the 
Group’s financial reporting, risk and 
internal control framework and any other 
matters referred to it by the Board. 

Read more on page 113

The objective of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee is to ensure that 
there shall be a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new Directors to the 
Board, its Committees and other Senior 
Management in the Company; to keep 
the Board’s corporate governance 
arrangements under review; and to 
ensure that both the Company and the 
Board operate in a manner consistent 
with corporate governance best practice. 

Read more on page 107

The objective of the Remuneration 
Committee is to establish and maintain 
formal and transparent procedures for 
developing our policy on executive 
remuneration; to set, monitor and report 
on the remuneration packages of 
individual Directors and Senior 
Management; and to review wider 
workforce remuneration and other policies 
in accordance with the Code. 

Read more on page 131

Group Management Team

The Company’s Executive Committee, the Group Management Team (GMT), is responsible 
for the day to day management of the Company’s key strategic and operational activities. 
The GMT is led by the Chief Executive and comprises the Group Finance Director, Group 
HR Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Managing Director 
Strategic Land and the Divisional Chairs.

Supporting Committees
•  Disclosure Committee

•  Treasury Committee

•  Group Operations Committee

•  IT Steering Committee

•  Land Strategy Committee

•  Legacy, Engagement and Action for the 

Future (LEAF) Committee

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRole of the Board

In line with the Code, the Company’s Division of Responsibilities document was reviewed in 2023 and signed by Robert Noel, Jennie Daly and Humphrey Singer in their roles as Chair, 
Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director respectively. The Division of Responsibilities document is available on our website. In addition, the roles of the Board members have been 
defined in more detail, as set out below.

Non Executive Directors

Chair
Robert Noel

Executive Directors

Chief Executive
Jennie Daly

•  Lead and ensure the effectiveness of the Board in directing the Group

•  Ensure effective leadership and day to day running of 

•  Chair Board and Nomination and Governance Committee meetings, set meeting agendas and 

the Group

ensure Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information

•  Lead the GMT and oversee key functions

Group General Counsel and  
Company Secretary

Ishaq Kayani

•  Provide advice and support to the Board, its 

Committees and individual Directors on matters of 
corporate governance, compliance and legal matters

•  Ensure that the Board has the policies, processes, 
information, time and resources it needs in order to 
function effectively and efficiently

•  Support the Chair to set meeting agendas and ensure 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information

•  Responsible for all legal and compliance matters relating 

•  Develop and implement the Group's strategy, strategic 

plan and related annual budget

•  Review the organisational structure, including 

development and succession planning

•  Manage the Group’s risk profile and establish effective 

internal controls

•  Agree the Group's annual budget proposal, prior to 

to the Group

formal agreement with the Board

•  Ensure the Chair and Board are advised and updated 

regarding any key matters

•  Maintain relationships with stakeholders and advise the 

Board accordingly

•  Overall responsibility for sustainability

Group Finance Director
Chris Carney

•  Manage the Group's finances, including treasury 

and tax matters

•  Lead the finance, tax, treasury, IT, internal audit and 

pensions functions

•  Oversee the Group's risk profile, in conjunction with 

the GMT

•  Agree the Group's annual budget proposal, prior 
to formal agreement with the Chief Executive and 
the Board

•  Oversee the Group's Legal and Secretariat functions

Employee Champion

Mark Castle

•  Champion the 'employee voice' in the boardroom and 
ensure employee views are taken into account by the 
Board, particularly when decisions are being made that 
could affect employees

•  Strengthen the link between the Board and employees

•  Regularly gather the views of employees through a 

variety of formal and informal channels and identify any 
areas of concern

•  Liaise with Senior Management on a regular basis on 

matters of employee engagement and culture

•  Oversee Senior Management’s feedback to employees 

on steps taken to address concerns

•  Promote high standards of corporate governance

•  Build a well-balanced and highly effective Board with a culture of openness and debate to 

encourage constructive challenge

•  Facilitate and promote constructive relations between Board members and the effective 

contribution of all Non Executive Directors

•  Lead the annual review of the Board’s effectiveness

•  Engage with the Group's stakeholders and maintain an appropriate balance between the 

interests of all stakeholders

•  Demonstrate objective judgement

Senior Independent Director
Humphrey Singer

•  Act as a sounding board for the Chair

•  Act as an intermediary for the other Directors, when necessary

•  Be available to shareholders who wish to discuss matters which cannot be resolved through 

the usual channels

•  Chair Board meetings in the absence of the Chair

•  Lead the Board’s evaluation of the Chair’s performance

•  Lead the Nomination and Governance Committee in the search for a new Chair, if appropriate

Non Executive Directors
Mark Castle, Irene Dorner, Lord Jitesh Gadhia, Scilla Grimble, 
Clodagh Moriarty

•  Provide constructive challenge to the Executive Directors

•  Provide strategic guidance to the Group

•  Offer specialist advice

•  Serve on the Board’s Committees

•  Scrutinise and hold to account the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed 

performance objectives

•  Devote sufficient time to the Group to meet their responsibilities

130

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report

Management has delivered a 
good financial performance 
with profit at the top end of our 
guidance and completions in 
line with guidance. We also 
delivered good progress against 
our ESG measures in 2023.”

Lord Jitesh Gadhia
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Key activities of the Remuneration 
Committee in 2023

• Implemented the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the Policy)

following shareholder approval at the 2023 AGM

• Determined the 2023 salary levels for the Chief Executive and

Group Finance Director

• Agreed the targets applicable to the 2023 Executive Incentive

Scheme and 2023 Performance Share Plan Awards

• Reviewed base salary levels for Senior Management

• Considered wider workforce remuneration arrangements

• Considered how the Policy should be applied in 2024

“ The Committee reviewed 
the approach taken in 
respect of wider workforce 
remuneration in light of the 
continuing cost of living 
challenges and approved 
a tiered approach to salary 
increases during 2023 
with higher percentage 
increases for lower paid 
employees. The Committee 
was pleased with the 
positive feedback received 
from the NEF members 
regarding the approach 
taken by the Committee.”

 Lord Jitesh Gadhia
Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee

Committee members

1. Lord Jitesh Gadhia (Chair)
2. Robert Noel
3. Mark Castle(a)
4. Clodagh Moriarty(a)
5. Irene Dorner(b)

(a) Appointed to the Committee on 27 April 2023.

(b) Stood down from the Committee on 27 April 2023.

Meeting 
attendance
5/5
5/5
2/2
2/2
3/3

Quick links

134  Remuneration at a Glance

136 

 Summary of the Remuneration Policy 

140 

Implementation in 2023

144  Approach to remuneration in 2024

149  Wider workforce remuneration

131

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Dear Shareholder

As Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee), I am pleased to present our 
2023 Directors’ Remuneration Report on behalf 
of the Board. 

Remuneration Policy

Following our detailed policy review in late 2022 
and early 2023, our current Policy was approved by 
shareholders at the 2023 AGM with over 91% of 
shareholders voting in favour. I would like to thank 
you all for your engagement throughout the Policy 
review process and your continued support.

The Committee considers that the Policy continues 
to remain appropriate and should therefore continue 
to operate in the same manner during 2024.

Executive Director remuneration decisions 
and outcomes

Variable incentive schemes

In 2023, Taylor Wimpey and the wider housebuilding 
sector’s volumes and earnings were impacted by 
the reduction in customers’ affordability as a result 
of increased mortgage rates. Under the 2023 
Executive Incentive Scheme (EIS), Management has 
delivered a good financial performance with profit 
at the top end of our guidance and completions in 
line with guidance and has also delivered good 
progress against our ESG measures in 2023. 
Based on the performance assessment set out on 
page 142, this resulted in an overall outcome of 
91% of maximum. In line with the Policy, one third 
of the 2023 EIS will be deferred into shares for 
three years.

The Performance Share Plan (PSP) awarded in 
2021, measuring performance in the 2021 to 2023 
period, will vest at 40% of maximum. The Company 
did not meet threshold performance for return on 
net operation assets (RONOA), operating profit 
margin and customer service but Taylor Wimpey’s 
total shareholder return (TSR) of +7.7% placed the 
Company in the top quartile of the housebuilding 
peer group over this period. The shares vesting 
will be subject to a two year post-vesting 
holding period.

No discretion was used or deemed to be required 
by the Committee under either the EIS or PSP. 
The Committee noted the delay to the EIS and PSP 
target-setting process in 2023 as a result of the 
market conditions at the time. The later timing of 
the target-setting process enabled more 
appropriate target ranges to be set for the financial 
measures, which were higher than the ranges that 
would have been set around the original business 
plan numbers at the start of the year, with the target 
level of performance set ahead of the budget level. 

Furthermore, at the end of the year the Committee 
assessed the formula-driven outturn and 
determined that the level of payout across the 
EIS measures was appropriate and reflective of 
strong management performance in the face of 
significant headwinds, with a rigorous focus on 
cost discipline and volumes in order to deliver 
profit for the year at the top end of guidance. 
The Committee also considered shareholder and 
broader stakeholder experience over the year. 
In particular, the differentiated dividend policy 
underpinning shareholder returns and the payout 
levels under the broader all employee bonus plans 
which is broadly reflective of the 2023 EIS. 

Accordingly, the Committee did not exercise any 
discretion to adjust any formula driven outturn in 
relation to the EIS. 

The Committee has also determined that the 
PSP Award value on vesting was in line with 
underlying performance and there was no windfall 
gain due to market share price movements.

The Committee did not adjust the EIS or PSP 
performance targets during 2023. Further details 
on both the EIS and PSP outcomes can be found 
on page 142.

Looking ahead to 2024

Salary and pension

The salaries for the Executive Directors will be 
increased by 3% with effect from 1 April 2024. This 
is in line with the Senior Management population, 
and lower than the 5% average increase for the 
wider workforce.

EIS

Executive Directors will continue to be able to earn 
up to 150% of salary under the 2024 EIS. The EIS 
performance measures for 2024 remain unchanged 
from 2023, with 70% of the outcome to be 
determined against financial metrics, and the 
remainder against build quality and customer 
satisfaction assessments.

The measures are set out on page 144 together 
with the strategic rationale. We consider the target 
ranges carefully each year, ensuring an appropriate 
balance between achievability and stretch. Detailed 
retrospective disclosure of the weightings, targets 
and performance against them will be provided next 
year in the usual way.

132

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

PSP

The PSP will operate in accordance with the Policy 
and it is expected that Executive Directors will be 
granted awards to the value of 200% of salary.

In line with the 2023 Award, the measures for the 
2024 Award will be based on relative TSR versus a 
sector peer group, operating profit margin, RONOA, 
customer service and carbon emissions reductions. 
The measures and targets are set out on page 145 
together with the strategic rationale.

To the extent the awards vest, any shares will be 
subject to a two year holding period.

Chair and Non Executive Director

The Committee reviewed the Chair’s fee and agreed 
an increase of 3%, in line with the increase provided 
to the Executive Directors. The Board, excluding 
the Non Executive Directors who were conflicted, 
also reviewed the fees payable to the Non Executive 
Directors and agreed the same increase of 3% with 
effect from 1 April 2024. Further information on the 
Chair and Non Executive Director fees is set out on 
page 147.

Wider workforce remuneration

We continue to review the remuneration 
arrangements for the wider workforce and take 
these into account when considering remuneration 
arrangements for the Executive Directors and 
Senior Management. We again reviewed the 
performance measures in the various annual bonus 
schemes available across the business and we 
are confident that they drive behaviours that are 
consistent with our purpose, values, culture 
and strategy.

133

The Committee reviewed the approach taken in 
respect of wider workforce remuneration in light 
of the continuing cost of living challenges and 
approved the continuation of the tiered approach 
to the salary review process for 2024, ensuring that 
lower paid employees receive a higher percentage. 
The salary increases approved by the Committee 
range from 3% to 6%, and as previously mentioned, 
the Executive Directors and Senior Management 
will all receive 3%. The average workforce increase 
is 5%. We are confident that the variable incentive 
arrangements available for the wider workforce are 
aligned to Senior Management, including the 
Executive Directors.

For more information on our approach to wider 
workforce remuneration, see pages 149 to 151.

Stakeholder engagement

As part of the Policy review process undertaken 
in 2023, I wrote to 26 institutional shareholders 
representing circa 60% of our issued share capital 
to provide an overview of the proposed minor 
amendments. The feedback received was positive 
and constructive. 

The Employee Champions Robert Noel and 
subsequently Mark Castle (who are also members 
of the Committee) engaged with the workforce via 
the National Employee Forum (NEF) through the year 
and brought this perspective into the Committee 
discussions. The NEF received three updates on 
remuneration during the year; one relating to the 
Policy review process and two relating to wider 
workforce remuneration where the NEF received 
an overview of the 2023 bonus payment and 
2023 salary review process. The Committee were 
pleased with the positive feedback received from 
the NEF members regarding the tiered approach 
taken by the Committee for the 2023 salary review.

Closing remarks

On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank 
shareholders for their engagement to date and look 
forward to their support for the decisions and 
rationale set forth in this report.

Lord Jitesh Gadhia
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2024

Introduction

The 2023 Remuneration Committee report includes disclosures which 
reflect in full the Regulations (as defined below) on remuneration 
reporting, divided into three sections:

•  The annual statement from the Committee Chair.

•  Remuneration Policy: a summary of the Policy that was approved 

by shareholders at the 2023 AGM, describing the framework within 
which the Company remunerates its Directors. 

•  Annual Report on Remuneration: this sets out how the current 

Policy was applied during 2023 and how the Policy will be operated 
during 2024.

The Policy and these remuneration reports have been prepared in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 
and on the basis prescribed in the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
(Amendment) 2008 (the Regulations). Where required, data has been 
audited by PwC and this is indicated.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Remuneration at a glance

Overview of key elements included in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Our remuneration strategy

Fixed pay

Our remuneration strategy is centred around  
three core objectives:

Attraction

Attracting talent to our Company through 
a competitive compensation package

Engagement

Incentivising, motivating, and 
recognising success

Retention

Remaining agile to employee needs 
and market changes

1
2
3

134

Remuneration element

Element timeline (years)

Implementation in 2023

Base salary
Recruit and reward executives of a suitable 
calibre for the role and duties required.

Pensions
Executive Director pension contributions 
are in line with the wider workforce.

Benefits
Competitive package to assist with 
recruitment and retention.

0 

   1 

   2 

   3 

   4 

   5

Base 
salary

3%

Salary increase for the 
Executive Directors 
effective 1 April 2023

Variable pay

Element timeline (years)

Implementation in 2023

EIS
Rewards the achievement of stretching 
financial performance targets and other 
objectives that support the Company’s 
annual and strategic goals.
Maximum: 150% of salary
Deferral: One third deferred into shares 
for three years

PSP
Assists with retention, incentivisation and 
motivation to achieve long term sustainable 
returns for shareholders.
Maximum: 200% of salary
Performance period: Three years
Holding period: Two year holding period 
post-vesting

0 

   1 

   2 

   3 

   4 

   5

2023 EIS outcome

  Two 
thirds 
cash

  One third 
deferred into 
shares for 
three years

15%

15%

30%

Maximum potential

Actual outcome

11%

20%

 Operating proﬁt
 Operating proﬁt margin
 Cash conversion
 Build quality
 Customer service

0 

   1 

   2 

   3 

   4 

   5

2021 PSP Award outcome

  Performance 
period

  Holding 
period 
post-
vesting

40%

Maximum potential

Actual outcome

 TSR vs peer group
 Operating proﬁt margin
 RONOA
 Customer service 9-month

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Proposed application of the Policy in 2024

Key wider workforce highlights in 2023:

Link to 
strategic 
cornerstone

Link to 
Group 
financial 
target

Link to 
Group 
KPI / APM

Link to 
stakeholder

Measure

Rationale

EIS

Operating profit

Maximise aggregate profit

Operating profit margin Optimise sales prices and 

Cash conversion

Build quality

Customer service 
(8-week)

PSP

TSR v peer group

improve cost discipline
Maximise the generation of 
cashflow from profits
Deliver high quality homes with 
the need for less remediation
Maintain customer trust and 
endorse Company reputation

Align the rewards received by 
executives with the returns 
received by shareholders

Operating profit margin Optimise sales prices and 

RONOA

Customer service 
(9-month)
Carbon emissions 
reduction

improve cost discipline
Maintain focus on driving 
increased capital efficiency
Maintain customer trust and 
endorse Company reputation
Support the Company’s 
strategy on carbon emissions 
reductions across our 
operations

Read more about our strategic cornerstones and KPIs on pages 30 to 38; our financial targets on page 8; our APMs 
on page 81; and our stakeholders on pages 84 to 86 

Key to our strategic cornerstones

  Land

   Operational excellence

  Sustainability

  Capital allocation

135

59%

of employees are 
either shareholders 
or participate in an 
all-employee share plan 
(2022: 58%)

Real Living 
Wage 
employer 
accreditation

7.6%

increase in average 
salary below the GMT

Read more about wider workforce remuneration on pages 149 to 151

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
Remuneration Committee report continued

Summary of the Remuneration Policy 

This alignment is achieved through a combination of:

The current Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the Policy) was approved by 91.7% of shareholders 
at the 2023 AGM. The Policy is designed to ensure that the remuneration framework will support 
and drive forward the Taylor Wimpey strategy by both challenging and motivating the Executive 
Directors and Senior Management to deliver it, and this will in turn drive value for our shareholders 
whilst having due regard to our other stakeholders. 

A summary of the Policy is set out in this report with the full version, as approved by 
shareholders, available to view on the Company’s website and in the 2022 Annual Report 
and Accounts.

When the Committee designed the Policy and its operation, it has considered the factors in 
Provision 40 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). Full details on how clarity, 
simplicity, risk, predictability, proportionality and alignment to culture are addressed can be 
found on page 140.

Policy overview

A key part of the Committee’s role is to ensure that the remuneration of Executive Directors 
and Senior Management is aligned to the Company’s strategic objectives. It is key that the 
Company is able to attract and retain leaders who are focused and also appropriately 
incentivised to deliver the Company’s strategic objectives, within a framework that is aligned 
with the long term interests of the Company’s shareholders.

•  Performance measures for the EIS and PSP aligned with Key Performance Indicators, 

the Company’s strategic objectives and measures of sustainable performance.

•  Deferral into shares of a percentage of the EIS.

•  A two year retention period for vested PSP Awards.

•  Share ownership guidelines which require executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey 

shares, either directly or by retaining vested PSP Awards and deferred EIS amounts.

•  A post-employment shareholding requirement.

•  Robust malus and clawback provisions.

The above requirements ensure that a significant percentage of the overall remuneration 
package of our Executive Directors and Senior Management is subject to performance and 
delivered in shares which must be held long term. With all packages for our Executive Directors 
substantially geared towards meeting challenging targets set under the EIS and PSP, the 
Committee believes that the pay and benefits of its Executive Directors and Senior Management 
adequately balance reward and risk.

In line with best practice, the Committee structures the incentives for Executive Directors and 
Senior Management in a way that ensures they will not raise ESG risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, the Committee under its Terms of Reference 
may, where it considers appropriate, take ESG matters into account when considering the 
overall remuneration structure and as part of its overall discretion.

136

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Element

Salary

Purpose and link to strategy Operation

Maximum

To recruit and reward 
Executive Directors of 
a suitable calibre for the 
role and duties required.

Salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure that they remain positioned 
appropriately. There is no automatic entitlement to an increase each year.
Salary level and increases take into account the following:
•  The performance, role, and responsibility of each individual Executive Director;
•  The economic climate, general market conditions and the performance of 

the Company;

•  The level of pay awards across the rest of the business; and
•  Salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.

The maximum annual salary increase will not 
normally exceed the average increase which 
applies across the wider workforce.
However, larger increases may be awarded 
in certain circumstances including but not 
limited to:
•  Increase in scope or responsibilities of the role.
•  To apply salary progression for a newly/
recently appointed Executive Director.

•  Where the Director’s salary has fallen below 

the market positioning.

Performance targets

Company and 
individual 
performance 
are factors 
considered when 
reviewing salaries.

Chair of 
the Board 
and Non 
Executive 
Director 
fees

The Chair and Non 
Executive Directors’ fees 
should be structured in 
line with recognised best 
practice and be sufficient 
to attract and retain high 
calibre non executives.

Fees consist of a single consolidated fee for the Chair, an annual fee for the 
other Non Executive Directors and additional fees for roles such as the Chair 
of the Audit Committee, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Senior 
Independent Director and Employee Champion.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non executive, taking 
into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of 
the Nomination and Governance Committee and / or the Audit Committee 
and / or the Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year. Takes 
into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, 
employee benefits or pension arrangements.
Any reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out duties will be fully reimbursed 
including any personal taxation associated with such expenses.

Aggregate annual limit of £1 million imposed 
by the Company’s Articles of Association.

N/A

Other 
benefits, 
including 
benefits- 
in-kind

Provides a competitive 
package of benefits to 
assist with recruitment 
and retention of high 
calibre Executive 
Directors.

Benefits normally include, but are not limited to:
•  Company-provided car or a cash allowance;
•  Healthcare; 
•  Life assurance; and
•  A 5% discount on the price of a new home acquired from the Group. 
Benefits offered to the wider workforce may also be offered to Executive 
Directors.
Other market competitive benefits may also be offered by the Committee 
should it deem it appropriate to secure the appointment of a new Executive 
Director or retain an Executive Director (including legacy benefits) and to ensure 
that the benefits package for existing Executive Directors remains competitive 
in the market.

There is no formal maximum. The level of a 
benefit provided will be aligned to the wider 
workforce but may vary depending on seniority. 
Benefits are provided based on market rates.
For home purchases, the price discount is 
calculated at the plot release price less the 
average discount to third party buyers for that 
house type on that development, less a further 
5% employee discount. No more than one home 
per annum can be acquired at a discount under 
the scheme; and no more than three homes can 
be acquired in a five-year period. The maximum 
discount over a five-year period is £100,000.

N/A

137

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Element

Purpose and link to strategy Operation

Maximum

EIS awards are normally determined by the Committee after the year end, based 
on annual performance against targets set at the beginning of each year.
One-third (net) of any EIS is payable in shares which are held in trust for three years.
The Committee has the ability to adjust the amount of a bonus if the formulaic 
outcome is not considered reflective of individual or business performance or 
the broader shareholder experience.
A malus and clawback mechanism applies to all participants. The discovery 
period for the event that would give rise to the clawback is three years from the 
date of payment.

The maximum EIS opportunity for Executive 
Directors is 150% of salary. Target is 75% 
of salary.
If an entry level of performance is achieved 
up to 10% of maximum is payable under 
each metric.

Executive Directors can receive PSP Awards, granted annually.
Performance is normally measured over three financial years.
The value of dividends or other distributions will accrue during the performance 
and holding periods and will be received with any shares that vest. Value of 
accrued dividends will normally be accrued and paid in shares.
The Committee has the ability to adjust the awards if the formulaic outcome is 
not considered reflective of individual or business performance or the broader 
shareholder experience.
A malus and clawback mechanism applies to all participants. The discovery 
period for the event that would give rise to the clawback is three years from the 
date of payment.

The maximum award is normally over 
shares with a face value of 200% of salary. 
In exceptional circumstances this can be 
increased up to 300% of salary.
Awards vest at 25% for threshold performance.

Pension benefits are provided through one or more of the following 
arrangements:
•  Personal Choice Plan; or
•  as a cash allowance.

Company contributions to any pension 
scheme, or any amount paid as a cash 
allowance, in respect of current Executive 
Directors or a new Executive Director will be 
in line with the pension contribution rate 
applying to the majority of the workforce, 
currently 10% of salary.

Rewards the achievement 
of stretching financial 
performance targets 
and other objectives 
that support the 
Company’s annual 
and strategic goals.
Compulsory deferral 
in shares further 
aligns the interests 
of Executive Directors 
with shareholders.

Annual grants of 
share-based long term 
incentives assist with 
retention, incentivisation 
and motivation of 
Executive Directors to 
achieve long term 
sustainable returns for 
shareholders. A post-
vesting holding period 
helps align the interests 
of Executive Directors 
with those of the 
Company’s shareholders.

The Company aims to 
provide competitive 
retirement benefits.

Executive 
Incentive 
Scheme 
(EIS)

Performance 
Share Plan 
(PSP)

Pension 

138

Performance targets

The EIS measures 
are based on a 
scorecard of 
designated key 
annual financial, 
operational and 
environmental, 
social, or 
governance 
measures.

The performance 
conditions are 
aligned to the 
long term business 
strategy.
The Committee 
may vary the 
measures that are 
included in the plan 
and the weightings 
between the 
measures from year 
to year.

N/A

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Element

Purpose and link to strategy Operation

Maximum

The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard terms under which all UK employees 
with at least three months’ service can participate.

All-employee 
share plans

All employees including 
Executive Directors are 
encouraged to become 
shareholders through the 
operation of all-employee 
share plans such as the 
HMRC tax-advantaged 
Sharesave plan and a 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP).

Sharesave: Employees can elect for a savings 
contract of either three or five years, with a 
maximum monthly saving. Options can be 
exercised during the six months following the 
end of the contract.
SIP: Employees can elect to contribute an 
amount per month or by one or more lump 
sums per tax year.
The maximum saving or contribution level for 
the Sharesave and SIP are approved by the 
Remuneration Committee and the Board within 
the limits prescribed by legislation or 
Government from time to time.

Performance targets

N/A

Shareholding 
guidelines

Encourages greater levels 
of shareholding and aligns 
employees’ interests with 
those of shareholders.

Executive Directors are expected to achieve and maintain a holding of the 
Company’s shares at least equal to 200% of salary and until this level is 
achieved, are required to retain no less than 50% of the value of any vested EIS, 
deferred bonus shares or PSP Awards, after tax.
A post-employment shareholding requirement will require Executive Directors to 
hold 200% of salary, or their shareholding level at the time of cessation if their 
200% shareholding requirement has not yet been met, for at least two years. 
This requirement may be reduced by the Committee in exceptional 
circumstances, such as serious ill-health.

Executive Directors: 200% of salary.

N/A

The Committee may amend this shareholder approved Policy to take account of changes to legislation, taxation and other supplemental and administrative matters without the necessity to seek 
shareholder approval for those changes.

Service contracts and letters of appointment

The tables below set out the dates of each of the Executive Directors’ service contracts and the 
dates of the Non Executive Directors’ letters of appointment. Directors are required to retire at 
each AGM and seek re-election by shareholders.

Service contracts for each Executive Director and letters of appointments for each Non 
Executive Director are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours and at the AGM.

Executive Director
Jennie Daly(a)
Chris Carney

139

Service contract 
commencement 
date
26 April 2022
20 April 2018

Unexpired term 
(months)
12
12

Non Executive Director
Robert Noel(b)
Mark Castle
Irene Dorner
Jitesh Gadhia
Scilla Grimble
Clodagh Moriarty
Humphrey Singer

Date of appointment
15 December 2022
1 June 2022
1 December 2019
1 March 2021
1 March 2021
1 June 2022
9 December 2015

Notice period 
by Company 
and Director 
(months)
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

(a)  Jennie Daly signed a new service contract when she was appointed as Chief Executive that superseded her original service 

agreement dated 20 April 2018.

(b)  Robert Noel signed a new letter of appointment when he was appointed as Chair that superseded his original service agreement 

dated 1 October 2019.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Annual Report on Remuneration

This section sets out how the Policy was applied for the year ended 31 December 2023. The 
Annual Report on Remuneration, including the Chair’s annual statement on pages 131 to 133, 
will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 23 April 2024. Details of the 
resolution are set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 231.

During the year, the Policy (as approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM), operated as 
intended providing a robust link between Company performance and remuneration and the 
Committee has not used discretion or adjusted performance measures and the respective 
targets during the year.

Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2023

•  A consistent approach to Directors’ remuneration has 
operated over many years and our disclosures in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Reports are set out in a 
transparent manner.

•  There is a proactive and open approach to engaging 

with shareholders and the wider workforce, as 
described on page 133.

•  Executive Director remuneration arrangements have 

been designed to be as simple as possible.

•  The tables on pages 134 and 135 show the different 
elements of Executive Director remuneration and how 
the performance measures are linked to our strategic 
cornerstones, KPIs and stakeholders.

•  Risk is mitigated through careful plan design, including 

long term performance measurement, deferral, 
shareholding requirements (including post cessation 
of employment requirements), discretion and 
clawback mechanisms.

•  The performance measures and targets used for the 

incentive plans do not encourage the Executive 
Directors to take reputational or behavioural risks.

•  The range of likely performance outcomes is 

considered when setting performance target ranges 
and discretion is used where necessary.

Clarity – remuneration 
arrangements should be 
transparent and promote effective 
engagement with shareholders and 
the workforce. 

Simplicity – remuneration 
structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation 
should be easy to understand.

Risk – remuneration arrangements 
should ensure reputational and 
other risks from excessive rewards, 
and behavioural risks that can arise 
from target-based plans, are 
identified and mitigated.

Predictability – the range of 
possible values of rewards to 
individual Directors and any other 
limits or discretions should be 
identified and explained at the time 
of approving the policy.

140

Proportionality – the link between 
individual awards, the delivery of 
strategy and the long term 
performance of the Company 
should be clear. Outcomes should 
not reward poor performance.

Alignment to culture – 
incentive arrangements should drive 
behaviours consistent 
with Company purpose, values 
and strategy.

•  Incentive plans are determined based on a proportion 
of base salary so there is a sensible balance between 
fixed pay and performance-linked elements.

•  Performance conditions are aligned to the business 

strategy and shareholder experience.

•  There are provisions to override the formula-driven 

outcome of incentive arrangements, as well as deferral 
and clawback mechanisms to ensure that poor 
performance is not rewarded.

•  Our overall reward framework embeds our purpose and 

values. Decisions on executive pay are taken in the 
context of the wider stakeholder experience.

Implementation in 2023

Total remuneration received (£000) (audited)

The chart below compares the 2023 single figure total remuneration for each of the Executive 
Directors with the equivalent figure for 2022.

Jennie Daly
Chief Executive

(promoted from Group Operations
Director on 26 April 2022)

Chris Carney
Group Finance Director

2023

2022

2023

2022

39%

45%

36%

43%

48%

13%

£2,185

45%

10%

£1,629

45%

19%

£1,590

43%

14%

£1,344

£0

£500

£1,000

£1,500

£2,000

£2,500

£000

Fixed pay

EIS

PSP

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)

Directors’ pension entitlements (audited)

The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration received by each Executive 
Director for their service and performance in 2023 and 2022.

£000
Base salary
Benefits(b)
Pension(c)
Total fixed pay
EIS(d)
PSP(e)
Total variable pay
Total pay

Jennie Daly(a)
2023
767
13
77
857
1,054
274
1,328
2,185

2022
642
19
71
732
730
167
897
1,629

Chris Carney
2023
516
13
52
581
710
299
1,009
1,590

2022
501
12
73
586
575
183
758
1,344

With effect from 1 January 2023, the Executive Directors’ pension contributions was 10%, 
which is the same rate available to the majority of the workforce (10%) and as such, the 
Company was compliant with Provision 38 of the Code from 1 January 2023.

The value of Company pension contributions in 2023 for Jennie Daly and Chris Carney was:

Director
Jennie Daly
Chris Carney

2023 
(£)
8,500
8,500

2022 
(£)
3,974
3,994

Jennie and Chris also received pension allowances of £68,183 (2022: £67,407) and £43,103 
(2022: £68,600) respectively in lieu of Company pension contributions over the Tapered Annual 
Allowance limit introduced in April 2016. No additional benefit is accrued if an Executive Director 
retires early.

(a)  Jennie Daly – Jennie became Chief Executive on 26 April 2022 and her 2022 EIS payment was pro-rated to time as Group 

Operations Director and Chief Executive.

(b)  Benefits – corresponds to the value of taxable benefits in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023, as set out in the table 

EIS in 2023 (audited)

below.

(c)  Pension – these figures represent pension contributions up to the amount permissible under HMRC rules and cash allowances 

beyond that level.

(d)  EIS – the 2023 EIS outcome was 91% and further details can be found on this page and page 142. The 2022 EIS outcome was 
76%. For both years, one third of the Executive Directors bonus is deferred into shares for three years. These shares will not be 
subject to any further performance or non-performance measures.

(e)  PSP – the outcomes of the 2020 and 2021 PSP Awards included in the 2022 and 2023 columns can be found on page 143. 
Both figures include the value of dividends accrued during the performance period and are payable in shares. There is a compulsory 
two year holding period for any vested PSP shares and the dividend shares will also be subject to this holding period. The 2022 
figure has been restated to reflect the share price on the date the Award vested. The 2023 figure has been calculated using a share 
price of 123.30 pence as this was the average share price for the dealing days in the last three months of the financial year.

Salaries in 2023 (audited)

The Committee awarded Jennie Daly and Chris Carney a 3% increase, with effect from 1 April 
2023, which was lower than the average increase for the general workforce.

Benefits (audited)
£000
Benefits
Car
Healthcare
Life assurance
All-employee share schemes(a)
Total

Jennie Daly
2023
5
2
4
2
13

Chris Carney
2023
2
6
3
2
13

(a)  These figures represent the value of matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan. The Executive Directors did not exercise 

any Sharesave options during the year.

141

At the start of the year, the Committee carefully considered the approach to target setting for 
the 2023 EIS, in light of the sharp and sudden downturn in market conditions during Autumn 
2022, relating to volume and the continuing volatility in build cost inflation.

As noted in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, recognising that the uncertain market 
conditions required an enhanced focus on financial performance, the proportion based on 
financial measures was increased from 60% to 70% of the overall bonus opportunity. It was 
also noted that the finalisation of the precise weightings and targets would be delayed slightly 
until after the publication of the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts.

The Committee finalised the weightings and targets in early April 2023. Within the 70% financial 
element, the balance between operating profit, operating profit margin and cash conversion 
changed slightly from the 2022 EIS, to give a higher proportionate focus on margin and cash 
conversion. The timing of the target-setting process enabled more appropriate target ranges to 
be set for the financial measures, which were higher than the ranges that would have been set 
around the original business plan numbers at the start of the year, with the target level of 
performance set ahead of the budget level.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

The outcome of the 2023 EIS is 91% of the maximum and the chart below shows the 
performance against the targets set and the payout level under each element.

PSP in 2023 (audited)

2021 PSP Award outcome

Performance measure

Weighting

Entry (10%)

Target (50%)

Stretch (100%)

Summary of targets

Result

Payout
(%)

Operating proﬁt

30%

£353m

£413m

£453m

£470.2m

30%

Operating proﬁt margin

20%

10.0%

11.8%

13.0%

13.4%

20%

Cash conversion

20%

160%

180%

200%

181.8%

11%

Build quality(a)

15%

92.0%

93.0%

94.0%

95.6%

15%

Customer service 8-week(b)

15%

90.5%

91.0%

92.0%

92.1%

15%

The PSP awarded in 2021, measuring performance in the 2021 to 2023 period, will vest at 40% 
of maximum. The Company did not meet threshold performance for RONOA, operating profit 
margin and customer service but Taylor Wimpey’s TSR of +7.7% placed the Company in the 
top quartile of the housebuilding peer group over this period. The Committee determined that 
the outcome was not inflated by windfall gains as the 2021 Award was granted using a share 
price of 174.02 pence. 

The chart below shows the performance against the 2021 PSP Award measures.

Performance measure

Weighting

Threshold
(20% vesting)

TSR v peer group(a)

40%

Median

Maximum
(100% vesting)

Upper quartile

Result

% of
maximum

TW: 7.7%
Upper quartile: 7.3%

40%

RONOA(b)

20%

22.0%

91%

Operating proﬁt margin(b)

20%

18.5%

Customer service 9-month(c)

20%

78.0%

Total

100%

25.0%

20.5%

81.0%

21.1%

0%

17.9%

0%

77.7%

0%

40%

(a)  The peer group is comprised of Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Countryside Partnerships (formerly 

Countryside Properties), Crest Nicholson, Persimmon, Redrow and Vistry Group. Countryside Partnerships was acquired by 
Vistry Group in November 2022. For the purpose of assessing the TSR performance of Countryside Partnerships, its 
performance has been tracked forward using the performance of Vistry Group (the acquirer) from the date trading in the shares 
was suspended (11 November 2022).

(b)  The target ranges for the RONOA and operating profit margin measures, which are based on the average annual performance 

over the three-year performance period. 

(c)  The customer service measure is based on the single question ‘Would you recommend your builder to a friend?’ from the 

independently measured NHBC 8-week survey.

Total

100%

(a)  Build quality is measured externally through the NHBC Construction Quality Reviews (CQR).

(b)  Percentage of customers who would recommend Taylor Wimpey to a friend from the independently measured NHBC 

8-week survey.

At the end of the year the Committee assessed the formula-driven outturn and determined that 
the level of payout across the EIS measures was appropriate and reflective of strong 
management performance with a rigorous focus on cost discipline and volumes delivering full 
year profit at the top end of guidance in light of significant market uncertainty. The Committee 
also considered shareholder and broader stakeholder experience over the year. In particular, 
the differentiated dividend policy underpinning shareholder returns and the payout levels under 
the broader all employee bonus plans which is broadly reflective of the 2023 EIS. Accordingly, 
the Committee did not exercise any discretion to adjust any formula driven outturns in relation 
to the EIS.

One third of the Executive Directors’ EIS will be paid in shares and be required to be retained in 
the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust for three years. These shares will not be subject to any 
further performance or non-performance measures.

142

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

PSP Awards included in the 2022 and 2023 single total figure of remuneration table

The table below sets out the number of shares each Executive Director received after the vesting of the 2020 and 2021 PSP Awards.

2023(a)

2022(b)

Name
Jennie Daly
Chris Carney
Jennie Daly
Chris Carney

Number of 
shares granted
459,726
503,400
391,581
429,368

Value of 
award at grant
(£000)
800
877
800
877

End of 
performance 
period
31/12/2023
31/12/2023
31/12/2022
31/12/2022

Proportion of 
award vesting
40.0%
40.0%
32.3%
32.3%

Number of 
shares vesting
183,890
201,360
126,480
138,685

Number of 
dividend 
equivalent 
shares
37,898
41,499
16,395
17,977

Total number 
of shares
221,788
242,859
142,875
156,662

Vesting date
28/02/2024
28/02/2024
02/03/2023
02/03/2023

Value 
attributable 
to share price 
increase
–
–
–
–

Value of 
proportion 
of PSP 
(single figure) 
(£000)
274
299
167
183

(a)  The 2021 PSP Award is included in the 2023 single total remuneration figure. The performance against each of the performance measures is noted in the graph on page 142. A share price of 123.30 pence was used to calculate the value of the Award vesting on 28 

February 2024 as this was the average share price for the dealing days in the last three months of the financial year. This figure will be recalculated in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024 to reflect the share price on the date the Award vests. Dividend equivalents 
will be paid in shares.

(b)  The 2020 PSP Award is included in the 2022 single total remuneration figure. The overall performance of the Award can be seen on page 139 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2022. The closing share price on the date the Award vested (116.75 pence) has been 

used to recalculate the Award. Dividend equivalents were paid in shares.

PSP Awards granted during 2023

The tables below set out the PSP Awards granted during the year and the performance measures for the Award. The Committee consider that they provide a good overall balance in assessing 
our longer term performance against the business strategy. The targets were reviewed to reflect current market conditions and business forecasts for the Group.

Recognising the outlook over the performance period for lower profitability across the entire housing sector and continuing economic uncertainty, the Committee set the target ranges for operating 
profit margin and RONOA at lower levels and with a broader range between threshold and maximum than in previous years, to provide the appropriate balance between setting targets that are 
achievable, but at the same time stretching. The target ranges for all measures are, in the view of the Committee, equivalently challenging to the ranges set in prior years. Operating profit margin 
and RONOA will be assessed based on performance in 2025. This was considered preferable to measuring performance based on a three-year average, due to continued unusually high volatility 
in the market in 2023 and which was considered likely to continue into 2024. 

Executive Director
Jennie Daly(a)
Chris Carney(a)

Award type
Nil-cost option
Nil-cost option

% of salary
200
200

Grant date
28/04/2023
28/04/2023

Face value 
of award at 
maximum vesting
£1,500,000
£1,009,400

Number of 
shares granted
1,207,243
812,394

End of 
performance 
period
31/12/2025
31/12/2025

(a)  The share price (124.25 pence) used to calculate the number of shares awarded to Jennie and Chris was based on the average closing share price over the three business days prior to grant (25, 26 and 27 April 2023).

Performance measure
TSR v peer group(a)
Operating profit margin in 2025
RONOA in 2025
Customer service in 2025(b)
Carbon reduction in 2025 (from a 2019 baseline)(c)

Weighting
40%
15%
15%
15%
15%

Threshold 
(25%)
Median
13%
14%
78.5%
-34%

Maximum 
(100%)
Upper quartile
18%
19%
81.5%
-38%

(a)  The peer group comprises Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Crest Nicholson, Persimmon, Redrow and Vistry Group.
(b)  This will be based on the single question ‘Would you recommend your builder to a friend?’ from the independently measured NHBC 9-month survey, therefore is measured on a different basis to the 2023 EIS customer service measure.
(c)  This will be based on a reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions based on the 2019 baseline.

143

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Payments for loss of office and payments to former Directors (audited)

2024 EIS

No payments have been made for loss of office during 2023.

Pete Redfern, former Chief Executive, received a 2021 PSP Award of 1,004,687 shares, which 
has been pro-rated to the date he left the business on 8 December 2022. The basis for the 
treatment of this Award, together with other elements of his remuneration, was set out in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2022 and as set out on page 142 of this report, the Award will 
vest at 40% of maximum based on performance from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023. 
Accordingly, Pete will receive 309,665 shares (which includes accrued dividend shares) on 
28 February 2024, which are equivalent in value to £381,817. Pete will be required to retain 
the vested shares for a two year holding period. This is consistent with Pete’s remuneration 
arrangements as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022.

Approach to remuneration in 2024

2024 salary review

The Committee has approved a tiered approach to the Group salary review process for 2024, 
ensuring that lower paid employees receive a higher percentage. The salary increases approved 
by the Committee range from 3% to 6%, and the Executive Directors and Senior Management 
will all receive 3%.

Executive Director
Jennie Daly
Chris Carney

As at 
1 April 2023
£772,500
£519,841

As at 
1 April 2024
£795,675
£535,436

% Change
3%
3%

Directors will be able to earn up to 150% of salary under the 2024 EIS. The EIS performance 
measures for 2024 also remain in line with 2023, with a 70% weighting on financial performance 
recognising the importance in a challenging market. The measures are set out below together 
with the strategic rationale. We carefully consider the target ranges each year, ensuring an 
appropriate balance between achievability and stretch. Detailed retrospective disclosure of the 
weightings, targets and performance against them will be provided next year in the usual way.

Performance measure
Operating profit
Operating profit margin
Cash conversion
Build quality(a)
Customer service 
(8-week)(b)

Weighting Rationale

30% Maximise aggregate profit
20% Optimise sales prices and improving cost discipline
20% Maximise the generation of cashflow from profits
15% Deliver high quality homes with the need for less remediation
15% Maintain customer trust and endorse the Company’s 

reputation

(a)  Build quality is measured externally through the NHBC CQR. 

(b)  Percentage of customers who would recommend Taylor Wimpey to a friend from the independently measured NHBC 8-week survey.

144

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

2024 PSP Awards 

The 2024 PSP awards will operate in accordance with the Policy as set out on page 138. In line with normal practice, it is expected that Directors will be granted awards to the value of 200% 
of salary.

The measures and weightings will be in line with the 2023 Awards, which for the first time included an ESG measure based on a reduction to our Scope 1 and 2 targets linked to our zero carbon 
strategy. This provides a balanced approach to assessing long-term performance including financial, shareholder and customer metrics.

Performance measure
TSR v peer group(a)
Operating profit margin (2026)(b)
RONOA (2026)
Customer service (2026)(c)
Carbon reduction (from a 2019 baseline) (2026)(d)

Rationale
Align the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders
Optimise sales prices and improving cost discipline
Maintain focus on driving increased capital efficiency
Maintain customer trust and endorse Company reputation
Support the Board’s strategy on carbon emissions reductions across our operations

Weighting
40%
15%
15%
15%
15%

Threshold 
(25%)

Maximum 
(100%)
Median Upper quartile
17%
19%
81.5%
-40%

13%
14%
78.5%
-34%

(a)  The peer group comprises Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Crest Nicholson, Persimmon, Redrow and Vistry Group. Should the proposed acquisition of Redrow PLC by Barratt Developments complete, Redrow would be removed from the peer 

group. It may be replaced by another housebuilder and the basis for measuring TSR performance may change from a peer group approach to a different methodology, including basing the performance assessment on an index of the housebuilding sector.

(b)  An operating profit margin measure will also operate in both the EIS and PSP in 2024. As there continues to be uncertainty in relation to the housing market, we believe that this is a critical measure at both an operational level for the EIS and for the longer term for 
the PSP (where margin will be assessed as an aggregate across the full three-year period). This will ensure that our priority remains delivering our sustained profitability with an unremitting focus on long term decisions with cost and process discipline to drive 
shareholder returns over the medium term.

(c)  This will be based on the single question ‘Would you recommend your builder to a friend?’ from the independently measured NHBC 9-month survey, therefore is measured on a different basis to the 2024 EIS customer service measure. Customer Service continues 
to be an extremely important area of focus for the Company and we are comfortable that this should be incorporated in both the EIS and PSP. The customer service element of the EIS will continue to be based on the one key question in the shorter term NHBC 
8-week survey focusing on the customers’ service before and moving in experience. The customer service element of the PSP will continue to be based on the one key question in the longer term NHBC 9-month survey focusing on the customers’ experience of 
living longer term in one of our developments. In this way we will be capturing different aspects of our customer service performance, measured over different timeframes and measuring different customer experiences and there is no doubling up of reward for the 
same performance.

(d)  This will be based on a reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and the target range takes into account the anticipated higher volumes in 2026.

145

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Executive Directors’ interests in the Company’s share schemes (audited)

Details of the options and conditional awards over shares held by the Executive Directors who served during the year are as follows:

Jennie Daly
Deferred shares (EIS)(b)
PSP(c)
Sharesave plan(d)
Total
Chris Carney
Deferred shares (EIS)(b)
PSP(c)
Sharesave plan(d)
Total

Additional 
maximum 
potential shares 
awarded 
during the 
year

–
1,207,243
–
1,207,243

–
812,394
–
812,394

Maximum 
potential 
shares as at 
01/01/2023

98,670
1,992,859
36,057
2,127,586

108,191
1,682,481
45,488
1,836,160

Exercised/
released 
during the 
year

98,670
126,480
–
225,150

108,191
138,685
–
246,876

Lapsed 
during the 
year

–
265,101
–
265,101

–
290,683
9,431
300,114

Maximum 
potential 
shares as at 
31/12/2023(a)

–
2,808,521
36,057
2,844,578

–
2,065,507
36,057
2,101,564

Maximum shares vesting / available in:

2024

2025

2026

2027

–
459,726
–
459,726

–
503,400
–
503,400

–
1,141,552
–
1,141,552

–
1,207,243
–
1,207,243

–
749,713
–
749,713

–
812,394
–
812,394

–
–
36,057
36,057

–
–
36,057
36,057

(a)  All outstanding awards are options. The Directors do not hold any vested but unexercised share options.

(b)  The Executive Directors exercised an EIS deferred share award on 27 March 2023 when the share price was 117.13 pence. These shares were awarded on 25 March 2020 using a share price of 116.30 pence to calculate the number of shares awarded. From 

March 2022, all EIS deferred shares are now beneficially owned from the outset and are included in the table on page 147. The beneficially owned EIS deferred shares are not subject to further performance conditions.

(c)  The Executive Directors exercised their 2020 PSP Award on 2 March 2023 when the share price was 117.7 pence. These shares were awarded on 4 March 2020 using a share price of 204.30 pence to calculate the Award.

(d)  Chris Carney had 9,431 Sharesave options lapse on 31 May 2023. Jennie Daly and Chris each hold 36,057 Sharesave options which were granted on 3 October 2022 at an option price of 83.20 pence, which offered a 20% discount to the share price at the start of 

the invitation window. The face value of these options on the date of grant for Jennie and Chris was £32,603 each. The Sharesave options are not subject to any performance conditions.

The vesting of the PSP is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and for 2023 Awards onwards 25% of maximum is receivable if threshold performance is achieved (2022 Awards 
and prior, 20% of maximum is receivable if threshold performance is achieved). There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share awards 
during the financial year. The closing share price on 29 December 2023 was 147.05 pence and the range during the year was 99.70 pence to 147.05 pence.

146

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Single total figure of remuneration for the Chair and Non Executive Directors (audited)

Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited)

Robert Noel(a)
Mark Castle(a)(b)
Irene Dorner(a)
Jitesh Gadhia(c)
Scilla Grimble
Clodagh Moriarty(b)
Humphrey Singer(a)

Total fees (£000)

2023
257
72
152
83
65
65
94

2022
89
38
335
77
65
38
83

In line with the Policy, Executive Directors’ shareholding requirement is to hold 200% of their 
base salary. Further details on how this element of the Policy is operated can be found on 
page 139. In addition, a post-employment shareholding guideline requires Executive Directors 
to retain shares worth 200% of their base salary, or their shareholding at the time of cessation if 
their shareholding requirement has not yet been met, for at least two years. Executive Directors 
are required to retain any shares received from shares in the Employee Benefit Trust.

The Chair and the Non Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company 
in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.

(a)  On 27 April 2023, Irene Dorner stood down as Chair; Robert Noel became Chair and stood down as the Senior Independent 
Director and Employee Champion; Humphrey Singer became the Senior Independent Director and Mark Castle became the 
Employee Champion.

(b)  Mark Castle and Clodagh Moriarty both joined the Board on 1 June 2022.

(c)  Jitesh Gadhia became Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 26 April 2022 and therefore received the additional 

Remuneration Committee Chair fee for the remainder of the year.

Chair and Non Executive Director fees

The Committee reviewed the Chair’s fee and agreed an increase of 3%, in line with the increase 
provided to the Executive Directors. The Board, excluding the Non Executive Directors who 
were conflicted, also reviewed the fees payable to the Non Executive Directors and agreed the 
same increase of 3%. The 3% increase will also be applied to the additional fees for the roles of 
Chair of the Audit Committee, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Senior Independent 
Director and Employee Champion.

Role
Chair of the Board
Independent Non Executive Director
Senior Independent Director
Audit/Remuneration Committee Chair
Employee Champion

As at 1 April 
2023
£335,000
£65,000
£17,500
£17,500
£10,000

As at 1 April 
2024
£345,050
£66,950
£18,025
£18,025
£10,300

% change
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%

147

Beneficially owned

Outstanding interests in 
share schemes

Value of 
beneficially 
owned 
shares as at 
31/12/2023(c)

Share 
interests 
expressed 
as a % of 
shareholding 
requirement

PSP(b)

Sharesave

Director
Robert Noel
Jennie Daly(d)
Chris Carney(d)
Mark Castle
Irene Dorner
Jitesh Gadhia
Scilla Grimble
Clodagh Moriarty
Humphrey Singer

at 
01/01/2023
84,100
423,374
625,770
41,678
164,952
100,000
15,000
25,025
31,896

at 
31/12/2023(a)
311,187
679,767
870,153
44,711
164,952
100,000
15,000
25,025
31,896

2,808,521
2,065,507
–
–
–
–
–
–

36,057
£999,597
36,057 £1,279,560
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

129%
246%
–
–
–
–
–
–

(a)  Shares owned outright includes the net-of-tax shares received by the Executive Directors in March 2022 and March 2023 
following the one third deferral of the EIS paid in respect of 2021 and 2022 performance. The EIS deferred shares are not 
subject to further performance conditions.

(b)  Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.

(c)  This has been calculated on the basis of beneficially owned shares. The share price on 29 December 2023 (147.05 pence) has 

been used to calculate Jennie Daly and Chris Carney’s share interest expressed as a percentage of salary as at 31 December 2023.

(d)  A proportion of shares are held by a connected person.

The only changes to the Directors’ interests as set out above during the period between 
31 December 2023 and 27 February 2024 were the regular monthly purchases of shares and 
1:1 matching by the Company under the Share Incentive Plan by Jennie Daly and Chris Carney 
who both acquired 410 shares each.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Historic TSR performance and Chief Executive historic remuneration

The graph below shows Taylor Wimpey’s TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE 350 and the average of the Housebuilders Index. These benchmarks have been chosen as Taylor 
Wimpey is a constituent of both.

The graph also shows the Chief Executive’s single total figure of remuneration over the same ten-year period.

TSR versus CEO Total Single Figure

)

d
e
s
a
b
e
r
(

)

£

(

l

e
u
a
V
–
R
S
T

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

Taylor Wimpey

FTSE350

Housebuilders Index

CEO Total Rem

8,000

7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

C
E
O
T
o
t
a

l

R
e
m

(

£
0
0
0

)

31/12/2013

31/12/2014

31/12/2015

31/12/2016

31/12/2017

31/12/2018

31/12/2019

31/12/2020

31/12/2021

31/12/2022

31/12/2023

Single total figure (£000)
Jennie Daly
Pete Redfern

Annual bonus (% of maximum)
Jennie Daly
Pete Redfern

PSP (% of maximum)
Jennie Daly
Pete Redfern

2014
–
6,250

–
90

–
94

2015
–
6,888

–
78

–
100

2016
–
4,072

2017
–
3,697

2018
–
3,272

–
80

–
81

–
66

–
78

–
96

–
50

2019
–
3,247

–
50.6

–
62.8

2020
–
1,120

–
–

–
6.6

2021
–
2,710

–
95

–
22.1

2022
1,175(a)
925(b)

2023
2,185
–

76
76

32.3
32.3

91
–

40
–

(a)  Relates to the period Jennie Daly was Chief Executive from 26 April 2022.

(b)  Relates to the period Pete Redfern was Chief Executive from 1 January 2022 to 26 April 2022. 

148

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration Committee report continued

Wider workforce remuneration in 2023

The Committee regularly monitors and reviews the Company-wide remuneration arrangements to ensure the Executive Directors’ remuneration is aligned to incentives and rewards across the 
Company. During 2023, the Committee reviewed by employee level, the different elements of pay and benefits across the Company. The Committee considers that all employees receive a reward 
package that is aligned to the Company’s purpose and culture; and is market competitive, transparent and fair. A summary of the remuneration arrangements across the workforce can be found 
below. In addition, when considering the performance measures for variable incentive schemes, the Committee ensures that there is a clear link between the performance measures in the various 
variable incentive schemes.

Executive Directors, GMT and senior managers

Wider workforce

Increases of 3% approved by the Committee 

All employees eligible for a bonus. Performance measures 
aligned with strategy

Executive Directors and GMT members defer one third 
of any annual bonus paid for three years

Eligible to participate in a long term incentive plan, 
SIP and Sharesave. Shareholding requirements are in 
place

Salary

Bonus

Deferred shares

Increases of 3% to 6% approved by the Committee

All employees eligible for a bonus. Performance measures 
aligned with strategy

Many employees can elect to take their bonus payment 
in shares (and benefit from a 20% uplift) and are required to 
retain the shares for one year

Share based incentive schemes

Eligible for SIP and Sharesave

10% pension contribution

Pension

10% pension contribution available to the majority of the 
workforce

All employees receive private medical healthcare

Private healthcare

All employees receive private medical healthcare

149

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

Wider workforce salary review

Gender pay gap

In recognition of the high levels of inflation that have created the cost of living crisis impacting 
lower paid employees most, the Committee also approved a tiered approach to the salary reviews 
in 2023 and 2024, to ensure that those that are impacted most receive higher levels of support.

CEO pay ratio

Year
2023(b)

Method
Option B

CEO single 
figure(a)
£2,185,041

2022
2021
2020
2019
2018

Option B
Option B
Option B
Option B
Option B

£2,100,044
£2,764,290
£1,120,451
£3,023,654
£3,151,748

Ratio
Salary
Total pay 
and benefits
Ratio
Ratio
Ratio
Ratio
Ratio

Lower 
quartile
68:1
£27,693
£32,355

62:1
87:1
39:1
93:1
103:1

Median
42:1
£37,877
£52,296

Upper 
quartile
32:1
£56,025
£68,305

41:1
60:1
26:1
73:1
77:1

26:1
40:1
20:1
48:1
41:1

(a)  The previous CEO single figures in this table have not been restated to reflect the share price on the date the relevant PSP Award 

vested. We have chosen to do this for transparency purposes so that we are comparing the ratios disclosed in previous reports.

(b)  The three representative employees were determined on 31 December 2023.

Under Option B, using the hourly rate from our 2023 gender pay gap data, three employees 
have been identified as the best equivalents of our lower quartile, median and upper quartile. 
Option B provides a clear methodology involving fewer adjustments to calculate full-time 
equivalent earnings and is likely to produce more robust reporting year on year. The Company 
believes that the median pay ratio for the year ending 31 December 2023 is consistent with the 
pay and reward policies for UK employees taken as a whole.

The Committee has reviewed the results of the calculations and is satisfied that they continue to 
be representative of the respective quartiles. Total pay and benefit figures, not including 
temporary allowances, paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2023, have been 
calculated for the employee at each quartile and for employees either side of the identified 
employees, to ensure that the employees selected are a reasonable representative based on 
their full year’s remuneration.

Due to an increase in the CEO single figure for 2023, all three ratios have increased. The increase 
in the CEO single figure was predominately a result of a higher annual bonus payout (91% outcome 
in 2023 versus 76% in 2022) coupled with the 2022 CEO single figure having been calculated 
on a pro-rated basis taking into account the appointment of Jennie Daly as CEO in April 2022.

150

As part of its review of wider workforce remuneration, the Committee also considers our gender 
pay gap. The nature of our industry means many of the high headcount roles (Sales and 
Production) are heavily male or female weighted which can impact our pay gap results if there 
are changes to these populations.

Our mean pay gap is 6%, which means that the mean pay is 6% higher for males than females. 
The movement compared to last year is largely down to a reduction in the number of 
employees during the year with a larger percentage decrease in male employees. Additionally, 
we have seen more highly paid women leave than men, as well as lower commissions being 
paid reflecting the downturn in our external market which impacts our sales teams which are 
mostly female.

Our median pay gap is 2% higher for males than females. The gap is slightly larger than last 
year and again is impacted by the reduction in headcount.

Further information can be found in our Diversity and Inclusion Report which is available on our website.

6%

Gender pay gap (mean) 
(2022: -2%)

2%

Gender pay gap (median) 
(2022: 1%)

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder information 
Remuneration Committee report continued

Annual percentage change in remuneration of Directors and employees

The table below shows the percentage change in salary or fee, taxable benefits and annual bonus of each current Director and the average Taylor Wimpey employee in respect of the periods from 
2020 to 2023.

Average pay of a Taylor Wimpey employee(b)
Jennie Daly(c)
Chris Carney(c)
Robert Noel(d)
Irene Dorner(e)
Mark Castle(f)
Jitesh Gadhia(g)
Scilla Grimble(g)
Clodagh Moriarty(f)
Humphrey Singer(h)

2023
8%
19%
3%
189%
(55)%
n/a
8%
–
n/a
13%

Salary/fee(a)
2022
4%
58%
7%
11%
2%
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
4%

2021
6%
13%
18%
23%
32%
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
14%

Benefits

Annual bonus scheme(a)

2020
–
(10)%
(10)%
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
(10)%

2023
4%
(32)%
8%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2022
3%
(55)%
(40)%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2021
3%
12%
(11)%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2020
–
(6)%
(55)%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2023
10%
44%
23%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2022
(10)%
26%
(14)%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2021
163%
n/a
n/a
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2020
(46)%
n/a
n/a
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

(a)  In light of the COVID-19 pandemic the Executive and Non Executive Directors took a voluntary 30% reduction in base salary and fees from 1 April 2020 to 31 July 2020. The Executive Directors’ 2020 annual bonus (EIS) was also cancelled.

(b)  Taylor Wimpey plc does not have any employees and these figures are in relation to Taylor Wimpey UK Limited employees.

(c)  Jennie Daly was appointed as Chief Executive with effect from 26 April 2022 and Chris Carney received a salary increase on 1 July 2021.

(d)  Robert Noel was appointed in October 2019 and subsequently appointed as the Company’s Senior Independent Director on 20 April 2020 and Employee Champion on 26 April 2022. Robert was then appointed Chair of the Board and stood down as the Company’s 

Senior Independent Director and Employee Champion on 27 April 2023. 

(e)  Irene Dorner was appointed in December 2019 and received a fee increase on 1 July 2021. Irene stood down as Chair and became a Non Executive Director on 27 April 2023.

(f)  Mark Castle and Clodagh Moriarty were appointed to the Board on 1 June 2022. Mark was appointed Employee Champion on 27 April 2023.

(g)  Jitesh Gadhia and Scilla Grimble were appointed to the Board on 1 March 2021. Jitesh was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 26 April 2022.

(h)  Humphrey Singer was appointed as the Company’s Senior Independent Director on 27 April 2023.

Relative importance of spend on pay

Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration (audited)

Operating profit(a)
Distributions to shareholders
    Aggregate dividends paid during the year
    Share buyback
Employee pay in aggregate(b)
Employee pay average per employee(b)

2023
£470.2m

£337.9m
–
£285.8m
£60,564

2022
£923.4m

Change (%)
(49)

£323.8m
£150.0m
£305.4m
£58,327

4
n/a
(6)
4

(a)  Operating profit is defined as profit on ordinary activities before financing, exceptional items and tax, after share of results of joint ventures. Operating profit has been chosen as it is one of the Company’s primary measures of performance.

(b)  See note 7 to the financial statements on page 184.

151

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationRemuneration Committee report continued

The Remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee members in 2023

There were five Committee meetings during 2023 and all Committee members attended the 
meetings they were eligible to attend. The Committee met the Code requirement to have three 
independent Non Executive Directors as members of the Committee following the appointment 
of Mark Castle and Clodagh Moriarty to the Committee on 27 April 2023.

Name
Jitesh Gadhia
Mark Castle(a)
Clodagh Moriarty(a)
Robert Noel
Irene Dorner(b)

Title
Committee Chair and Independent Non Executive Director
Independent Non Executive Director
Independent Non Executive Director
Chair of the Board
Non Executive Director

(a)  Mark Castle and Clodagh Moriarty were appointed to the Committee on 27 April 2023.

(b)  Irene Dorner stood down from the Committee on 27 April 2023.

Internal attendees consisted of the Chief Executive, Group HR Director, Head of Reward and 
members of the Company Secretariat team. These attendees provided important information 
to the Committee and were not involved in any decisions relating to their own remuneration.

Main activities during 2023

Over the course of the year since the last Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee has:

•  Determined the 2022 EIS and 2020 PSP outcomes.
•  Determined the 2023 salary levels for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
•  Agreed the targets applicable to the 2023 EIS scheme and 2023 PSP Awards.
•  Reviewed base salary levels for Senior Management.
•  Considered wider workforce remuneration arrangements. 
•  Considered how the Policy should be applied in 2024.

Committee’s performance

The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference in 2023 and evaluated its own performance 
against them. Following this review, the Committee confirmed that the Terms of Reference 
remain appropriate.

As part of the 2023 externally facilitated Board Evaluation it was concluded that the Committee 
was fulfilling its Terms of Reference effectively and the Committee Chair was effective.

152

Advice to the Committee in 2023

The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and best practice in the field of 
remuneration and it seeks advice from external advisers when appropriate.

The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers and during the year it 
continued to retain the services of Korn Ferry. Korn Ferry is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and signatory to its Code of Conduct. During 2023 Korn Ferry also provided 
other ad hoc remuneration services outside the scope of the Committee to the Company. 
Korn Ferry were appointed following a comprehensive tender process. Korn Ferry do not have 
any connection with the Company or any of the individual Directors.

The Committee also receives legal advice from Slaughter and May as and when necessary. 
During 2023 this advice related to the renewal of the Company’s Sharesave Plan and Share 
Incentive Plan. 

The Committee has considered the advice provided by Korn Ferry and Slaughter and May 
during the year, and is comfortable that the advice has been objective and independent.

The fees paid to the Committee’s advisers in 2023 were: Korn Ferry £120,197 (including VAT) 
on a time and materials basis (2022: £139,689); and Slaughter and May £27,000 (including 
VAT) (2022: £nil).

Shareholding voting

The table below sets out the voting by shareholders in respect of Directors’ remuneration 
resolutions.

Resolution
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for 2022 (2023 AGM)

Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (2023 AGM)

For
2,202,778,799
(93.70%)
2,155,740,993
(91.69%)

Against

Total votes cast
148,139,405  2,350,918,204

Withheld
587,640

(6.30%)

195,311,797 2,351,052,790

453,054

(8.31%)

Lord Jitesh Gadhia
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2024

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStatutory, regulatory and other information

Introduction

Articles of Association

This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors are required to report each 
year which are not included elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts. Certain matters 
which are required to be reported on appear in other sections of this Annual Report and 
Accounts, as set out below:

Matter
Strategic report, specifically:
– Likely future developments in the business of the Company
– Carbon footprint reporting
– Greenhouse gas emissions reporting
– Stakeholder engagement
– A description of the Company’s employee engagement practices
–  A statement of the Company’s engagement with employees in relation to 

financial and economic factors that affect the performance of the Company

– Charitable donations
– Research and development activities
– Viability statement
2018 UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement
Directors
A description of how the Board assesses and monitors culture
Retirement and re-election of Directors
Remuneration Committee report
Profit before taxation and profit after taxation
Changes in asset values
Statement on the Group’s treasury management and funding, including 
information on the exposure of the Company in relation to the use of 
financial instruments
Subsidiaries and associated undertakings, including branches outside the UK
Directors’ dividend recommendation
Web communications with shareholders
Registrar

Specific disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4 as appropriate to the Company:
Details of the Company’s long term incentive schemes
Shareholder waiver of future dividends

Page(s) in this 
Annual Report
1 to 88
1 to 88
53 to 68
68
84 to 88
85 and 102

85
42
1 to 88
82
125
92 to 94
105
99
131 to 152
168
170

193 to 196
219 to 225
229
239
241

131 to 152
154

The Company’s Articles were adopted on 22 April 2021. The Articles may only be amended by 
a special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.

Appointment and replacement of Directors

The Company’s Articles, the Code and the Companies Act 2006 govern the appointment and 
retirement of Directors. Board membership and biographical details of the Directors are 
provided on pages 92 to 94. However, Directors follow the Code and stand for re-election 
annually, as described on pages 232 to 233.

Qualifying third party indemnity

In accordance with Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and following advice from 
Slaughter and May, the Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors and 
officers and those of its Group companies, including the Trustee Directors of its Pension Trustee 
Company, for this financial year and at the date of this report. The indemnity is against the 
financial exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional duties as Directors and 
officers of the Company and/or its subsidiaries/affiliates.

Audit and Auditors

Each Director has at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, formally 
confirmed that:

•  To the best of their knowledge there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 

external Auditors are unaware.

•  They have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any 

relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s external Auditors are aware of 
that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. Read more on page 156.

Annual General Meeting

The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 10:30am on 23 April 2024 in the Gerrards 
Suite at the Crowne Plaza Gerrards Cross, Oxford Road, Beaconsfield, HP9 2XE.

Formal notice of the AGM is set out on pages 227 to 238 and on the Company’s website.

153

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStatutory, regulatory and other information continued

Capital structure

Substantial interests

Details of the Company’s issued share capital, together with information on movements in the 
Company’s issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 23 on page 203.

The Company has two classes of shares:

•  Ordinary Shares of 1 pence, each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings 

of the Company and other such rights and obligations as are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association.

•  Deferred Shares, which carry no voting rights.

The powers of the Company’s Directors in relation to issuing or buying back the Company’s 
shares are limited to those approved at the AGM.

As reported in last year’s Annual Report, the Company retained 25 million of shares bought 
back during 2022, as Treasury Shares. The Treasury Shares are being used to meet obligations 
of the Company in respect of its employee share schemes.

During 2023 the Company re-issued 3,548,829 Treasury Shares for that purpose and to the 
latest practicable date prior to finalising this Annual Report, a further 1,077,173 Treasury Shares 
had been re-issued during 2024.

The Company currently holds 20.373,998 shares in Treasury.

The Company has no current intention of exercising its authority to make market purchases of 
its own shares but will nevertheless be seeking the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM, 
and the Board will continue to keep the position under regular review. 

There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise of voting rights, or the 
transfer of shares, which are governed by the Company’s Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreement or agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights. 

The Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT), which holds shares on trust for employees under 
the Company’s various share schemes, generally abstains from voting at shareholder general 
meetings in respect of shares held by it. 

No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all issued 
shares are fully paid.

The persons set out in the table below have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of 
the Company. 

As at 27 February 2024, no change in these holdings had been notified nor, according to the 
Registrar of Members, did any other shareholder at that date have a disclosable holding of the 
Company’s issued share capital. 

Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee report 
on page 147.

As at 31 December 2023
Number of 
shares held 
(millions)
423.0
164.7
98.5
96.4

Percentage of 
issued voting 
share capital
11.95%
4.51%
3.02%
3.02%

As at 27 February 2024
Number of 
shares held 
(millions)
423.0
164.7
98.5
96.4

Percentage of 
issued voting 
share capital
11.95%
4.51%
3.02%
3.02%

BlackRock Inc
The Capital Group Companies, Inc
Legal & General Group Plc
Standard Life Investments Limited

Dividend

The 2022 final ordinary dividend of 4.78 pence per share was paid to shareholders on 
12 May 2023 and the 2023 interim ordinary dividend of 4.79 pence per share was paid to 
shareholders on 17 November 2023.

Subject to shareholder approval at the 2024 AGM, the 2023 final ordinary dividend of 4.79 
pence per share will be paid on 10 May 2024 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 2 April 2024. More information can be found on pages 231 and 232. The 
Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan (DRIP) for shareholders in the United 
Kingdom and more information can be found on page 231.

The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the Trustees of the Company’s 
ESOT over that Trust’s combined holding of 466,204 shares, as at 27 February 2024. More 
information about the ESOT can be found in Note 26 on page 205.

154

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStatutory, regulatory and other information continued

Important events since the year end

Employment of people with disabilities

There have been no important events affecting the Company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings since 31 December 2023.

Political donations

The Company has a policy of not making donations to political parties; has not made any 
during 2023; and does not intend to do so, going forward. More information can be found on 
page 235.

Agreements

The Company’s borrowing and bank facilities contain the usual change of control provisions 
which could potentially lead to prepayment and cancellation by the other party upon a change 
of control of the Company. There are no other significant contracts or agreements which take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.

Modern Slavery Act

The Company welcomes the aims and objectives of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA) and 
continues to take its responsibilities under the MSA with the seriousness it deserves and 
requires. The Company will shortly be publishing its eighth statement under the MSA, which 
will be available on the Company’s website.

Employee share ownership

The Company promotes employee share ownership as widely as possible across the Company. 
The Company has two all-employee share plans, the Save As You Earn share option plan and 
the Share Incentive Plan, which are offered to all UK-based employees once they have worked 
for the Company for three months. The rules of the Company’s two all-employee share plans 
were renewed at the 2023 AGM. More information can be found on page 139.

The Company also offers employees who do not participate in the Executive Incentive Scheme 
(cash bonus scheme) the opportunity to exchange their cash bonus for shares in the Company, 
including a 20% enhancement to the value of their bonus. The scheme has operated since 
2012 and in 2023 resulted in 481,837 shares (2022: 614,176) being acquired by 184 
employees (2022: 218).

Details of how these plans operate appear in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 131 
to 152.

The percentage of our employees who hold shares in the Company, either through the 
all-employee and other share plans, the cash bonus exchange scheme, or any other method 
is 59% (2022: 58%).

155

We foster a culture of inclusion and value diversity positively, which creates a better workplace 
and delivers stronger outcomes. We commit to treating all our job applicants and employees 
fairly and with respect, irrespective of background, disability or any other protected 
characteristic. We offer any employee assistance with regards to reasonable adjustments during 
the application process or with their working conditions or environment, and are proud to 
confirm that we achieved Level 2 Disability Confident Employer status during 2023.

The Company’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which is available on our website, sets 
out specific policies on continuing the employment of, and arranging training for, employees 
who have become disabled; and the training, career development and promotion of disabled 
persons.

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with 
UK-adopted international accounting standards and the Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law). 

Under company law, Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:

•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.

•  State whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting standards have been followed 
for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising 
FRS 101, have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.

•  Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 

presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationStatutory, regulatory and other information continued

The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Group’s and Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Annual Report and Accounts 2023 - Fair, balanced and understandable

The outcome of the process undertaken by the Audit Committee and described on page 124, 
was that the Board confirmed that the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy.

More detail on how the Board and the Audit Committee have addressed the assessment, 
control and mitigation of risk, and the oversight of the internal and external audit functions, 
appear in the Audit Committee report on pages 113 to 124.

Directors’ confirmations

Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors 
biographies, on pages 92 to 94, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:

•  The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 
international accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group.

•  The Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United 

Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities and financial position of the Company.

•  The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 

business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the 
Principal Risks and uncertainties that it faces.

This Directors’ report and responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 
27 February 2024 and is signed on its behalf by:

Ishaq Kayani
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
27 February 2024

156

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationIn this section
158 

Independent auditors’ report

168  Consolidated income statement

169 

 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

170  Consolidated balance sheet

171 

 Consolidated statement of changes in equity

172 

 Consolidated cash flow statement

173 

 Notes to the consolidated financial statements

211  Company balance sheet

212 

 Company statement of changes in equity

213 

 Notes to the Company financial statements

219 

 Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures

226  Five year review

Financial 
statements

157

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Independence

Opinion

In our opinion:

•  Taylor Wimpey plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial statements 

(the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s 
cash flows for the year then ended;

•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 

international accounting standards as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006;

•  the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law); and

•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 

Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts 
(the “Annual Report”), which comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as 
at 31 December 2023; the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated and 
Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the 
financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.

Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) 
and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ 
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the 
FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided.

Other than those disclosed in Note 6, we have provided no non-audit services to the Company 
or its controlled undertakings in the period under audit.

Our audit approach

Context

Taylor Wimpey is a listed housebuilder, predominantly operating in the UK, also with a presence 
in Spain. The Group focuses on the sale of private dwellings, which comprised 88% of total 
revenue in 2023, with the majority of the remaining revenue generated through delivery of 
partnership housing contracts. The Group’s consolidated financial statements are primarily an 
aggregation of 22 UK Business Units, which represented the regional UK house building 
businesses encompassed in Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, consolidated with the Group’s Spanish 
operations, Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U., the Company and the share of the Group’s 
interests in joint ventures. For the purposes of our audit, we considered Taylor Wimpey UK 
Limited, Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U., the Company and consolidation adjustments to be 
separate components. We performed process walkthroughs to understand and evaluate the 
key financial processes and controls across the Group and, in accordance with International 
Standard on Review Engagements (UK and Ireland) 2410, performed a review of the half year 
financial information. Following this work, we performed a significant amount of early audit 
procedures in advance of the year end, covering the Business Units and the Group functions. 
The objective of this audit work was:

•  to perform initial testing in relation to the design and operating effectiveness of the controls 

we planned to place reliance on; 

•  to ensure that we had a clear plan as to what work needed to be done when and where at 

year-end; 

•  to perform initial substantive testing, particularly where larger samples were required or where 

there had been one off transactions; and

•  to enable early consideration of the key sources of estimation uncertainty before the year-end.

158

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

The scope of our audit

As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most 
significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by 
the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the 
allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These 
matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.

The key audit matters below are consistent with last year.

As we undertook each phase of the audit, we regularly reconsidered our risk assessment to 
reflect the audit findings, including our assessment of the Group’s control environment and the 
impact on our planned audit approach. In terms of risk assessment:

•  given the nature of the Group’s operations and the methodology for recognising margin on 
units sold, we considered margin recognition and site forecasting to be the most significant 
area and therefore have included this as a key audit matter; and 

•  we considered current Government legislation and announcements, particularly in relation to 

cladding fire safety, and hence also included a key audit matter in relation to this.

Overview

Audit scope
•  Our Group audit included full scope audits of Taylor Wimpey UK Limited (which included the 
Group’s 22 UK Business Units), Taylor Wimpey plc (the “Company”) and the consolidation, 
including consolidation adjustments. Taken together, the above procedures included 
operations covering over 90% of revenue, over 80% of profit before tax and over 90% of 
net assets.

•  We also performed a desktop review over Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U., as well as audit 
procedures over specified balances and transactions across a number of the Group’s joint 
ventures.

Key audit matters
•  Margin recognition and site forecasting (Group)

•  Cladding fire safety provision (Group)

•  Valuation of investments in Group undertakings and amounts due from Group undertakings 

(Company)

Materiality
•  Overall Group materiality: £36.4 million (2022: £45.3 million) based on 5% of a 3 year average 

of profit before tax and exceptional items.

•  Overall Company materiality: £32.7 million (2022: £40.7 million) based on 1% of net assets 

but capped at 90% of overall Group materiality.

•  Performance materiality: £27.3 million (2022: £33.8 million) (Group) and £24.5 million (2022: 

£30.5 million) (Company).

159

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Margin recognition and site forecasting (Group)

Refer to page 115 (Audit Committee report) and page 181 (Critical accounting judgements 
and key sources of estimation uncertainty) in the Group’s Annual Report.

As at 31 December 2023 the Group’s inventory balance is £5,169.6 million (31 December 
2022: £5,169.6 million) and is the most significant asset on the Consolidated balance sheet.

The Group’s margin recognition policy is based on the margin forecast for each site. These 
margins reflect sales prices and costs to date as well as estimated sales prices and costs for 
each site. This is a method of allocating the total forecast costs, representing land, 
infrastructure and build costs, of a site to each individual unit.

There is a risk that the margin forecast for the site, and consequently the margin recognised 
on each unit sold, is not appropriate and reflective of the actual final margin that will be 
recognised on a site. As a result, excess profit margins would be recognised earlier, to the 
detriment of reduced margins on units sold at the end of the site, or vice versa. The risk is due 
to the high level of management estimation involved in ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of an individual site forecast, and the monitoring of these estimates over time.

Sales prices and build costs are inherently uncertain, as they are influenced by changes in 
external market factors, such as the availability and affordability of mortgages, changes in 
customer demand due to market uncertainty, or build cost inflation. There is higher uncertainty 
when a site is scheduled to be completed over a longer timeframe.

Management has implemented internal controls to assess site acquisition and initial forecasts 
to assist financial appraisal processes, and further controls to monitor the ongoing costs and 
sales prices within these forecasts, including changes to forecast costs as a result of new 
climate related regulations, e.g. Parts L and F of the Building Regulations. There is a risk that 
these controls do not operate effectively in ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
forecasts.

We consider the accuracy and completeness of forecasting and the appropriateness of 
margin recognition across the life of the site to be a significant financial reporting risk, and 
hence audit risk, for the Group.

160

Our audit procedures focused in particular on assessing the judgemental elements used to 
determine an accurate margin, being forecast costs and forecast revenues. Our procedures 
included, but were not limited to:

•  We tested a number of key controls within the build cycle, such as:

 – management’s review meetings, where the performance to date and expected outturn are 

updated, reviewed and challenged for each site on a bi-monthly basis;

 – review, approval and recognition of cost variations against the original site budgets;

 – surveyor valuations assessing the stage of completion of individual plots across all sites; and

 – review and approval of initial site budgets.

•  We assessed management’s historical forecasting accuracy on all active sites in 2023, 
through comparison to historical forecasts from 2022, as well as the initial site budget. 
We investigated significant differences or trends to understand whether they were driven by 
items that could reasonably have been foreseen or predicted rather than items outside of 
management’s control such as uncontracted build cost inflation;

•  We tested a sample of forecast costs to third party evidence, such as tender documents, 

or other appropriate support;

•  We tested a sample of forecast sales prices to the actual sales prices attained on similar 

properties;

•  We understood a sample of risks and opportunities identified in relation to sites to ensure 
completeness of costs within the site forecast, including consideration of the impact of 
future climate related regulation and requirements and uncontracted inflation;

•  To ensure accuracy we tested a sample of actual costs incurred to third party evidence, 

as well as testing the allocation of costs to the correct sites;

•  We tested a sample of actual revenue recognised in the period to third party contracts, 

completion statements and bank statements;

•  We verified, by recalculating the margins, that the accounting system correctly recalculates 

the margin following each cost or sales price amendment made by management; and

•  We tested that the accounting system appropriately allocates the cost of sales associated 

with each plot when a sale is made.

Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites where we considered the 
margin to be materially inappropriate. We also assessed the disclosures in respect of margin 
recognition and site forecasting and considered these to be appropriate.

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Cladding fire safety provision (Group)
Refer to page 115 (Audit Committee report) and page 181 (Critical accounting judgements 
and key sources of estimation uncertainty) in the Group’s Annual Report.
In March 2021, the Group announced it would support owners of buildings constructed by the 
Group going back 20 years from January 2021, including apartment buildings below 18 metres, 
in completing remediation works required to achieve RICS EWS1 certification levels.
The cost of providing this financial support was estimated at £125.0 million, and a provision 
was recorded in the 2021 financial statements on the grounds that the announcement created 
a constructive obligation.
In April 2022, the Group signed up to the Government’s Building Safety Pledge for Developers 
(“the Pledge”), which extended the period covered to 30 years and committed the Group to 
reimbursing the Government for any funds allocated to buildings it built from the Building 
Safety Fund (‘BSF’), with no further applications permitted.
Consequently, the Group announced that the additional cost associated with the Pledge, over 
and above that already recorded from the previous constructive obligation, was £80.0 million, 
bringing the total amount provided for cladding fire safety remediation to £245.0 million.
The Group signed the long-form legal contracts for the remediation of buildings in England 
and Wales in March 2023 and April 2023 respectively, and expects to sign the equivalent for 
Scotland in 2024.
The provision is identified as a source of estimation uncertainty as there are several factors 
that could drive changes to the level of financial support required to be given in future periods. 
The key assumptions are the number of buildings requiring work and the cost of remediation 
works for each relevant building as at the balance sheet date.
Future industry guidance or regulation could also potentially change the obligation, and 
therefore the financial support, required to be provided.
Management continues to assess the appropriateness of the provision and as more tendering 
takes place, there is greater clarity on how the buildings will be remediated and the associated 
cost. There are still a significant number of buildings for which tenders have not been obtained 
and therefore a high level of estimation uncertainty. Given the estimation uncertainty and the 
stakeholder focus on what is an industry wide issue, we identified the valuation of the cladding 
fire safety provision as a significant audit risk.

161

In addressing the risk that the provision was valued incorrectly as at the year-end date, our 
audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the following:
•  We enquired with management, including the Group Management Team, to understand the 
rationale behind the provision and whether it met the requirements of IAS 37 ‘Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ for the recognition of a constructive obligation;

•  We recalculated and checked the integrity of management’s schedules, to assess the 

accuracy of the calculation;

•  We assessed the completeness of the buildings included by reference to information 

provided by the Government as well as publicly available information on Taylor Wimpey 
constructed buildings;

•  We tested the completeness of the provision by testing a sample of properties included on 
the Land Registry database stating that they were built by Taylor Wimpey or Taylor Wimpey 
acquired companies to validate that they have been correctly included or excluded in 
management’s list of properties;

•  We tested the valuation of a sample of remediation costs included within the provision back 
to third party evidence, to corroborate the inputs into the provision calculation as well as to 
understand why the expected remediated costs have or have not changed year on year. 
Examples of audit evidence included internal QS assessments, tenders received and 
support for actual costs incurred;

•  We also tested the overhead component of the provision by obtaining management’s most 
recent budget for the internal cladding remediation team, assessed the appropriateness of 
the projected timeline and agreed key inputs back to supporting evidence;

•  We obtained an understanding of management’s updated delivery model for future remediation 
projects which will be performed by the Group rather than by management companies and 
assessed the implications to the provision;

•  We assessed the technical capabilities and expertise of the Group’s employees involved in 

assessing the expected work and costs;

•  We assessed the ability of management to forecast remediation costs accurately by comparing 

original internal estimates to subsequent tendered or completed works;

•  We read recent government guidelines and announcements, including the Self-Remediation 

Terms and Deed of Bilateral Contract for England and Wales and discussed them with 
management to confirm that their assumptions and interpretations were appropriate; and

•  We reviewed the disclosures included in the financial statements, including those on 

estimation uncertainty required by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ and those 
required by IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’.

Overall, we found that, based on the audit evidence that we obtained, management’s 
assessment of the quantum of the provision was appropriate given the commitment made 
and the conditions that existed at the balance sheet date. We also considered the disclosures 
made in the financial statements to be materially in line with the requirements of IAS 37.

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Valuation of investments in Group undertakings and amounts due from 
Group undertakings (Company)

Refer to page 215 (Investments in Group undertakings and Trade and other receivables notes) 
in the Company financial statements.

The carrying value of the investments in Group undertakings and amounts due from Group 
undertakings in the Company accounts are £4,509.5 million (2022: £4,500.6 million) and 
£747.0 million (2022: £572.4 million), respectively.

The key estimate is whether the carrying values of the investments and intercompany 
receivables are supported by the net asset position and/ or forecast future cash flows of 
the underlying Group undertakings. As such it was this area where we applied the most 
audit effort in respect of the audit of the Company and hence why it was identified as a 
key audit matter.

Audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the following:

•  We assessed the net assets of the underlying investments to determine whether they were 

in excess of the carrying value of the Company’s investment in Group undertakings;

•  We verified that the forecast future cash flows supported the carrying value of the 

Company’s investment in Group undertakings;

•  We confirmed that the market capitalisation of the Group as at 31 December 2023 
exceeded the carrying value of the investment in Group undertakings and that no 
impairment was required; and

•  We verified that the aggregate net current assets of subsidiary undertakings were sufficient 

to support the intercompany receivables and whether, in accordance with IFRS 9, an 
expected credit loss was required.

We have no issues to report in respect of this work.

162

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

How we tailored the audit scope

We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give 
an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the 
Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
they operate.

The Group’s 2023 Consolidated financial statements are primarily an aggregation of the 22 UK 
Business Units, which represented the regional UK housebuilding businesses, consolidated with 
the Group’s Spanish operations, Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U., the Company and the share 
of the Group’s interest in joint ventures.

The 22 UK Business Units operated under a common control environment, underpinned by the 
Group’s Operating Framework. The Group engagement team’s testing focused on the 
effectiveness and consistency of the design and implementation of the controls and processes, 
and based on this, we determined that the aggregated Business Units could be treated as one 
homogeneous population for further testing purposes. In addition, we performed detailed audit 
work over the consolidation journals and specific financial statement line items within the 
Group’s joint ventures and we performed a desktop review of Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U.

Our work covered over 90% of revenue, over 80% of profit before tax and over 90% of net 
assets.

We also performed a full scope audit of the Company financial statements which was 
considered a separate component for the purposes of our audit.

The impact of climate risk on our audit

As part of our audit we made enquiries of management to understand the process adopted to 
assess the extent of the potential impact of climate risk on the Group’s financial statements and 
to support the disclosures made in the section headed ‘Impact on financial statements’ on 
page 56.

The Group announced its Net Zero target and associated transition plan during 2023 and 
aligned its executive bonus scheme accordingly. Management considers that the impact of 
climate change, including the Group’s Net Zero target, does not give rise to a material financial 
statement impact in the current year, and we used our knowledge of the Group and the industry 
to evaluate management’s assessment. We particularly considered the potential impact on 
forecast build costs, and therefore margins, of climate related regulations, such as Parts L and 
F of the Building Regulations. Our procedures did not identify any material impact in the context 
of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, or our key audit matters for the year ended 
31 December 2023.

163

We also considered the consistency of the disclosures in relation to climate change (including 
the disclosures in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) section) within 
the Annual Report with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained from our audit.

Materiality

The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain 
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us 
to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of 
misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as 
a whole as follows:

Overall materiality

How we determined it

Rationale for 
benchmark applied

Financial statements – Company
£32.7 million  
(2022: £40.7 million).
1% of net assets but capped at 
90% of overall Group materiality.

We believe that total assets is 
the primary measure used by 
the shareholders in assessing 
the performance of the entity, 
which acts solely as a holding 
company, and is a generally 
accepted auditing benchmark.

Financial statements – Group
£36.4 million  
(2022: £45.3 million).
5% of profit before tax and 
exceptional items, using a 3 year 
average (2022: 5% of profit before 
tax and exceptional items).
Profit before tax is a generally 
accepted auditing benchmark. 
On the basis that exceptional 
items are not reflective of the 
operating performance of the 
Group, and are excluded from key 
alternative performance measures, 
we have excluded them from the 
benchmark amount.
In 2023, we have assessed 
materiality based on a 3 year 
average given the volatility in the 
market has driven a decline in 
volume and profitability without 
any fundamental changes in the 
balance sheet or operating model.

For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less 
than our overall Group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was 
£19.0 million to £32.7 million. Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit 
materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the 
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds overall materiality. 
Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the 
nature and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, 
for example in determining sample sizes. Our performance materiality was 75% (2022: 75%) of 
overall materiality, amounting to £27.3 million (2022: £33.8 million) for the Group financial 
statements and £24.5 million (2022: £30.5 million) for the Company financial statements.

In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors – the history 
of misstatements, risk assessment and aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls – 
and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified 
during our audit above £1.8 million (Group audit) (2022: £2.3 million) and £1.6 million (Company 
audit) (2022: £2.0 million) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Our evaluation of the Directors’ assessment of the Group’s and the Company’s ability to 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:

•  We tested the accuracy and integrity of the underlying model used by management in 

developing their going concern forecasts and checked the approval of the forecasts by the 
Board. We agreed that the model demonstrated sufficient liquidity and headroom during the 
going concern forecast period;

•  We tested the key assumptions used in the model, including comparison to third party 
market information where appropriate, reviewing the fixed term borrowings refinancing 
agreement and checking that the assumptions used in the “severe but plausible” scenario 
were sufficiently severe to model potential future economic downturn, in line with those 
observed in the global financial crisis in 2007-8;

•  We considered the historical accuracy of management forecasting by comparing budgeted 

results to actual performance;

•  We reviewed the covenants applicable to the Group’s borrowings and facility and checked 
that the forecasts supported ongoing compliance with the covenants in the going concern 
assessment period; and

•  We reviewed the disclosures relating to going concern, with these considered to be 

consistent with the assessment prepared by management and the procedures we performed.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties 
relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the 
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve 
months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a 
guarantee as to the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

In relation to the Directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ 
statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern are 
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the 
financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other 
information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, 
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly 
stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material 
misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material 
misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based 
on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors’ report, we also considered whether the 
disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us 
also to report certain opinions and matters as described below.

164

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

Strategic report and Directors’ report

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in 
the Strategic report and Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023 is consistent with 
the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment 
obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the 
Strategic report and Directors’ report.

Directors’ Remuneration

In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

Corporate governance statement

The Listing Rules require us to review the Directors’ statements in relation to going concern, 
longer-term viability and that part of the corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for 
our review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement 
as other information are described in the Reporting on other information section of this report.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the 
following elements of the corporate governance statement is materially consistent with the 
financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to:

•  The Directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust assessment of the emerging 

and principal risks;

•  The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are 
in place to identify emerging risks and an explanation of how these are being managed or 
mitigated;

•  The Directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it 

appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue to 
do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements;

•  The Directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Group’s and Company’s prospects, 

the period this assessment covers and why the period is appropriate; and

•  The Directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the 

Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.

Our review of the Directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the Group and 
Company was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries 
and considering the Directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the statement 
is in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and 
considering whether the statement is consistent with the financial statements and our 
knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in 
the course of the audit.

In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of 
the following elements of the corporate governance statement is materially consistent with the 
financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:

•  The Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 

balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to 
assess the Group’s and Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy;

•  The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk 

management and internal control systems; and

•  The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee.

We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the Directors’ 
statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a 
departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by 
the auditors.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial 
statements, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in 
accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary 
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

165

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s 
and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors 
either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic 
alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We 
design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material 
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures 
are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of 
non-compliance with laws and regulations related to building regulations, including fire and 
building safety legislation, health and safety legislation, environmental regulation and 
employment law, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material 
effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have a 
direct impact on the financial statements such as tax and pension legislation, the Listing Rules 
and the Companies Act 2006. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for 
fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of controls) and 
determined that the principal risks were related to artificial inflation of reported results via the 
posting of fraudulent journals, primarily as part of the consolidation process at Group, and bias 
in the assumptions underpinning significant provisions. Audit procedures performed by the 
engagement team included:

•  discussions with the Group Management Team, Business Unit Management, Internal Audit 

and the Audit Committee; 

•  review of Internal Audit reports and consideration of known or suspected instances of 

non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud;

•  evaluation and testing of the operating effectiveness of management’s controls designed to 
prevent and detect irregularities, in particular their controls around margin recognition and 
site forecasting;

•  challenging the assumptions and judgements made by management in determining their 

significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to margin recognition and provisions; 
and

•  identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual 

account combinations including unusual or unexpected journal postings to the Consolidated 
income statement.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to 
become aware of instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely 
related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or 
intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and 
balances, possibly using data auditing techniques. However, it typically involves selecting a 
limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek 
to target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, 
we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a conclusion about the population from which 
the sample is selected.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on 
the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our 
auditors’ report.

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members 
as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.

166

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independent auditors’ report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc continued

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

•  we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for 

our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

•  the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be 

audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Appointment

Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 
22 April 2021 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2021 and 
subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering 
the years ended 31 December 2021 to 31 December 2023.

Other matter

As required by the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 
4.1.14R, these financial statements form part of the ESEF-prepared annual financial report filed 
on the National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct Authority in accordance with the 
ESEF Regulatory Technical Standard (‘ESEF RTS’). This auditors’ report provides no assurance 
over whether the annual financial report has been prepared using the single electronic format 
specified in the ESEF RTS.

Sonia Copeland (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
27 February 2024

167

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Consolidated income statement
for the year to 31 December 2023

Continuing operations
Revenue
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Net operating expenses
Profit on ordinary activities before financing
Finance income
Finance costs
Share of results of joint ventures
Profit before taxation
Taxation (charge)/credit
Profit for the year

Basic earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share
Adjusted diluted earnings per share

All of the profit for the year is attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company.

Before 
exceptional 
items
2023
£m

Exceptional 
items
2023
£m

3,514.5
(2,798.0)
716.5
(248.7)
467.8
29.5
(25.9)
2.4
473.8
(124.8)
349.0

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Note

4

6

8
8
13

9

Total
2023
£m

3,514.5
(2,798.0)
716.5
(248.7)
467.8
29.5
(25.9)
2.4
473.8
(124.8)
349.0

Before 
exceptional 
items
2022
£m

Exceptional 
items
2022
£m

4,419.9
(3,287.5)
1,132.4
(224.9)
907.5
8.6
(24.1)
15.9
907.9
(201.9)
706.0

Note
10
10
10
10

–
–
–
(80.0)
(80.0)
–
–
–
(80.0)
17.6
(62.4)

2023
9.9p
9.9p
9.9p
9.9p

Total
2022
£m

4,419.9
(3,287.5)
1,132.4
(304.9)
827.5
8.6
(24.1)
15.9
827.9
(184.3)
643.6

2022
18.1p
18.0p
19.8p
19.7p

168

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year to 31 December 2023

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
Movement in fair value of hedging instruments
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes
Tax (charge)/credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Profit for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year

All of the comprehensive income for the year is attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company.

Note

25
25

21
14

2023
£m

(2.4)
1.2

0.8
(0.2)
(0.6)
349.0
348.4

2022
£m

6.6
(3.5)

3.2
0.7
7.0
643.6
650.6

169

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Equity
Share capital
Share premium
Own shares
Other reserves
Retained earnings
Total equity

Note

23
24
26
25

2023
£m

291.3
777.9
(29.7)
544.4
2,939.5
4,523.4

2022
£m

291.3
777.9
(43.1)
545.6
2,930.4
4,502.1

The financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc (registered number: 296805) were approved by 
the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2024. They were signed on its 
behalf by: 

J Daly 
Director 

C Carney
Director

Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2023

Non-current assets
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Interests in joint ventures
Trade and other receivables
Other financial assets
Deferred tax assets

Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents

Total assets
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Lease liabilities
Bank and other loans
Tax payables
Provisions

Net current assets
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Lease liabilities
Bank and other loans
Retirement benefit obligations
Provisions

Total liabilities

Net assets

170

Note

11
12
19
13
16
21
14

15
16
16

18
19
17

22

18
19
17
21
22

2023
£m

2.6
22.0
37.8
70.5
28.1
10.3
23.4
194.7

5,169.6
124.4
764.9
6,058.9
6,253.6

(992.8)
(8.8)
–
(1.6)
(124.9)
(1,128.1)
4,930.8

(295.8)
(31.0)
(87.0)
(26.5)
(161.8)
(602.1)
(1,730.2)

2022
£m

4.2
17.3
26.3
74.0
12.2
10.0
26.0
170.0

5,169.6
191.2
952.3
6,313.1
6,483.1

(1,130.8)
(7.3)
(88.5)
(7.2)
(106.7)
(1,340.5)
4,972.6

(407.3)
(19.7)
–
(29.9)
(183.6)
(640.5)
(1,981.0)

4,523.4

4,502.1

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Note

23

29
14
31

29
14
31

Share 
capital
£m
292.2
–
–
–
–
(0.9)
–
–
–
–
–
291.3
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
291.3

Share 
premium
£m
777.5
–
–
–
0.4
–
–
–
–
–
–
777.9
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
777.9

Own 
shares
£m
(14.6)
–
–
–
–
(33.8)
5.3
–
–
–
–
(43.1)
–
–
–
13.4
–
–
–
–
(29.7)

Other 
reserves
£m
541.6
3.1
–
3.1
–
0.9
–
–
–
–
–
545.6
(1.2)
–
(1.2)
–
–
–
–
–
544.4

Retained 
earnings
£m
2,717.3
3.9
643.6
647.5
–
(117.5)
–
(5.5)
14.0
(1.6)
(323.8)
2,930.4
0.6
349.0
349.6
–
(12.6)
8.9
1.1
(337.9)
2,939.5

Total
£m
4,314.0
7.0
643.6
650.6
0.4
(151.3)
5.3
(5.5)
14.0
(1.6)
(323.8)
4,502.1
(0.6)
349.0
348.4
13.4
(12.6)
8.9
1.1
(337.9)
4,523.4

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year to 31 December 2023

Total equity at 1 January 2022
Other comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
New share capital subscribed
Own shares acquired and cancelled
Utilisation of own shares
Cash cost of satisfying share options 
Share-based payment credit
Tax charge on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity
Dividends approved and paid
Total equity at 31 December 2022
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Profit for the year
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Utilisation of own shares
Cash cost of satisfying share options 
Share-based payment credit
Tax credit on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity
Dividends approved and paid
Total equity at 31 December 2023

171

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financing activities
Lease capital repayments
Cash received on exercise of share options
Purchase of own shares
Repayment of borrowings
Proceeds from borrowings
Dividends paid
Net cash used in financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Note

19

31

27

2023
£m

(7.9)
3.0
–
(87.0)
87.0
(337.9)
(342.8)
(185.8)
952.3
(1.6)
764.9

2022
£m

(7.6)
0.3
(151.3)
–
–
(323.8)
(482.4)
28.7
921.0
2.6
952.3

Note

Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year to 31 December 2023

Profit on ordinary activities before financing
Adjustments for:
    Depreciation and amortisation
     Pension contributions in excess of charge to the income 

statement

    Share-based payment charge
    Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
     Increase in provisions excluding exceptional payments
Operating cash flows before movements in 
working capital
Increase in inventories
Decrease/(increase) in receivables
(Decrease)/increase in payables
Cash generated from operations
Payments related to exceptional charges
Income taxes paid
Interest paid
Net cash generated from operating activities

Investing activities
Interest received 
Dividends received from joint ventures
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of software
Amounts (invested in)/repaid by joint ventures
Net cash generated from investing activities

8

12
11

2023
£m
467.8

12.7

(3.8)
8.9
0.3
17.3

503.2
(148.7)
40.2
(105.8)
288.9
(20.8)
(126.5)
(12.0)
129.6

26.4
11.7
–
(6.8)
(0.1)
(3.8)
27.4

2022
£m
827.5

14.5

(4.8)
14.0
0.3
90.9

942.4
(280.4)
(9.9)
52.9
705.0
(45.9)
(176.9)
(4.7)
477.5

6.9
3.1
1.5
(1.7)
(0.4)
24.2
33.6

172

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Notes to the consolidated financial statements

1  Accounting policies

Basis of preparation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under 
the historical cost convention, except as otherwise stated below.

The significant accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, except as 
otherwise stated, are set out below.

Adoption of new and revised standards 

The Group has adopted and applied the following standards and amendments in the year, 
which are relevant to its operations, none of which had a material impact on the financial 
statements.

•  IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (amendments) – disclosure of accounting 

policies

•  IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ (amendments) – deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising 

from a single transaction and international tax reform – Pillar Two model rules

•  IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ (amendments) – 

definition of accounting estimates

•  IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’

At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the 
following new or revised standards and interpretations that have been issued but are not 
yet effective:

•  IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (amendments) – classification of liabilities as 

current or non-current and non-current liabilities with covenants

•  IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (amendments) – lease liability in a sale and leaseback

•  IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ & IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ (amendments) 

– supplier finance arrangements

The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards, amendments and 
interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.

173

Going concern

Group forecasts have been prepared that have considered the Group’s current financial position 
and current market circumstances. The forecasts were subject to sensitivity analysis including a 
severe but plausible scenario together with the likely effectiveness of mitigating actions.

The assessment considered sensitivity analysis based on a number of realistically possible, 
but severe and prolonged, changes to principal assumptions. In determining these, the 
Group included macroeconomic and industry-wide projections, as well as matters specific 
to the Group.

The severe but plausible downside scenario reflects the aggregated impact of sensitivities, 
taking account of a further decline in volumes compared with that experienced during 2023. 
To arrive at the stress test the Group has drawn on experience gained managing the business 
through previous economic downturns and the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, the Group 
has stress tested the business against the following severe but plausible downside scenario 
which can be attributed back to the Group’s Principal Risks that have been identified as having 
the most impact on the longer term prospects and viability of the Group.

The impact of the Principal Risk “Natural resources and climate change” is not deemed to be 
material within the forecast period, as costs associated with the regulatory changes have been 
included in the modelling (e.g. Future Homes Standard).

•  Volume – a further decline in total volumes of 10% in 2024 from 2023 levels, before 

recovering back to 2023 levels by 2026

•  Price – a reduction to current selling prices of 10%, remaining at these levels across 2024 

and 2025 before recovering to 2023 levels by 2026

•  One-off costs – a one-off exceptional charge and cash cost of £150 million for an 

unanticipated event, change in government regulations or financial penalty has been included 
in 2024

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Basis of consolidation

Mitigations to this sensitivity analysis include a continued reduction in land investment, a 
reduction in the level of production and work in progress held and optimising the overhead base 
to ensure it is aligned with the scale of the operations through the cycle. If this scenario were to 
occur, the Directors also have a range of additional options to maintain financial strength, 
including: a more severe reduction in land spend and work in progress, the sale of assets, 
reducing the dividend, and/or raising debt.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had a cash balance of £765 million and had access to 
£600 million from a fully undrawn revolving credit facility, together totalling £1,365 million. 
The combination of both of these is sufficient to absorb the financial impact of each of the risks 
modelled in the stress and sensitivity analysis, individually and in aggregate.

Based on these forecasts, it is considered that there are sufficient resources available for the 
Group to conduct its business, and meet its liabilities as they fall due, for at least the next 
12 months from the date of these consolidated financial statements. Consequently the 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.

Basis of accounting

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 
international accounting standards as applied in conformity with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.

The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and 
entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. 
Control is achieved where the Company:

•  has power over the investee;

•  governs the financial and operating policies of the investee;

•  is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee; and

•  has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at 
their fair value at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value 
of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of 
acquisition below the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on 
acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition. The interest of 
non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair value 
of the assets and liabilities recognised. Subsequently, all comprehensive income is attributed to 
the owners and the non-controlling interests.

The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date 
of disposal, as appropriate. Where a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted a major line of 
business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation. Where necessary, adjustments are made 
to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.

174

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Revenue

Joint ventures

Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint control of the rights 
and assets of the undertaking via either voting rights or a formal agreement which includes that 
unanimous consent is required for strategic, financial and operating decisions. Joint ventures 
are consolidated under the equity accounting method. Loans to joint ventures form part of the 
Group’s net investment which is assessed for recoverability on a periodic basis or when there is 
an indication of possible loss. On transfer of land and/or work in progress to joint ventures, the 
Group recognises only its share of any profits or losses. Joint operations arise where the Group 
has joint control of an operation but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related to 
the operation. These assets and obligations, and the Group’s share of revenues and costs, are 
included in the Group’s results.

Joint ventures and joint operations are entered into to develop specific sites. Each arrangement 
is site or project specific and once the development or project is complete the arrangement is 
wound down. 

Segmental reporting

The Group operates in the United Kingdom and Spain. The United Kingdom is split into five 
geographical operating segments, each managed by a Divisional Chair who sits on the Group 
Management Team. In addition, there are central operations covering the corporate functions 
and Strategic Land.

The Group aggregates the UK operations into a single reporting segment on the basis that they 
share similar economic characteristics. In addition each Division builds and delivers residential 
homes, uses consistent methods of construction, sells homes to both private customers and 
local housing associations, follows a single UK sales process and operating framework, is 
subject to the same macroeconomic factors including mortgage availability and has the same 
cost of capital arising from the utilisation of central banking and debt facilities.

As a result, the Group has the following reporting segments:

Revenue is recognised when the performance obligation associated with the sale is completed. 
The transaction price comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of 
value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue 
and profit are recognised as follows:

a. Housing and land sales 

Revenue is recognised in the income statement when control is transferred to the customer. 
This is deemed to be when title of the property passes to the customer on legal completion and 
the performance obligation associated with the sale is completed.

Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties, whether under the Government’s Help 
to Buy scheme or not, is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable 
on legal completion.

b. Long term contracts

Revenue arising on contracts which give the customer control over properties as they are 
constructed, and for which the Group has a right to payments for work performed, is 
recognised over time. Revenue and costs are recognised over time with reference to the stage 
of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date where the outcome of a long 
term contract can be estimated reliably. This is normally measured by surveys of work 
performed to date. Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to 
the extent that it is highly probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable of being 
reliably measured. When land is transferred at the start of a long term contract, revenue is not 
recognised until control has been transferred to the customer which includes legal title being 
passed to them.

Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue 
where recoverability is probable is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred. The 
costs associated with fulfilling a contract are recognised as expenses in the period in which they 
are incurred. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, 
the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.

•  United Kingdom

•  Spain

175

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Finance costs

c. Part exchange

In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration for a sale of a residential 
property. The fair value is established by independent surveyors, reduced for costs to sell. 
Proceeds generated from the subsequent sale of part exchange properties are recorded as 
other income and the cost as other expenses. The original sale is recorded in the normal way, 
with the fair value of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.

d. Cash incentives

The transaction price may include cash incentives. These are considered to be a discount 
from the purchase price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction 
to revenue.

Cost of sales

The Group determines the value of inventory charged to cost of sales based on the total 
budgeted current cost of developing the site. Once the total expected costs of development 
are established, they are allocated to individual plots to achieve a consistent margin for the site. 
To the extent that additional costs or savings are identified, including experienced inflation, as 
the site progresses, these are recognised over the remaining plots unless they are specific to a 
particular plot, in which case they are recognised in the income statement at the point of sale.

Exceptional items

Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the 
Directors, are material or unusual in nature or of such significance that they require separate 
disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1 ‘Presentation of 
Financial Statements’. Should these items be reversed, disclosure of this would also be as 
exceptional items.

Finance income

Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis. Also included in interest 
receivable are interest and interest-related payments the Group receives on other receivables.

Borrowing costs are recognised on an effective interest rate basis and are payable on the 
Group’s borrowings and lease liabilities. Also included are the amortisation of fees associated 
with the arrangement of the financing.

Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and direct issue 
costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective 
interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they 
are not settled in the period in which they arise.

Capitalised finance costs are held in other receivables and amortised over the period of the facility.

Foreign currencies

The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which it operates (its functional currency). Transactions in 
currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing 
on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities 
that are denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are retranslated 
at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. 

Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period.

On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operation are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated 
at an appropriate average rate for the year. Exchange differences arising are recognised within 
other comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such 
translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the income statement in the 
period in which the operation is disposed of.

The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to hedge its net investment exposure to certain 
overseas subsidiaries.

176

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Leases

The Group as a lessee

The Group assesses at inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A lease exists if the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. The Group assessment includes whether:

Intangible assets

Software

Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or production of identifiable and unique 
software controlled by the Group, and that generate economic benefits beyond one year, 
are recognised as intangible assets. Software development costs recognised as assets are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years from the time of implementation and 
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.

•  the contract involves the use of an identified asset;

Property, plant and equipment

•  the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the 

asset throughout the contract period; and

•  the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset.

Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for 
administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and any accumulated impairment losses. Freehold land is not depreciated. Buildings are 
depreciated over 50 years.

At the commencement of a lease, the Group recognises a right-of-use asset along with a 
corresponding lease liability.

Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.

Depreciation is charged to expense the cost or valuation of assets over their estimated useful 
lives. Other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method, on the following bases:

•  Plant and equipment: 20-33% per annum

•  Leasehold improvements: over the term of the lease

The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference 
between the sale proceeds, less any selling expenses, and the carrying amount of the asset. 
This difference is recognised in the income statement.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, 
discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The lease term comprises the 
non-cancellable period of the contract, together with periods covered by an option to extend 
the lease where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option based on operational 
needs and contractual terms. Subsequently, the lease liability is measured at amortised cost 
by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability and reducing it by the 
lease payments made. The lease liability is remeasured when the Group changes its 
assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.

Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, comprising the initial measurement of the 
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, 
estimated asset retirement obligations, lease incentives received and initial direct costs. 
Subsequently, right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and 
any accumulated impairment losses, and are adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease 
liability. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease.

The Group has elected to apply exemptions for short term leases and leases for which the 
underlying asset is of low value. For these leases, payments are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

Right-of-use assets are presented within non-current assets on the face of the balance sheet, 
and lease liabilities are shown separately on the balance sheet in current liabilities and non-current 
liabilities depending on the length of the lease term.

177

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets

Financial instruments

Financial assets

At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and 
intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In 
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value, 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments and the risks specific 
to the asset.

If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its 
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the 
income statement.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, due to a change in circumstances or in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so long 
as it does not exceed the original carrying value prior to the impairment being recognised. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately in the income statement.

Dividends paid

Dividends are charged to retained earnings in the period of payment in respect of an interim 
dividend, and in the period in which shareholders’ approval is obtained in respect of the 
final dividend.

Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently classified into one of the 
following measurement categories:

•  Measured at amortised cost

•  Measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)

•  Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)

The classification of financial assets depends on the Group’s business model for managing the 
asset and the contractual terms of the cash flows. Assets that are held for the collection of 
contractual cash flows that represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at 
amortised cost, with any interest income recognised in the income statement using the effective 
interest rate method.

Financial assets that do not meet the criteria to be measured at amortised cost are classified by 
the Group as measured at FVTPL. Fair value gains and losses on financial assets measured at 
FVTPL are recognised in the income statement and presented within net operating expenses.

The Group currently has no financial assets measured at FVOCI.

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any loss allowance.

Shared equity loans

Shared equity loans were provided to certain customers to facilitate a house purchase. 
The contractual cash flows on shared equity loans are linked to a national house price index. 
Under IFRS 9, financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when 
determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest. Accordingly, 
shared equity loans are classified as FVTPL with fair value gains and losses arising on the 
remeasurement of the loan presented in the income statement within net operating expenses.

178

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting

The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its net investment 
exposure to movements in exchange rates on translation of certain individual financial 
statements denominated in foreign currencies other than Sterling, which is the functional 
currency of the Parent Company.

Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of net investments in foreign 
operations are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion, 
if any, is recognised immediately in the income statement.

For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for 
changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the 
consolidated income statement. Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative, or for 
non-derivatives the foreign currency component of its carrying amount, are also recognised in 
the income statement.

Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.

Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedged item is sold or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting, at which point any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument accumulated 
in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. 
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect 
is material.

1  Accounting policies continued

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits 
with an original maturity of three months or less from inception and are subject to insignificant 
risk of changes in value.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently classified into one of the 
following measurement categories:

•  Measured at amortised cost

•  Measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)

Non-derivative financial liabilities are measured at FVTPL when they are considered held for 
trading or designated as such on initial recognition. The Group has no non-derivative financial 
liabilities measured at FVTPL.

Borrowings

Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost.

Trade and other payables

Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost. When the acquisition of land has 
deferred payment terms a land creditor is recognised. Payables are discounted to present value 
when repayment is due more than one year after initial recognition or the impact is material.

Customer deposits

Customer deposits, measured at amortised cost, are recorded as a liability on receipt and 
released to the income statement as revenue upon legal completion.

Equity instruments

An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group 
after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Parent Company are 
recorded as the proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.

179

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Inventories

Inventories are initially stated at cost and held at the lower of this initial amount and net 
realisable value. Costs comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Land is recognised in 
inventory when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group.

Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in inventory. They are reviewed 
regularly and written off to the income statement when it is probable that the option will not 
be exercised.

Taxation

The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit 
before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense 
that are taxable or deductible in other years, and it further excludes items that are never taxable 
or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised.

Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in 
a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to 
control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis using the tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive 
income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive 
income or equity. 

Share-based payments

The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value is 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will vest after adjusting for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.

Employee benefits

For defined benefit plans a finance charge is determined on the net defined benefit pension 
liability. The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the 
income statement; past service costs are recognised as an expense at the earlier of when the 
plan is amended or curtailment occurs, at the same time as which the entity will recognise 
related restructuring costs or termination benefits. Certain liability management costs and 
financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.

The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 
represents either the net deficit position of the scheme or, should the scheme be in an IAS 19 
accounting surplus, the IFRIC 14 liability equal to the present value of future committed cash 
contributions.

Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

180

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Cladding fire safety provision

In 2018 the Group established an exceptional provision for the cost of replacing ACM on a 
small number of legacy developments, which was increased in 2020 to reflect the latest 
estimate of costs to complete the planned works. Following the guidance issued by RICS in 
2021, the Group announced an additional £125.0 million provision to fund cladding fire safety 
improvements. In 2022 the Group signed up to the Government’s Building Safety Pledge for 
Developers and recognised an additional provision of £80.0 million. The Group estimates the 
provision based on the buildings that may require works and the costs to carry out the identified 
works. In determining the total cost of works across a number of different buildings, 
management initially used internal QS estimates, which have increasingly been supported by 
externally sourced quotations, where available, both of which contain inherent estimation 
uncertainty. However, it is not anticipated that any reasonable possible changes would lead to a 
material adjustment in the value of the provision. The scope of works may also be impacted by 
future industry guidance or regulations.

3  General information

Taylor Wimpey plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in the 
United Kingdom under the Companies Act and is registered in England and Wales. The 
Company’s registered office is Taylor Wimpey plc, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, 
Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities 
are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 88.

These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling as the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates.

2  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty

Preparation of the financial statements requires management to make significant judgements 
and estimates. Management has considered whether there are any such sources of estimation 
or accounting judgements in forming the financial statements and highlight the following areas. 
In identifying these areas, management has considered the size of the associated balance and 
the potential likelihood of changes due to macroeconomic factors.

Critical accounting judgements

Management has not made any individual critical accounting judgements that are material to 
the Group.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

Key sources of estimation uncertainty are those which present a significant risk of potential 
material misstatement to carrying amounts of assets or liabilities within the next financial year. 

Employee benefits

The value of the defined benefit plan liabilities is determined by using various assumptions, 
including discount rate, future rates of inflation, growth, yields, returns on investments and 
mortality rates. As actual changes in these values may differ from those assumed, this is a key 
source of estimation uncertainty within the financial statements. Changes in these assumptions 
over time and differences to the actual outcome will be reflected in the statement of 
comprehensive income. Note 21 details the main assumptions in accounting for the Group’s 
defined benefit pension scheme, along with sensitivities of the liabilities to changes in these 
assumptions.

Other sources of estimation uncertainty

Cost allocation

In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on its developments in a 
specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in 
the current year and in future years. It also has to estimate costs to complete, including those 
driven by climate related regulation, and make estimates relating to future sales prices and 
margins on those developments and units. In making these assessments, there is a degree of 
inherent uncertainty. The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying 
values and the appropriateness of estimates made. 

181

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20234  Revenue

An analysis of the Group’s continuing revenue is as follows:

Private sales
Partnership housing
Land & other

2023
£m
3,103.5
395.6
15.4
3,514.5

2022
£m
3,886.1
476.4
57.4
4,419.9

Other revenue includes income from the sale of commercial properties developed as part of 
larger residential developments. The Group’s revenue includes revenue from construction 
contracts that are recognised over time by reference to the stage of completion of the contract 
with the customer. All other revenue is recognised at a point in time once control of the property 
is transferred to the customer. 

Recognised at a point in time
Recognised over time

2023
£m
3,101.7
412.8
3,514.5

2022
£m
3,983.1
436.8
4,419.9

At 31 December 2023, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied 
performance obligations on construction contracts was £812.4 million (2022: £677.6 million), 
of which approximately 40% is expected to be recognised as revenue during 2024.

5  Operating segments

The Group operates in two countries, the United Kingdom and Spain, and has two reportable 
segments of those countries. Revenue in Spain arises entirely on private sales.

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting 
policies described in Note 1. 

Segment information about these businesses is presented below:

Revenue
External sales
Result
Profit before joint ventures, 
finance income/(costs) and 
exceptional items
Share of results of joint 
ventures
Operating profit (Note 32)
Exceptional items (Note 6)
Profit before net finance 
income/(costs)
Net finance income/(costs)
Profit before taxation
Taxation charge
Profit for the year

2023

Spain
£m

UK
£m

Total
£m

2022

Spain
£m

UK
£m

Total
£m

3,371.7

142.8

3,514.5

4,295.5

124.4

4,419.9

432.5

35.3

467.8

874.9

32.6

907.5

2.4
434.9
–

–
35.3
–

434.9

35.3

2.4
470.2
–

470.2
3.6
473.8
(124.8)
349.0

15.9
890.8
(80.0)

–
32.6
–

810.8

32.6

15.9
923.4
(80.0)

843.4
(15.5)
827.9
(184.3)
643.6

182

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20235  Operating segments continued

2023

Spain
£m

UK
£m

Total
£m

2022

Spain
£m

UK
£m

Assets and liabilities
Segment operating assets
Joint ventures
Segment operating liabilities
Net operating assets
Net current taxation
Net deferred taxation (Note 14)
Net cash (Note 27)
Net assets

5,153.2
70.5
(1,494.0)
3,729.7

94.0

241.6
–

5,394.8
70.5
(147.6) (1,641.6)
3,823.7
(1.6)
23.4
677.9
4,523.4

5,222.9
74.0
(1,767.2)
3,529.7

207.9
–
(118.1)
89.8

Other information
Property, plant and 
equipment additions
Right-of-use asset additions
Software additions
Property, plant and 
equipment depreciation
Right-of-use asset depreciation
Amortisation of intangible assets

2023

Spain
£m

UK
£m

6.6
20.7
0.1

(1.7)
(8.9)
(1.7)

0.2
0.4
–

(0.1)
(0.3)
–

Total
£m

6.8
21.1
0.1

(1.8)
(9.2)
(1.7)

2022

Spain
£m

0.1
0.1
–

(0.1)
(0.2)
–

UK
£m

1.6
7.1
0.4

(4.2)
(7.2)
(2.8)

183

Total
£m

5,430.8
74.0
(1,885.3)
3,619.5
(7.2)
26.0
863.8
4,502.1

Total
£m

1.7
7.2
0.4

(4.3)
(7.4)
(2.8)

6  Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before 
financing

Profit on ordinary activities before financing for continuing operations has been arrived at after 
charging/(crediting):

Administration expenses
Other expenses
Other income
Exceptional items
Net operating expenses

2023
£m
232.7
101.7
(85.7)
–
248.7

2022
£m
220.7
70.1
(65.9)
80.0
304.9

The majority of the other income and other expenses shown above relates to the income and 
associated costs arising on the sale of part exchange properties. Also included in other income 
and other expenses are profit/loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment, the revaluation 
of certain shared equity mortgage receivables and abortive land acquisition costs.

Exceptional items: 
Provision in relation to cladding fire safety
Exceptional items

Cladding fire safety

2023
£m
–
–

2022
£m
80.0
80.0

In 2018 the Group established an exceptional provision for the cost of replacing ACM on a 
small number of legacy developments, which was increased in 2020 to reflect the latest 
estimate of costs to complete the planned works. Following the guidance issued by RICS in 
2021, the Group announced an additional £125.0 million provision to fund cladding fire safety 
improvements and, in line with Group policy, recognised it as an exceptional item.

In April 2022 the Group signed up to the Government’s Building Safety Pledge for Developers, 
extending the period covered to all buildings constructed by the Group since 1992, as well as 
committing to reimburse any funds allocated or used for Taylor Wimpey buildings over 18 metres 
from the Building Safety Fund. In the year to 31 December 2022 the Group recognised an 
increase in the provision of £80.0 million, as an exceptional expense; no further amounts were 
recognised in the year to 31 December 2023.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20236  Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before 
financing continued

7  Staff costs

Profit on ordinary activities before financing has been arrived at after charging:

Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales
Property, plant and equipment depreciation (Note 12)
Right-of-use asset depreciation (Note 19)
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 11)

The remuneration paid to the Group’s external auditors is as follows:

Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 
and consolidated financial statements
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for 
other services to the Group:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation
Total audit fees
Other assurance services
Total non-audit fees
Total fees

2023
£m
2,646.8
1.8
9.2
1.7

2022
£m
3,155.7
4.3
7.4
2.8

2023
£m

0.2

0.9
1.1
0.1
0.1
1.2

2022
£m

0.2

0.8
1.0
0.1
0.1
1.1

Non-audit services in 2023 and 2022 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s role as auditors, or work resulting from knowledge and 
experience gained as part of the role. In 2023 and 2022 the fees relating to other assurance 
services primarily related to the review of the interim statements and also included £2,000 for a 
subscription service providing factual updates and changes to applicable law, regulation or 
accounting and auditing standards. In 2023 £2,000 was also incurred for agreed upon 
procedures work performed in Spain.

184

Monthly average number employed
United Kingdom
Spain

Remuneration
Wages and salaries
Redundancy costs
Social security costs
Other pension costs

2023
Number

2022
Number

4,618
101
4,719

2023
£m

270.7
6.0
29.4
15.1
321.2

5,140
96
5,236

2022
£m

290.0
0.4
31.8
15.4
337.6

The information relating to Director and Senior Management remuneration required by the 
Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority is contained in 
Note 30 and pages 131 to 152 in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.

8  Finance income and finance costs

Finance income
Interest receivable

Finance costs 
Interest on bank and other loans
Foreign exchange loss

Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other items
Interest on lease liabilities (Note 19)
Net interest on pension liability (Note 21)

2023
£m
29.5
29.5

2023
£m
(8.3)
(0.5)
(8.8)
(14.8)
(1.0)
(1.3)
(25.9)

2022
£m
8.6
8.6

2022
£m
(4.8)
–
(4.8)
(18.3)
(0.4)
(0.6)
(24.1)

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20239  Taxation charge

Tax (charged)/credited in the income statement is analysed as follows:

Current tax:
UK:

Overseas:

Deferred tax:
UK:

Overseas:

Current year
Adjustment in respect of prior years
Current year
Adjustment in respect of prior years

Current year
Adjustment in respect of prior years
Current year
Adjustment in respect of prior years

2023
£m

(116.6)
1.8
(6.7)
0.1
(121.4)

(2.5)
(0.2)
(0.7)
–
(3.4)
(124.8)

2022
£m

(179.3)
0.5
(5.4)
(0.5)
(184.7)

0.4
(0.1)
(1.7)
1.8
0.4
(184.3)

Corporation tax is calculated at 27.5% (2022: 22.0%) of the estimated assessable profit for the 
year in the UK. This includes corporation tax at the rate of 23.5% (2022: 19.0%) for the year 
and residential property developer tax (RPDT) at the rate of 4.0% (2022: 4.0% with effect from 
1 April 2022) on profits arising from residential property development activities. Taxation outside 
the UK is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The tax charge for the 
prior year includes an exceptional credit of £17.6 million relating to the cladding fire safety 
provision.

The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:

Profit before tax
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 27.5% (2022: 22.0%)
Net over provision in respect of prior years
Net impact of items that are not taxable or deductible
Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to Spanish business
Other rate impacting adjustments
Tax charge for the year

2023
£m
473.8
(130.3)
1.7
0.1
1.0
2.7
(124.8)

2022
£m
827.9
(182.1)
1.7
(5.6)
1.0
0.7
(184.3)

Owing to its size and multinational operations, the Group is within the scope of the OECD Pillar 
Two model rules which are designed to ensure that large multinational groups incur a 15% 
minimum effective tax rate in each jurisdiction in which they operate. Pillar Two legislation was 
enacted in the UK in June 2023 and applies to periods beginning on or after 31 December 
2023. As a result, the legislation was not effective for the current year and the Group has no 
related current tax exposure. The Group applies the exception to recognising and disclosing 
information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes, as 
provided in the amendments to IAS 12 issued in May 2023.

Under the legislation, the Group is liable to pay a top-up tax for the difference between its 
effective tax rate per jurisdiction and the 15% minimum rate. Although work to assess the 
impact of the new provisions is ongoing, it is expected that the Group will meet the safe 
harbour provisions, meaning that no additional tax is expected to be due once the provisions 
become effective.

185

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202311  Intangible assets

Cost
At 1 January 2022
Additions
At 31 December 2022
Additions
At 31 December 2023

Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2022
Charge for the year
At 31 December 2022
Charge for the year
At 31 December 2023

Carrying amount
At 31 December 2023
At 31 December 2022

Brands
£m

Software
£m

140.2
–
140.2
–
140.2

(140.2)
–
(140.2)
–
(140.2)

–
–

23.3
0.4
23.7
0.1
23.8

(16.7)
(2.8)
(19.5)
(1.7)
(21.2)

2.6
4.2

Total
£m

163.5
0.4
163.9
0.1
164.0

(156.9)
(2.8)
(159.7)
(1.7)
(161.4)

2.6
4.2

The amortisation of software is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.

10  Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share
Adjusted diluted earnings per share

Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings 
per share – million
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings 
per share – million

2023
9.9p
9.9p
9.9p
9.9p

2022
18.1p
18.0p
19.8p
19.7p

3,530.4

3,564.8

3,537.5

3,576.5

Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude the impact of 
exceptional items and any associated net tax amounts, are presented to provide a measure of 
the underlying performance of the Group. A reconciliation of earnings attributable to equity 
shareholders used for basic and diluted earnings per share to that used for adjusted earnings 
per share is shown below.

Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share
Adjust for exceptional items (Note 6)
Adjust for tax on exceptional items
Earnings for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings 
per share

Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings 
per share
Dilution from share options
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings 
per share

2023
£m
349.0
–
–

349.0

2023
Million

3,530.4
7.1

2022
£m
643.6
80.0
(17.6)

706.0

2022
Million

3,564.8
11.7

3,537.5

3,576.5

186

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202312  Property, plant and equipment

13  Interests in joint ventures

Share of net assets
Loans to joint ventures
Total interests in joint ventures

2023
£m
35.3
35.2
70.5

2022
£m
43.5
30.5
74.0

Loans to joint ventures includes £(9.7) million (2022: £(8.5) million) relating to the Group’s share 
of losses recognised under the equity method in excess of the investment in ordinary shares.

The Group has four (2022: five) material joint ventures whose principal activity is residential 
housebuilding or development. The Group considers a joint venture to be material when it is 
financially or strategically important to the Group. Chobham Manor completed the majority of its 
development in the prior year and as a result is no longer considered to be a material joint venture.

The particulars of the material joint ventures for 2023 are as follows:

Country of 
incorporation
Joint venture
United Kingdom
Greenwich Millennium Village Limited
Winstanley and York Road Regeneration LLP
United Kingdom
Whitehill & Bordon Development Company Phase 1a Limited United Kingdom
United Kingdom
Whitehill & Bordon Regeneration Company Limited

*  Interests held by subsidiary undertakings.

Interest in the 
issued ordinary 
share capital*
50%
50%
50%
50%

Further information on the particulars of joint ventures can be found on pages 220 to 221.

Freehold 
land and 
buildings
£m

Plant, 
equipment 
and leasehold 
improvements 
£m

16.5
–
(2.2)
–
14.3
–
–
–
14.3

(4.1)
(0.5)
0.4
–
(4.2)
(0.5)
–
–
(4.7)

9.6
10.1

29.8
1.7
–
0.1
31.6
6.8
(1.4)
–
37.0

(20.5)
(3.8)
–
(0.1)
(24.4)
(1.3)
1.1
–
(24.6)

12.4
7.2

Total
£m

46.3
1.7
(2.2)
0.1
45.9
6.8
(1.4)
–
51.3

(24.6)
(4.3)
0.4
(0.1)
(28.6)
(1.8)
1.1
–
(29.3)

22.0
17.3

Cost
At 1 January 2022
Additions
Disposals
Exchange movements
At 31 December 2022
Additions
Disposals
Exchange movements
At 31 December 2023

Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022
Charge for the year
Disposals
Exchange movements
At 31 December 2022
Charge for the year
Disposals
Exchange movements
At 31 December 2023

Carrying amount
At 31 December 2023
At 31 December 2022

187

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202313  Interests in joint ventures continued

The following two tables show summary financial information for the material joint ventures and in total for the immaterial joint ventures. Unless specifically indicated, this information represents 
100% of the joint venture before intercompany eliminations.

Greenwich 
Millennium 
Village
2023
£m
–
50.7
22.6
(6.2)
(1.3)
(2.6)
63.2
31.6
–
31.6
50.9
–
(2.6)
8.6
4.3

Winstanley and 
York Road 
Regeneration
2023
£m
4.5
82.2
2.1
(3.5)
–
(104.6)
(19.3)
(9.7)
43.2
33.5
27.9
(4.9)
–
(2.2)
(1.1)

Whitehill 
& Bordon 
Development 
Company 
Phase 1a
2023
£m
0.1
29.1
0.2
(2.0)
–
(24.6)
2.8
1.4
–
1.4
0.9
(0.2)
0.1
(0.2)
(0.1)

Whitehill 
& Bordon 
Regeneration 
Company
2023
£m
53.3
6.3
–
(24.7)
–
(31.7)
3.2
1.6
0.1
1.7
15.1
(0.3)
0.1
(0.2)
(0.1)

Immaterial 
Joint Ventures
2023
£m
0.8
24.6
4.5
(13.2)
–
(14.7)
2.0
0.7
1.6
2.3
6.9
(1.7)
0.4
(1.1)
(0.6)

Total
2023
£m
58.7
192.9
29.4
(49.6)
(1.3)
(178.2)
51.9
25.6
44.9
70.5
101.7
(7.1)
(2.0)
4.9
2.4

Non-current assets
Current assets excluding cash
Cash and cash equivalents
Current financial liabilities
Current other liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities*
Net assets/(liabilities) (100%)
Group share of net assets/(liabilities)
Loans to joint ventures
Total interests in joint ventures
Revenue
Interest expense
Income tax (expense)/credit
Profit/(loss) for the year
Group share of profit/(loss) for the year

*  Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to joint venture partners.

188

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202313  Interests in joint ventures continued

Non-current assets
Current assets excluding cash
Cash and cash equivalents
Current financial liabilities
Current other liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities*
Net assets/(liabilities) (100%)
Group share of net assets/(liabilities)
Loans to joint ventures
Total interests in joint ventures
Revenue
Interest expense
Income tax (expense)/credit
Profit/(loss) for the year
Group share of profit/(loss) for the year

Greenwich 
Millennium 
Village
2022
£m
–
54.8
21.3
(13.3)
–
(8.2)
54.6
27.3
–
27.3
78.6
(0.4)
(3.3)
13.9
7.0

Chobham 
Manor
2022
£m
–
7.8
21.5
(1.4)
–
(0.4)
27.5
13.8
–
13.8
103.5
–
–
17.3
8.6

Winstanley and 
York Road 
Regeneration
2022
£m
4.4
70.9
8.1
(5.3)
–
(95.1)
(17.0)
(8.5)
37.4
28.9
17.7
(5.0)
–
(4.4)
(2.2)

Whitehill 
& Bordon 
Development 
Company 
Phase 1a
2022
£m
0.5
8.6
2.3
(0.6)
(1.2)
(6.5)
3.1
1.6
–
1.6
25.4
(0.3)
(1.2)
5.2
2.6

Whitehill 
& Bordon 
Regeneration 
Company
2022
£m
41.0
6.5
0.6
(10.7)
(0.2)
(33.8)
3.4
1.7
0.1
1.8
24.5
(0.2)
(0.2)
0.7
0.4

Immaterial 
Joint Ventures
2022
£m
0.6
21.4
2.2
(10.0)
–
(15.6)
(1.4)
(0.9)
1.5
0.6
–
(1.1)
0.3
(0.9)
(0.5)

Total
2022
£m
46.5
170.0
56.0
(41.3)
(1.4)
(159.6)
70.2
35.0
39.0
74.0
249.7
(7.0)
(4.4)
31.8
15.9

*  Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to joint venture partners.

During the current and prior year, no entity charged depreciation or amortisation. No entity had discontinued operations or items of other comprehensive income.

189

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Share-based 
payments
£m
3.9
(1.7)
–
(1.6)
–
0.6
0.2
–
1.1
–
1.9

Capital 
allowances
£m
2.4
0.4
–
–
–
2.8
(0.8)
–
–
–
2.0

Temporary 
differences on 
overseas 
provisions
£m
5.5
0.2
–
–
0.3
6.0
(0.6)
–
–
(0.1)
5.3

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
8.8
(0.9)
0.7
–
–
8.6
(0.7)
(0.2)
–
–
7.7

Losses and 
other 
temporary 
differences
£m
5.6
2.4
–
–
–
8.0
(1.5)
–
–
–
6.5

Total
£m
26.2
0.4
0.7
(1.6)
0.3
26.0
(3.4)
(0.2)
1.1
(0.1)
23.4

The Group has not recognised temporary differences relating to tax losses carried forward and 
other temporary differences amounting to £2.0 million (2022: £2.4 million) in the UK and 
£19.4 million (2022: £23.8 million) in Spain. The UK temporary differences have not been 
recognised as they are predominantly non-trading in nature and insufficient certainty exists as 
to their future utilisation. The temporary differences in Spain have not been recognised due to 
uncertainty of sufficient taxable profits in the future against which to utilise these amounts.

At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of £269.7 million 
(2022: £269.5 million). No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the capital 
losses at 31 December 2023 (2022: £nil) because the Group does not believe that it is probable 
that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.

14  Deferred tax

At 1 January 2022
(Charge)/credit to income
Credit to other comprehensive income
Charge to statement of changes in equity
Foreign exchange
At 31 December 2022
Credit/(charge) to income
Charge to other comprehensive income
Credit to statement of changes in equity
Foreign exchange
At 31 December 2023

Closing deferred tax on temporary differences has been calculated at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply for the period when the asset is realised or liability is settled. Accordingly, 
deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at 29% (31 December 2022: 
between 25% and 29%). Deferred tax on Spanish temporary differences has been calculated 
at 25% (31 December 2022: 25%).

The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows:

2023
£m
25.0
(1.6)
23.4

2022
£m
27.4
(1.4)
26.0

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

190

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202315  Inventories

Land
Development and construction costs
Part exchange and other

2023
£m
3,269.5
1,871.0
29.1
5,169.6

2022
£m
3,428.3
1,725.9
15.4
5,169.6

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents 

2023
£m
764.9

2022
£m
952.3

£15.7 million (2022: £10.7 million) of cash and cash equivalents held in Spain from customer 
deposits can only be used for development expenditure on the sites to which the deposits 
relate. Further information on financial assets can be found in Note 20.

17  Bank and other loans

€100.0 million 2.02% Senior Loan Notes 2023
€100.0 million 5.08% Senior Loan Notes 2030

Amounts due for settlement within one year
Amount due for settlement after one year
Total borrowings

Further information on loan facilities can be found in Note 20.

2023
£m
–
87.0
87.0

2023
£m
–
87.0
87.0

2022
£m
88.5
–
88.5

2022
£m
88.5
–
88.5

The markets in our core geographies, which are the primary drivers of our business, continue to 
trade positively. At 31 December 2023, the Group completed a net realisable value assessment 
of inventory, considering each site individually and based on estimates of sales price, costs to 
complete and costs to sell. At 31 December 2023, the provision held in the United Kingdom 
was £26.5 million (2022: £16.0 million) and £32.4 million in Spain (2022: £35.5 million). The 
table below details the movements on the inventory provision recorded in the year.

1 January
Net additions/(utilised)
Foreign exchange
31 December

16  Other financial assets

Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables
Other receivables

2023
£m
51.5
8.0
(0.6)
58.9

2022
£m
54.8
(5.1)
1.8
51.5

Current

2023
£m
82.5
41.9
124.4

2022
£m
136.8
54.4
191.2

Non-current
2023
£m
21.7
6.4
28.1

2022
£m
9.6
2.6
12.2

Included within trade receivables are mortgage receivables of £6.3 million (2022: £10.2 million), 
including shared equity loans. Shared equity loans were provided to certain customers to 
facilitate their house purchase and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Included 
within trade receivables is £33.0 million (2022: £34.5 million) of contract assets arising on 
construction contracts.

191

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202318  Trade and other payables

Trade payables
Land creditors
Social security and other taxes
Customer deposits
Accruals
Deferred income
Other payables

Current

2023
£m
299.9
301.2
8.3
80.3
266.4
25.5
11.2
992.8

2022
£m
376.4
395.0
9.6
89.7
230.8
23.7
5.6
1,130.8

Non-current
2023
£m
21.8
214.9
–
11.8
1.7
38.1
7.5
295.8

2022
£m
17.1
330.6
–
10.4
–
39.2
10.0
407.3

Revenue recognised in the current year that was included in the customer deposit balance 
brought forward at the beginning of the period was £89.7 million (2022: £82.4 million). Other 
payables include £9.2 million (2022: £11.1 million) of repayable grants.

Land creditors are denominated as follows:

Sterling
Euros

2023
£m
478.2
37.9
516.1

2022
£m
696.1
29.5
725.6

Land creditors of £397.4 million (2022: £493.0 million) are secured against land acquired for 
development. 

Further information on financial liabilities can be found in Note 20.

19  Leases

The Group as a lessee

The Group’s leases consist primarily of premises and equipment.

Right-of-use assets:
At 1 January 2023
At 31 December 2023
Additions during the year

Premises
£m
17.0
25.7
12.7

Equipment
£m
9.3
12.1
8.4

Lease liabilities:
At 1 January
Additions
Disposals
Interest charge
Payments
Foreign exchange
At 31 December

Current
Non-current
Total

Amounts recognised in the income statement:
Depreciation charged on right-of-use premises
Depreciation charged on right-of-use equipment
Interest on lease liabilities
Total

2023
£m
27.0
21.1
(0.5)
1.0
(8.9)
0.1
39.8

8.8
31.0
39.8

2023
£m
4.0
5.2
1.0
10.2

Total
£m
26.3
37.8
21.1

2022
£m
27.4
7.2
–
0.4
(8.0)
–
27.0

7.3
19.7
27.0

2022
£m
3.2
4.2
0.4
7.8

192

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202320  Financial instruments and fair value disclosures

Capital management

The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet and to have an appropriate funding 
structure. Shareholders’ equity and term debt are used to finance non-current assets and the 
medium to long term inventories. Revolving credit facilities are used to finance net current 
assets, including development and construction costs. The Group’s financing facilities contain 
the usual financial covenants, including minimum interest cover and maximum gearing. The 
Group met these requirements throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the 
financial statements. The Ordinary Dividend Policy is to return c.7.5% of net assets to 
shareholders annually, which will be at least £250 million per annum, in two equal instalments.

Financial assets and financial liabilities

Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows:

Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Land receivables
Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Mortgage receivables

Fair value 
hierarchy
a
a
a
a
b

Carrying value

Fair value

31 December 
2023
£m
764.9
2.8
10.3
100.1
6.3
884.4

31 December 
2022
£m
952.3
16.3
10.0
136.4
10.2
1,125.2

31 December 
2023
£m
764.9
2.8
10.3
100.1
6.3
884.4

31 December 
2022
£m
952.3
16.3
10.0
136.4
10.2
1,125.2

a.  The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the 

consolidated financial statements to approximate their fair value.

b.  Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives, including shared equity loans, and are measured at fair value through profit or 

loss. The fair value is established based on a publicly available national house price index, being significant other observable 
inputs (level 2).

Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade 
and other receivables for current and non-current amounts. Current and non-current trade and 
other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include £43.3 million (2022: £40.5 million) of 
non-financial assets.

Financial liabilities
Bank and other loans
Land creditors
Trade and other payables
Lease liabilities

Fair value 
hierarchy
a
b
b
b

Carrying value

Fair value

31 December 
2023
£m
87.0
516.1
608.4
39.8
1,251.3

31 December 
2022
£m
88.5
725.6
639.9
27.0
1,481.0

31 December 
2023
£m
84.6
516.1
608.4
39.8
1,248.9

31 December 
2022
£m
87.2
725.6
639.9
27.0
1,479.7

a.  The fair value of the €100 million fixed rate loan notes has been determined by reference to external interest rates and the 

Directors’ assessment of the margin for credit risk (level 2).

b.  The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the 

consolidated financial statements to approximate their fair value.

Land creditors and trade and other payables are included in the balance sheet as trade and 
other payables for current and non-current amounts. Current and non-current trade and other 
payables, as disclosed in Note 18, include £164.1 million (2022: £172.6 million) of non-financial 
liabilities.

The Group has designated the carrying value of €79.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 
(2022: €79.0 million) as a net investment hedge, equating to £68.7 million (2022: £69.9 million).

The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to 
significant unobservable inputs (level 3), nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities 
between levels of the fair value hierarchy. There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.

Forward contracts have been entered into to offset the foreign exchange movements on 
intra-Group loans to buy/(sell) against Sterling: €30.5 million (2022: €30.5 million), equivalent to 
£26.5 million (2022: £27.0 million). The fair value of the forward contracts is not material as they 
were entered into on or near 31 December in each year and mature less than one month later, 
hence the value of the derivative is negligible.

193

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202320  Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued

Market risk

The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency 
exchange rates and interest rates. The Group aims to manage the exposure to these risks using 
fixed or variable rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments.

(a) Interest rate risk management

The Group can be exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds, when required, 
at variable interest rates. The exposure to variable rate borrowings can fluctuate during the year 
due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of 
land payments. Group policy is to manage the volatility risk of interest rates on borrowings by 
a combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps such that the sensitivity to 
potential changes in variable rates is within acceptable levels. Group policy does not allow the 
use of derivatives to speculate against changes to future interest rates and they are only used 
to manage exposure to volatility. Interest rate hedging using derivatives has not taken place in 
the current or previous year. This policy has not changed during the year.

To measure the risk, variable rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are 
forecast monthly and compared to budget using management’s expectations of a possible 
change in interest rates. Interest expense volatility remained within acceptable limits throughout 
the year.

Interest rate sensitivity
The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate 
instruments and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date, is shown in the table 
below. The Group does not currently have any outstanding interest rate derivatives. The 1.00% 
(2022: 1.00%) change represents a reasonably possible change in interest rates over the next 
financial year. The table assumes all other variables remain constant in accordance with IFRS 7.

1.00% (2022: 1.00%) increase in interest rates

1.00% (2022: 1.00%) decrease in interest rates

(b) Foreign currency risk management

Income 
sensitivity
2023
£m
7.6

Equity 
sensitivity
2023
£m
7.6

Income 
sensitivity
2022
£m
9.5

Equity 
sensitivity
 2022
£m
9.5

Income 
sensitivity 
2023
£m
(7.6)

Equity 
sensitivity 
2023
£m
(7.6)

Income 
sensitivity
2022
£m
(9.5)

Equity 
sensitivity
2022
£m
(9.5)

The Group’s overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates. Its Spanish subsidiary is the only foreign operation of the Group. 

The Group is not materially exposed to transaction risks as all Group companies conduct their 
business in their respective functional currencies. Group policy requires that transaction risks 
are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency borrowings or 
derivatives where appropriate.

The Group is exposed to the translation risk from accounting for both the income and the net 
investment held in a functional currency other than Sterling. The net investment risk may be 
hedged using foreign currency borrowings and derivatives. Assets and liabilities denominated in 
non-functional currencies are retranslated each month using the latest exchange rates. Income 
is also measured monthly using the latest exchange rates and compared with a budget held at 
historical exchange rates. Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency 
borrowings, the translation risk of income is not hedged using derivatives. The policy is kept 
under periodic review and has not changed during the year.

194

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202320  Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued

Hedge accounting
Hedging activities are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are in line with Group policy.

Trade and other receivables comprise mainly amounts receivable from various housing 
associations, other housebuilders and corporate investors. Management considers that the 
credit quality of the various receivables is good in respect of the amounts outstanding and 
therefore credit risk is considered to be low. There is no significant concentration of risk. 

The Group has designated the carrying value of €79.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 
(2022: €79.0 million) held at the balance sheet date as a net investment hedge of part of the 
Group’s investment in Euro denominated assets, equating to £68.7 million (2022: £69.9 million).

The change in the carrying value of £(1.2) million (2022: £3.5 million) of the borrowings 
designated as a net investment hedge offset the exchange movement on the foreign currency 
net investments and are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.

Mortgage receivables, including shared equity loans, are in connection with various historical 
sales promotion schemes and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. The mortgages 
are secured by a second charge over the property with a low level of experienced credit losses 
due to non-payment.

The carrying amount of financial assets, as detailed above, represents the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk at the reporting date assuming that any security held has no value.

Foreign currency sensitivity
The Group is exposed to the Euro due to its Spanish operations. The following table details how 
the Group’s income and equity would increase/(decrease) on a before tax basis following a 5% 
(2022: 10%) change in the currency’s value against Sterling, all other variables remaining 
constant. The 5% change represents a reasonably possible change in the specified Euro 
exchange rates in relation to Sterling.

Euro weakens against Sterling
Euro strengthens against Sterling

Credit risk

Income 
sensitivity 
2023
£m
(0.4)
0.5

Equity 
sensitivity 
2023
£m
2.9
(3.2)

Income 
sensitivity 
2022
£m
(0.9)
1.0

Equity 
sensitivity 
 2022
£m
5.5
(6.8)

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet their obligations. 

Group policy is that surplus cash, when not used to repay borrowings, is placed on deposit with 
the Group’s main relationship banks and with other banks or money market funds based on a 
minimum credit rating and maximum exposure. There is no significant concentration of risk to 
any single counterparty.

Land receivables arise from sales of surplus land on deferred terms. If the credit risk is not 
acceptable, then the deferred payment must have adequate security, either by an appropriate 
guarantee or a charge over the land. The fair value of any land held as security is considered by 
management to be sufficient in relation to the carrying amount of the receivable to which it relates.

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to 
meet its obligations as they fall due. The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously 
monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the expected cash flow timings of financial 
assets and liabilities with the use of cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, overdrafts and 
committed revolving credit facilities with a minimum of 12 months to maturity. Future borrowing 
requirements are forecast on a monthly basis and funding headroom is maintained above 
forecast peak requirements to meet unforeseen events. At 31 December 2023, the Group’s 
borrowings and facilities had a range of maturities with a weighted average life of 4.8 years 
(2022: 1.9 years).

In December 2022 the Group entered into an agreement to refinance the €100 million 2.02% 
senior loan notes due June 2023 with €100 million 5.08% senior loan notes due June 2030. 
In July 2023 the Group renewed its revolving credit facility, increasing it to £600 million with a 
maturity of July 2028 and the option to request an extension for two further years. The 
borrowings and facilities contain financial covenants based on minimum tangible net worth, 
maximum gearing and minimum interest cover. The revolving credit facility contains sustainability-
linked performance targets based on reducing emissions and wastage. At the balance sheet 
date, the total unused committed amount was £600.0 million (2022: £550.0 million) and cash 
and cash equivalents were £764.9 million (2022: £952.3 million).

195

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202320  Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued

21  Retirement benefit obligations

The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows including interest, using the latest 
applicable relevant rate, based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay 
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows: 

Total retirement benefit obligations of £26.5 million (2022: £29.9 million) comprise a defined 
benefit pension liability of £26.3 million (2022: £29.6 million) and a post-retirement healthcare 
liability of £0.2 million (2022: £0.3 million).

On demand
Within one year
More than one year and 
less than two years
More than two years and 
less than five years
More than five years
31 December 2023

On demand
Within one year
More than one year and 
less than two years
More than two years and 
less than five years
More than five years
31 December 2022

Bank and 
other loans
£m
–
4.4

Land 
creditors
£m
–
307.7

Trade 
and other 
payables
£m
–
577.4

Lease 
liabilities
£m
–
10.1

Total
£m
–
899.6

4.4

139.2

15.2

9.8

168.6

13.3
93.5
115.6

58.1
30.5
535.5

12.0
3.8
608.4

15.4
9.7
45.0

98.8
137.5
1,304.5

Bank and 
other loans
£m
–
89.4

Land 
creditors
£m
–
401.5

Trade 
and other 
payables
£m
–
612.8

Lease 
liabilities
£m
–
7.7

Total
£m
–
1,111.4

–

216.6

14.8

7.0

238.4

–
–
89.4

100.6
31.0
749.7

9.1
3.2
639.9

11.0
2.6
28.3

120.7
36.8
1,507.3

The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme (TWPS), a defined benefit pension 
scheme, which is closed to both new members and to future accrual. The Group also operates 
defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK, which are available to new and existing 
UK employees.

Defined contribution pension plan

A defined contribution plan is an arrangement under which the Group pays contributions to an 
independently administered fund or policy; such contributions are based on a fixed percentage 
of employees’ pay. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further 
contributions to the fund/policy once the contributions have been paid. Employees’ benefits are 
determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the employee, together with 
investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individual’s 
chosen investments and the type of pension the employee chooses to buy at retirement. As a 
result, actuarial risk (that benefits will be lower than expected) and investment risk (that invested 
assets will not perform in line with expectations) fall on the employee.

The Group’s contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. 
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.

The Group’s defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan (TWPCP), is 
offered to all new and existing monthly paid employees and is provided by Scottish Widows. 
The People’s Pension is used for auto enrolment purposes for all weekly paid employees and 
those monthly paid employees not participating in the TWPCP. The People’s Pension is 
provided by People’s Partnership, one of the UK’s largest providers of financial benefits to 
construction industry employers and individuals.

The Group made contributions to its defined contribution arrangements of £15.1 million in the 
year (2022: £15.4 million), which is included in the income statement charge.

196

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202321  Retirement benefit obligations continued

Defined benefit pension scheme

The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme in the UK is the TWPS. The TWPS is a funded 
defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits to beneficiaries in the form of a 
guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on an 
individual member’s length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement 
or date of ceasing active accrual if earlier. Pension payments are generally increased in line with 
inflation. The TWPS is closed to new members and future accrual.

The Group operates the TWPS under the UK regulatory framework. Benefits are paid to 
members from a Trustee-administered fund and the Trustee is responsible for ensuring that the 
TWPS is well managed and that members’ benefits are secure. Scheme assets are held in trust.

The TWPS Trustee’s other duties include managing the investment of scheme assets, 
administration of scheme benefits and exercising of discretionary powers. The Group works 
closely with the Trustee to manage the TWPS. The Trustee of the TWPS owes fiduciary duties 
to the TWPS’ beneficiaries. The appointment of the Directors to the Trustee Board is 
determined by the TWPS trust documentation. 

The most recent triennial valuation of the TWPS was undertaken with a reference date of 
31 December 2019. The table below sets out the key assumptions agreed as part of 
this valuation.

Assumptions
Discount rate 
(pre-retirement)
Discount rate 
(post-retirement)
RPI inflation

CPI inflation

Mortality

2.35% per annum above the yield on the nominal gilt yield curve. Illustrative 
rate of 3.51% using the 15-year spot rate from the curve
0.50% per annum above the yield on the nominal gilt yield curve. Illustrative 
rate of 1.66% using the 15-year spot rate from the curve
Implied inflation gilt yield curve. Illustrative rate of 3.40% using the 15-year 
spot rate from the curve
RPI less 0.8%. Illustrative rate of 2.60% using the 15-year spot rate from 
the curve
104% of S3PxA tables, CMI_2019 improvements with 1.50% long term trend 
rate, a smoothing factor of 7 and an initial addition parameter of 0.5%

The result of this valuation was a Technical Provisions deficit at 31 December 2019 of 
£36.0 million. In March 2021, a new funding arrangement was agreed with the TWPS Trustee 
that committed the Group to paying up to £20.0 million per annum into an escrow account 
between April 2021 and March 2024. The first six months of contributions (£10.0 million) 
between 1 April 2021 and 30 September 2021 were guaranteed. From 1 October 2021, 
payments into the escrow account are subject to a quarterly funding test with the first funding 
test having an effective date of 30 September 2021. Contributions to the escrow are 
suspended should the TWPS Technical Provisions funding level at any quarter-end be 100% or 
more and would restart only if the funding level subsequently falls below 98%. The funding test 
at 30 September 2021 showed a funding level of 103% and it has remained above 98% since 
then and therefore escrow payments were suspended on, and from, 1 October 2021. The 
Group continues to contribute £5.1 million per annum from the Pension Funding Partnership 
and £2.0 million per annum to cover scheme expenses.

During 2023, the Group has engaged with the TWPS Trustee on the triennial valuation of the 
pension scheme with a reference date of 31 December 2022. At the current time, discussions 
are ongoing with the TWPS Trustee to agree the valuation as well as future contributions 
(if applicable). Legislation requires that the valuation must be concluded by 31 March 2024.

The escrow account, over which the TWPS Trustee holds a fixed charge, is recognised in other 
financial assets and at 31 December 2023 was £10.3 million (31 December 2022: £10.0 million), 
with interest earned by the escrow account being retained within the escrow account. Transfers 
out of the escrow account (either to the TWPS or the Group) are subject to the 2019 triennial 
funding arrangement entered into between the Group and the Trustee and as such the funds 
are restricted from use by the Group for other purposes and are therefore not classified as cash 
or cash equivalents.

On an IAS 19 accounting basis the underlying surplus in the TWPS at 31 December 2023 was 
£76.7 million (2022: £76.6 million). The terms of the TWPS are such that the Group does not have 
an unconditional right to a refund of surplus. As a result, the Group recognised an adjustment 
to the underlying surplus in the TWPS on an IAS 19 accounting basis of £103.0 million 
(2022: £106.2 million), resulting in an IFRIC 14 deficit of £26.3 million (2022: £29.6 million), 
which represented the present value of future contributions under the funding plan.

197

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202321  Retirement benefit obligations continued

In 2013, the Group introduced a £100.0 million Pension Funding Partnership that utilises the 
Group’s show homes, as well as six offices, in a sale and leaseback structure. This provides an 
additional £5.1 million of annual funding for the TWPS. The assets held within the Pension 
Funding Partnership do not affect the IAS 19 figures (before IFRIC 14) as they remain assets of 
the Group, and are not assets of the TWPS. At 31 December 2023 there was £79.9 million of 
property and £32.7 million of cash held within the structure (2022: £75.2 million of property and 
£39.8 million of cash). The current terms of the Funding Partnership are such that, should the 
TWPS be in a Technical Provisions deficit at 31 December 2028, then a bullet payment will be 
due to the TWPS equal to the lower of £100.0 million or the Technical Provisions deficit at 
that time.

The Group continues to work closely with the Trustee in managing pension risks, including 
management of interest rate, inflation and longevity risks. The TWPS assets are approximately 
98% (2022: 96%) hedged against changes in both interest rates and inflation expectations on 
the scheme’s long term funding basis that is currently used for investment strategy purposes. 
The TWPS also benefits from a bulk annuity contract which covers some of the largest liabilities 
in the scheme, providing protection against interest rate, inflation and longevity risk.

The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is 
approximately 12 years (2022: approximately 12 years).

Accounting assumptions

The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the TWPS, as 
detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent actuaries. The basis 
for these assumptions is prescribed by IAS 19 and they do not reflect the assumptions that may 
be used in future funding valuations of the TWPS.

The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference 
to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds with regard for the duration to the TWPS 
liabilities. The assumption for RPI inflation is set by reference to the Bank of England’s implied 
inflation curve with regard to the duration of the TWPS liabilities, with appropriate adjustments 
to reflect distortions due to supply and demand for inflation-linked securities. CPI inflation is 
set by reference to RPI inflation as no CPI-linked bonds exist to render implied CPI inflation 
directly observable.

The mortality assumption is based on 102% of S3PxA tables, CMI_2022 improvements with 
a 1% long term trend rate, a smoothing factor of 7, an initial addition parameter of 0.25%, 
a w2020 and w2021 parameter of 10% and a w2022 parameter of 35%. The mortality 
assumption used in 2022 was 102% of S3PxA tables, CMI_2021 improvements with a 1.25% 
long term trend rate, a smoothing factor of 7, an initial addition parameter of 0.25% and a 
w2020 and w2021 parameter of 10%.

Accounting valuation assumptions
At 31 December:
Discount rate for scheme liabilities
General pay inflation
Deferred pension increases
Pension increases*

2023

2022

4.60%
n/a
2.15%

4.95%
n/a
2.30%
1.90%-3.70% 2.10%-3.65%

*  Pension increases depend on the section of the TWPS of which each member is a part.

The current life expectancies (in years) underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the 
TWPS are:

Life expectancy 
Member currently aged 65
Member currently aged 45

2023

Male
86
87

Female
89
90

2022

Male
87
88

Female
89
91

The table below shows the impact to the present value of scheme liabilities of movements in 
key assumptions, measured using the same method as the defined benefit scheme.

Assumption
Discount rate
Rate of inflation*
Life expectancy

Change in assumption
Decrease by 0.5% p.a.
Increase by 0.5% p.a.
Members live 1 year longer

Impact on 
scheme liabilities
Increase by £90m
Increase by £51m
Increase by £66m

*  Assumed to affect deferred revaluation and pensioner increases in payment.

Impact on 
scheme 
liabilities
(%)
5.4
3.0
3.9

The sensitivity of increasing life expectancy has been reduced by the medically underwritten 
buy-in. See the section on risks and risk management at the end of this note.

198

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202321  Retirement benefit obligations continued

31 December 2023
Fair value of scheme assets of the TWPS
Equity(a)
Diversified growth funds(b)
Multi-asset credit
Direct lending
Fixed income
Liability driven investment(d)
Insurance policies in respect of certain members
Cash

31 December 2022
Fair value of scheme assets of the TWPS
Equity(a)
Diversified growth funds(b)
Hedge funds(c)
Property
Multi-asset credit
Direct lending
Fixed income
Liability driven investment(d)
Insurance policies in respect of certain members
Cash

Level 1
£m
–
–
6.5
3.9
2.8
56.6
–
7.0
76.8

Level 1
£m
–
–
–
0.1
32.5
0.1
6.0
165.0
–
4.8
208.5

Level 2
£m
76.4
228.5
202.3
–
193.3
615.7
–
–
1,316.2

Level 2
£m
38.3
139.3
–
–
152.1
–
172.2
428.8
–
–
930.7

Level 3
£m
–
–
–
124.5
–
–
136.0
–
260.5

Level 3
£m
–
–
220.3
2.3
–
142.5
–
–
142.0
–
507.1

Total
£m
76.4
228.5
208.8
128.4
196.1
672.3
136.0
7.0
1,653.5

Total
£m
38.3
139.3
220.3
2.4
184.6
142.6
178.2
593.8
142.0
4.8
1,646.3

Percentage of 
total scheme 
assets
4.6%
13.8%
12.6%
7.8%
11.9%
40.7%
8.2%
0.4%
100.0%

Percentage of 
total scheme 
assets
2.3%
8.5%
13.4%
0.1%
11.2%
8.7%
10.8%
36.1%
8.6%
0.3%
100.0%

(a)  This amount relates to Volatility Controlled Equities (VCE). This fund has 2.5 – 8x leverage exposure, with a target of 4x. The leverage at 31 December 2023 was 3.5x (31 December 2022: 5.2x).

(b)  This amount relates to the Scheme’s Diversified Risk Premia (DRP) allocation. The net leverage on the two funds in the DRP allocation at 31 December 2023 was 1.4x (31 December 2022: 0.2x) and 1.0x. The latter fund was a new investment over 2023. The net 

leverage on the previous DRP fund as at 31 December 2022 was 0.5x.

(c)  The leverage on this fund at 31 December 2022 was 0.7x. As at 31 December 2023 the Scheme was no longer invested in this fund.

(d)  The bespoke Liability Driven Investment (LDI) fund is designed to protect the Scheme against movements in interest rates and inflation. The overall leverage on the LDI fund at 31 December 2023 was approximately 2.8x (31 December 2022: 3.7x).

The value of the annuities held by the TWPS are set equal to the value of the liabilities which these annuities match. All other fair values are provided by the fund managers and collated by 
Northern Trust as custodian, who independently price the securities from their preferred vendor sources where the data is publicly available and rely on investment manager data where this 
information is not available. Where available, the fair values are quoted prices (e.g. listed equity). Unlisted investments (e.g. private equity) are included at values provided by the fund manager 
in accordance with relevant guidance. Other significant assets are valued based on observable inputs.

There are no investments in respect of the Group’s own securities.

199

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202321  Retirement benefit obligations continued

The table below details the movements in the TWPS pension liability and assets recorded through the income statement and other comprehensive income.

Present value 
of obligation
£m
(1,675.9)
–
(80.3)
(80.3)
–
27.1
(34.9)
(29.5)
8.4
(28.9)
–
–
105.3
(1,679.8)

2023

Fair value of 
scheme assets
£m
1,646.3
(3.3)
79.0
75.7
29.7
–
–
–
–
29.7
7.1
–
(105.3)
1,653.5

Asset/(liability) 
recognised on 
balance sheet
£m
(29.6)
(3.3)
(1.3)
(4.6)
29.7
27.1
(34.9)
(29.5)
8.4
0.8
7.1
–
–
(26.3)

Present value 
of obligation
£m
(2,482.3)
–
(44.9)
(44.9)
–
(20.0)
758.8
(73.6)
84.1
749.3
–
–
102.0
(1,675.9)

2022

Fair value of 
scheme assets
£m
2,445.3
(2.3)
44.3
42.0
(746.1)
–
–
–
–
(746.1)
7.1
–
(102.0)
1,646.3

2023
£m
1,653.5
(1,576.8)
76.7
(103.0)
(26.3)

Asset/(liability) 
recognised on 
balance sheet
£m
(37.0)
(2.3)
(0.6)
(2.9)
(746.1)
(20.0)
758.8
(73.6)
84.1
3.2
7.1
–
–
(29.6)

2022
£m
1,646.3
(1,569.7)
76.6
(106.2)
(29.6)

At 1 January
Administration expenses
Interest (expense)/income
Total amount recognised in income statement
Remeasurement gain/(loss) on scheme assets
Change in demographic assumptions
Change in financial assumptions
Experience loss
Adjustment to liabilities for IFRIC 14
Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income
Employer contributions
Employee contributions
Benefit payments
At 31 December

Accounting valuation
Fair value of scheme assets
Present value of scheme obligations
Surplus in scheme
IFRIC 14 limitation on recognition of surplus
Deficit after IFRIC 14 adjustment

200

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202321  Retirement benefit obligations continued

Risks and risk management

The TWPS, in common with the majority of such defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, has a number of areas of risk. These areas of risk, and the ways in which the Group has sought to 
manage them, are set out in the table below.

The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the Group, and from an accounting perspective, i.e. the extent to which such risks affect the 
amounts recorded in the Group’s financial statements.

Although investment decisions in the UK are the responsibility of the TWPS Trustee, the Group takes an active interest to ensure that the pension scheme risks are managed efficiently. The Group 
has regular meetings with the Trustee to discuss investment performance, regulatory changes and proposals to actively manage the position of the TWPS. 

Risk
Asset volatility

Changes in bond yields

Investing in foreign 
currency

Asset/liability mismatch

Description
The TWPS strategy remains well diversified through its exposure to a range of asset classes, including volatility-controlled equities, direct loans, government bonds 
and a broad spectrum of corporate bonds and other fixed income exposures. The TWPS invests across a number of managers to reduce manager concentration 
risk.
The TWPS does not target a specific asset allocation but instead bases its strategic asset allocation on the return objectives and risk constraints agreed upon by the 
Trustee. In response to the significant increases in bond yields over 2022, the Trustee took prudent steps to ensure that the TWPS continued to have sufficient 
collateral in support of the liability-hedging programme. During the course of 2023, the Company and Trustee have rebalanced the portfolio into more liquid assets 
with the appointment of two new managers during the year, both of which have daily dealing terms and which are reflected in the asset allocation at the end of the 
reporting period.
Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities. However, the investment in bond and liability-matching derivatives offers a significant degree 
of matching, i.e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields substantially matches the movement in the funding or accounting liabilities. In this way, 
the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
To maintain appropriate diversification of investments within the TWPS assets and to take advantage of overseas investment returns, a proportion of the underlying 
investment portfolio is invested overseas. To balance the risk of investing in foreign currencies while having an obligation to settle benefits in Sterling, a currency 
hedging programme, using forward foreign exchange contracts, has been put in place to reduce the currency exposure of these overseas investments to the targeted 
level.
In order to manage the TWPS’ economic exposure to interest rates and inflation rates, a liability-hedging programme has been put in place. Derivatives are used to 
hedge changes in the TWPS’ assets from changes in its liabilities, substantially reducing asset/liability mismatch risk. However, it is only possible to target matching of 
the assets with the liabilities assessed on one measure. Due to its relevance in driving Company contributions, the current policy is to assess the matching against the 
TWPS’ long term funding basis. This can lead to a slight mis-match between the assets and the liabilities assessed on the Company’s accounting basis, in particular 
if there is a change in corporate bond yield spreads.

201

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202321  Retirement benefit obligations continued

Risk
Liquidity

Life expectancy

Climate risk

Description
The TWPS requires sufficient liquidity to meet benefit payments, and to ensure sufficient collateral to support the liability-hedging programme. Market volatility in 
Q3/Q4 2022 required use of TWPS’ liquid assets to ensure sufficient collateral was maintained. Although the existing processes ensured sufficient liquidity throughout 
the volatility, these processes were updated to provide further liquidity, and now include holding sufficient assets within the liability-hedging programme to cover the 
impact of a further 4.0% increase in yields. The manager of the liability-hedging programme also has direct access to further liquid assets should they be required.
Across the portfolio, the TWPS has liquid assets which could be sold at short notice if required. In particular, 75% are managed in either segregated accounts or 
daily/weekly dealt pooled funds and can be realised within a few business days under normal market conditions, and 7% are invested in pooled funds with monthly 
redemption dates. Of the remaining assets, 2% could be redeemed within approximately six to nine months of notification in normal market conditions, and the rest 
are made up of illiquid assets including insurance policies and illiquid debt (which include commercial real estate debt and direct lending bonds).
The majority of the TWPS obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member on retirement, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the 
TWPS’ liabilities. The inflation-linked nature of the majority of benefit payments from the TWPS increases the sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in life expectancy. 
During 2014, the Group reached agreement with Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited (now Just Group plc) to insure the benefits of 10% of members with 
the greatest anticipated liabilities through a medically underwritten buy-in. By insuring these members, the Group has removed more than 10% of longevity risk from 
the TWPS by significantly reducing the longevity risk in relation to a large proportion of the liabilities.
The TWPS Trustee recognises that climate change is a financial risk affecting the TWPS assets. The TWPS Trustee integrates the monitoring of appropriate climate 
risk metrics into its risk management framework and considers these metrics when making investment decisions. The TWPS Trustee requires its appointed 
investment managers to integrate climate change risks and opportunities into their investment processes as applied to the assets of the TWPS.

202

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202322  Provisions

At 1 January 2022
Additions
Utilisation
Released
Foreign exchange
At 31 December 2022
Additions
Utilisation
Released
Foreign exchange
At 31 December 2023

Current
Non-current
31 December

Cladding 
fire safety
£m
144.5
80.0
(15.8)
–
–
208.7
–
(16.8)
–
–
191.9

Leasehold
£m
53.6
–
(30.1)
–
–
23.5
–
(4.0)
–
–
19.5

Other
£m
47.0
23.9
(7.6)
(5.4)
0.2
58.1
24.3
(7.0)
–
(0.1)
75.3

2023
£m
124.9
161.8
286.7

Total
£m
245.1
103.9
(53.5)
(5.4)
0.2
290.3
24.3
(27.8)
–
(0.1)
286.7

2022
£m
106.7
183.6
290.3

In 2018 the Group established an exceptional provision for the cost of replacing ACM on a 
small number of legacy developments, which was increased by £10.0 million in 2020 to reflect 
the latest estimate of costs to complete the planned works. Following the guidance issued by 
RICS in 2021, the Group announced an additional £125.0 million provision to fund cladding fire 
safety improvements and in 2022 recognised a further £80.0 million (see Note 6). It is expected 
that around a third of the remaining provision will be utilised over the next 12 months.

In 2017 the Group launched an assistance scheme to help certain customers restructure their ground 
rent agreements with their freeholder and established an associated provision of £130.0 million 
to fund this. Following the agreement of voluntary undertakings with the CMA, the Group 
expects that the majority of the remaining provision will be utilised within the next 12 months.

Other provisions consist of a remedial work provision covering various obligations on a limited 
number of sites across the Group. Other provisions also include amounts for legal claims and 
other contract-related costs associated with various matters arising across the Group, the 
majority of which are anticipated to be settled within a three-year period; however, there is 
some uncertainty regarding the timing of these outflows due to the nature of the claims and the 
length of time it can take to reach settlement.

203

23  Share capital

Authorised:
22,200,819,176 (2022: 22,200,819,176) ordinary shares of 
1p each
1,158,299,201 (2022: 1,158,299,201) deferred ordinary shares 
of 24p each
31 December

2023
£m

222.0

278.0
500.0

Issued and fully paid:
31 December 2022
31 December 2023

Number of 
ordinary shares

Number of 
deferred 
ordinary shares

3,556,985,103
3,556,985,103

1,065,566,274
1,065,566,274

2022
£m

222.0

278.0
500.0

£m

291.3
291.3

The Placing, Retail and Subscription shares placed rank pari passu in all respects with the 
existing ordinary shares of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to receive all 
dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid after the date of issue.

During the year, the Company issued nil (2022: 0.3 million) ordinary shares to satisfy option 
exercises. During the prior year, the Group purchased 116,942,362 of its own ordinary shares, 
of which 25,000,000 were transferred to be held in treasury and the remainder cancelled. 
The average share price of the purchased shares was 128.27 pence for a total cost, including 
expenses, of £151.3 million.

The Company has two classes of shares:

•  Ordinary shares of 1p, each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 

the Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association.

•  Deferred ordinary shares of 24p, which carry no voting rights and no entitlement to any 

dividend. The deferred ordinary shares were issued as part of a capital reorganisation in 2009 
and have not subsequently changed.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202324  Share premium

At 1 January
Shares issued in year
At 31 December

2023
£m
777.9
–
777.9

2022
£m
777.5
0.4
777.9

Capital redemption reserve

The capital redemption reserve arose on a redemption of the Company’s shares and is not 
distributable.

Translation reserve

The translation reserve consists of exchange differences arising on the translation of overseas 
operations. It also includes changes in the fair value of hedging instruments where such 
instruments are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations.

25  Other reserves

Other reserves

£499.1 million of other reserves arose on the cash box placing that occurred in June 2020 and 
qualified for merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.

Balance at 1 January 2022
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations
Movement in fair value of hedging 
instruments
Shares repurchased and cancelled 
in year
Balance at 31 December 2022
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations
Movement in fair value of hedging 
instruments
Balance at 31 December 2023

Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
31.5

Translation 
reserve
£m
6.1

Other
£m
504.0

Total other 
reserves
£m
541.6

–

–

0.9
32.4

–

–
32.4

6.6

(3.5)

–
9.2

(2.4)

1.2
8.0

–

–

–
504.0

6.6

(3.5)

0.9
545.6

–

(2.4)

–
504.0

1.2
544.4

204

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202326  Own shares

Balance at 1 January 2022
Shares acquired
Disposed of on exercise of options
Balance at 31 December 2022
Disposed of on exercise of options
Balance at 31 December 2023

£m
14.6
33.8
(5.3)
43.1
(13.4)
29.7

The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Taylor Wimpey plc purchased in the 
market, those held as treasury shares and those held by the Taylor Wimpey Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts to satisfy options and conditional share awards under the Group’s share plans.

Million shares
Ordinary shares held in trust and treasury for bonus, option and 
performance award plans

2023

21.9

2022

30.9

During the current and prior year, Taylor Wimpey plc purchased none of its own shares to be 
held in the ESOTs and in the prior year purchased £33.8 million of its own shares to be held in 
treasury. The market value of the shares held in the ESOT and treasury at 31 December 2023 was 
£32.2 million (2022: £31.4 million) and their nominal value was £0.2 million (2022: £0.4 million). 
Dividends on these shares have been waived except for a nominal aggregate amount in pence.

ESOTs are used to hold the Company’s shares which have been acquired on the market. These 
shares and those held in treasury are used to meet the valid exercise of options and/or vesting 
of conditional awards and/or award of shares under the Executive Incentive Scheme, Bonus 
Deferral Plan, Performance Share Plan, Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the 
matching award of shares under the Share Incentive Plan. 

The ESOTs’ entire holding of shares and those held in treasury at 31 December 2023 were 
covered by outstanding options and conditional awards over shares at that date.

27  Notes to the cash flow statement

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid 
investments with an original maturity of three months or less.

Movement in net cash

Balance at 1 January 2022
Net cash flow
Foreign exchange
Balance at 31 December 2022
Net cash flow
Foreign exchange
Balance at 31 December 2023

Cash and cash 
equivalents 
£m
921.0
28.7
2.6
952.3
(185.8)
(1.6)
764.9

Bank and 
other loans 
£m
(84.0)
–
(4.5)
(88.5)
–
1.5
(87.0)

Total  
net cash  
£m 
837.0
28.7
(1.9)
863.8
(185.8)
(0.1)
677.9

In December 2022, the Group entered into an agreement to refinance the €100 million loan 
notes maturing in June 2023. The new loan notes were issued in June 2023, maturing 
June 2030. For movements in lease liabilities in the year see Note 19. Inventory working capital 
movements in the cash flow statement include the related movements in land debtors and 
land creditors. 

28  Contingent liabilities and capital commitments

The Group in the normal course of business has given guarantees and entered into counter-
indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and has given guarantees 
in respect of the Group’s share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures. The possibility 
of any outflow in settlement for these is considered to be remote.

The Group has entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of 
performance bonds.

Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions 
in progress. The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions 
and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is 
unlikely to succeed. 

The Group has no significant capital commitments at 31 December 2023 (2022: none).

205

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202329  Share-based payments

Equity-settled share option plan

Details of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 131 to 152. The tables below show the movements in the schemes in 
the year as well as their weighted average exercise price (WAEP).

Sharesave (SAYE):
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
Granted during the year
Forfeited during the year
Exercised during the year
Outstanding at the end of the year
Exercisable at the end of the year

2023

2022

Options
29,408,740
7,746,227
(7,516,682)
(3,725,149)
25,913,136
2,294,076

WAEP (in £)
0.95
0.91
1.03
0.98
0.91
1.00

Options
24,020,334
15,785,250
(9,591,033)
(805,811)
29,408,740
2,245,075

WAEP (in £)
1.11
0.83
1.11
1.30
0.95
1.24

The remaining Sharesave options outstanding at 31 December 2023 had a range of exercise prices from £0.83 to £1.42 (2022: £0.83 to £1.59) and a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 2.91 years (2022: 3.03 years).

Share Incentive Plan (SIP):
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
Granted during the year
Forfeited during the year
Exercised during the year
Outstanding at the end of the year
Exercisable at the end of the year

2023

2022

Options
7,288,698
1,866,218
(883,601)
(995,545)
7,275,770
3,419,633

WAEP (in £)
–
–
–
–
–
–

Options
6,496,507
2,012,970
(713,665)
(507,114)
7,288,698
3,288,991

WAEP (in £)
–
–
–
–
–
–

The table above represents shares that are granted to employees on a matching basis; when the employee joins the scheme, purchased shares are matched on a 1:1 basis and these awards do 
not expire.

Performance Share Plan (PSP):
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
Granted during the year
Forfeited during the year
Exercised during the year
Outstanding at the end of the year
Exercisable at the end of the year

2023

2022

Options 
10,543,277
2,019,637
(4,845,594)
(1,838,605)
5,878,715
–

WAEP (in £)
–
–
–
–
–
–

Options 
15,731,848
1,891,265
(5,700,993)
(1,378,843)
10,543,277
–

WAEP (in £)
–
–
–
–
–
–

The conditional awards outstanding at 31 December 2023 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.77 years (2022: 1.24 years). 

206

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202329  Share-based payments continued

The average share price at the date of exercise across all options exercised during the period was £1.25 (2022: £1.32). For share plans granted during the current and preceding year, the fair 
value of the awards at the grant date was determined as follows:

Model
Weighted average share price
Weighted average exercise price
Expected volatility
Expected life
Risk-free rate
Expected dividend yield
Weighted average fair value of options granted in year

Share awards with 
no market conditions

Share awards with
market conditions

2023
Binomial
£1.17
£0.79
36%
3/5 years
4.4%
7.65%
£0.42

2022
Binomial
£0.93
£0.77
41%
3/5 years
4.2%
4.24%
£0.34

2023
Monte Carlo
£1.28
Nil
42%
3 years
3.79%
0.0%
£0.76

2022
Monte Carlo
£1.30
Nil
42%
3 years
1.46%
0.0%
£0.72

Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the expected term. The expected life used in the model was based on historical exercise patterns.

The Group recognised a share-based payment expense of £11.1 million in the year (2022: £14.1 million), which was composed of £8.9 million in relation to equity settled schemes and £2.2 million 
in relation to cash settled elements (2022: £14.0 million and £0.1 million).

207

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202330  Related party transactions

31  Dividends

Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been 
eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. The pension schemes of the 
Group are related parties. Arrangements between the Group and its pension schemes are 
disclosed in Note 21. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed 
below. The Group has loans with joint ventures that are detailed in Note 13. 

Trading transactions

During the year, Group sales to joint ventures totalled £5.2 million (2022: £17.2 million) and 
purchases totalled £7.0 million (2022: £5.4 million). Interest received from joint ventures 
was £2.0 million (2022: £1.8 million). At 31 December 2023 receivables from joint ventures 
were £45.7 million (31 December 2022: £40.5 million) and payables were £0.2 million 
(31 December 2022: £0.9 million).

Remuneration of key management personnel

The key management personnel of the Group are the members of the Group Management 
Team (GMT) as presented on page 95. 

The remuneration information for the Executive Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report 
on page 141. The aggregate compensation for the other members of the GMT is as follows: 

Short term employee benefits
Post-employment benefits
Total (excluding share-based payments charge)

2023
£m
4.5
0.3
4.8

2022
£m
4.2
0.3
4.5

In addition to the amounts above, a share-based payment charge of £1.0 million (2022: 
£2.1 million) related to share options held by members of the GMT.

Proposed
Interim dividend 2023: 4.79p (2022: 4.62p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each
Final dividend 2023: 4.79p (2022: 4.78p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each

Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders
Paid
Final dividend 2022: 4.78p (2021: 4.44p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each
Interim dividend 2023: 4.79p (2022: 4.62p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each

2023
£m

169.1

169.4
338.5

168.8

169.1
337.9

2022
£m

162.9

169.0
331.9

160.9

162.9
323.8

The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 of 4.79 pence 
per share (2022: 4.78 pence per share) subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, with an equivalent final dividend charge of c.£169 million based on the number of 
shares in issue at the end of the year (2022: £168.8 million). The final dividend will be paid on 
10 May 2024 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 2 April 2024.

In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the Reporting Period’, the proposed final dividend has 
not been accrued as a liability at 31 December 2023.

208

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202332  Alternative performance measures

Net operating assets

The Group uses a number of alternative performance measures (APMs) which are not defined 
within UK-adopted international accounting standards. The Directors use these measures in 
order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and, as such, these 
measures should be considered alongside statutory measures. The following APMs are referred 
to throughout the year end results. 

Net operating assets is defined as basic net assets less net cash, excluding net taxation 
balances and accrued dividends. Average net operating assets is the average of the opening 
and closing net operating assets of the 12-month period. With return on net operating assets, 
the Directors consider this to be an important measure of the underlying operating efficiency 
and performance of the Group.

Profit before taxation and exceptional items and profit for the period before 
exceptional items

The Directors consider the removal of exceptional items from the reported results provides more 
clarity on the performance of the Group. They are reconciled to profit before tax and profit for 
the period on the face of the consolidated income statement.

Operating profit and operating profit margin

Throughout the Annual Report and Accounts operating profit is used as one of the main 
measures of performance. Operating profit is defined as profit on ordinary activities before 
financing, exceptional items and tax, after share of results of joint ventures. The Directors 
consider this to be an important measure of the underlying performance of the Group. 
Operating profit margin is calculated as operating profit divided by total revenue.

Profit on ordinary activities before financing (£m)
Adjusted for:
     Share of results of joint ventures (£m) (Note 13)
    Exceptional items (£m) (Note 6)
Operating profit (£m)
Revenue (£m) (Note 4)
Operating profit margin

2023
467.8

2.4
–
470.2
3,514.5
13.4%

2022
827.5

15.9
80.0
923.4
4,419.9
20.9%

Basic net assets (£m)
Adjusted for:
    Cash (£m) (Note 16)
    Borrowings (£m) (Note 17)
    Net taxation (£m)
    Accrued dividends (£m)
Net operating assets (£m)
Average basic net assets (£m)
Average net operating assets (£m)

Return on net operating assets

2023
4,523.4

2022
4,502.1

2021
4,314.0

(764.9)
87.0
(21.8)
–
3,823.7
4,512.8
3,721.6

(952.3)
88.5
(18.8)
–
3,619.5
4,408.1
3,535.1

(921.0)
84.0
(26.4)
–
3,450.6

Return on net operating assets is defined as rolling 12-month operating profit divided by the 
average of opening and closing net operating assets. The Directors consider this to be an 
important measure of the underlying operating efficiency and performance of the Group.

Operating profit (£m)
Average net operating assets (£m)
Return on net operating assets

2023
470.2
3,721.6
12.6%

2022
923.4
3,535.1
26.1%

209

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202332  Alternative performance measures continued

Net cash

Tangible net assets per share

This is calculated as net assets before any accrued dividends, excluding intangible assets, 
divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the period. The Directors 
consider this to be a good measure of the value intrinsic within each ordinary share.

Basic net assets (£m)
Adjusted for:
    Intangible assets (£m) (Note 11)
Tangible net assets (£m)
Ordinary shares in issue (millions)
Tangible net assets per share (pence)

2023
4,523.4

(2.6)
4,520.8
3,557.0
127.1

2022
4,502.1

(4.2)
4,497.9
3,557.0
126.5

Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share

This is calculated as earnings attributed to shareholders of the Parent, excluding exceptional 
items and tax on exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue 
during the period. The Directors consider this provides an important measure of the underlying 
earnings capacity of the Group. Note 10 shows a reconciliation from basic and diluted earnings 
per share to adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share.

Net operating asset turn

This is defined as 12-month rolling total revenue divided by the average of opening and closing 
net operating assets. The Directors consider this to be a good indicator of how efficiently the 
Group is utilising its assets to generate value for shareholders.

Revenue (£m) (Note 4)
Average net operating assets (£m)
Net operating asset turn

2023
3,514.5
3,721.6
0.94

2022
4,419.9
3,535.1
1.25

Net cash is defined as total cash less total borrowings (bank and other loans). This is 
considered by the Directors to be the best indicator of the financing position of the Group. 
This is reconciled in Note 27.

Cash conversion 

This is defined as cash generated from operations, which excludes payments relating to 
exceptional charges, divided by operating profit on a rolling 12-month basis. The Directors 
consider this measure to be a good indication of how efficiently the Group is turning profit 
into cash.

Cash generated from operations (£m)
Operating profit (£m)
Cash conversion

Adjusted gearing

2023
288.9
470.2
61.4%

2022
705.0
923.4
76.3%

This is defined as adjusted net debt divided by basic net assets. The Directors consider this to 
be a more representative measure of the Group’s gearing levels. Adjusted net debt is defined as 
net cash less land creditors.

Cash (£m) (Note 16)
Loans (£m) (Note 17)
Net cash (£m)
Land creditors (£m) (Note 18)
Adjusted net debt (£m)
Basic net assets (£m)
Adjusted gearing

2023
764.9
(87.0)
677.9
(516.1)
161.8
4,523.4
(3.6)%

2022
952.3
(88.5)
863.8
(725.6)
138.2
4,502.1
(3.1)%

33  Post balance sheet events

There were no material subsequent events affecting the Group after 31 December 2023.

210

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, Taylor Wimpey plc has not presented 
its own income statement. The profit of the Company for the financial year was £278.4 million 
(2022: £897.6 million).

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 
27 February 2024. They were signed on its behalf by:

J Daly 
Director 

C Carney
Director

Note

4
5

5

6
7

6
7

8
9
10
11
12

2023
£m

4,509.5
67.6
4,577.1

686.2
666.4
1,352.6

(798.8)
–
(798.8)
553.8
5,130.9

–
(87.0)
(1.0)
5,042.9

291.3
777.9
(29.7)
536.0
3,467.4
5,042.9

2022
£m

4,500.6
63.4
4,564.0

512.9
868.3
1,381.2

(766.5)
(88.5)
(855.0)
526.2
5,090.2

–
–
(1.0)
5,089.2

291.3
777.9
(43.1)
536.0
3,527.1
5,089.2

Company balance sheet
at 31 December 2023

Non-current assets
Investments in Group undertakings
Trade and other receivables

Current assets
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents

Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Bank and other loans

Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Bank and other loans 
Provisions
Net assets

Equity 
Share capital
Share premium 
Own shares
Other reserves
Retained earnings
Total equity

211

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year to 31 December 2023

Total equity at 1 January 2022
Profit for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
New share capital subscribed
Own shares acquired and cancelled
Utilisation of own shares
Cash cost of satisfying share options
Capital contribution on share-based payments
Dividends approved and paid
Total equity at 31 December 2022
Profit for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
Utilisation of own shares
Cash cost of satisfying share options
Capital contribution on share-based payments
Dividends approved and paid
Total equity at 31 December 2023

Note

8

15

15

Share 
capital
£m
292.2
–
–
–
(0.9)
–
–
–
–
291.3
–
–
–
–
–
–
291.3

Share 
premium
£m
777.5
–
–
0.4
–
–
–
–
–
777.9
–
–
–
–
–
–
777.9

Own 
shares
£m
(14.6)
–
–
–
(33.8)
5.3
–
–
–
(43.1)
–
–
13.4
–
–
–
(29.7)

Other 
reserves
£m
535.1
–
–
–
0.9
–
–
–
–
536.0
–
–
–
–
–
–
536.0

Retained 
earnings
£m 
3,060.4
897.6
897.6
–
(117.5)
–
(3.6)
14.0
(323.8)
3,527.1
278.4
278.4
–
(9.1)
8.9
(337.9)
3,467.4

Total
£m
4,650.6
897.6
897.6
0.4
(151.3)
5.3
(3.6)
14.0
(323.8)
5,089.2
278.4
278.4
13.4
(9.1)
8.9
(337.9)
5,042.9

212

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Notes to the Company financial statements

1  Accounting policies

Investments in Group undertakings

The following accounting policies have been used consistently, unless otherwise stated, in 
dealing with items which are considered material.

Basis of preparation

The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 101 
(FRS 101) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, these financial statements 
were prepared in accordance with FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ as issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council as applied in conformity with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 and under the historical cost convention except as otherwise stated below.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions 
available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, 
capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, 
presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and 
related party transactions.

The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.

Investments are included in the balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment. The 
Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable. If any such indication 
of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount of the 
investment. If the recoverable amount is less than the value of the investment, the investment 
is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. An impairment 
loss is expensed immediately. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, due to a 
change in circumstances or in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount, 
the carrying amount of the investment is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 
amount, so long as it does not exceed the original carrying value prior to the impairment 
being recognised.

The Company values its investments in subsidiary holding companies based on a comparison 
between the net assets recoverable by the subsidiary company and the investment held. 
Where the net assets are lower than the investment an impairment is recorded. For trading 
subsidiaries, the investment carrying value in the Company is assessed against the net present 
value of the cash flows of the subsidiary.

Going concern

Taxation

The Group, which the Company heads, has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities, 
taking into account the Principal Risks identified on pages 74 to 77. Having considered these 
forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Group’s financing arrangements and capital 
structure provide both the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group to 
conduct its business for at least the next 12 months. Accordingly, the Company financial 
statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

Management has not made any individual accounting judgements that are material to the 
Company and does not consider there to be any key sources of estimation uncertainty.

The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit 
before tax because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in 
other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.

The Company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 

Any liability or credit in respect of group relief in lieu of current tax is also calculated using 
corporation tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date unless a different rate (including a nil rate) has been agreed within the Group.

213

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20231  Accounting policies continued

Own shares

Foreign currencies

Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in Sterling at actual rates as of the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end. 

Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates after the date of the transaction is 
included as an exchange gain or loss in profit and loss.

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any loss allowance based on 
expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on the probability 
of default and the magnitude of the loss if there is a default. The assessment of probability of 
default is based on historical data adjusted for any known factors that would influence the 
future amount to be received in relation to the receivable.

Trade and other payables

Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost.

Borrowings

Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost. 

Share-based payments

The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of its 
subsidiaries. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date. 
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the 
estimate of shares that will vest. The cost of equity-settled share-based payments granted to 
employees of subsidiary companies is borne by the employing company, without recharge. 
As such the Company’s investment in the subsidiary is increased by an equivalent amount.

The cost of the Company’s investment in its own shares, which comprise shares held in 
treasury by the Company and shares held by employee benefit trusts for the purpose of funding 
certain of the Company’s share option plans, is shown as a reduction in shareholders’ equity.

Dividends paid

Dividends are charged to the Company’s retained earnings reserve in the period of payment in 
respect of an interim dividend, and in the period in which shareholders’ approval is obtained in 
respect of the Company’s final dividend.

2  Particulars of employees

Directors

2023
Number
2

2022
Number
2

The Executive Directors received all of their remuneration, as disclosed in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on pages 131 to 152, from Taylor Wimpey UK Limited. This remuneration is 
reflective of the Directors’ service to the Company and all its subsidiaries.

3  Auditors’ remuneration

Total audit fees
Non-audit fees
Total

2023
£m
0.2
–
0.2

2022
£m
0.2
–
0.2

A description of other services is included in Note 6 of the Group financial statements.

214

Notes to the Company financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20234  Investments in Group undertakings

6  Trade and other payables

Cost 
At 1 January 2023
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments
At 31 December 2023
Provision for impairment
At 1 January 2023
At 31 December 2023

Carrying amount
At 31 December 2023
At 31 December 2022

Shares
£m

7,425.2
8.9
7,434.1

(2,924.6)
(2,924.6)

4,509.5
4,500.6

All investments are unlisted and information about all subsidiaries is listed on pages 219 to 225.

Due to Group undertakings
Other payables
Corporation tax creditor

Current

2023
£m
789.9
1.0
7.9
798.8

2022
£m
762.6
3.2
0.7
766.5

Non-current
2023
£m
–
–
–
–

2022
£m
–
–
–
–

Amounts due to Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and are 
predominantly interest bearing.

7  Bank and other loans

€100.0 million 2.02% Senior Loan Notes 2023
€100.0 million 5.08% Senior Loan Notes 2030

2023
£m
–
87.0
87.0

2023
£m
–
87.0
87.0

2022
£m
88.5
–
88.5

2022
£m
88.5
–
88.5

5  Trade and other receivables

Due from Group undertakings
Other receivables

Current

2023
£m
683.0
3.2
686.2

2022
£m
510.1
2.8
512.9

Non-current
2023
£m
64.0
3.6
67.6

2022
£m
62.3
1.1
63.4

Amounts due for settlement within one year
Amount due for settlement after one year
Total borrowings

Amounts due from Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and are 
predominantly interest bearing.

215

Notes to the Company financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 20238  Share capital

Authorised:
22,200,819,176 (2022: 22,200,819,176) ordinary shares of 
1p each
1,158,299,201 (2022: 1,158,299,201) deferred ordinary shares 
of 24p each

2023
£m

222.0

278.0
500.0

9  Share premium

2022
£m

222.0

278.0
500.0

At 1 January
Shares issued in year
At 31 December

10  Own shares

Number of 
ordinary shares

Number of 
deferred 
ordinary shares

£m

Own shares

2023
£m
777.9
–
777.9

2023
£m
29.7

2022
£m
777.5
0.4
777.9

2022
£m
43.1

Issued and fully paid:
31 December 2022
31 December 2023

The Company has two classes of shares:

3,556,985,103
3,556,985,103

1,065,566,274
1,065,566,274

291.3
291.3

•  Ordinary shares of 1p, each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 

the Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association.

•  Deferred ordinary shares of 24p, which carry no voting rights and no entitlement to any 

dividend. The deferred ordinary shares were issued as part of a capital reorganisation in 2009 
and have not subsequently changed.

During the year, the Company issued nil (2022: 0.3 million) ordinary shares to satisfy option 
exercises. During the prior year the Company purchased 116,942,362 of its own ordinary 
shares, of which 25,000,000 were transferred to be held in treasury and the remainder 
cancelled. The average share price of the purchased shares was 128.27 pence for a total cost, 
including expenses, of £151.3 million.

These comprise ordinary shares of the Company:
Ordinary shares held in trust and treasury for bonus, option and 
performance award plans

Number

Number

21.9m

30.9m

During the current and prior year, Taylor Wimpey plc purchased none of its own shares to be 
held in the ESOTs and in the prior year purchased £33.8 million of its own shares to be held in 
treasury. The market value of the shares held in the ESOT and treasury at 31 December 2023 
was £32.2 million (2022: £31.4 million) and their nominal value was £0.2 million (2022: 
£0.4 million). Dividends on these shares have been waived except for a nominal aggregate 
amount in pence.

ESOTs are used to hold the Company’s shares which have been acquired on the market. 
These shares and those held in treasury are used to meet the valid exercise of options and/or 
vesting of conditional awards and/or award of shares under the Executive Incentive Scheme, 
Bonus Deferral Plan, Performance Share Plan, Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the 
matching award of shares under the Share Incentive Plan. 

The ESOTs’ entire holding of shares and those held in treasury at 31 December 2023 were 
covered by outstanding options and conditional awards over shares at that date.

216

Notes to the Company financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202311  Other reserves

14  Contingent liabilities

At 1 January
Shares repurchased and cancelled in year
At 31 December

2023
£m
536.0
–
536.0

2022
£m
535.1
0.9
536.0

£499.1 million of other reserves arose on the cash box placing that occurred in June 2020 and 
qualified for merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. Other reserves also 
includes £32.4 million (2022: £32.4 million) in respect of the redemption of the Company’s 
shares, which is non distributable.

12  Retained earnings

Retained earnings of £3,467.4 million (2022: £3,527.1 million) includes profit for the year 
of £278.4 million (2022: £897.6 million), of which £266.0 million (2022: £1,010.5 million) 
is dividends received from subsidiaries. Included in retained earnings is £934.4 million 
(2022: £923.7 million) which is not distributable.

The Company has, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into 
counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts. The possibility 
of any outflow in settlement for these is considered to be remote.

Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims and legal actions in 
progress. The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions 
and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action 
is unlikely to succeed.

The Company has in issue a guarantee in respect of the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme 
(TWPS), which had an underlying IAS 19 surplus of £76.7 million at 31 December 2023 
(2022: £76.6 million). This guarantee commits the Company to ensuring that the participating 
subsidiary meets its obligations under any schedule of contributions agreed with the TWPS 
Trustee from time to time. Following the 2019 valuation, Taylor Wimpey UK Limited is required 
to contribute up to £20.0 million per annum into an escrow account between April 2021 and 
March 2024. The first six months of contributions (£10.0 million) between 1 April 2021 and 
30 September 2021 were guaranteed. From 1 October 2021, payments into the escrow 
account are subject to a quarterly funding test with the first funding test having an effective date 
of 30 September 2021. In addition, £5.1 million per annum from the Pension Funding 
Partnership and £2.0 million per annum to cover scheme expenses is due.

13  Share-based payments

The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemption in relation to 
share-based payments. Details of share awards granted by the Company to employees of 
subsidiaries, and that remain outstanding at the year end over the Company’s shares, are set 
out in Note 29 of the Group financial statements. The Company did not recognise any expense 
related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the current or preceding year.

217

Notes to the Company financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 202315  Dividend

Proposed
Interim dividend 2023: 4.79p (2022: 4.62p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each
Final dividend 2023: 4.79p (2022: 4.78p) per ordinary share of 
1p each

Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders
Paid
Final dividend 2022: 4.78p (2021: 4.44p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each
Interim dividend 2023: 4.79p (2022: 4.62p) per ordinary share 
of 1p each

2023
£m

169.1

169.4
338.5

168.8

169.1
337.9

2022
£m

162.9

169.0
331.9

160.9

162.9
323.8

The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 of 4.79 pence 
per share (2022: 4.78 pence per share) subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, with an equivalent final dividend charge of c.£169 million based on the number of 
shares in issue at the end of the year (2022: £168.8 million). The final dividend will be paid on 
10 May 2024 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 2 April 2024.

In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the Reporting Period’, the proposed final dividend has 
not been accrued as a liability at 31 December 2023.

218

Notes to the Company financial statements continuedStrategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures

The entities listed below are companies incorporated in the United Kingdom and the registered office is Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR. All of the 
below are 100% subsidiaries of the Group, either directly or indirectly held by Taylor Wimpey plc, and only have ordinary share capital.

Admiral Developments Limited
Admiral Homes (Eastern) Limited
Admiral Homes Limited
Ashton Park Limited
BGS (Pentian Green) Holdings Limited
Bryad Developments Limited
Bryant Country Homes Limited
Bryant Group Services Limited
Bryant Homes Central Limited
Bryant Homes East Midlands Limited
Bryant Homes Limited
Bryant Homes North East Limited
Bryant Homes Northern Limited
Bryant Homes South West Limited
Bryant Homes Southern Limited
Bryant Properties Limited
Candlemakers (TW) Limited
Clipper Investments Limited
Compine Developments (Wootton) Limited
Dormant Nominees One Limited
Dormant Nominees Two Limited
Farrods Water Engineers Limited
Flyover House Limited
George Wimpey Limited
George Wimpey Bristol Limited
George Wimpey City Limited
George Wimpey City 2 Limited
George Wimpey East Anglia Limited
George Wimpey East London Limited
George Wimpey East Midlands Limited
George Wimpey Manchester Limited
George Wimpey Midland Limited
George Wimpey North East Limited
George Wimpey North London Limited
George Wimpey North Midlands Limited
George Wimpey North West Limited
George Wimpey North Yorkshire Limited

219

George Wimpey South East Limited
George Wimpey South Midlands Limited
George Wimpey South West Limited
George Wimpey South Yorkshire Limited
George Wimpey Southern Counties Limited
George Wimpey West London Limited
George Wimpey West Midlands Limited
George Wimpey West Yorkshire Limited
Globe Road Limited
Grand Union Vision Limited
Groveside Homes Limited
Hamme Construction Limited
Hanger Lane Holdings Limited
Hassall Homes (Cheshire) Limited
Hassall Homes (Mercia) Limited
Hassall Homes (Southern) Limited
Hassall Homes (Wessex) Limited
Haverhill Developments Limited
J.R. Young (Assemblies) Limited
Jim 1 Limited
Jim 3 Limited
Jim 4 Limited
Jim 5 Limited
L. & A. Freeman Limited
Laing Homes Limited
Laing Land Limited
LandTrust Developments Limited
Limebrook Manor LLP
MCA Developments Limited
MCA East Limited
MCA Holdings Limited
MCA Land Limited
MCA Leicester Limited
MCA London Limited
MCA Northumbria Limited
MCA Partnership Housing Limited
MCA South West Limited

MCA West Midlands Limited
MCA Yorkshire Limited
McLean Homes Limited
McLean Homes Bristol & West Limited
McLean Homes Southern Limited
McLean TW Estates Limited
McLean TW (Chester) Limited
McLean TW (Northern) Limited
McLean TW (Southern) Limited
McLean TW (Yorkshire) Limited
McLean TW Group Limited
McLean TW Holdings Limited
McLean TW Limited
McLean TW No. 2 Limited
Melbourne Investments Limited
Pangbourne Developments Limited
Prestoplan Limited
River Farm Developments Limited
South Bristol (Ashton Park) Limited
Spinks & Denning Limited
St. Katharine By The Tower Limited
St. Katharine Haven Limited
Stone Pit Restoration Limited
Stonepit Limited
Tawnywood Developments Limited
Taylor Wimpey Capital Developments Limited
Taylor Wimpey Commercial Properties Limited
Taylor Wimpey Developments Limited
Taylor Wimpey Garage Nominees No 1 Limited
Taylor Wimpey Garage Nominees No 2 Limited
Taylor Wimpey Holdings Limited
Taylor Wimpey International Limited
Taylor Wimpey Property Company Limited
Taylor Wimpey Property Management Limited
Taylor Wimpey SH Capital Limited
Taylor Wimpey UK Limited
Thameswey Homes Limited

The Garden Village Partnership Limited
The Wilson Connolly Employee Benefit 
Trust Limited
Thomas Lowe and Sons, Limited
Thomas Lowe Homes Limited
TW NCA Limited
TW Springboard Limited
Twyman Regent Limited
Valley Park Developments Limited
Whelmar (Chester) Limited
Whelmar (Lancashire) Limited
Whelmar (North Wales) Limited
Whelmar Developments Limited
Wilcon Homes Anglia Limited
Wilcon Homes Eastern Limited
Wilcon Homes Midlands Limited
Wilcon Homes Northern Limited
Wilcon Homes Southern Limited
Wilcon Homes Western Limited
Wilcon Lifestyle Homes Limited
Wilfrid Homes Limited
Wilson Connolly Holdings Limited
Wilson Connolly Investments Limited 
Wilson Connolly Limited
Wilson Connolly Properties Limited
Wilson Connolly Quest Limited
Wimgrove Developments Limited
Wimgrove Property Trading Limited
Wimpey Construction Developments Limited
Wimpey Construction Overseas Limited
Wimpey Corporate Services Limited
Wimpey Dormant Investments Limited
Wimpey Geotech Limited
Wimpey Group Services Limited
Wimpey Gulf Holdings Limited

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued

The entities listed below, with the Group’s ownership share, are companies incorporated in the 
United Kingdom and the registered office is Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, 
Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR.

The entities listed below, with the Group’s ownership share, are companies incorporated in the 
United Kingdom and the registered office is Unit C, Ground Floor, Cirrus Glasgow Airport 
Business Park, Marchburn Drive, Abbotsinch, Paisley, PA3 2SJ.

Company Name
Academy Central LLP
Bordon Developments Holdings Limited
Chobham Manor LLP
Chobham Manor Property Management Limited
Falcon Wharf Limited
GWNW City Developments Limited
Paycause Limited
Taylor Wimpey Pension Trustees Limited
Triumphdeal Limited
Vumpine Limited
Whitehill & Bordon Development Company BV Limited
Whitehill & Bordon Development Company Phase 1a Limited
Whitehill & Bordon Regeneration Company Limited
Wimpey Laing Overseas Limited
Wimpey Laing Limited
Winstanley & York Road Regeneration LLP

Company Name
Bryant Homes Scotland Limited
George Wimpey East Scotland Limited
George Wimpey West Scotland Limited
London and Clydeside Estates Limited
London and Clydeside Holdings Limited
Strada Developments Limited
Taylor Wimpey (General Partner) Limited
Taylor Wimpey (Initial LP) Limited
Taylor Wimpey Scottish Limited Partnership
Whatco England Limited
Wilcon Homes Scotland Limited

% Owned
62%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
66.67%
99%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%

% Owned
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
50%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

220

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued

Other entities incorporated in the United Kingdom, unless otherwise stated, and the Group’s ownership share are shown below.

% Owned Registered Office

50% 11 Tower View, Kings Hill, West Malling, ME19 4UY

33.14% Bath House, 6-8 Bath Street, Bristol, BS1 6HL

50% Kent House, 14-17 Market Place, London, W1W 8AJ

50% Countryside House, The Drive, Great Warley, Brentwood, CM13 3AT

54.44% 250 Aztec West, Almondsbury, Bristol, BS32 4TR

50% Gallagher House, Gallagher Business Park, Warwick, CV34 6AF
50% Countryside House, The Drive, Great Warley, Brentwood, CM13 3AT

19.27% 6 Drakes Meadow, Penny Lane, Swindon, SN3 3LL
100% 9366, 49 St NW, Edmonton, AB T6B 2L7, Canada

50% 3rd Floor Citygate, St. James’ Boulevard, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 4JE

28.35% 6 Drakes Meadow, Penny Lane, Swindon, SN3 3LL

50% Second Floor, Arena Court, Crown Lane, Maidenhead, SL6 8QZ
50% 250 Aztec West, Almondsbury, Bristol, BS32 4TR
50% Berkeley House, 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham, KT11 1JG

100% C/Aragón 223-223A, 07008 Palma de Mallorca, Spain
100% 17 Bayside Road, Gibraltar
100% 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, KY1-9008, Cayman Islands

Company Name
Bishops Park Limited
Bishop’s Stortford North Consortium Limited
Bromley Park (Holdings) Limited 
Bromley Park Limited
Countryside 27 Limited
Emersons Green Urban Village Limited
Gallagher Bathgate Limited
Greenwich Millennium Village Limited
Haydon Development Company Limited
Morrison Land Development Inc
Newcastle Great Park (Estates) Limited 
North Swindon Development Company Limited
Padyear Limited
Quedgeley Urban Village Limited
St George Little Britain (No.1) Limited 
St George Little Britain (No.2) Limited
Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U.
Taylor Woodrow (Gibraltar) Limited
Wisley Property Investments Limited

221

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued

The following entities are Management Companies that are limited by guarantee (unless otherwise stated) and are temporary parts of the Group. All are incorporated in the United Kingdom and 
their assets are not held for the benefit of the Group. The Group holds all of the issued share capital of each entity, where relevant, unless otherwise shown.

Company Name
Ada Gardens Resident Management Company Limited
Admiral Park (Tongham) Management Company Limited
Albion Lock (Sandbach) Management Company Limited
Alyn Meadows Management Company Limited
Apsham Grange (Topsham) Management Company Limited
Barker Butts Lane Management Company Limited
Barry Waterfront Residents Management Company Limited
Battersea Exchange Management Company Limited
Biggleswade Management Company Limited*1
Billington Grove (SM) Management Company Limited
Bishop Stortford NPB Limited
Bishop Stortford NPE Limited
Bramcote Residents Management Company Limited
Bramley Park Management Company Limited
Brantham Residential Estate Management Company Limited
Broadleaf Park (Rownhams) Management Company Limited
Broadway Fields Residents Management Company Limited
Broken Stone Road (Blackburn) Residents Management Company Limited
Broughton Gate (Milton Keynes) Management Company Limited
Brunswick Dock (Liverpool) Management Company Limited*
Buckingham Park (Weedon Hill) Management Company Limited
Buckton Fields (Northampton) Apartment Management Company Limited
Buckton Fields (Northampton) Estate Management Company Limited
Burdon Lane (Ryhope) Residents Management Company Limited
Canford Vale Management Company Limited
Capital Court Property Management Limited*2
Cherrywood Gardens Residents Management Company Limited
Cliddesdon Reach Management Company Limited
Clipstone Park (Leighton Buzzard) Management Company Limited
Clover House (Cranbrook) Management Company Limited
Coatham Vale and Berrymead Gardens Residents Management Company Limited
Coed Issa Management Company Limited
Colney Manor Resident Management Company Limited
Concept (EA) Management Company Limited
Coopers Grange (Bishop Stortford) Residents Management Company Ltd
Coppice Place Management Company Limited
Coronation Square Residents Management Company Limited
Cotswold View Residents Association Limited

222

Reference
26
26
12
12
4
1
4
1
2
3
28
28
29
1
1
4
1
17
3
25
3
18
18
18
17
10
29
1
3
4
18
8
8
3
8
3
3
1

Company Name
Cromwell Place Residents Management Company Limited
Crookham Park (Church Crookham) Management Company Limited*6
Cwm Gelli (Blackwood) Residents Management Company Limited
Denne Road Management Company Limited
Diglis Water Estate Management Company Limited
Dunton Green Management Company (No.1) Limited
Dunton Green Management Company (No.2) Limited
Earls Court Farm Worcester Residents Management Company Limited
Edlogan Wharf Community Interest Company
Elgar Place Management Company Limited
Emberton Grange Management Company Limited
Evergreens (Beaufort Park) Management Company Limited
Forge Wood (Crawley) Management Company Limited
Foxwood Garden Village Residents Management Company Limited
Franklin Park (Stevenage) Residents Management Company Limited
Glasdir Management Company Limited
Great Hall Park Residents Association Limited
Greenfields Park (EA) Management Company Limited
Gresley Meadow Management Company Limited
Handley Chase (Sleaford) Residents Management Company Limited
Handley Gardens (Lancaster Avenue) Block Management Company Limited
Handley Gardens Management CIC
Hanwell Fields 3B Management Company Limited
Harebell Meadows and Hartburn Grange Residents Management Company Limited
Hastings Manor (Hugglescote) Residents Management Company Limited
Hay Common Management Company Limited
Haybridge (Wells) Management Company Limited
Hayes Green Management Company Limited
Heritage Park Gravesend Residents Association (No.1) Limited
Heritage Park Gravesend Residents Association (No.2) Limited
Heritage Park Gravesend Residents Association (No.3) Limited
Heritage Park Gravesend Residents Association (No.4) Limited
Heritage Park Gravesend Residents Association (No.5) Limited
Herrington View Residents Management Company Limited
Hethersett Residents Management Company Limited
Humberstone Residents Estate Management Company Limited
Hunters Meadow Residents Association Limited
Jasmine Park (Whirley) Management Company Limited

Reference
19
26
1
1
1
1
1
14
1
1
19
28
30
17
15
1
1
5
16
13
3
6
1
17
7
4
4
3
1
1
1
1
1
18
8
7
3
1

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued

Company Name
K Reach (EA) Management Company Limited
Kentmere Place Residents Association Limited
Kesgrave K Management Company Limited
Kingsbourne (Nantwich) Community Management Company Limited
Kingsley Grange (Wickford) Residents Association Limited
Leawood (Management) Company Limited*
Lindridge Chase Residents Management Company Limited
Lion Mills (EA) Management Company Limited
Longridge Farm and Greendale Park Residents Management Company Limited
Longshore and Shoreview Residents Management Company Limited
Macintosh Mills Car Park (Management) Limited
Maidenfields Estate Residents Management Company Limited
Manor Court (Prescot) Management Company Limited
Manor Park Sprowston Residents Management Company Limited
Manor Rise Block C Management Company Limited
Manor View (East Grinstead) Residents Management Company Limited
Mayfield Gardens Management Company Limited
Melton Manor (Melton Mowbray) Residents Company Limited
Millers Brow Management Company Limited
Millstream Meadows (Middlewich) Management Company Limited
Monmore Grange Management Company Limited
Mountbatten Mews (Honiton) Management Company Limited
Netherton Grange Residents Management Company Limited
Newbridge Gardens Management Company (No 1) Limited
Newbridge Gardens Management Company (No 2) Limited
Newcastle Great Park (Estates) Limited*3
Newcastle Great Park Management Company Limited*5
NGP Management Company (Cell A) Limited*3
NGP Management Company (Cell D) Limited*3
NGP Management Company (Cell E) Limited*3
NGP Management Company (Cell F) Limited*3
NGP Management Company (Commercial) Limited*3
NGP Management Company (Town Centre) Limited*3
NGP Management Company Residential (Cell G) Limited*
Nightingale Park Residents Association Limited
North Wharf Gardens Management Company Limited
Nunnery Fields (Management No.1) Limited
Nunnery Fields (Management) Limited
Oak Park (Cheddar) Management Company Limited
Oakapple 2 Resident Management Company Limited
Oaklands Residents Management Company Limited

223

Reference
3
1
1
8
8
1
16
3
18
18
1
19
1
8
26
31
3
7
1
35
3
4
3
5
5
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
8
1
5
5
3
11
19

Company Name
Ockley Park (Hassocks) (Block E) Residents Management Company Limited
Ockley Park (Hassocks) (Blocks A & B) Residents Management Company Limited
Ockley Park (Hassocks) Residents Management Company Limited
Orchard Grove (Comeytrowe) Management Company Limited
Orsett Village Residents Association Limited
Pages Priory Phase Two (Leighton Buzzard) Management Company Limited
Palace View Apartments Management Company Limited
Parc Nedd Residents Association Limited
Park Farm (South East) Management Company Limited
Parklands (Woburn Two) Management Company Limited
Parsons Chain Residents Management Company Limited
Pathfinder Place (Melksham) Management Company Limited
Peartree Village Management Limited
Plas Brymbo Landscaping Management Company Limited
Plas Brymbo Management Company Limited
Poppyfields (Benwick) Residents Association Limited
Postmark Residents Management Company Limited
Q.Hill (EA2) Management Company Limited
Queen Eleanor's Heights Residents Association Limited
Redhill Gardens Residents Management Company Limited
Redhill Park Limited*3
Regency Place (Shiplake) Management Company Limited
Robin Gardens Management Company Limited
Romans Gate (Old Stratford) Residents Association Limited
Saxon Park Management Company Limited
Seagrave Park Residents Management Company Limited
Sherdley Green Residents Management Company Limited
Sherford 1A Parcel 4 Management Company Limited
Sherford 1A Parcel 5 Management Company Limited
Sherford 1B Parcel EFGJ Management Company Limited
Sherford Estate Management Company Limited
Shopwyke Lakes Chichester (Management) Company Limited
Southgate Maisonettes (27 and 28) Limited
Speakman Gardens Residents Association Limited
St Augustines Place Herne Bay Management Company Limited
St Crispin Area H Management Company Limited
St Dunstans Apartment Management Company Limited*
Stanbury View (Parklands) Management Company Limited
Stanhope Gardens (Wellesley) (Block A) Residents Management Company Limited
Stanhope Gardens (Wellesley) (Blocks B-D) Residents Management Company Limited
Stanhope Gardens (Wellesley) (Block F) Residents Management Company Limited

Reference
26
26
26
4
8
3
1
1
21
3
16
4
9
33
1
1
1
8
1
1
27
1
7
1
1
7
17
3
3
3
3
4
1
1
4
1
1
26
26
26
26

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued

Company Name
Stanhope Gardens (Wellesley) (Block G) Residents Management Company Limited
Stonebrooke Gardens Management Company Limited
Stortford Fields Estate Management Company Limited
Stour Valley Management Phase 1 Limited
Summer Downs Residents Management Company Limited
Sunderland House (Handley Gardens) Resident Management Company Limited
Telford Millennium Management Company Limited
Tent 1 Management Company Limited
Thamesview (Plots 425 to 560) Residents Association Limited
The Apartments at Lindridge Chase Residents Management Company Limited
The Arboretum (Haverhill) Residents Management Company Limited
The Asps Residents Management Company Limited
The Atrium (Overstone) Residents Management Company Limited
The Avenue Number 4 Management Company Limited
The Avenue Number 5 Management Company Limited
The Beaumont Park Management Company Limited*
The Breme Park (Bromsgrove) Management Company Limited
The Burleigh Rise Management Company Limited*
The Coach Houses (Northampton) Residents Association Limited
The Copse (Mawsley) Management Company Limited
The Grange at Newton Management Company Limited
The Grange Number One Desborough Management Company Limited
The Heath RMC Limited
The Highgate (Durham) Management Company Limited*
The Junction Flat Management Company Limited*
The Laurels (Kirby Cross) Management Company Limited
The Merriemont Management Company Limited*
The Middlefield Springs Management Company Limited
The Orchard (Hadham) Residents Management Company Limited
The Orchard (Willow Street) Management Company Limited
The Orchard Grove (Playground) Management Company Limited*
The Pennington Wharf Community Management Company Limited
The Quarters Quedgeley Management Company Limited
The Ruxley Towers Management Company Limited*
The Seasons Residents Association Limited
The Silverdale 9 Flats Management Company Limited
The Silverdale 9 Houses Management Company Limited
The Skylarks (Warfield) Management Company Limited
The Spinney Residents Management Company Limited*
The Swan Gardens Management Company Limited*
The Vale RMC Limited

224

Reference
26
22
11
34
1
3
1
12
1
16
8
17
8
1
1
1
1
1
1
7
3
1
3
1
1
19
1
3
8
1
1
8
3
1
1
1
1
26
1
1
3

Company Name
The Weekley Wood Management Company Limited*
The Wharf Lane (Solihull) No.1 Management Company Limited
The Willowfields Management Company Limited*
The Woodlands At Shevington Management Company Limited
The Woodway Gate Management Company No.1 Limited
Vision at Meanwood Residents Management Company Limited
Watton Management Company Limited*4
Webheath (Redditch) Management Company Limited
Wellington Paddocks (Walmer) Management Company Limited
Westbridge Park (Auckley) Management Company Limited
Whalley Road (Barrow) Management Company Limited
White House Farm (Emersons Green) Management Company Limited
Whitehouse Farm Apartments (Emersons Green) Management Company Limited
Willow Lake (Bletchley One) Management Company Limited
Willow Lake (Bletchley Two) Management Company Limited
Willowcroft (SM) Management Company Limited
Windermere Grange Residents Management Company Limited
Winnington Village Community Management Company Limited
Woodside Vale (Leeds) Residents Management Company Limited
Wool Gardens (Crewkerne) Management Company Limited
Wootton Meadows Residents Association Limited
Worlebury House Apartments Residents Management Company Limited
Wrexham Road Garden Village Management Company Limited
Wyrley View Residents Management Company Limited

Reference
1
1
1
12
1
17
32
3
1
12
8
4
19
3
3
7
16
12
17
4
1
23
8
24

*  Private Limited Company.

1  60% Ownership.

2  17.2% Ownership.

3  50% Ownership.

4  33.3% Ownership.

5  11.11% Ownership.

6  Group representatives on Board only.

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Particulars of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued

Reference
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

Registered Address
Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR
Newton House, 2 Sark Drive, Newton Leys, Milton Keynes, MK3 5SD
Queensway House, 11 Queensway, New Milton, BH25 5NR
Fisher House, 84 Fisherton Street, Salisbury, SP2 7QY
94 Park Lane, Croydon, CR0 1JB
1 London Road, Brentwood, Essex, CM14 4QP
2 Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 1JP
RMG House, Essex Road, Hoddesdon, EN11 0DR
Countryside House, The Drive, Great Warley, Brentwood, Essex, CM13 3AT
4 Capital Court, Bitten Road, Sowton Industrial Estate, Exeter, EX2 7FW
Gateway House, 10 Coopers Way, Southend-On-Sea, SS2 5TE
Chiltern House, 72-74 King Edward Street, Macclesfield, Cheshire, SK10 1AT
Unit 2, The Osiers Business Park, Laversall Way, Leicester, LE19 1DX
Redrow House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Flintshire, CH5 3RX
Imperial Place, Building 2, Maxwell Road, Borehamwood, WD6 1JN
Second Floor, Fore 2, Fore Business Park, Solihull, B90 4SS
Unit 7, Portal Business Park, Easton Lane, Tarporley, Cheshire, CW6 9DL
Cheviot House, Beaminster Way, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE3 2ER

Reference
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35

Registered Address
Vantage Point, 23 Mark Road, Hemel Hempstead, HP2 7DN
3rd Floor, Citygate, St. James' Boulevard, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 4JE
Foundation House, Coach & Horses Passage, Tunbridge Wells, TN2 5NP
Boulton House, 17-21 Chorlton Street, Manchester, M1 3HY
730 Waterside Drive, Aztec West, Almondsbury, Bristol, BS32 4SD
137 Newhall Street, Birmingham, B3 1SF
384a Deansgate, Manchester, Greater Manchester, M3 4LA
Victoria House, 178-180 Fleet Road, Fleet, GU51 4DA
5 Market Yard Mews, 194-204 Bermondsey Street, London, SE1 3TQ
Suite 35, Interchange Business Centre, Howard Way, Newport Pagnell, MK16 9PY
Unit 2, Tournament Court, Edgehill Drive, Warwick, CV34 6LG
Unit 8, The Forum, Minerva Business Park, Peterborough, PE2 6FT
One Eleven, Edmund Street, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 2HJ
11th Floor, Two Snow Hill, Birmingham, B4 6WR
Carvers Warehouse, 77 Dale Street, Manchester, M1 2HG
13a, Building Two, Canonbury Yard, 190 New North Road, London, N1 7BJ
1 Lumsdale Road, Stretford, Manchester, M32 0UT

225

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Trade and other payables excluding 
land creditors
Land creditors
Retirement benefit obligations
Lease liabilities
Provisions
Non-current liabilities (excluding debt)
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank and other loans
Taxation balances
Basic net assets

Statistics
Basic earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share
Tangible net assets per share
Dividends paid (pence per share)
Number of ordinary shares in issue at 
the year end (millions)
UK short term landbank (plots)
UK average selling price (£000)
UK completions (homes including JVs)

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

2020
£m

2019
£m

(80.9)
(214.9)
(26.5)
(31.0)
(161.8)
(515.1)
764.9
(87.0)
21.8
4,523.4

9.9p
9.9p
127.1p
9.57

3,557.0
80,323
324
10,438

(76.7)
(330.6)
(29.9)
(19.7)
(183.6)
(640.5)
952.3
(88.5)
18.8
4,502.1

18.1p
19.8p
126.5p
9.06

3,557.0
82,830
313
13,773

(137.1)
(492.2)
(37.3)
(20.4)
(119.7)
(806.7)
921.0
(84.0)
26.4
4,314.0

15.3p
18.0p
118.1p
8.28

3,648.6
85,376
300
14,087

(131.8)
(328.0)
(89.5)
(21.6)
(59.9)
(630.8)
823.0
(103.6)
32.6
4,016.8

6.3p
6.5p
110.0p
–

3,645.4
77,435
288
9,609

(110.4)
(389.3)
(85.0)
(20.3)
(55.7)
(660.7)
630.4
(84.7)
(38.1)
3,307.8

20.6p
20.3p
100.5p
18.34

3,283.1
75,612
269
15,719

Five year review (unaudited)

Revenue
Profit on ordinary activities before 
financing
Adjust for: Share of results of joint 
ventures
Adjust for: Exceptional items
Operating profit
Net finance income/(costs)
Profit for the financial year before 
taxation and exceptional items
Exceptional items
Taxation charge including taxation on 
exceptional items
Profit for the financial year
Balance sheet
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment 
Right-of-use assets
Interests in joint ventures
Other financial assets
Non-current trade and other 
receivables
Non-current assets (excluding tax)
Inventories
Other current assets (excluding tax 
and cash)
Trade and other payables excluding 
land creditors
Land creditors
Lease liabilities
Provisions
Net current assets (excluding tax 
and net cash)

226

2023
£m
3,514.5

2022
£m
4,419.9

2021
£m
4,284.9

2020
£m
2,790.2

2019
£m
4,341.3

467.8

827.5

698.2

282.4

856.8

2.4
–
470.2
3.6

473.8
–

15.9
80.0
923.4
(15.5)

907.9
(80.0)

(124.8)
349.0

(184.3)
643.6

2.6
22.0
37.8
70.5
10.3

4.2
17.3
26.3
74.0
10.0

5.4
125.0
828.6
(24.0)

804.6
(125.0)

(124.1)
555.5

6.6
21.7
26.5
85.4
10.0

7.9
10.0
300.3
(25.9)

274.4
(10.0)

(47.4)
217.0

8.1
24.0
27.5
82.2
–

8.0
(14.3)
850.5
(28.9)

821.6
14.3

(162.0)
673.9

7.0
25.6
27.4
55.3
–

28.1
171.3
5,169.6

12.2
144.0
5,169.6

27.5
177.7
4,945.7

26.3
168.1
4,534.7

43.7
159.0
4,196.0

124.4

191.2

168.2

189.1

161.0

(691.6)
(301.2)
(8.8)
(124.9)

(735.8)
(395.0)
(7.3)
(106.7)

(587.7)
(314.2)
(7.0)
(125.4)

(571.4)
(347.9)
(6.4)
(70.6)

(634.9)
(339.9)
(7.6)
(72.7)

4,167.5

4,116.0

4,079.6

3,727.5

3,301.9

Strategic reportDirectors’ reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationTaylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Notice of Annual General Meeting

Dear Shareholder

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

The 2024 AGM of Taylor Wimpey plc (the Company) will be held in the Gerrards Suite at the 
Crowne Plaza Gerrards Cross, Oxford Road, Beaconsfield, HP9 2XE on Tuesday 23 April 2024 
at 10:30am.

Attending the AGM

If you wish to attend and vote at the AGM in person, please bring with you the notice of 
availability letter. It will help to authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us 
to register your attendance without delay.

For the safety and comfort of those attending the AGM, large bags, cameras, recording 
equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building and in the interests of security, 
by attending the AGM you hereby agree to be searched, upon request, together with any bags 
and other possessions.

There is wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require it or those with reduced 
mobility. However, where required, attendees are strongly advised to bring their own carers to 
assist with their general mobility around the venue. Directions to the venue can be found on the 
reverse of your notice of availability.

Light refreshments comprising of tea, coffee and pastries will be available from 9:30am and 
after the end of the AGM.

Audiocast

This year we are pleased to provide an electronic facility for shareholders who are unable to 
attend the AGM in person, to follow the AGM remotely and submit questions to the Board on 
the business of the meeting, should they wish to do so. This can be accessed through the 
AGM section of our website at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/2024AGM and following the link to the 
audiocast on the day of the AGM.

You will then be prompted to enter your 11-digit ‘Investor Code’ (IVC), including any leading 
zeros, and ‘PIN’. Your PIN is the last four digits of your IVC. This will authenticate you as a 
shareholder. More information on how to join the AGM can be found on page 228.

Please note that shareholders joining the audiocast will not be able to vote in real time via the 
audiocast platform. To ensure your vote is counted, you are encouraged to appoint the Chair 
of the AGM as your proxy as early as possible. Further information on how to submit your proxy 
can be found in the ‘how to vote’ section opposite.

227

How to vote

If you would like to vote on the resolutions in this Notice of Meeting but cannot attend the AGM 
either in person, or prefer to register your vote in advance, please register your proxy vote online 
at www.signalshares.com. In order for your proxy vote to count, our Registrar must receive your 
proxy form no later than 10:30am on Friday 19 April 2024. If you would like a proxy form, 
please contact our Registrar on +44 (0)371 664 0300 and they will send one in the mail for you 
to complete and return. Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate. 
Lines are open between 9:00am and 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in 
England and Wales.

If you are a CREST member, register your vote through the CREST system by completing and 
transmitting a CREST proxy instruction as described in the procedural notes on pages 236 to 
238. If you are an institutional investor you may also be able to appoint a proxy electronically via 
the Proxymity platform, a process which has been agreed by the Company and approved by 
the Registrar. For further information regarding Proxymity, please go to www.proxymity.io.

Shareholder questions

In the event that shareholders are unable to attend the AGM, shareholders are invited to submit 
questions by email to CoSec@taylorwimpey.com. Please provide any advance questions by 
10:30am on Friday 19 April 2024. The questions will be answered by the Board during the 
AGM. The answers provided will be made available on the Company’s website as soon as 
practicable following the conclusion of the AGM.

Should shareholders have further questions on the answers given to a question at the AGM, 
they may submit follow-up questions by email to CoSec@taylorwimpey.com.

Recommendation

Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them. Each Director 
will be doing so in respect of all of their own beneficial shareholding.

Yours faithfully,

Ishaq Kayani
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

This Notice of Meeting is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in any 
doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial 
advice immediately from a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other 
independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.

If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor Wimpey plc, please pass 
this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, 
or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the 
person who now holds the shares. If you have sold or transferred part only of your holding of 
shares in the Company, please consult the person who arranged the sale or transfer.

How to join the audiocast 

We are pleased to be able to provide an electronic facility for shareholders unable to attend the 
AGM in person to follow the AGM remotely and submit questions to the Board on the business 
of the meeting, should they wish to do so. This can be accessed through the AGM section of 
our website at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/2024AGM and following the link to the audiocast on 
the day of the AGM.

Once you have followed the link, you will then be prompted to enter your unique 11 digit ‘Investor 
Code’ (IVC), including any leading zeros, and ‘PIN’. Your PIN is the last 4 digits of your IVC. This 
will authenticate you as a shareholder. Your IVC can be found on your share certificate, or Signal 
Shares users (www.signalshares.com) will find this under ‘Manage your account’ when logged in 
to the Signal Shares portal. You can also obtain this by contacting Link Group, our Registrar, by 
calling +44 (0)371 277 1020. Lines are open from 9:00am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday, calls are 
charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the UK will be 
charged at the applicable international rate.

Access to the audiocast will be available 30 minutes before the start of the AGM, although you 
will not be able to submit questions until the meeting is declared open. 

If you wish to appoint someone to join the audiocast on your behalf, please contact Link Group 
on +44 (0)371 277 1020 in order to obtain their IVC and PIN. It is suggested that you do this 
as soon as possible and at least 48 hours (excluding non-business days) before the meeting.

If your shares are held within a nominee and you wish to attend the AGM via the audiocast, 
you will need to contact your nominee as soon as possible. Your nominee will need to have 
completed a corporate letter of representation and presented this to Link Group, our Registrar, 
no later than 72 hours before the start of the meeting in order that they can obtain your unique 
IVC and PIN to enable you to attend the audiocast.

Audiocast

The electronic meeting will be broadcast in audio format with presentation slides. Once logged in, 
and at the commencement of the meeting, you will be able to listen to the proceedings of the 
meeting on your device, as well as being able to see the slides of the meeting (which will include 
the resolutions to be put forward to the meeting); these slides will progress automatically as the 
meeting progresses.

Questions

Shareholders listening to the AGM via the audiocast will be invited to ask questions by the Chair. 
Shareholders may submit a question via the Q&A box which is found on the bottom right hand 
side of the player. Once you have typed your question please click the ‘Submit’ button. 

Shareholders are also welcome to submit questions in advance of the meeting by email 
to CoSec@taylorwimpey.com. Please provide any advance questions by 10:30am on 
Friday 19 April 2024. A full transcript of the questions asked at the AGM and the answers 
provided will be made available on the Company’s website as soon as practicable following 
the conclusion of the AGM. 

Requirements

An active internet connection is required at all times in order to allow you to join the meeting, 
submit questions and listen to the audiocast. It is your responsibility to ensure you remain 
connected for the duration of the meeting.

228

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given of the eighty ninth Annual General Meeting (the AGM) of the Company 
to be held on Tuesday 23 April 2024 at 10:30am in the Gerrards Suite at the Crowne Plaza 
Gerrards Cross, Oxford Road, Beaconsfield, HP9 2XE for the purposes set out below.

Ordinary business

Ordinary resolutions:

1.  To receive the Directors’ Report, Strategic Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report, 

Independent Auditor’s Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2023.

2.  To declare due and payable on 10 May 2024 a final dividend of 4.79 pence per ordinary 
share of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2023 to shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 2 April 2024.

3.  To re-elect as a Director, Robert Noel.

4.  To re-elect as a Director, Jennie Daly.

5.  To re-elect as a Director, Chris Carney.

6.  To re-elect as a Director, Humphrey Singer.

7.  To re-elect as a Director, Irene Dorner.

8.  To re-elect as a Director, Lord Jitesh Gadhia.

9.  To re-elect as a Director, Scilla Grimble.

10.  To re-elect as a Director, Mark Castle.

11.  To re-elect as a Director, Clodagh Moriarty. 

12.  To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as external Auditors of the Company, 
to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid 
before the Company.

13.  Subject to the passing of resolution 12, to authorise the Audit Committee to determine the 

remuneration of the external Auditors on behalf of the Board.

229

14.  That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company 
and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company:

a.  up to a nominal amount of £11,788,539 (such amount to be reduced by any 

allotments or grants made under paragraph b below, in excess of £11,788,539); and

b.  comprising equity securities (as defined in the Companies Act 2006) up to a nominal 

amount of £23,577,078 (such amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made 
under paragraph a above) in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue:

i. 

ii. 

to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their 
existing holdings; and

to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or 
as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so the Board may impose any 
limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or 
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any 
other matter, such authorities to apply until the end of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 22 July 2025) 
but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into 
agreements during this period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted 
or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the 
authority ends; and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or 
convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority 
had not ended.

Special resolutions:

15.  That if resolution 14 is passed, the Board be given power to allot equity securities 
(as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for cash under the authority given by that 
resolution and/or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash 
as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, 
such power to be limited:

a. 

to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares in connection with an 
offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities (but in the case of the authority 
granted under paragraph b of resolution 14, by way of a rights issue only):

i. 

to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to their existing 
holdings; and

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

ii. 

to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, 
or as the Board otherwise considers necessary,

b. 

and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any 
arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, 
fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under 
the laws of, any territory or any other matters; and

b. 

in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 14 and/or in the 
case of any sale of treasury shares, to the allotment of equity securities or sale of 
treasury shares (otherwise than under paragraph a above) up to a nominal amount 
of £3,536,561.

c.   to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares (otherwise than under 
paragraph a or paragraph b above) up to a nominal amount equal to 20% of any 
allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares from time to time under 
paragraph b above, such authority to be used only for the purposes of making a 
follow-on offer which the Board of the Company determines to be of a kind 
contemplated by paragraph 3 of Section 28 of the Statement of Principles on 
Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group 
prior to the date of this notice.

Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company 
(or, if earlier, until the close of business on 22 July 2025) but, in each case, during this 
period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, 
require equity securities to be allotted (and treasury shares to be sold) after the power ends 
and the Board may allot equity securities (and sell treasury shares) under any such offer or 
agreement as if the power had not ended.

16.  That if resolution 14 is passed, the Board be given the power in addition to any power 
granted under resolution 15 to allot equity securities (as defined in the Companies Act 
2006) for cash under the authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 14 and/or to 
sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 of 
the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power to be:

a. 

limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal 
amount of £3,536,561; such authority to be used only for the purposes of financing 
(or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within 12 months after the original transaction) 
a transaction which the Board determines to be either an acquisition or a specified 
capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on 
Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group 
prior to the date of this Notice; and

230

limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of shares (otherwise than under 
paragraph a above) up to a nominal amount equal to 20% of any allotment of equity 
securities or sale of treasury shares from time to time under paragraph a above, such 
authority to be used only for the purposes of making a follow-on offer which the Board 
determines to be of a kind contemplated by paragraph 3 of Section 2B of the 
Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by 
the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice.

Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company (or, 
if earlier, until the close of business on 22 July 2025) but, in each case, during this period 
the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require 
equity securities to be allotted (and treasury shares to be sold) after the power ends and 
the Board may allot equity securities (and sell treasury shares) under any such offer or 
agreement as if the authority had not ended.

17.  That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 
to make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) 
of the ordinary shares of 1 pence each of the Company (ordinary shares), provided that:

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 
353,656,100;

the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for ordinary shares is 
1 pence per ordinary share;

the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is 
the highest of:

i. 

an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an 
ordinary share (as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List) for 
the five business days immediately preceding the date on which such ordinary 
share is purchased; and

ii. 

the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest independent 
bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out;

the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company and 22 October 2025 unless such authority 
is renewed prior to such time; and

the Company may make contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby 
conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or 
partly after the expiry of such authority and may purchase ordinary shares in pursuance 
of any such contracts, as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

Special business

Ordinary resolutions:

Explanatory notes to the resolutions

The notes on the following pages explain the proposed resolutions.

18.  That the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2023, as set out 

on pages 131 to 133 and 140 to 152 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2023, be approved in accordance with Section 439 of the 
Companies Act 2006.

Resolutions 1 to 14 and 18 to 19 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. This means that for each of 
those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the vote cast must be in favour of the resolution. 
Resolutions 15 to 17 and 20 are proposed as special resolutions. This means that for each of those 
resolutions to be passed, at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.

19.  That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
and all companies which are its subsidiaries when this resolution is passed are authorised to:

a.  make political donations to political parties and/or independent election candidates not 

exceeding £250,000 in aggregate;

b.  make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not 

exceeding £250,000 in aggregate; and

c. 

incur political expenditure not exceeding £250,000 in aggregate, during the period 
beginning with the date of passing this resolution and the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company.

For the purposes of this resolution the terms ‘political donations’, ‘political parties’, 
‘independent election candidates’, ‘political organisations’ and ‘political expenditure’ have 
the meanings given by Sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.

Special resolution:

20.  That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting of the Company may 

continue to be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.

By order of the Board

Ishaq Kayani
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
Taylor Wimpey plc 
Gate House 
Turnpike Road 
High Wycombe 
Buckinghamshire 
HP12 3NR 
Registered in England and Wales No. 296805 

27 February 2024

231

Notwithstanding this, the Board is mindful of the Investment Association’s Public Register which 
identifies any listed company that has received 20% or more votes against a resolution put up 
to shareholders. If such circumstance arose, the Board would adhere to the requirements under 
the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code).

Voting on the resolutions at the AGM will be by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands. 
This is a more transparent method of voting as shareholder votes are counted according to the 
number of shares held and this will ensure an exact and definitive result.

Ordinary business

Ordinary resolutions

Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast to be in favour.

Resolution 1: To receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements
English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial Statements of the Company for 
the year ended 31 December 2023 and the reports of the Directors, namely the Strategic report, 
Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report, and Auditors’ Report (the Annual Report); 
before a general meeting of the Company.

Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.79 pence per ordinary share in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2023. If approved at the AGM, the dividend will be 
paid on 10 May 2024 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 2 April 2024.

Dividend Re-Investment Plan
Subject to shareholders approving the dividend as set out in resolution 2 at the AGM scheduled 
for 23 April 2024, the Company will be offering residents in the United Kingdom a Dividend 
Re-Investment Plan (DRIP). The DRIP is provided and administered by the DRIP plan 
administrator, Link Market Services Trustees Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The DRIP offers shareholders the opportunity to elect to 
invest cash dividends received on their ordinary shares, in purchasing further ordinary shares 
of the Company. These shares would be bought in the market, on competitive dealing terms.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the final dividend for 2023 (unless varied 
beforehand by shareholders) and all future dividends, including any special dividends, until such 
time as you withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP is suspended or terminated in accordance 
with its terms and conditions.

Shareholders are again reminded to check their position with regard to any dividend mandates 
that are in place, should you wish to either participate in the DRIP or to discontinue or vary any 
participation, as existing mandates will apply to all dividend payments (including special 
dividends) unless or until revoked.

CREST
For shares held in uncertificated form (CREST), please note that elections continue to apply only 
to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, via CREST, for each dividend. 

Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to make or revoke 
an election, both in respect of ordinary dividends (i.e. in this case, the 2023 final dividend) and 
any special dividends, are available at www.signalshares.com or on request from the Registrar, 
Link Group, Central Square, 29 Wellington Street, Leeds, LS1 4DL, email: shares@linkgroup.co.uk 
or call +44 (0)371 664 0391. Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate. 
The Registrar is open between 9:00am and 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales.

Resolutions 3-11: Election and re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Code which states that all directors should be subject to annual election 
by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Directors of the Company will retire and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the AGM. 

Details of the Directors’ service contracts, remuneration and interests in the Company’s shares 
and other securities are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 
131 to 152 of this Annual Report and Accounts. Full biographical information concerning each 
Director can be found on pages 92 and 94.

The following summary information is given in support of the Board’s proposal for each Director 
standing for re-election.

Robert Noel – offers himself for re-election
Robert has been a Non Executive Director since 1 October 2019; the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director between 21 April 2020 and 27 April 2023; and the Board’s Employee 
Champion between 26 April 2022 and 27 April 2023. Robert formally assumed the position 
of Chair on 27 April 2023. The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and 
judgement in applying his expertise in chairing meetings of the Board and of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee, and that he will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company 
to discharge his responsibilities effectively. Robert has experience as a Chair and as a Chief 
Executive of listed companies and has particularly deep property expertise which assists the 
Board in assessing large scale land opportunities.

Jennie Daly – offers herself for re-election
Jennie has been Chief Executive since 26 April 2022 following the conclusion of the AGM, 
having previously been the Group Operations Director since 20 April 2018.

Chris Carney – offers himself for re-election
Chris has been the Group Finance Director since 20 April 2018.

Humphrey Singer – offers himself for re-election
Humphrey has been a Non Executive Director since 9 December 2015. The Board is satisfied 
that he is independent in character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the 
Board, the Audit Committee (which he Chairs) and the Nomination and Governance Committee, 
and that he will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his 
responsibilities effectively. Humphrey’s detailed knowledge and experience of financial reporting 
by major listed companies makes him well-qualified to hold to account the external Auditors 
and properly assess the Group’s internal audit and control processes. 

Lord Jitesh Gadhia – offers himself for re-election
Jitesh has been a Non Executive Director since 1 March 2021. The Board is satisfied that he 
is independent in character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board, 
the Remuneration Committee (of which he was appointed Chair on 26 April 2022) and the 
Nomination and Governance Committee, and that he will be able to allocate sufficient time to 
the Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively. Jitesh’s executive and non executive 
experience and involvement in public affairs has added an additional perspective to the Board 
dynamic. He has extensive remuneration committee experience and serves as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee of Compare The Market Limited.

232

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

Irene Dorner – offers herself for re-election
Irene was appointed as a Non Executive Director and Chair-Designate on 1 December 2019. 
Irene was the Company’s Chair from 26 February 2020 to 27 April 2023 and Chair of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee in that time. Irene has strong leadership skills, coupled 
with deep commercial experience. On standing down as Chair in 2023, and in accordance with 
the Code, she became a non independent Non Executive Director and continues to provide an 
effective contribution to the Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee, and the 
further development of the Group’s strong cultural principles.

Scilla Grimble – offers herself for re-election
Scilla has been a Non Executive Director since 1 March 2021. The Board is satisfied that she is 
independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board, the 
Audit Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee, and that she will be able to 
allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge her responsibilities effectively. Scilla has 
significant financial, risk, technology and property experience. 

Mark Castle – offers himself for re-election
Mark was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 June 2022, and was appointed as the 
Board’s Employee Champion on 27 April 2023. The Board is satisfied that he is independent 
in character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board, the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee, 
and that he will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his 
responsibilities effectively. Mark brings significant operational experience in all aspects of the 
construction sector, including as Chief Operating Officer of Mace Group Limited until 2021. 

Clodagh Moriarty – offers herself for re-election
Clodagh was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 June 2022. The Board is satisfied 
that she is independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the 
Board, the Remuneration Committee, and the Nomination and Governance Committee, and 
that she will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge her responsibilities 
effectively. Clodagh has twenty years of varied customer-focused experience across retail, 
strategy, digital transformation and e-commerce. 

The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently been subject to formal 
performance evaluation, externally conducted, details of which are set out in the Nomination 
and Governance Committee report in the Annual Report on pages 107 to 112, and that each 
continues to demonstrate commitment and is an effective member of the Board who is able to 
devote sufficient time in line with the Code to fulfil their role and duties. 

Resolution 12: Re-appointment of PwC as external Auditors of the Company
The Company is required to appoint external Auditors at each general meeting at which 
accounts are laid before the shareholders. It is therefore proposed that the external Auditors 
are appointed from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM until the conclusion of the next general 
meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders. The Board recommends the 
re-appointment of PwC as the Company’s external Auditors.

Resolution 13: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree on behalf of the Board the 
remuneration of PwC as external Auditors
The Board seeks shareholders’ authority for the Audit Committee to determine on behalf of the 
Board the remuneration of the external Auditors for their services. The Board has adopted a 
procedure governing the appointment of the external Auditors to carry out non-audit services, 
details of which are given in the Audit Committee report. Details of non-audit services performed 
by the external Auditors in 2023 are given in Note 6 on page 183 of the Annual Report.

Resolution 14: Authority to allot shares
The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued shares in the Company, 
which was granted at the Company’s last AGM held on 27 April 2023 which is due to expire at 
the conclusion of this AGM. Accordingly, paragraph a of resolution 14 would give the Directors 
the authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities 
into ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to £11,788,539 (representing 
1,178,853,900 ordinary shares). This amount represents approximately one third of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 February 2024, the latest practicable date prior 
to publication of this Notice of Meeting.

In line with guidance issued by The Investment Association (The IA), paragraph b of resolution 
14 would give the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or 
convert any securities into ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary 
shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to £23,577,078 (representing 
2,357,707,800 ordinary shares), as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under 
paragraph a of resolution 14. This amount (before any reduction) represents approximately two 
thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 February 2024, the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this Notice of Meeting.

The Company holds 20,423,334 shares in treasury.

The authorities sought under paragraphs a and b of resolution 14 will expire at the earlier of 
22 July 2025 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.

233

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities sought under this 
resolution. However, if they do exercise the authorities, the Directors intend to follow The IA 
recommendations concerning their use (including as regards the Directors standing for 
re-election in certain cases).

Special Resolutions

Special resolutions require at least three quarters of the votes cast to be in favour.

Resolutions 15 and 16: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights
Resolutions 15 and 16 would give the Directors the power to allot ordinary shares (or sell any 
ordinary shares which the Company holds in treasury) for cash without first offering them to 
existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.

The Company follows the principles set out by The Pre-Emption Group and has taken the 
opportunity to increase the proportion of issued capital (excluding treasury shares) which may 
be allotted on the basis contemplated by resolutions 15 and 16, in each case as permitted in 
the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the 
Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice (the Pre-emption Principles).

The power set out in resolution 15 seeks to renew the Directors’ power to allot shares or grant 
rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, shares or sell treasury shares where they 
propose to do so for cash (other than pursuant to an employee share scheme) otherwise than 
to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings (i.e. non pre-emptively), as permitted by the 
Articles. The power will be limited to:

the allotment of shares for cash in connection with a rights issue, to allow the Directors to 
make appropriate exclusions and other arrangements to resolve legal or practical problems 
which, for example, might arise in relation to overseas shareholders;

the allotment of shares and treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£3,536,561 being approximately 10 percent of the issued ordinary share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) at 20 February 2024, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this 
Notice of Meeting; and 

the allotment of shares and treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£707,312, being approximately 2 percent of the issued ordinary share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) at 20 February 2024, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this 
Notice of Meeting, for the purposes of making a follow-on offer which the Board determines 
to be of a kind contemplated by paragraph 3 of Section 2B of the Pre-emption Principles.

a. 

b. 

c. 

234

Resolution 16 is a special resolution which seeks to give the Directors power to make 
non-pre-emptive issues of ordinary shares in connection with acquisitions and other capital 
investments as contemplated by the Pre-emption Principles. This power is intended to give 
the Directors flexibility in managing the Company’s capital resources and is in addition to that 
proposed by resolution 15. It would be limited to allotments or sales of shares and treasury 
shares for cash up to:

(i)  an aggregate nominal value of £3,536,531, being approximately 10 percent of the issued 

ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) at 20 February 2024, the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this Notice of Meeting; and

(ii)  an aggregate nominal value of £707,312, being approximately 2 percent of the issued 
ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) at 20 February 2024, the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this Notice of Meeting, for the purposes of making 
a follow-on offer which the Board determines to be of a kind contemplated by paragraph 3 
of Section 2B of the Pre-emption Principles. 

If given, these authorities will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2025 or 
at the close of business on 22 July 2025, whichever is the earlier (unless previously renewed, 
varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting).

The Board will continue to seek to renew these authorities at each Annual General Meeting in 
accordance with best practice.

Resolution 17: Authority to make market purchases of shares
This resolution authorises the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares 
as permitted by the Act. 

Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more tranches and would be 
limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary shares of the Company in issue at the close of 
business on 20 February 2024.

The minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is 1 pence 
per ordinary share. The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority would not 
exceed the highest of:

(i)  105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares 

for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase; and

(ii) 

the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent 
bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

Shares purchased pursuant to these authorities could be held as treasury shares, which the 
Company can re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, providing the Company with additional 
flexibility in the management of its capital base. The total number of shares held as treasury 
shares shall not at any one time exceed 10% of the Company’s issued share capital. Accordingly, 
any shares bought back over the 10% limit will be cancelled. As at 20 February 2024, the 
Company holds 20,423,334 shares in treasury.

This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed companies at Annual 
General Meetings.

The Board utilised this power during 2022 to return excess capital to its shareholders of 
£150 million through buying back 116.9 million shares, of which 25,000,000 were held in 
treasury and the remaining 91.9 million were cancelled. That share buyback is expected to 
benefit shareholders through the opportunity for increased future dividends per share on the 
remaining shares. The shares held in treasury have been and continue to be used for 
obligations of the Company in respect of its employee share schemes, and are currently 
being used to meet the exercise of Sharesave options, as described in more detail in Note 26 
on page 205.

The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority other than for the reasons 
stated above, but will keep the matter under review, and would do so only after careful 
consideration, taking into account market conditions, the cash reserves of the Company, 
the Company’s share price, appropriate gearing levels, other investment opportunities and 
the overall financial position of the Company. The authority will be exercised only if the Board 
believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be likely to 
promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.

The total number of options and conditional share awards to subscribe for ordinary shares 
outstanding as at the close of business on 20 February 2024 was 32,005,991, representing 
approximately 0.9% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at that date and 
approximately 1.0% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital following any exercise in 
full of this authority to make market purchases.

This authority will last until the earlier of 22 October 2025 and the conclusion of the Company’s 
next Annual General Meeting.

235

Special business

Ordinary resolutions

Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast to be cast in favour.

Resolution 18: Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee of the Board (the Committee) is seeking shareholders’ 
approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report in resolution 18 which will be proposed as 
an ordinary resolution.

The Directors are required to prepare the Directors’ Remuneration Report, comprising an 
annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors, a statement by the Chair of the 
Committee and the Remuneration at a glance section. The Company is required to seek 
shareholders’ approval in respect of the contents of this Report on an annual basis. This vote 
on the Directors’ Remuneration Report is an advisory one only.

Resolution 19: Authority to make political donations
In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 and to avoid any 
inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes to renew its existing authority for a 
general level of political donation and/or expenditure. Resolution 19 seeks to renew the existing 
authority for the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure. 

The Companies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three heads (as set out in 
resolution 19) with a separate amount specified as permitted for each. An amount not 
exceeding £250,000 for each head of the authority has been proposed. In accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, resolution 19 extends approval to all of the Company’s subsidiaries.

This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company 
unless renewal is sought at that meeting.

The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political parties or organisations 
and do not intend to going forward, but do support certain industry-wide bodies such as the 
Home Builders Federation in the UK. Whilst the Board does not regard this as political in nature, 
in certain circumstances such support together with donations made for charitable or similar 
purposes could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the relevant 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. For example, a donation to a humanitarian charity which 
may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees 
fulfilling public duties and payments to industry representative bodies could constitute a 
donation to a political organisation within the current definitions in the Companies Act 2006. 

Details of the Company’s and the Group’s charitable donations appear on page 42 of the 
Annual Report and Accounts.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

Special resolution

Special resolutions require at least three quarters of votes cast to be in favour.

Resolution 20: Notice of general meetings
The Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period 
required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders agree to a 
shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days. At the last AGM, a resolution 
was passed approving the Company’s ability to call general meetings (other than Annual 
General Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice) on not less 
than 14 clear days’ notice. As this approval will expire at the conclusion of this AGM, resolution 
20 proposes its renewal. The shorter notice period of 14 clear days would not be used as a 
matter of routine for any general meeting, but only where the flexibility is merited by the 
business of a particular meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a 
whole. The renewed approval will be effective until the Company’s next Annual General Meeting, 
when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.

Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the 
Company must make available electronic voting to all shareholders in respect of that meeting.

Procedural notes

1.  To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM (and for the purpose of the determination by 
the Company of the votes which shareholders may cast), shareholders must be registered 
on the Register of Members of the Company by 6:00pm on Friday 19 April 2024 (or, in the 
event of any adjournment, on the date which is two working days before the time of the 
adjourned meeting). 

2.  As at 20 February 2024 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this 

Notice) the Company’s issued share capital consisted of 3,556,985,103 ordinary shares, 
carrying one vote each. The Company holds 20,423,334 shares in treasury. Therefore, 
the total voting rights in the Company as at 20 February 2024 were 3,536,561,769.

3.  A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint a proxy or proxies to 

exercise all or any of their rights at the AGM. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the 
Company. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports 
to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be 
accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders 
appear in the Company’s Register of Members in respect of the joint holdings (the first-named 
being the most senior).

236

4.  To be valid, any proxy appointment must be received by Link Group at FREEPOST PXS, 
Central Square, 29 Wellington Street, Leeds, LS1 4DL or, electronically via the internet at 
www.signalshares.com or, if you are a member of CREST, via the service provided by 
Euroclear UK and International Limited at the electronic address provided in note 9, or via 
the Proxymity platform in each case no later than 10:30am on Friday 19 April 2024. Please 
note that all proxy appointments received after this time will be void. A proxy appointment 
sent electronically at any time that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.

5. 

If you require a paper proxy form, or if you require additional forms, please contact 
Link Group, by email at shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.co.uk, or by telephone on 
+44 (0)371 664 0300 (calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international 
rate. Lines are open between 9:00am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales).

6.  Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of 

the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under 
an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have 
a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the AGM. If a 
Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, 
they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder 
as to the exercise of voting rights. Such persons should direct any communications and 
enquiries to the registered holder of the shares by whom they were nominated and not to 
the Company or its Registrar.

7.  The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in 

notes 3 and 4 above does not apply to Nominated Persons. The rights described in these 
notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.

8.  CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic 
proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST 
Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST 
members who have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or 
voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

9. 

In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, 
it must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited’s 
specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described 
in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com). The message, regardless of 
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction 
given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be 
received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by 10:30am on Friday 19 April 2024. For this 
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp 
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent is 
able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. 
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 
communicated to the appointee through other means.

10.  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out 

in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.

If you are an institutional investor you may also be able to appoint a proxy electronically via 
the Proxymity platform, a process which has been agreed by the Company and approved 
by the Registrar. For further information regarding Proxymity, please go to www.proxymity.io. 
Your proxy must be lodged by 10:30am on Friday 19 April 2024 in order to be considered 
valid or, if the meeting is adjourned, by the time which is 48 hours before the time of the 
adjourned meeting. Before you can appoint a proxy via this process you will need to have 
agreed to Proxymity’s associated terms and conditions. It is important that you read these 
carefully as you will be bound by them and they will govern the electronic appointment of 
your proxy. An electronic proxy appointment via the Proxymity platform may be revoked 
completely by sending an authenticated message via the platform instructing the removal 
of your proxy vote.

11.  Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives 

who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do 
so in relation to the same shares.

12.  Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold 

requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a 
website a statement setting out any matter relating to:

•  The audit of the Company’s accounts (including the Auditors’ Report and the conduct of 

the audit) that are to be laid before the AGM; or

•  Any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since 
the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 
Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.

The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication 
to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 
of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company’s external 
Auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. 
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the 
Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish 
on a website.

13.  Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders have the right to ask 

questions at the AGM relating to the business of the AGM. The Company must cause to be 
answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no 
such answer need be given if: (i) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the 
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information; (ii) the answer has already 
been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or (iii) it is undesirable in 
the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered. 

14.  Shareholders have the right to request information to enable them to determine that their 

vote on a poll was validly recorded and counted. If you require confirmation please contact 
Link Group, by email at shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.co.uk, or by telephone on 
+44 (0)371 664 0300 (calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international 
rate. Lines are open between 9:00am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales).

237

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportNotice of Annual General Meeting continued

15. A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies

Act 2006, can be found at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate.

20. Under sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the
threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company:

16. Voting on all resolutions at this year’s AGM will be conducted by way of a poll. The results

of the poll will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service and made available at
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate as soon as practicable after the AGM.

17. A copy of the Company’s Articles of Association will be available for inspection during
normal business hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays) at the
Company’s registered office: Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR from the date of this Notice until the close of the AGM.

18. The documents listed below are available for inspection at an agreed time at the Company’s

registered office. If you wish to inspect these documents, email CoSec@taylorwimpey.com
during normal business hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays). Copies
of these documents will also be available before and during the AGM.

• Copies of the Executive Directors’ service contracts.

• Copies of the letters of appointment of the Chair of the Board and the Non Executive

Directors.

• A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended
31 December 2023, including the Directors’ Remuneration Report referred to in
resolution 18. This document is also available on our corporate website.

Since shareholders will be able to follow the AGM remotely via an audiocast, these 
documents will be made available on the electronic facility for the duration of the meeting. 
The documents will also be available to view on the AGM section of our website at 
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/2024AGM.

19. Personal data provided by shareholders at or in relation to the AGM (including names,

contact details, votes and Investor Codes), will be processed in line with the Company’s
privacy policy which is available at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/privacy-policy.

i.

ii.

to give, to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Annual
General Meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended
to be moved at that meeting, and/or

to include in the business to be dealt with at that meeting any matter (other than a
proposed resolution) which may be properly included in the business. A resolution may
properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless:

a.

b.

c.

(in the case of a resolution only) it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by
reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s constitution
or otherwise),

it is defamatory of any person, or

it is frivolous or vexatious.

Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution 
of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be 
authenticated by the person or persons making it, must have been received by the 
Company no later than 11 March 2024, being the date six clear weeks before the Annual 
General Meeting, or if later, the time at which Notice of the Annual General Meeting is given 
and (in the case of a matter to be included in the business only) must be accompanied by a 
statement setting out the grounds for the request.

238

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportShareholder facilities

Web communications

Dividend Re-Investment Plan

The Company makes documents and information available to shareholders by electronic means 
and via a website, rather than by sending hard copies. This way of communicating is enabled 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Rule 6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
and the Company’s Articles of Association.

Residents in the United Kingdom can choose to invest their cash dividends, including any 
special dividends, in purchasing Taylor Wimpey plc shares on the market under the terms of the 
Dividend Re-Investment Plan (DRIP). For further information on the DRIP and how to join, 
contact Link Group.

Making documents and information available electronically:

a.  Enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs.

b.  Allows faster access to information and enables shareholders to access documents on the 

day they are published on the Company’s website.

c.  Reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and lessens the impact of 

printing and mailing activities on the environment.

The Company provides hard copy documentation to those shareholders who have requested 
this and is, of course, happy to provide hard copies to any shareholders upon request.

The Company’s website is www.taylorwimpey.co.uk and shareholder documentation made 
available electronically is generally accessible at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate.

Electronic communications

The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive notification of the availability 
of Company documentation by means of an email. Shareholders can sign up for this facility 
by registering at www.signalshares.com.

Online facilities for shareholders

You can access our Annual Report and Accounts, half year and full year statements, and copies 
of recent shareholder communications online via our corporate website. 

You can manage your shareholding in Taylor Wimpey plc via Link Group’s shareholder portal, 
which can be accessed online at www.signalshares.com.

Shareholders are again reminded to check their position with regard to any dividend mandates 
that are in place, should you wish to either participate in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any 
participation, as existing mandates will apply to all dividend payments (including special 
dividends) unless or until revoked.

CREST

The Company offers shareholders who hold their Taylor Wimpey plc shares in CREST a facility 
for the receipt of dividends through the CREST system. 

For shares held in uncertificated form (CREST), please note that elections continue to apply 
only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, via CREST, for each dividend. 

Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to make or 
revoke an election, both in respect of ordinary dividends (i.e. in this case, the 2023 final 
dividend) and any special dividends, are available at www.signalshares.com or on request from 
the Registrar, Link Group, Central Square, 29 Wellington Street, Leeds, LS1 4DL, email: 
shares@linkgroup.co.uk, tel: +44 (0)371 664 0391. Calls are charged at the standard 
geographic rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged 
at the applicable international rate. Lines are open between 9:00am and 5:30pm Monday to 
Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.

Dividend mandates

We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer to 
a bank or building society account. This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to 
shareholders without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a 
bank. If you wish to use this cost-effective and simple facility, please register for the shareholder 
portal at www.signalshares.com and register your bank mandate online or complete and return 
the dividend mandate form attached to your dividend cheque. Additional mandate forms may 
be obtained from Link Group.

239

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportShareholder facilities continued

Duplicate share register accounts

Unsolicited approaches to shareholders and ‘Boiler Room’ scams

If you are receiving more than one copy of our Annual Report and Accounts, it may be that your 
shares are registered in two or more accounts on our Register of Members. You might wish to 
consider merging them into one single account. Please contact Link Group who will be pleased 
to carry out your instructions in this regard.

Taylor Wimpey and CREST

Taylor Wimpey plc shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do not require share 
certificates. This may make it quicker and easier for some shareholders to settle stock market 
transactions. Shareholders who deal infrequently may, however, prefer to continue to hold their 
shares in certificated form and this facility will remain available for the time being, pending the 
likely general introduction of dematerialised shareholdings in due course.

Taylor Wimpey plc share price

Our share price is available on our corporate website.

Gifting shares to charity

If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may wish to consider gifting them 
to charity. You can do so through ‘ShareGift’, which is administered by a registered charity, 
Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited. Shares gifted are re-registered in the name of the charity, 
combined with other donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers who charge no 
commission. The proceeds are distributed to a wide range of recognised charities. For further 
details, please contact Link Group or approach ShareGift directly at www.sharegift.org or 
telephone them on +44 (0)20 7930 3737.

We receive reports from time to time from Taylor Wimpey shareholders who have received what 
appear to be fraudulent approaches from third parties with respect to their shareholding in the 
Company. In some cases these are ‘cold calls’ and in others correspondence. They generally 
purport to be from a firm of solicitors or an investment company and offer, or hold out the 
prospect of, large gains on Taylor Wimpey plc shares or other investments you may hold.

The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment from the shareholder, the 
disclosure of the shareholder’s bank details or the sale of an unrelated investment. Shareholders 
are advised to be extremely wary of such approaches. More information is available on our website 
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate/shareholder-information/boiler-room-scams and you can 
check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the 
FCA on www.fca.org.uk/consumers or by calling 0800 111 6768. This is a freephone number from 
the UK and lines are open Monday to Friday, 8:00am to 6:00pm and Saturday 9:00am to 1:00pm. 

240

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ reportAddresses

Annual General Meeting

10:30am on 23 April 2024 at:

The Gerrards Suite at the Crowne Plaza Gerrards Cross, Oxford Road, Beaconsfield, HP9 2XE. 

Proxy instructions must be received by 10:30am on Friday 19 April 2024.

Group General Counsel and Company Secretary

Ishaq Kayani
Taylor Wimpey plc
Gate House
Turnpike Road
High Wycombe
Buckinghamshire
HP12 3NR

Tel: +44 (0)1494 558323

Registrar

For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details of shareholder services, please contact:

Link Group
Central Square
29 Wellington Street
Leeds 
LS1 4DL

Email: shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.co.uk
Tel: +44 (0)371 664 0300
Website: www.signalshares.com

Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the 
United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate. Lines are open between 
9:00am and 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales. 

External Auditors

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Solicitors

Slaughter and May

241

Stockbrokers

Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Bank of America

Principal operating addresses

UK

Taylor Wimpey plc
Gate House
Turnpike Road
High Wycombe
Buckinghamshire
HP12 3NR

Tel: +44 (0)1494 558323
Website: www.taylorwimpey.co.uk

Registered in England and Wales number 296805 

Details of all our operating locations are available on our website 
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk

Taylor Wimpey UK Limited
Gate House
Turnpike Road
High Wycombe
Buckinghamshire
HP12 3NR

Tel: +44 (0)1494 558323

Spain

Taylor Wimpey de España S.A.U
C/Aragón
223-223A
07008 Palma de Mallorca
Mallorca - Spain

Tel: +34 971 706570

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportFinancial statementsShareholder informationDirectors’ report242

Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023This publication is produced by a CarbonNeutral® 
company and the paper is Carbon Balanced 
with World Land Trust.

Balancing is delivered by World Land Trust, 
an international conservation charity, who offset 
carbon emissions through the purchase and 
preservation of high conservation value land. 

Through protecting standing forests, under threat 
of clearance, carbon is locked in that would 
otherwise be released. These protected forests 
are then able to continue absorbing carbon 
from the atmosphere, referred to as REDD 
(Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and 
forest Degradation). This is now recognised as 
one of the most cost-effective and swiftest ways 
to arrest the rise in atmospheric CO2 and global 
warming effects. Additional to the carbon benefits 
is the flora and fauna this land preserves, including 
a number of species identified at risk of extinction 
on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.

CBP00019082504183028

This report has been printed on Novatech Matt 
and Edixion offset which is FSC® certified and 
made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) 
pulp. The mill and the printer are both certified 
to ISO 14001 environmental management 
system. The report was printed by a 
CarbonNeutral® printer.

Printed by Pureprint Group.

Designed and produced by Friend.  
www.friendstudio.com.

www.taylorwimpey.co.uk

