Corporate Governance at a glance 

Key Board activities in 2023
Business and strategy
 – Supported continual investment across all of 
Hikma’s regions to expand our manufacturing 
capacity and build our pipeline, continuing to 
build our reputation as a high-quality and 
reliable supplier

 – Built on our strategic partnerships in the MENA 
region, signing exclusive licensing agreements, 
giving us access to a strong pipeline of 
innovative products in key therapeutic areas for 
Hikma, including immunotherapy, dermatology, 
biotechnology, oncology and central nervous 
system disorders

 – Monitored the impact of headwinds resulting 
from the devaluation of the Egyptian Pound 
and the halted operations in Sudan

 – Supported efforts to utilise spare capacity in 

our Generics plants for contract manufacturing, 
resulting in new contract wins

 – Utilised our short supply chain and lead times 
in Europe to address product shortages in 
essential injectables medicines

 – Approved the acquisition of part of the Akorn 
business through a bankruptcy process for  
$98 million, including manufacturing equipment 
and portfolio and pipeline products that will 

support our US businesses. More information is 
available in Note 35 on page 185

 – Launched new sterile injectable medicines in 
Canada, providing important new treatment 
options for patients and health care providers, 
and building on our presence in the Canadian 
market, following the acquisition of the 
Canadian assets of Teligent in 2022

 – Monitored progress of our 503B sterile 

compounding business in the US

Stakeholder focus
 – Careful consideration of stakeholder concerns, 
in relation to the safety, security and wellbeing 
(both physical and financial) of our local 
workforce, following the halting of operations 
at our Sudanese manufacturing facility. More 
information is available on pages 22 and 70 

 – Monitored the impact of high inflation on the 
cost of living for our global workforce. More 
information is available on page 22 and 103

 – Prepared for our first workforce engagement 

survey following the appointments of our CEO 
and Chief People Officer in September 2023, 
bringing fresh perspectives to engagement 
with our workforce

 – Strengthened our knowledge of stakeholder 

priorities, receiving detailed briefings on issues 
impacting our suppliers, customers, patients 
and healthcare providers and meeting with 
stakeholder groups representing government 
and regulators

 – More information on stakeholder engagement 
activities and outcomes is included in our 
Section 172 statement on pages 20 to 25

Succession planning
 – Concluded the search for a new CEO, 
appointing Riad Mishlawi as CEO with 
effect from 1 September 2023

 – Monitored the handover of CEO responsibilities 
from Said Darwazah to Riad Mishlawi, providing 
support and guidance during the transition 
and reviewing our governance structure 
accordingly. Our Board role statements 
are available on our website at www.hikma.com

 – Completed induction programmes for the 

Non-Executive Directors appointed towards 
the end of 2022

 – Ensured continuity in the leadership of our 

Injectables business, receiving updates on the 
internal succession and appointment of Dr Bill 
Larkins as President of the Injectables business

Board experience

Board priorities for 2024

Pharmaceutical

Manufacturing

Sales

Commercial

Regulatory and political

Listed environment

Finance

Strategy and risk

Business ethics and integrity

Governance

Cybersecurity

ESG

 – Review succession plans for the Executive Committee, their direct 

reports, and associated processes for talent management, following a 
number of changes to Hikma’s leadership team in the second half of 2023

 – Agree succession plans for the independent Non-Executive Directors 

reaching nine years of service in 2025

 – Implement agreed actions from the 2023 Board evaluation. 

Further detail on the Board evaluation is included on page 96

 – Plan our annual strategic review meeting, ensuring it includes 

opportunities for Board development and workforce engagement

 – Follow up on key priorities identified for implementation during 

our recent workforce survey

Board geographical experience

Global

US

MENA

Europe

UK

92%

83%

42%

83%

67%

3.8

3.7

3.8

4.0

4.1

4.1

4.0

4.6

4.7

4.5

3.0

3.6

1

2

No Experience

3

← | →

4

5

Excellent and Current

84

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Diversity (as at 31 December 2023)

Ethnicity

Board

Senior Management2

5

1

34

2

Gender

Board

Senior Management2

   Minority ethnic1 
  White1

4 (33%)
8 (67%)

  1.  White/Caucasian
  2. Minority ethnic, 

22 (23%)
38 (39%)

  Women
  Men

5 (42%)
7 (58%)

  Women
  Men

23 (24%)
74 (76%)

Executive Committee

the minority ethnic 
group includes:
–  Middle Eastern  26 (27%)
7 (7%)
–  Asian 
–  Mixed/Multiple  
ethnic groups/ 
two or more races  2 (2%)
3 (3%)

–  Other 

   3. Prefer not to say 
   4. Did not respond 
   5. Unknown3 

1 (1%)
15 (15%)
21 (22%)

Executive Committee

Group

   Minority ethnic1 
  White1

4 (50%)
4 (50%)

  Women
  Men

1 (12%)
7 (88%)

  Women
  Men
  Prefer not to say

3,167 (35%)
5,803 (64%)
130 (1%)

 1.  Relates to Board and Executive Committee members who identify with one 

of the relevant categories under Listing Rule 9, Annex 2

2.  Senior Management refers to the Executive Committee, direct reports to the CEO, 

and senior team members who report directly to them (excluding administrative roles)
3.  Ethnic diversity data excludes our employees in France, Portugal, Germany, and Italy 

due to local GDPR and labour law issues

Attendance

Directors

Said Darwazah

Riad Mishlawi1

Mazen Darwazah

Victoria Hull

Ali Al-Husry

Patrick Butler

John Castellani

Nina Henderson

Cynthia Flowers

Douglas Hurt

Laura Balan

Dr Deneen Vojta

Meetings attended
(8 scheduled and 2 unscheduled)

10/10

3/3

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

1.  Riad Mishlawi was appointed as CEO and joined the Board on 1 September 2023.

Hikma subsidiary company directors
As required by the Companies Act 2006, the composition of our subsidiary 
company boards is 46 men (81%) and 11 women (19%).

Board composition

 Executive Chairman
 Other Executive Directors
 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
 Independent Non-Executive Directors

31 December
2023

after 2024 
AGM

8%
17%
17%
58%

9%
18%
9%
64%

2023
2023

After 2024 AGM
After 2024 AGM

In compliance with Provision 11 of the Code, when excluding the Chairman, 
the Independent Non-Executive Directors represent 64% of the Board as 
at 31 December 2023 and 70% of the Board after the AGM in April 2024 
following the retirement of Patrick Butler from the Board.

Board agenda allocation of time

Independent Director tenure (as at 31 December 2023)

 Corporate governance
 Financial performance
 Performance, operations and risk
 Strategy and acquisitions

2023
2023

2022
2022

2023

11%
12%
31%
46%

2022

9%
14%
33%
44%

 0—3 years
 4—6 years
 7—9 years

Number

4
1
2

%

57%
14%
29%

85

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leadership – Board of Directors

1

2

3

4

5

6

1. Said Darwazah
Executive Chairman 

Appointed: 1 July 2007  
(joined Hikma in 1981)

Nationality: Jordanian

2. Riad Mishlawi 
Chief Executive Officer

C

3. Mazen Darwazah 
Executive Vice Chairman, President of MENA

C   N

Appointed: 1 September 2023  
(joined Hikma in 1990)

Appointed: 8 September 2005  
(joined Hikma in 1985)

Nationality: Lebanese 

Nationality: Jordanian 

Experience: Said served as Chief Executive Officer 
from June 2022 to August 2023 and from July 2007 
to February 2018 and as Executive Chairman since 
May 2014. Said was Chairman and Chief Executive 
of Hikma’s group holding company from 1994 to 
2003 and Minister of Health for the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan from 2003 to 2006. Said has 
over 40 years of experience in extensive leadership 
roles at Hikma. 

Qualifications: Industrial Engineering degree from 
Purdue University, MBA from INSEAD. 

Other appointments: Chairman of Royal Jordanian 
Airlines and Dead Sea Touristic & Real Estate 
Investments. Vice Chairman of Capital Bank, 
Jordan. Board member of INSEAD and Dash 
Ventures Limited.

Experience: Riad was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer in September 2023, bringing deep 
knowledge of Hikma, the pharmaceutical industry 
and a strong track record of delivering profitable 
growth and strategic expansion. From 2011 to 2023, 
Riad served as Hikma’s President of Injectables, 
significantly expanding the Injectables product 
portfolio and manufacturing footprint while 
maintaining focus on quality and efficiency, 
helping transform the Injectables business into 
a recognised market leader. Since joining Hikma in 
1990, Riad has held various positions of increasing 
responsibility including Head of Manufacturing 
Operations at the Group’s former Generics facility 
in Eatontown, New Jersey. He left Hikma in 1998 
to join Watson Pharmaceuticals, where he was 
Executive Director of Operations. Riad returned 
to Hikma in 2004 and held a series of positions 
in the Group’s Injectables business.

Qualifications: BSc in Engineering and a MS 
in Engineering and Management from George 
Washington University.

Other appointments: None

Experience: Mazen is responsible for the strategic 
and operational direction of the business across 
the MENA region. During his 38 years of service 
at Hikma, Mazen has held an extensive range of 
positions within the Group. He has previously 
served as the President of the Jordanian 
Association of Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals 
and Medical Appliances.

Qualifications: BA in Business Administration 
from the Lebanese American University, 
Advanced Management Plan from INSEAD.

Other appointments: Senator in the Jordanian 
Senate. Trustee of Birzeit University and King’s 
Academy. Member of HM King Abdullah’s 
Economic Policy Council. Director of 
Rakuten Medical Inc.

4. Victoria Hull 
Senior Independent Director

A   N

5. Ali Al-Husry
Non-Executive Director

6. John Castellani 
Independent Non-Executive Director

A   C   R

Appointed: 1 November 2022 as Non-Executive 
Director (Senior Independent Director from 
28 April 2023)

Appointed: 14 October 2005  
(joined Hikma in 1981)

Nationality: Jordanian

Nationality: British

Experience: Victoria has extensive senior executive 
experience across a broad range of business, legal, 
commercial and governance matters and strong 
international experience. In her executive career, 
Victoria was an Executive Director and General 
Counsel of Invensys plc and Telewest 
Communications plc. Victoria is a solicitor and 
began her career at Clifford Chance LLC. Victoria 
also served as Senior Independent Director of 
Ultra Electronics plc.

Qualifications: Solicitor, LLB (Hons) in Law from 
the University of Southampton. 

Other appointments: Non-Executive Director and 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Network 
International Holdings plc, Alphawave IP Group plc 
and IQE plc.

Experience: Ali joined Hikma as Director of Hikma 
Pharma Limited and held various management and 
leadership roles within the Group, before stepping 
into an advisory role in 1995. Ali brings great 
financial experience to the Board as well as an 
in-depth knowledge of the MENA region and Hikma 
Pharmaceuticals. Ali was a founder of Capital Bank, 
Jordan, and served as CEO of Capital Bank, Jordan 
until 2007.

Qualifications: Mechanical Engineering degree 
from the University of Southern California, MBA 
from INSEAD.

Other appointments: Director of Endeavour Jordan, 
Microfund for Women, Capital Bank, Jordan, and 
DASH Ventures Limited.

Appointed: 1 March 2016

Nationality: American

Experience: John brings experience of the 
pharmaceutical and biotechnical sectors, business 
ethics, and political and regulatory knowledge to 
the Board. John was President and Chief Executive 
Officer of Pharmaceutical Research and 
Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) from 2010 
to 2015. Prior to that he was President and Chief 
Executive of Business Roundtable, an association 
of leading US company chief executives. During his 
career John has also held senior positions with 
Burson-Marsteller, Tenneco, and General Electric.

Qualifications: BSc in Biology from Union College 
Schenectady, New York.

Other appointments: Director of 5th Port.

A Audit Committee

N Nomination and Governance Committee

C Compliance, Responsibility and 

R Remuneration Committee

Ethics Committee

Chair

86

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 20237

8

9

10

11

12

7. Nina Henderson 
Independent Non-Executive Director 

A   C   N   R

8. Cynthia Flowers 
Independent Non-Executive Director

A   N   R

9. Douglas Hurt 
Independent Non-Executive Director 

A   C   N   R

Appointed: 1 October 2016  
(Employee Engagement from 2019)

Nationality: American 

Experience: Nina brings extensive experience 
of manufacturing and distribution, marketing, 
remuneration committee and stakeholder 
engagement, gained through her executive and 
non-executive career. Nina was Corporate VP of 
Bestfoods and President of Bestfoods Grocery 
prior to its acquisition by Unilever. During a 30-year 
career with Bestfoods, she held a wide variety of 
Global and North American executive general 
management and marketing positions. Nina has 
previously served as a director of Royal Dutch 
Shell, AXA Financial, The Equitable Companies, 
DelMonte, Pactiv and Walter Energy.

Qualifications: Honours graduate and BSc from 
Drexel University.

Other appointments: Non-Executive Director and 
Chair Remuneration Committee of CNO Financial 
Group Inc and IWG PLC. Director of the Foreign 
Policy Association, St. Christopher’s Hospital for 
Children, VNS Health and Commissioner of the 
Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery. Vice Chair 
of the Board of Trustees, Drexel University.

Appointed: 1 June 2019

Nationality: American

Appointed: 1 May 2020

Nationality: British

Experience: Cynthia brings detailed knowledge of 
the pharmaceutical and biotechnical sectors and 
healthcare practitioner experience to the Board. 
Cynthia was President and CEO of the North 
American divisions of the global pharmaceutical 
companies Ipsen and Eisai, and also held 
leadership positions at Amgen and Johnson & 
Johnson. For nearly a decade Cynthia served on 
the Women’s Leadership Advisory Board at Harvard 
University’s Kennedy School of Government.

Qualifications: BSN from the University of Delaware 
and Executive MBA from Wharton School at the 
University of Pennsylvania.

Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of 
Lisata Therapeutics Inc. and Relevate Health Inc. 
Non-Executive Director and Remuneration 
Committee Chair of G1 Therapeutics Inc. Chief 
Executive Officer of OMEZA Holdings Inc.

Experience: Douglas brings significant financial 
experience, having served as Finance Director of 
IMI PLC from 2006 to 2015. Prior to this, he held a 
number of senior finance and general management 
positions at GlaxoSmithKline PLC, previously 
having worked at Price Waterhouse. His career 
has included several years working in the US as a 
Chief Financial Officer and significant experience 
in European businesses as an Operational and 
Regional Managing Director. Douglas previously 
served as Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Tate & Lyle plc 
and as Chairman of Countryside Partnerships PLC.

Qualifications: Chartered Accountant and a Fellow 
of the ICAEW, MA (Hons) in Economics from 
Cambridge University. 

Other appointments: Senior Independent Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee of Vesuvius PLC. 
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit 
Committee of the British Standards Institution.

10. Laura Balan 
Independent Non-Executive Director

A   R

11. Dr Deneen Vojta 
Independent Non-Executive Director

N   C

Appointed: 1 October 2022

Appointed: 1 November 2022 

Nationality: Romanian and British

Nationality: American 

Experience: Laura brings a deep understanding 
of international business, the pharmaceutical 
industry globally, key sector trends and dynamics. 
Laura is a retired partner of The Capital Group 
Companies, the US investment manager, where 
she was an investment analyst for 17 years, covering 
the European healthcare and pharmaceutical 
industries. Prior to this, Laura held associate and 
analyst roles at The Goldman Sachs Group Inc, 
where she focused on European healthcare and 
pharmaceutical investment research.

Qualifications: CFA Charterholder, BA (Hons) 
in International Business from the Academy of 
Economic Studies in Bucharest, Romania.

Other appointments: Trustee and Chair of Finance, 
Audit & Risk Committee of the Charter Schools 
Educational Trust.

Experience: Deneen is a healthcare executive 
with extensive experience in clinical medicine, 
scientific research, and care delivery. Deneen 
was the Executive Vice President for Research 
and Development for UnitedHealth Group (UHG) 
and Founder and CEO of MYnetico which was then 
acquired by UHG. She also served as Chief Medical 
Officer of ARIA Health Care System and Health 
Partners of Philadelphia. In 2022, Deneen was 
named a Modern Healthcare’s Top Innovator, 
in 2014, she was an Emmy® Award winner and in 
2013, a CES® Innovation Design & Engineering 
Innovation Honoree.

Qualifications: MD from the Temple University 
School of Medicine and BS in Behavioral 
Neuroscience from the University of Pittsburgh.

Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of 
Sensei Biotherapeutics. Advisory board member 
of The Center for Health Incentives & Behavioral 
Economics at Penn Medicine and Independent 
Director of Canary Medical.

Other Directors who 
served during 2023

12. Patrick Butler 
Non-Executive Director

Patrick Butler will retire from the Board 
with effect from 29 February 2024. Patrick 
stayed on the Board as a non-independent, 
Non-Executive Director for one additional year, 
following nine years of independent service, to 
support the transitions of responsibilities to a 
new CEO and a new Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee.

Company Secretary

Helen Middlemist
Appointed: 1 January 2024  
(joined Hikma in 2022)

Role: Helen is responsible for advising on 
relevant law, regulation and best practice 
in relation to Hikma’s listing on the London 
Stock Exchange.

Find detailed biographies at: 
www.hikma.com/who-we-are/leadership/

87

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Leadership – Executive Committee

5

2

8

6

4

3

8. Dr Bill Larkins
President of Injectables

Joined: 2022  Nationality: American

Role: Bill was appointed as President of Hikma’s 
Injectables business in September 2023. Bill has 
extensive experience in the sterile injectable 
generic market, having previously served as Chief 
Executive Officer of Custopharm, which was 
acquired by Hikma in 2022, and until September 
2023 served as Hikma’s Senior Vice President, 
R&D, Injectables.

Qualifications: BSc in Chemistry from Purdue 
University and a PhD in Analytical Chemistry 
from The Ohio State University.

9. Julie Hill
Senior Vice President, Corporate Quality 
Compliance/Health and Safety

Joined: 2016  Nationality: American

Role: Julie has served as Senior Vice President, 
Corporate Quality Compliance/Environmental 
Health and Safety since February 2024. Julie joined 
Hikma through the 2016 acquisition of Roxane 
Laboratories and most recently served as Vice 
President, Quality, for Hikma’s Generics business. 
Prior to that, she served in various leadership roles 
with Hikma and predecessor companies at Hikma’s 
Columbus, Ohio, generics manufacturing facility.

Qualifications: Bachelor of Science degree in 
Biochemical Engineering from Purdue University.

7

1

9

1. Riad Mishlawi
Chief Executive Officer

2. Mazen Darwazah
Executive Vice Chairman, President of MENA

For biographical details, see page 86.

3. Hussein Arkhagha
Chief People Officer

Joined: 2001  Nationality: Jordanian

Role: Hussein was appointed as Chief People 
Officer in September 2023. He is responsible for the 
Human Resources and Compliance Departments, 
and overseeing legal and Company Secretarial 
Departments. Hussein is a standing member of 
the Executive Committee since 2017. Hussein has 
held several executive positions during 22 years 
at Hikma, including Chief Counsel and Company 
Secretary, General Counsel, Head of Legal/MENA, 
Head of Shareholders’ Department and Head 
of Tax.

Qualifications: Hussein holds a Master’s degree in 
International Business Law from the University of 
Manchester, under the UK Chevening Scholarship 
Programme. 

4. Bassam Kanaan
Executive Vice President,  
Corporate Development and M&A

Joined: 2001  Nationality: Jordanian

Role: Bassam was appointed EVP, Corporate 
Development and M&A in 2014 and has Group 
level responsibility for strategic development, 
acquisitions and alliances. He also has oversight 
of the IT function, Global Procurement and Hikma 
Ventures. Bassam has held several executive 
positions during 22 years with Hikma, including 
Chief Financial Officer in the period from 2001 to 
2012. Bassam played a leading role in preparing 
for Hikma’s IPO in 2005 and in its subsequent 
M&A activity.

Qualifications: US Certified Public Accountant and 
Chartered Financial Analyst. BA from Claremont 
McKenna. International Executive MBA from 
Kellogg/Recanati Schools of Management.

5. Khalid Nabilsi
Chief Financial Officer

Joined: 2001  Nationality: Jordanian 

Role: Khalid was appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer in 2011 and is responsible for Group finance, 
including reporting and capital management. 
Khalid has held several leadership positions within 
Hikma’s financial functions during 22 years with 
Hikma, including VP Finance.

Qualifications: Certified Public Accountant. 
MBA from the University of Hull.

6. Susan Ringdal
Executive Vice President,  
Strategic Planning and Global Affairs

Joined: 2005  Nationality: American

Role: Susan has served as EVP, Strategic Planning 
and Global Affairs since 2012 and is responsible 
for strategic planning, investor relations, 
communications, ESG and corporate affairs. 
Prior to joining Hikma, Susan worked for 
Alliance Unichem and Morgan Stanley.

Qualifications: BA in History from Cornell 
University. MBA from London Business School.

7. Brian Hoffmann
President of Generics

Joined: 2009  Nationality: American

Role: Brian has served as President of Hikma’s 
Generics business since 2015. Brian has significant 
strategic and operational experience from 
leadership roles at Hikma and prior pharmaceutical 
and consulting roles.

Qualifications: BA in Business Administration 
from Boston University. MBA from the University 
of Chicago Booth School of Business.

88

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance

UK Corporate Governance Code compliance

Hikma is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and we work hard to 
ensure compliance with the Principles and 
Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) published in July 2018 and 
the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial 
Services Authority (the Markets Law). The 
Code and associated guidance are available 
to view on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk.

The report on pages 82 to 137 describes how 
the Board has applied the Code and Markets 
Law throughout the year ended 31 December 
2023. The Board considers that this Annual 
Report provides the information shareholders 
need to evaluate how we have complied with 
our current obligations under the Code and 
Markets Law. Except as referred to in the 
following section on the Executive Chairman, 
regarding Code Provisions 9 and 19, Hikma 
has complied with all relevant Principles and 
Provisions of the Code throughout the year.

Executive Chairman
Provision 9 of the Code states that the chair 
should be independent on appointment 
when assessed against the circumstances 
set out in Provision 10. The roles of chair and 
chief executive should not be exercised by 
the same individual. A chief executive should 
not become chair of the same company. If, 
exceptionally, this is proposed by the board, 
major shareholders should be consulted 
ahead of appointment. The board should set 
out its reasons to all shareholders at the time 
of the appointment and also publish these 
on the company website.

Provision 19 of the Code states that the chair 
should not remain in post beyond nine years 
from the date of their first appointment to 
the board.

The Board acknowledges that Said 
Darwazah’s position as Executive Chairman 
and his overall tenure are departures from 
Provisions 9 and 19 of the Code. The 
background to this role, rationale for the role 
and safeguards to support our governance 
structure are summarised below.

Background
The Executive Chairman role was created in 
February 2018, following the appointment of 
a new CEO. Previously, Said Darwazah was 
the Chairman and CEO. The Board continues 
to consider that it is important to retain 
corporate memory, important relationships 
and the culture of the organisation. Therefore, 
it is valuable to retain Said’s services in a 
strategic capacity.

The Board consulted shareholders prior to 
Said’s appointment as Executive Chairman 
and CEO in May 2014 and following the 
change to the position of Executive 
Chairman in February 2018. 

Rationale
The Board is focused on the commercial 
success of Hikma and believes that 
continuing the position of Executive 
Chairman is the best way to achieve success 
for Hikma for the following reasons:

 – Continuity of strategy: Said has been 
a driving force behind the strategic 
success of the business since 2007 and 
the Board believes that it is important for 
the continued success of the Group that he 
remains in a strategic role. The Executive 
Chairman’s role is to develop the Group’s 
strategy in conjunction with the CEO. 
The division of responsibilities for 
our Executive Chairman and CEO 
are available on our website at  
www.hikma.com 

 – Executive Chairman’s role: the Executive 
Chairman position is highly visible inside 
and outside Hikma, providing leadership 
to the Board and management of the 
Company, acting as an ambassador 
with business partners and advisers 
to the organisation

 – Stakeholder engagement: a significant 
number of Hikma’s key political and 
commercial relationships across the 
MENA region, Asia and some continental 
European countries are built on the 
long-term trust and respect for the 
Darwazah family such that the role 
of the Executive Chairman remains key. 
During the course of 2023 the Executive 
Chairman undertook an active programme 
of stakeholder engagement activities, 
examples of which are highlighted below. 
Said attended a number of meetings with 
key shareholders; while holding the joint 
role of Executive Chairman and CEO, 
shareholder meetings focused on the 
performance of the Group; and later in 
the year, Said attended meetings with 
larger shareholders alongside Riad 
Mishlawi as part of the transition of CEO 
responsibilities. Said also attended an 
event, jointly hosted by the Access to 
Medicine Foundation and World Economic 
Forum, to facilitate discussions and agree 
actions with government policymakers, 
regulators, suppliers, manufacturers and 
non-profit organisations on the evolving 
role of generics and biosimilars 
manufacturers and partners in ensuring 
the supply of essential medicines in 
low- and middle-income countries

89

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance report
continued

UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
compliance continued

Independence

The Board reviews the independence of each 
of its Non-Executive Directors during the year 
as part of the annual corporate governance 
review, which includes consideration of 
progressive refreshment of the Board. 
We are committed to ensuring that the 
Board comprises a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors, who objectively 
challenge management, balanced against 
continuity on the Board. This is also 
important to meet the independence 
requirements of the Board Committees. 
The Board considers John Castellani, Nina 
Henderson, Cynthia Flowers, Douglas Hurt, 
Laura Balan, Victoria Hull and Dr Deneen 
Vojta to be independent. These individuals 
have extensive experience of international 
pharmaceutical, financial, corporate 
governance and regulatory matters, bring 
strong independent oversight, continue 
to demonstrate independence and were 
not associated with Hikma prior to joining 
the Board.

Since the AGM in 2023, the Board no longer 
views Patrick Butler as an independent 
Director. This is due to his total service with 
Hikma reaching nine years in April 2023, 
which Provision 10 of the Code identifies as 
a circumstance likely to impair or that could 
appear to impair independence. Following 
the AGM in 2023 and to preserve the 
independence of our Board, Patrick stepped 
down as Senior Independent Director, Chair 
of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee and any memberships of Board 
Committees requiring fully independent 
membership under the Code. The Board 
asked Patrick to stay on the Board as a 
non-independent, Non-Executive Director 
for a maximum period of one further year, 
stepping down no later than the AGM in 2024 
to allow time to aid the transition to a new 
CEO and to fully support the transition of 
responsibilities as Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee to Victoria Hull. 
Patrick Butler will retire from the Board on  
29 February 2024.

The Board does not view Ali Al-Husry as 
an independent Director, this is due to the 
length of his association with Hikma, having 
held an executive position with Hikma prior 
to listing, and his involvement with Darhold 
Limited, Hikma’s largest shareholder. 
However, Ali continues to bring to the 
Board broad corporate finance experience, 
in-depth awareness of the Group’s history, 
and a detailed knowledge of the MENA 
region, which is an important and 
specialist part of the Group’s business. 

Safeguards
The Board continues to operate the following 
enhanced governance controls to support 
the Executive Chairman role:

 – Governance structure review: the 

independent Non-Executive Directors 
meet at least annually in a private session 
chaired by the Senior Independent 
Director. This meeting includes 
consideration of the appropriateness of 
the governance structure, the division of 
responsibilities between the Executive 
Chairman and the CEO and safeguards 
for shareholders. During their 2023 
meeting, the independent Non-Executive 
Directors reviewed the succession plan 
and the effectiveness of the governance 
controls in place to support the Executive 
Chairman role and concluded that the 
Executive Chairman role should continue

 – Senior Independent Director role: the 
Senior Independent Director has an 
enhanced role at Hikma, taking joint 
responsibility, with the Executive 
Chairman, for the annual Board evaluation, 
setting the Board agenda, agreeing action 
points and the minutes of the meetings

 – Committee Chair roles: the Chairs of 

the Board Committees and the Director 
responsible for workforce engagement 
undertake a significant amount of work 
in the discharge of their responsibilities
 – Transparency and engagement: Hikma 
has always had the highest regard for 
shareholders, with several of the original 
investors from before listing still investing 
and supporting Hikma today. Over the c.18 
years since flotation Hikma has maintained 
the highest standards of shareholder 
engagement, which reflects the 
importance placed in maintaining strong 
investor relations and governance. To 
underline the importance of shareholder 
engagement, the independent Non-
Executive Directors monitor shareholder 
sentiment in relation to the Executive 
Chairman, paying close attention to 
shareholder votes in favour of his 
re-election at the AGM. On a rolling 
five-year basis, shareholder votes in 
favour of his re-election average 96%

The Board considers that the Executive 
Chairman role is key to Hikma and does not 
intend to make any changes to this structure 
in the medium term. Should shareholders 
require any further information relating to 
these matters, questions may be directed 
to the Company Secretary.

90

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance report – 
committee overview

Nomination and 
Governance Committee

Audit Committee

2023 activities

2023 activities

 – Completed the CEO search, overseeing the transition of 

responsibilities to Riad and ensuring a thorough induction

 – Monitored the completion of induction programmes 
for the Non-Executive Directors appointed in 2022

 – Oversaw enhancements to our processes for collection and 
reporting of ethnic diversity data in response to voluntary 
recommendations published by the Parker Review

 – Monitored developments in relation to Audit and Corporate 
Governance reform and regulatory changes, setting up 
a fraud prevention and detection programme 

 – Received an update on treasury risk management, 

associated policies and internal controls

 – Reviewed our governance framework, approving updated 
policies for the non-audit services and the employment 
of former employees of the external auditor

 – Monitored the financial impact of halting operations in Sudan

2024 priorities

2024 priorities

 – Detailed review of executive succession plans following a number 

of new appointments

 – Consider succession plans for Non-Executive Directors 

reaching nine-years of service in 2025

 – Plan for an externally facilitated review of the effectiveness 

 – Oversee the implementation and testing of Hikma’s fraud 
prevention and detection programme in readiness for the 
new offence of failure to prevent fraud

 – Implement enhancements to our internal controls following the 
publication of the updated UK Corporate Governance Code

of the Board and its Committees

 – Commence planning for an external audit tender

Allocation of time

Allocation of time

  Corporate governance

  Independence and conflicts

  Succession

46%

22%

32%

  Corporate governance

  External audit

  Financial reporting

  Internal audit

   Risk and internal control

8%

20%

37%

10%

25%

Members and attendance

Members and attendance

Member
Victoria Hull (Chair)1
Patrick Butler2
Mazen Darwazah
Nina Henderson
Cynthia Flowers
Douglas Hurt
Dr Deneen Vojta

Meetings attended
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5

Attendance
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

Member
Douglas Hurt (Chair)
Patrick Butler¹
John Castellani
Nina Henderson
Cynthia Flowers
Laura Balan
Victoria Hull

Meetings attended
5/5
2/2
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5

Attendance
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

1.  Victoria Hull assumed the role of Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee 

1.  Patrick Butler stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 

with effect from the close of the AGM on 28 April 2023

2.  Patrick Butler stepped down as Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee 
with effect from the close of the AGM on 28 April 2023 to preserve the independence 
of the role of Chair of the Committee

the close of the AGM on 28 April 2023 to preserve the independence of the 
Committee under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018

The full Committee report is on pages 94 to 96

The full Committee report is on pages 97 to 100

Please visit our website to view the terms of reference for our Committees: www.hikma.com

92

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Compliance, Responsibility 
and Ethics Committee

Remuneration Committee

2023 activities

2023 activities

 – Continued to monitor and obtain independent reports 

on ABC compliance developments, our speak up 
programme, reporting lines and business integrity

 – Appointed a new Chief Compliance Officer

 – Continued delivering process enhancements in relation 

to the ABC programme

 – Monitored the delivery of ethical and social responsibility 

 – Implementation of the Remuneration Policy 
approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM

 – Granted awards to Executive Directors and Executive 
Committee members under the new share plans, 
approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM

 – Monitored executive performance in relation to the 
new targets set for ESG and financial performance

aspects of our CSR programme

 – Reviewed remuneration across the wider workforce

2024 priorities

2024 priorities

 – Assist with the delivery of the ethical and social 

responsibility aspects of our sustainability programme

 – Broaden remit to oversee a wider range of sustainability topics, 

 – Grant awards to the wider workforce under the share plans 
approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM, ensuring clear 
communication to the workforce

beyond ethics, compliance and CSR

 – Continue to monitor executive performance in relation 

 – Enhance our modern slavery disclosure in relation to our due 

diligence and supplier onboarding processes

to the targets set

Allocation of time

Allocation of time

  Compliance

  Corporate governance

  ESG and CSR

67%

15%

18%

  Wider workforce issues

  Corporate governance

  Developing practices

  Setting executive remuneration

14%

19%

14%

53%

Members and attendance

Members and attendance

Member
John Castellani (Chair)
Mazen Darwazah
Riad Mishlawi1

Patrick Butler
Nina Henderson
Douglas Hurt
Dr Deneen Vojta

Meetings attended
4/4
4/4
1/1

Attendance
100%
100%
100%

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

100%
100%
100%
100%

1.  Riad Mishlawi joined the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee on 

1 September 2023

Member
Nina Henderson (Chair)
Patrick Butler1
John Castellani
Cynthia Flowers
Douglas Hurt
Laura Balan

Meetings attended
(5 scheduled and 
3 unscheduled)
8/8
5/5
8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8

Attendance
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

1.  Patrick Butler stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect 
from the close of the 2023 AGM on 28 April 2023 to preserve the independence of the 
Committee under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018

The full Committee report is on pages 101 to 102

The full Committee report is on pages 103 to 132

93

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Nomination and Governance Committee

Letter from the Chair

Victoria Hull
Chair, Nomination and 
Governance Committee and 
Senior Independent Director

Dear Shareholders
I am writing to you for the first time as Senior Independent Director 
(SID) and Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee (NGC 
or the Committee). I was appointed to these roles in April 2023 to 
help steer the development of the Group’s governance and 
succession arrangements.

Succession
The Committee oversees succession for both Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors and reviews the succession plans for 
these roles at least once a year. Below Board level, the Committee 
is responsible for ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in 
place for senior positions, including the Executive Committee.

One of the priorities identified during the 2023 Board evaluation 
was a detailed review of succession plans following a number of new 
appointments to the Board and Executive Committee in the latter 
part of 2023. Regular updates on the review of succession plans 
have been scheduled with the Committee through 2024. Further 
information on the 2023 Board evaluation is included on page 96.

Executive – appointment of a new CEO
On 12 April 2023, the Board was delighted to announce the 
appointment of Riad Mishlawi as CEO with effect from 1 September 
2023. Riad’s appointment followed an extensive global search in 
conjunction with Heidrick & Struggles, an independent search firm 
with no other connection to Hikma, appointed to assist in identifying 
suitable candidates. 

A structured timetable was adopted for the process, regular updates 
and discussions were scheduled with the Committee and Board 
throughout. A person specification was developed, shared with and 
approved by all Board members. We then agreed a long list of external 
candidates which, following separate individual meetings with Said 
Darwazah, Patrick Butler, John Castellani, Cynthia Flowers and 
Douglas Hurt, was distilled to a short list for more detailed interviews 
with groupings of Directors on specialist subjects. At the same time 
we undertook a leadership assessment of the Executive Committee, 
which highlighted Riad as our preferred internal candidate. Riad went 
through the same detailed interviews with Directors on the specialist 
subjects as the external candidates. During the course of this process 
all Directors interviewed all shortlisted external and internal 
candidates. In early 2023 the Board were of the unanimous view 
that Riad was the preferred candidate to become Hikma’s CEO, 
appointing the Remuneration Committee to settle the terms of 
the offer. We agreed a suitable transition period and target 
appointment date of Q3 2023 to allow time for the orderly 
transition of responsibilities internally.

94

The Board would like to thank Said Darwazah for stepping in as CEO 
from 24 June 2022 to 31 August 2023. In addition to his responsibilities 
as Executive Chairman, Said ensured continuity and minimised 
disruption to the business while the Board identified and appointed 
a permanent CEO. 

Non-Executive
During 2022 we welcomed three new independent Non-Executive 
Directors to the Board and in 2023 we completed their induction 
programmes and transitioned the SID and NGC Chair role. These 
changes have allowed us to develop our succession plans for the 
independent Non-Executive Directors over the medium term.

John Castellani, Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics 
Committee (CREC), and Nina Henderson, Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and Director for workforce engagement, will reach nine 
years of service in 2025 and, following recommendation by the 
Committee, the Board approved successors for these important roles. 
The successors will spend one year shadowing their incumbents and 
will formally be appointed into these roles with effect from close of 
business at the AGM in 2025.

The proposed successors and rationale for their appointments is set 
out below:

 – Deneen Vojta has been named as successor for Chair of the CREC. 
As a healthcare professional, Deneen has a keen interest in Hikma’s 
sustainability programme, oversight of which is moving under the 
CREC in 2024, and its impact on stakeholders, including healthcare 
providers and patients. Deneen has served as a member of the 
CREC for over a year, having joined on her appointment to the 
Board in November 2022

 – Cynthia Flowers has been named successor for Chair of the 

Remuneration Committee. Cynthia is an experienced member of 
Hikma’s Remuneration Committee, having been a member since 
her appointment to the Board in June 2019. She also brings outside 
experience to the role, as Chair of the Compensation Committee of 
G1 Therapeutics Inc

 – Laura Balan has been named as successor for Director for 

workforce engagement. Laura has detailed knowledge of the global 
healthcare industry and has taken a keen interest in engaging with 
the workforce on recent trips to Hikma locations

Patrick Butler will retire from the Board with effect from 29 February 
2024, having stayed on the Board as a non-independent, Non-Executive 
Director for one additional year, following nine years of independent 
service, to support the CEO transition and the transition of 
responsibilities as SID and NGC Chair to me.

Balance
During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of the 
Board. This review included consideration of the skills and attributes 
of each member, the balance between constructive challenge and 
empowerment of the executive, the results of the recent Board 
evaluation exercise and the current and desired level of diversity 
in the Boardroom. I am pleased to report that the Committee 
confirms that the Board continues to operate effectively and that 
each member is valued for the experience and skills that they bring.

Skills and experience
The Committee continues to believe that a longer induction period 
is desirable for new independent Non-Executive Directors to allow 
for building understanding of the business and, where succession 
for a Committee Chair is taking place, the transfer of knowledge and 
relationships associated with the particular committee. Additionally, 
the Board believes it is important for Directors to have significant 
international experience at an executive level, a challenging yet 
consensual style, and the highest level of integrity. The Committee 
regularly considers whether there may be gaps in fulfilling the specific 

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023and in-depth experience that the Board requires as a whole, 
which focuses on the following areas:

 – strategy, culture and leadership
 – business environment in both the US and the MENA region
 – pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution
 – development of new healthcare capabilities
 – listing regulations, investor perceptions and governance

Hikma supports Directors in their continued professional 
development. As the Directors are highly experienced, their training 
needs tend to be related to either ensuring awareness of changes 
in the business, political and regulatory environments, or bespoke 
training on particular areas for development. Therefore, Hikma 
financially supports specific training requests and ensures that 
Directors are briefed by internal and external advisers on a 
regular basis.

During the year, the Board also received briefings on matters such as 
the pharmaceutical competitive environment, healthcare business 
development activity, external stakeholder perspectives, investor 
perceptions, market sentiment, cybersecurity, business intelligence, 
capital markets, emerging risks and regulatory developments. 

Tenure
We anticipate that the independent Non-Executive Directors will 
generally serve for a period of nine years or, if required to facilitate 
an orderly transfer of responsibilities, until the next Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) of the Company following the ninth anniversary 
of their appointment. Their appointments are formally reviewed 
after three years and again at six years.

Except for Patrick Butler, who will retire from the Board with effect 
from 29 February 2024, each Director will stand for election or re-
election at the 2024 AGM. The position of each Director was reviewed 
during the year as part of the consideration of succession 
arrangements, independence issues, the annual governance 
structure reviews, the Board and Committee evaluation processes 
and the ongoing dialogue between the Executive Chairman and 
the SID.

Time commitment
The Committee continues to review the external commitments 
of each Director with a view to ensuring that the benefits of the 
additional experience from their external commitments are not 
outweighed by reductions in their commitment to Hikma. The 
Directors achieve excellent attendance and spend significant time 
delivering their responsibilities. Accordingly, the Committee considers 
that there is currently an appropriate balance. The Committee will 
continue to monitor the situation. 

Diversity, equity and inclusion
The Board Diversity Policy was updated in December 2022 to take 
account of the new diversity related disclosures and targets under 
the Listing Rules, applying to financial years beginning on or after 
1 January 2023. Hikma complied early, providing additional disclosures 

Hikma’s inclusive workplace 
welcomes different cultures, 
perspectives and experiences 
from across the globe.”

in line with the new diversity disclosures and targets under the Listing 
Rules in our 2022 Annual Report. This information is summarised on 
page 85 and included in the prescribed format required under the 
Listing Rules on page 135. Hikma supports the recommendations of 
the Parker Review and the FTSE Women Leaders Review in relation 
to Board diversity and has adopted the targets for Board diversity 
set by both reviews. The Board Diversity Policy is available at  
www.hikma.com.

At a Group level, Hikma’s objective is to ensure that it has an inclusive 
workplace that welcomes different cultures, perspectives, and 
experiences from across the globe. Hikma is committed to attracting, 
retaining and developing talented people, irrespective of their race, 
colour, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital 
status, national origin, present or past history of mental or physical 
disability and any other factors either protected from consideration 
by law or not related to a person’s ability to perform the relevant role. 
This statement is included in our Code of Conduct and communicated 
to all employees.

One of the pillars of the Group’s strategy is ‘people and responsibility’. 
The Group’s policy and approach to diversity, equity and inclusion 
(DEI), succession and appointments are a core part of this pillar. The 
Committee monitors the DEI metrics which are detailed on page 85 
and uses these as a reference point when considering the level of 
achievement against its DEI initiatives. Hikma has successful 
empowerment and talent development programmes to help all of our 
people make the most of their potential, for more information please 
see pages 48 and 49. Further detail on workforce diversity is provided 
on page 85.

The Group’s talent acquisition policies for the three most senior 
staff grades require a balanced list of candidates to support our 
diversity goals.

Ethnicity
The Board considers that it has demonstrated strong ethnic diversity 
since the formation of Hikma and has four Directors from ethnic 
minority backgrounds (when assessed against UK ONS criteria), 
representing 33% of the Board, including the Executive Chairman and 
CEO. The Board has adopted and meets the targets set by the Parker 
Review and diversity related disclosures under the Listing Rules to 
have at least one Director identifying as minority ethnic.

The Board has not adopted the voluntary recommendation, published 
in March 2023 by the Parker Review, to set an ethnic diversity target 
for the senior management team (direct reports to the CEO and the 
senior leaders who report directly to them). During the course of 2023, 
the Committee received a number of updates on the voluntary 
recommendation and spent time considering the appropriateness of 
setting an ethnic diversity target for Hikma, a company with a diverse 
geographic footprint and global workforce. Following a detailed review 
the Board decided not to set an ethnic diversity target for the 
following reasons:

 – the Parker Review is primarily focused on the UK, Hikma has a small 

UK workforce, accounting for c. 9% of the senior management 
population

 – following a GDPR and labour law review of the jurisdictions where 
our senior management population are employed, Hikma was not 
able to survey individuals in a number of countries, representing  
c. 25% of our senior management population. Excluding such 
a high percentage of our senior management would have an 
adverse impact on our ability to set an ethnic diversity target

 – developments in the US relating to DEI targets

95

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Nomination and Governance Committee
continued

In order to demonstrate focus on the issues raised by the Parker 
Review in relation to senior management ethnic diversity, Hikma 
has implemented the following steps:

 – undertaken an ethnic diversity survey of our senior management 
population in December 2023. The survey was voluntary and 
contained an expanded list of ethnicities, sensitive to Hikma’s 
workforce. Individuals had the option to respond by selecting 
‘prefer not to say’. 78% of our senior management population 
responded to the ethnic diversity survey and the results of the 
survey showed a high level of ethnic diversity among our people
 – enhanced ethnic diversity disclosures, including the results of our 
ethnic diversity survey, are included on page 85. Individuals who 
could not be surveyed as a result of GDPR and labour law issues 
are reported as a separate ‘unknown’ category

 – a commitment to monitor ethnic diversity among the senior 

management population annually

Gender
Since its founding, Hikma has actively promoted gender diversity 
across its operations. Our Board has good gender diversity with 
women representing 42% of the Board. The Board has adopted 
and meets the targets set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review 
and diversity related disclosures under the Listing Rules to have 
at least 40% of Board members identifying as women. 

The Board also adopted the voluntary target set by the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review, to increase the gender diversity of the senior 
management team (direct reports to the CEO and the senior leaders 
who report directly to them). Where permitted under local law, 
our Remuneration Committee has integrated targets to increase 
gender diversity within the senior management population into 
the performance measures for the Long-Term Incentive Plan and 
Annual Bonus Plan, further detail is included on pages 118 and 122. 
Subject to applicable local laws, these targets are not intended to act 
as quotas or preferences and selections will continue to be made 
based on merit. Information on our senior management gender 
diversity is included on page 85.

Governance review
As in previous years, the Committee undertook the annual review 
of the Group’s governance arrangements in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary. This year the exercise included a review of the 
structure of the Board, Board succession planning, a regulatory 
update in relation to current and emerging corporate governance 
reporting and review and approval of updated policies and 
procedures in relation to the Market Abuse Regulation.

Evaluation and performance
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the Code) we 
undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of performance of 
the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors. We 
operate a three-year cycle of external evaluation in year one, followed 
by internal evaluations in years two and three. Our last external 
evaluation took place in 2021, so in 2023, Hikma undertook an internal 
evaluation. Hikma engaged Lintstock Ltd to facilitate this process, 
Lintstock is an advisory firm that specialises in Board reviews, and 
had no pre-existing connections, beyond conducting Board reviews, 
with Hikma.

96

Process
The first stage of the exercise involved Lintstock engaging with key 
stakeholders, in order to set the context for the review and to tailor 
the scope to the specific circumstances of Hikma. All Directors 
then completed an online survey addressing the performance 
of the Board, its Committees and the Executive Chairman.

As well as addressing core aspects of Board and Committee 
performance in 2023, the exercise included a skills analysis which 
was used to support the assessment of Board skills set out on page 84 
and identify topics for future Board briefing sessions.

Outcome
Lintstock’s report was discussed at a Board meeting in December 
2023. We reviewed the areas receiving lower scores to ensure 
alignment with key priorities and strategic issues identified by the 
review to agree actions for 2024. The Board also reflected on the 
status of priorities and actions agreed following the 2022 review 
to ensure those items had been closed or had plans in place to 
address them.

As a result of the 2023 review, the Board agreed the following 
priorities for 2024:

 – Succession and talent management: following a number of 

changes to Hikma’s leadership team in the latter part of 2023, 
including a new CEO, President of Injectables and Chief People 
Officer, we agreed to undertake a detailed review of succession 
plans for the Executive Committee, their direct reports, and 
associated processes for talent management. Regular updates 
have been scheduled with the Committee and the Board to 
support the Chief People Officer in this exercise

 – Strategy and growth: following the 2023 review, a number of 

improvements were made to the Board strategy session held in 
October 2023. Rather than waiting to the next strategy session in 
2024, we agreed to strengthen discussions of key strategic issues in 
the boardroom by integrating key items through the annual Board 
calendar to ‘keep the conversation going’ in relation to items such 
as capital allocation, return on invested capital and longer-term 
capital expenditure

Executive Chairman’s appraisal 
The Executive Chairman and I meet regularly to discuss matters 
including Board succession planning, the performance of the Board 
and how his role helps deliver and enhance that performance. This 
builds on discussions that I hold with the independent Non-Executive 
Directors as a group and commentary received through the Board 
evaluation and other stakeholder engagement processes. The 
Executive Chairman’s performance is also reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee as part of the determination of 
performance-based compensation.

Director appraisal
The Executive Chairman, having taken into account the comments 
from the Board evaluation and discussions with the SID, reviewed the 
performance of each of the Directors during the year and concluded 
that each Director contributes effectively to the Board, brings 
particular areas of skill and experience that ensure the Board as a 
whole has the right capabilities, and devotes sufficient time to their 
role. The Committee has concluded that the relevant Directors be 
recommended to shareholders for re-election at the 2024 AGM.

For and on behalf of the Nomination and Governance Committee.

Victoria Hull
Chair, Nomination and Governance Committee  
and Senior Independent Director 
21 February 2024

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Audit Committee

Letter from the Chair

Douglas Hurt
Chair, Audit Committee

Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to report that the Audit Committee (the Committee) 
has had another year of solid progress in its oversight of the matters 
delegated to it by the Board.

During the year, the Committee continued to play a key role in 
assisting the Board in its oversight of financial reporting and 
auditing matters. The Committee’s activities included reviewing 
and monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial information, 
the Group’s systems of internal controls and risk management, 
and the internal and external audit process.

Verification
The qualitative disclosures in the Annual Report, in addition to the 
external audit, adviser review and internal review processes, have 
been reviewed by our internal teams who are responsible for each 
section of the Annual Report and who have provided additional 
verification and support in respect of each material statement of fact. 
This process assisted the Committee in its determination that the 
report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced 
and understandable.

Audit Committees and External Audit: 
Minimum Standard
The Committee confirms that it complies with the reporting 
obligations set out under the Audit Committees and the External 
Audit: Minimum Standard, published by the FRC in May 2023. 
Disclosures in line with these reporting obligations are included 
within this Committee report on pages 97 to 100 and an explanation 
of the entity’s accounting policies can be found on pages 151 to 155.

Internal audit
The internal audit of Hikma is performed by EY, who report directly 
to the Chair of the Committee. There is a regular programme of 
interaction between EY and the Committee.

EY assess each facility and the Group’s major processes over a 
three-year period. For major sites, assessments are more frequent. 
Management is required to respond to findings within an agreed time 
period and ensure mitigation or remediation of all high risk findings 
within six months.

During the year, the Committee monitored progress with the internal 
audit programme for 2023 and reviewed and approved the plan for 
2024. EY and management work closely together to deliver the 
internal audit plan, develop action plans for points raised, and ensure 
that the Committee receives appropriate and timely information. 

During the year, the Committee continued to monitor the 
performance and independence of the internal auditors in 
accordance with the policies that have been established. The 
Committee assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
by reviewing its reports, progress against the 2023 plan and meeting 
with internal audit without management present. The Committee 
considers that EY bring significant pharmaceutical and MENA 
market experience which is complemented by the experience of 
other third-party experts where required and concluded that EY 
continue to perform an effective internal audit programme and 
remain independent.

External audit
The external audit was undertaken by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC) and has been since their appointment in May 2016. PwC were 
appointed following a competitive tender process. Mr Nigel Comello 
was appointed as the senior statutory auditor in May 2022. The 
Committee recommends the re-appointment of PwC for 2024. 
We believe the independence and objectivity of the external auditor 
and the effectiveness of the audit process are safeguarded and 
strong. The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit 
Services Order for the financial year under review.

Effectiveness
During the year, the Committee reviewed the work of PwC and 
concluded that they provided an effective audit, had constructive 
relationships with the relevant parties and that the senior statutory 
auditor provided clear and constructive leadership to the audit team. 
As part of this review the Committee examined the following areas:

 – Audit quality and technical capabilities: the Committee 

considered that the auditor undertook an effective and in-depth 
assessment and verification exercise in respect of the financial 
statements and associated disclosures for the year ended 
31 December 2023 and that the level of expertise PwC brought to 
bear was high. The Committee provides feedback on the auditor’s 
performance as part of its regular meetings with them without 
management present. The Committee also takes into account the 
reports of the FRC, including the Audit Quality Inspection 
Supervision report, and believes that there is an open and 
appropriately challenging relationship between the audit leadership 
team, the Committee and management. Management also 
conducts a formal review of audit quality and effectiveness using 
a survey where feedback is provided by Committee members and 
management. The key outcomes are summarised and considered 
by the Committee in their assessment of the auditor

 – Independence: the Committee regularly reviews the independence 

safeguards of the auditor and remains satisfied that auditor 
independence has not been compromised. During the year, the 
Committee refreshed its policies on the provision of non-audit 
services and employment of former employees of the external 
auditor. The Committee is satisfied that the auditor is independent

 – Challenge and judgement: the Committee considers that PwC 
provide significant challenge to the management team which 
results in the Company’s position being fully considered and 
supported and, where appropriate, further strengthened. The 
Committee believes that PwC have demonstrated well considered 
and clearsighted judgement in the matters on which it has provided 
opinion and has been open to an appropriate level of challenge 
and debate. Examples of PwC’s professional scepticism and 
challenge, as noted by the Committee, include their in-depth 
audit and challenge of the assumptions used in the impairment 
review exercise where PwC challenged the cash flow forecasts, 
discount rates and terminal growth assumptions, as well as their 
challenge of the assumptions and key judgements used in the 
impairment exercise related to the halted operations in Sudan 
and the accounting for the acquisition of Akorn Operating 
Company LLC as a business combination.

97

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Audit Committee – Letter from the Chair
continued

 – Non-audit services: the Committee’s policy on non-audit services 
is available on our website www.hikma.com. The Committee has 
discretion to grant exceptions to this policy where it considers that 
exceptional circumstances exist and that independence can be 
maintained, while having due regard to the FRC’s ethical standards 
for auditors meaning that non-audit fees will be capped at 70% of 
the average audit fees paid in the previous three consecutive 
financial years. In 2023, PwC provided assurance services related to 
the interim review and other non-audit services with a total value of 
$553,000 (2022: $210,000). These services are within the ordinary 
course of services provided by the auditor 

The Committee confirms that the statutory audit services for the 
financial year under review were conducted in compliance with the 
Competition and Markets Authority Order, and a competitive audit 
tender process was undertaken in 2015.

Audit tendering
PwC was appointed as auditor in May 2016, therefore, the current 
Annual Report is the eighth report that they have audited. PwC 
rotated the senior statutory auditor in 2019 and 2022. This followed 
the Chair of the Committee being transferred to Douglas Hurt in 
December 2020. The Committee considers it is prudent to allow time 
for one significant change to become embedded before embarking 
on another. In accordance with the audit tendering guidelines, a key 
priority for the Committee in 2024 will be to commence planning for 
an external audit tender. The Committee will keep the situation under 
review and report to shareholders accordingly.

Auditor’s fee

$3.5m

PwC

1 Jan – 
31 Dec 2023

12.5%

87.5%

$3.5m
$0.5m

1 Jan – 
31 Dec 2022
(restated)1 

4.9%

95.1%

$3.9m
$0.2m

1.  Amounts have been restated to reflect final amounts billed in relation to 2022

  Audit related fees

   Other non-audit services

Ensuring the integrity of financial reporting 
and providing oversight of our systems for 
internal control and risk management.”

98

Position and prospects 
During the year, management undertook an annual review of its 
strategic direction and an extensive assessment of the Group’s 
short-term and medium-term prospects which are included in 
the budget for the following year and the five-year business plan, 
respectively. Management presented and received the Board’s 
approval and commentary on the full strategy, budget and 
business plan. Having taken account of how the business has 
responded to the challenges of the commercial environment, the 
business plan, principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group 
and other relevant information, the Committee has concluded that 
the Group continues to have attractive prospects for the future. 

Going concern and longer-term viability
The Directors considered the going concern position as detailed 
on page 75. Having reviewed and challenged the downside 
assumptions, forecasts and mitigation strategy of management, 
the Directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage 
its business and financing risks successfully. The Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for a period longer than 12 months 
from the date of signing the financial statements. Therefore, the 
Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.

The Directors, having considered the longer-term viability 
assessment as detailed on pages 75 and 76, confirm that they 
have a reasonable expectation that Hikma will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due and over the 
viability period which ends on 31 December 2026. 

Significant matters
As part of its work reviewing the financial statements of the Group 
and the report of the auditor, the Committee considered and 
discussed the following important financial matters:

 – Impairment review: as in previous years, management undertook 
the impairment test exercise in respect of intangible assets, right 
of use assets and property, plant and equipment. Management had 
recommended a total impairment charge of $32 million in respect 
of different individual intangible assets, $7 million in respect of 
right of use assets and $1 million in respect of property, plant 
and equipment excluding impairment charges related to halted 
operations in Sudan outlined below. The Committee reviewed 
management’s approach and recommendations and concluded 
that the proposals were appropriate

 – Halted operations in Sudan: the Committee reviewed and 

challenged management’s judgements of the effect on the carrying 
value of the Group’s assets in respect of the halted operations in 
Sudan as result of the conflict in the country. Management had 
recommended a total impairment charge of $75 million mainly 
related to financials assets, property, plant and equipment and 
inventory. The Committee reviewed management’s assessment 
and concluded that it was appropriate. Additional detail on 
Hikma’s response to the conflict in Sudan is included on page 70
 – Valuation of acquired assets from Akorn Operating Company LLC 
(Akorn): the Committee reviewed and challenged the accounting 
treatment of the acquisition as a business combination as well as 
the estimates and judgements used to derive the value of the 
acquired assets, and concluded that they were appropriate. 
The valuation exercise was performed by a third-party expert

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023 
 
 – Revenue recognition: the Committee reviewed the Group’s policies 
for revenue recognition and the application of those policies by 
management. The Committee reviewed the model applied by 
management to arrive at the chargebacks, which estimates the 
‘in-channel’ inventories held by wholesalers and the chargeback 
rate being the difference between the contracted price with 
indirect customers and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Similar 
reviews were undertaken of the deductions to revenue made 
for customer rebates, returns and indirect non-customer and 
government rebates. The Committee also agreed the disclosures 
around these year-end estimates and the sensitivity of the 
estimates to changes in assumptions

 – Taxation: Hikma’s worldwide operations are highly integrated and 
involve a number of cross-border supply chains, which results in 
judgement being required to estimate the potential tax liabilities 
in different jurisdictions. The Committee took advice from 
professional services firms and management in assessing the 
reasonableness of the Group’s provisions for uncertain tax 
positions which amounted to $59 million and in reviewing the 
deferred tax assets in key markets which amounted to $226 million. 
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures 
in the Annual Report, and reviewed and approved the Group’s tax 
strategy statement, which is available on the Company’s website 
at www.hikma.com

 – Legal matters: The Committee reviewed management’s 

conclusions regarding the appropriate accounting treatment for the 
settlement of legal cases. These cases relate to the manufacture 
and sales of prescription opioid medications. The Group reached 
an agreement in principle to resolve the vast majority of the opioid 
related cases brought against Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. by 
US states, their subdivisions, and tribal nations. The agreed upon 
settlement is not an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability. 
Management recommended booking a total provision of  
$129 million to cover the expected settlement amount for all related 
cases in North America. The Committee reviewed management’s 
approach and recommendations and concluded that the proposals 
were appropriate

Fair, balanced and understandable reporting
Hikma is committed to clear and transparent disclosure and seeks 
to continuously improve the clarity of its reporting. At the request of 
the Board, the Audit Committee considers whether Hikma’s Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and that the narrative 
section of the report is consistent with the financial information. 
The Committee’s assessment is underpinned by a report from the 
Reporting Committee following their comprehensive review of the 
Annual Report. The Reporting Committee is comprised of 
representatives from Finance, Investor Relations, Risk, Sustainability 
and Company Secretariat and is supported by divisional and 
functional heads, as required.

The Reporting Committee’s activities include:

 – initiating the review process for the Annual Report significantly 

before the year-end, considering external developments, issuing 
guidance to contributors and identifying areas for improvement
 – obtaining input from external advisers, including the external and 

internal auditors, designers, corporate brokers and public relations 
advisers

 – undertaking several multi-functional reviews of the disclosures 

as a whole prior to the publication of the Annual Report to ensure 
consistency and accuracy across the document as a whole
 – overseeing an extensive verification process to ensure the 

accuracy of disclosures

Each member of the Audit Committee and the Reporting Committee 
is satisfied that the 2023 Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and has recommended the adoption of 
the Report and Accounts to the Board.

Reporting controls
Hikma’s key controls and risk management systems relating to the 
financial reporting process include the enterprise resource planning 
system, the processes in the ‘Fair, balanced and understandable’ and 
‘Verification’ sections described earlier in this letter, the review of the 
financial statements and disclosures that is undertaken by the 
Executive Committee, and detailed internal financial control 
processes necessitating the verification of financial records 
at a local, regional and Group level.

Risk management and internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that Hikma’s 
systems of internal controls and risk management remain effective.

Risk management
The Committee has continued to receive reports on the operation 
of the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework which 
includes the material controls and programme for enhancing the 
Group’s risk management efforts. Management escalated certain risks 
that materialised during the year for Board attention and oversight, for 
example the response to the conflict in Sudan. Such instances serve 
to hone escalation and disclosure protocols and learnings are taken 
to improve risk mitigation programmes. Further information on 
Hikma’s response to the conflict in Sudan is included on page 70.

The Board continued to exercise oversight of cyber risks during the 
year, including presentations from management on internal testing, 
lessons learnt, the results of a cyber maturity assessment conducted 
by an external party, and recommendations for implementation to 
enhance our resilience. Further information on Hikma’s management 
of cyber risks is included on page 72.

As in previous years, management and the Board have undertaken 
a thorough assessment of the Group’s emerging risks as well as the 
annual review of the principal risks. The Committee and the Board 
have considered the principal risks facing the Group and have 
decided that no adjustments were required in the year under review. 
The Board and management have also reviewed the appetite for 
those principal risks and have concluded that it remains appropriate. 
Further information regarding the Group’s risk management activities 
is available in the risk management section on pages 68 to 79.

Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that Hikma’s systems 
of internal controls and risk management processes are effective 
and has delegated responsibility for reviewing their effectiveness 
to the Committee. 

The key elements of our internal control framework are as follows:

 – a documented and disseminated reporting structure with clear 
policies, procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties 
and delegated authorities

 – written policies and procedures for material functional areas 
with specific responsibility allocated to individual managers

 – a comprehensive system of internal financial reporting that includes 

regular comparison of results against budget and forecast and 
a review of KPIs, each informed by management commentary
 – an established process for reviewing the financial performance 
and providing support to Hikma companies and associates 
together with direct support from Hikma’s finance function

 – annual budgets, updated forecasts and medium-term business 
plans for Hikma that identify risks and opportunities and that 
are reviewed and, where appropriate, approved by the Board

 – a defined process for controlling capital expenditure which 

is detailed in the governance framework

99

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Audit Committee – Letter from the Chair
continued

Effectiveness 
The Board is satisfied that Hikma’s systems for internal control are 
in accordance with the FRC’s guidance, and have been in place 
throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report and Accounts. The Board reviews the effectiveness 
of these systems at least annually as part of the processes for the 
Annual Report, and throughout the year when reviewing Internal 
Controls and Assurance testing outcomes as well as risk management 
reports. The Board has not identified any material weaknesses. 
In making this assessment, the Board takes into account:

 – Internal audit: the Committee receives regular reports from the 

internal auditors and other third-party experts who review relevant 
parts of the Group business operations, assess Hikma’s processes, 
identify areas for improvement, monitor progress, and undertake 
their own assessment of the risks facing Hikma

 – Internal controls and assurance: the Committee receives regular 

reports from the Internal Controls and Assurance team, who review 
relevant parts of the finance function and operational processes, 
based on a risk based testing plan. The team assesses Hikma’s 
processes, identifies areas for improvement, and monitors 
remediation progress

 – Risk management: the ERM framework provides a structure for risk 
management activities to occur at all levels of the organisation, 
including management of principal risks and uncertainties (detailed 
on pages 68 to 79) and emerging risks. Risk reporting processes 
ensure the Executive Committee and the Board are engaged in 
the design and implementation of new control initiatives and 
provide oversight of existing programmes

 – Financial performance: Hikma’s financial performance and 
forecasting reports are reviewed by the Board to aid the 
understanding of the underlying performance of the business, 
deviations from expectations and management’s operational 
challenges and responses

 – Ethics: the business integrity and ethics procedures and 

controls that are led by the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics 
Committee (CREC). To ensure consistency and awareness between 
these Committees’ responsibilities, the Audit Committee Chair is 
a standing member of the CREC

 – Governance: the Board and Group-level controls and processes 

that make up our approach to governance that is led by the 
Nomination and Governance Committee and includes 
all appropriate financial and non-financial controls
 – External auditor: the regular and confidential dialogue 

with the external auditor

During the year, Hikma’s Internal Controls and Assurance team 
took steps to prepare for the expected upcoming changes to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code as well as setting up a formal fraud 
prevention and detection programme for the Group, building on 
existing practices and policies, in preparation for the newly legislated 
criminal offence of failure to prevent fraud. The fraud prevention and 
detection programme further supports the Company’s internal 
control environment with formalised controls, in preparation for the 
newly legislated failure to prevent fraud criminal offence.

Management and the Committee received regular updates on 
potential programme developments, as well as the results of internal 
assurance of controls from the Internal Controls and Assurance team. 

The Committee also maintains a programme of in-depth reviews into 
specific financial and operational areas of the business. These reviews 
allow the Committee to meet key members of the management team 
and provide independent challenge. During 2023, the Treasury team 
presented a deep dive on their mandate, processes, systems, and 
controls. The Committee deliberated with management and the 
Treasury team during the presentation, gaining comfort in relation to 
the general control environment surrounding the treasury function of 
the Group, in addition to the various assurance activities undertaken 
by Internal audit and internal controls and assurance.

Membership of the Committee
The Committee comprises solely of independent Non-Executive 
Directors, who as a whole, have competence relevant to Hikma’s 
business and the industry in which it operates. I am considered by 
the Board to have significant recent and relevant financial experience 
chiefly related to my work with other audit committees, having been 
a finance director of another listed entity and having held senior 
financial positions in other entities. Biographical details of the 
Committee members can be found pages 86 and 87. The Board 
is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise 
to fulfil its responsibilities.

As Chair of the Audit Committee, I remain available to shareholders 
and stakeholders should they wish to discuss any matters within this 
report or under the Committee’s area of responsibility whether at the 
AGM or by writing to the Company Secretary.

For and on behalf of the Audit Committee.

Douglas Hurt
Chair, Audit Committee 
21 February 2024

100

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023 
Remuneration Policy
continued

Performance measures
The Committee considered the operation of the remuneration policy in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 as follows:

Clarity: the Committee regularly engages with shareholders, their representative bodies and management to explain the approach to 
executive pay.

Simplicity: the rationale, structure and strategic alignment of each element of pay has been explained in the remuneration policy.

Risk: there is an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay together with objectives that ensure there is alignment with long-term 
shareholder interests. 

Predictability: the pay opportunity under different performance scenarios is set out in the illustrations below.

Proportionality: executives are incentivised under the Remuneration Policy to achieve stretching annual targets. Additionally the Policy builds 
in stretching targets over three-year performance periods for the Long Term Incentive Plan awards. The Committee assess performance 
holistically and the end of each performance period against underlying business results together with internal and external context.

Alignment with culture: Hikma’s purpose and values can be reinforced under the strategic objectives under the Remuneration Policy.

Details of the performance measures for the short-term incentive for the year ending 31 December 2023 and how they are aligned to company 
strategy and the creation of shareholder value are set out on pages 120 – 125. Annual short-term incentive targets for the 2024 financial year 
are shown on page 131. Targets that are commercially sensitive will be disclosed retrospectively in next years' Remuneration Report.

Performance measures for the March 2024 Long Term Incentive award are shown on page 132. 

These performance targets are designed to be stretching but achievable and are set based on information from a number of areas, 
including broker forecasts for Hikma and its peers as well as our corporate strategy and plans.

Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy
The following charts show the potential projected total remuneration available for 2024 at four levels of performance: minimum, target, 
maximum and maximum with assumed share price appreciation of 50% (in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code 2018). 
The impact of potential share price appreciation is omitted from the other three scenarios:

Said Darwazah

2024

Minimum

Target

Maximum

Equity
growth

Mazen Darwazah

2024

Minimum

Target

Maximum

Equity
growth

Riad Mishlawi

2024
112

Minimum

Target

Maximum

Equity

growth

1,193

100%

1,193

100%

1,193

100%

1,193

100%

1,193

1,018

25%

2,036

32%

2,036

26%

1,909

46%

4,120

3,054

49%

3,054

39%

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

Total remuneration $000

6,283

1,527

20%

7,000

7,810

8,000

939

100%

939

29%

939

19%

939

15%

939

807

25%

1,614

32%

1,614

26%

1,513

46%

3,259

2,420

49%

2,420

39%

4,973

1,210

20%

6,183

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

7,000

8,000

Total remuneration $000

1,144

100%

1,144

28%

1,144

19%

1,144

15%

1,193

1,000

25%

2,000

33%

2,000

26%

1,875

47%

4,019

3,000

49%

3,000

39%

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

Total remuneration $000

6,144

1,500

20%

7,000

7,644

8,000

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Said Darwazah

Said Darwazah

2024

2024

Minimum

Minimum

1,193

1,193

100%

100%

1,193

1,193

100%
100%

1,193
1,193

100%
100%

1,193
1,193

100%
100%

1,193

1,193

1,018

1,018

25%
25%

2,036
2,036

32%
32%

2,036
2,036

26%
26%

0
0

1,000
1,000

2,000
2,000

Target
Target

Maximum
Maximum

Equity
Equity
growth
growth

Mazen Darwazah
Mazen Darwazah

2024
2024

Minimum
Minimum

Target
Target

Maximum
Maximum

Equity
Equity
growth
growth

Riad Mishlawi
Riad Mishlawi

2024
2024

Minimum
Minimum

Target
Target

Maximum
Maximum

Equity
Equity
growth
growth

939
939

100%
100%

939
939

29%
29%

939
939

19%
19%

939
939

15%
15%

939
939

807
807

25%
25%

1,614
1,614

32%
32%

1,614
1,614

26%
26%

0
0

1,000
1,000

2,000
2,000

1,144
1,144

100%
100%

1,144
1,144

28%
28%

1,144
1,144

19%
19%

1,144
1,144

15%
15%

0
0

1,000
1,000

1,193
1,193

1,000
1,000

25%
25%

2,000
2,000

33%
33%

2,000
2,000

26%
26%
2,000
2,000

1,909

1,909

46%
46%

4,120
4,120

3,054
3,054

49%
49%

3,054
3,054

39%
39%

3,000
3,000

4,000
4,000
Total remuneration $000
Total remuneration $000

5,000
5,000

6,283
6,283

1,527
1,527

20%
20%
7,000
7,000

7,810
7,810

8,000
8,000

6,000
6,000

1,513
1,513

46%
46%

3,259
3,259

2,420
2,420

49%
49%

2,420
2,420

39%
39%

4,973
4,973

1,210
1,210

20%
20%

6,183
6,183

3,000
3,000

4,000
4,000
Total remuneration $000
Total remuneration $000

5,000
5,000

1,875
1,875

47%
47%

4,019
4,019

3,000
3,000

49%
49%

3,000
3,000

39%
39%

3,000
3,000

4,000
4,000
Total remuneration $000
Total remuneration $000

5,000
5,000

6,000
6,000

7,000
7,000

8,000
8,000

6,144
6,144

1,500
1,500

20%
20%
7,000
7,000

7,644
7,644

8,000
8,000

6,000
6,000

  Fixed pay

  Annual Bonus

  LTIP

  LTIP – share price appreciation Commuting

The scenarios in the graphs are as follows:

 – fixed pay includes salary, benefits, and pension. The numbers are based on the base salary for 2023, the cost of transportation and medical 

benefits provided and a pension contribution of 10% of base salary.

 – annual bonus is shown as a maximum percentage of base salary, with minimum, target and maximum performance shown as 0%, 50% and 

100% respectively.

 – LTIP is shown as a maximum of base salary, with minimum, target and maximum performance shown as 0%, 62.5% and 100% respectively.
 – share price appreciation has been calculated as a 50% increase in the value of the LTIP between the date of grant and vesting
 – no dividend accrual has been incorporated in the values relating to the LTIP

113

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration

Annual report on remuneration

Director and average employee compensation change
The table below shows the percentage change in the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors , benefits and bonus for the four years 
between 2019 and 2023 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for employees (excluding 
the Executive Directors).

Director and average 
employee compensation  
change – salary1

Said Darwazah

Riad Mishlawi2

Siggi Olafsson3

Mazen Darwazah

Patrick Butler4,5

Ali Al-Husry4

John Castellani4

Nina Henderson4

Cynthia Flowers4

Douglas Hurt4

Laura Balan4,6

Victoria Hull4,6

Deneen Vojta4,6

Employees ($m)

Groth in number of 
Employees

Average per 
Employee

Average per the 
listed parent 
Company Employee

Salary

Benefits

Bonus

Average percentage change

Average percentage change

Average percentage change

2020-
2021

0%

N/A

3%

5%

-3%

5%

5%

5%

5%

86%

0%

0%

0%

4%

0%

2021-
2022

0%

N/A

-48%

4%

-8%

-8%

-8%

-3%

-8%

-8%

0%

0%

0%

3%

2022-
2023

0%

N/A

N/A

3%

2%

3%

7%

13%

3%

3%

76%

86%

84%

1%

2019-
2020

-16%

N/A

2020-
2021

-21%

N/A

2021-
2022

-3%

N/A

-72%

-77%

-48%

2022-
2023

40%

N/A

N/A

1%

-30%

-52%

113%

0%

0%

0%

-40%

-64% -100%

-24%

-30%

-18%

-30%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

1%

-29%

0%

0%

0%

0%

7%

135%

-41%

-24%

0%

0%

0%

0%

3%

22%

0%

-11%

96%

45%

0%

0%

0%

-16%

1%

2019-
2020

-1%

N/A

5%

-1%

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0%

2020-
2021

-17%

N/A

2021-
2022

-40%

N/A

-11% -100%

2022-
2023

73%

N/A

N/A

-6%

-15%

30%

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

9%

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

-10%

20%

1%

2%

1%

0%

1%

2%

1%

0%

1%

2%

4%

2%

-1%

0%

0%

8%

-1%

-1%

0%

-3%

18%

2019-
2020

0%

N/A

3%

0%

2%

3%

3%

3%

77%

0%

0%

0%

0%

2%

1%

1%

1%

16%

11%

-29%

35%

-54%

-39%

6%

6%

18%

-16%

-18%

1.  The current Remuneration Policy was introduced on 28 April 2023. NED fees are paid in GBP and reported in USD so an element of changes will be as a result of exchange rate differences
2.  Riad Mishlawi was appointed as CEO with effect from 1 September 2023 and therefore comparative figures are not provided
3.  Siggi Olafsson stepped down from the Board on 24 June 2022
4.  Non Executive Directors do not participate in the in the bonus plan. 
5.  Patrick Butler stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 28 April 2023
6.  These NEDs were appointed during 2022 and therefore did not receive fees for the full year in 2022

Hikma’s pay review, which took effect from 1 January 2024, awarded average percentage increases in wages and salaries of 4.7% (2023: 4%) 
for existing employees (with certain exceptions for jurisdictions experiencing very high inflation). The nature and level of benefits to employees 
in the year ended 31 December 2023 were broadly similar to those in the previous year (2022: unchanged).

UK gender and CEO pay ratios
Hikma has 29 employees employed in the UK and, as a result, is exempt from gender pay and average employee: CEO pay disclosure 
requirements. The small number of employees and significant diversity of roles and seniority in the UK makes meaningful gender pay 
comparisons in the UK difficult. The ratio of total CEO pay to the average Group employee is 25:1 using a simple average methodology. 
Hikma is committed to paying fairly and not discriminating on gender or other grounds.

114

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the total amount spent in 2022 and 2023 on remuneration of Hikma’s employees and major distributions to 
shareholders.

Distribution expense

Employee 

Distributions to shareholders 1

2022

2023

$593 million

$610 million

$125 million

$137 million

% change 
from 2022
to 2023

2.9%

9.7%

1.  The Company purchased 12,833,233 shares during 2022 at a cost of $292 million, which is excluded from the distributions to shareholders in accordance with the regulations. 

Those shares are held in treasury and do not receive dividends.

Employee cost and average executive pay ($m)

Executive Director pay
($m) 

Average employee cost
($)
63,455

60,000

50,000

40,000

55,762

55,862

53,727

53,625

53,796

62,622

62,932

4.9

4.3

4.3

4.6

4.4

3.7

3.2

3.1

30,000

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

20,000

10,000

0

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

  Executive Director pay
  Average employee cost

Committee membership and attendance

Members and attendance
Member
Nina Henderson (Chair)
Patrick Butler¹
John Castellani 
Cynthia Flowers
Douglas Hurt
Laura Balan 

Meetings
8
5
8
8
8
8

Attendance
8
5
8
8
8
8

1. Patrick Butler stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 28 April 2023

Advice and support
The Committee seeks the assistance of senior management (CEO, CPO, VP Total Reward and Company Secretary) on matters relating to policy, 
performance and remuneration but ensures that no Director takes part in discussions relating to their own remuneration or benefits.

Willis Towers Watson (WTW) continue to provide independent advice to the Committee in relation to market practice, UK corporate governance 
best practice, incentive plan review and target setting. The total fees for advice to the Committee during the year, including advice relating to 
the CEO compensation undertaken in 2023, were $121,244 (2022: $285,234). WTW was appointed by the Committee in 2016 following a 
competitive tender process. WTW adheres to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct. They charge their fees on a time 
spent basis. They provide no other services to the company other than Remuneration Committee advice and compensation benchmarking.

The Committee is satisfied that the WTW team providing remuneration advice do not have connections with Hikma that may impair their 
independence.

During the year the Committee instructed Mercer to conduct a MENA region specific benchmarking exercise on a fixed fee basis of $6,000 
(2022: $6,000). Mercer are a recognised expert in the region in question.

Except as disclosed on page 96 Hikma has complied with all the relevant principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 
throughout the year.

115

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration
continued

EIP
The EIP was applicable for the period 2020-2023 and full details are provided on pages 79 to 84 of the 2019 Annual Report. The new Policy was 
approved at the AGM held on 30 April 2020 and applied from 28 April 2023. 

Fixed elements

Base salary

Benefits

Pension

Variable elements – Executive Incentive 
Plan (EIP) 

Element A – cash bonus

Element B – deferred shares

Element C – restricted shares

Total remuneration

Performance awards incentivised Directors to deliver annual financial performance targets and certain key strategic deliverables, with the 
majority of awards made in shares to ensure that medium-term performance was delivered.

The Committee set annual performance targets for awards under the EIP, in accordance with the rules of the EIP. Annual performance metrics 
were based on:

 – Financial metrics: At least 80% of the performance award, with specific targets based on the budget approved prior to the performance 

period. The precise targets were determined by the Committee on an annual basis

 – Strategic deliverables: Up to 20% of the performance award was based on the delivery of specific, subjective targets that were set by the 

Committee in order to ensure that key milestones in the Company’s strategy are delivered

At the end of each year the Committee determined the level of performance for the prior year. Based on the performance, the Committee made 
the following awards:

Element

Maximum award  
% of salary

Payout  
mechanism

Vesting period

Risks after award

Additional requirements

150%

Cash bonus

Immediate

 – Clawback

None

Treatment under the 
remuneration regulations

Cash bonus

Share award

150%

100%

Deferred 
Shares

2 years

Restricted 
Shares

3 years

 – Forfeiture
 – Clawback
 – Share price
 – Employed

 – Clawback
 – Share price
 – Employed

All shares vesting are subject 
to a holding period after 
vesting. These shares may 
not be sold until 5 years 
after grant.

Bonus1 deferred  
in shares

A

B

C

1.  The Regulations required Element C to be included in the ’Bonus’ component for reporting purposes, although it is an award of shares that will vest three years after grant

A holding requirement applies to Elements B and C ensuring that shares may not be sold until five years from the point of grant. Following 
cessation of employment of an Executive Director, the Company’s policy is that the Director must hold for a period of two years the lower 
of the shares held on cessation of employment or shares equivalent to 300% of the final, annualised salary.

The 2023 performance targets, their level of satisfaction and the resulting performance remuneration are disclosed on pages 120 to 125

Malus and clawback provisions apply.

116

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Salaries, benefits and pension
Please see Chair’s letter (page 103) for commentary on salaries. The application of benefits remains unchanged and pensions are aligned with 
the wider workforce under the Directors Remuneration Policy.

Executive Director

Executive Chairman

CEO1

Individual

Said Darwazah

Riad Mishlawi

Executive Vice Chairman

Mazen Darwazah

Salary

2024

2023

$1,018,000

$1,018,000

$1,000,000

$333,333

$806,787

$806,787

Change

% 

0%

0%

0%

1.  Riad Mishlawi became CEO on 1 September 2023 and the 2023 salary represents 4 months. The annnual base salary will remain unchanged at $1m in 2024

Single total figure (audited)
The following table shows a single figure of remuneration¹ in respect of qualifying services for the 2023 financial year, together with the 
comparable figures for 2022.

Director

Said Darwazah

Year

Salary

Benefits

Bonus and 
Deferred 
Shares)2

Shares 
vested (EIP 
element B)3

Pension

Total

Total fixed

Total 
variable

2023

1,018,389

75,328

1,641,665

772,442

65,315

3,573,139

1,159,032

2,414,107

2022

1,018,000

53,798

948,544

1,313,964

67,772 3,402,078

1,139,570 2,262,508

Mazen Darwazah

2023

806,837

67,004

1,361,276

539,381

65,223

2,839,721

939,064

1,900,657

Riad Mishlawi4

2022

2023

2022

779,584

31,410

1,047,776

919,070

62,626 2,840,466

873,620 1,966,846

333,333

182,045

554,213

449,909

33,333

1,552,467

548,345

1,004,122

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

1  All figures are in (USD)
2.  The 2022 figures for bonus and deferred shares represented elements A and C under the EIP (the previous Remuneration Policy see page 116)
3  Share price at vesting date was $ 22.18 (£ 17.93) and foreign exchange rate of $ 1.237 to £1
4.  Riad Mishlawi was appointed CEO with effect from 1 September 2023

Benefits (audited)
Said Darwazah received transportation benefits of $50,783 (2022: $34,922) and medical benefits of $ 24,546 (2021: $18,877). Mazen Darwazah 
received transportation benefits of $ 44,974 (2022: $12,534) and medical benefits of $ 22,030 (2022: $18,876). Social security payments made 
in Jordan, that are required to be paid by Jordanian law, are not considered to be a benefit.

Riad Mishlawi received a transportation allowance of $20,687 medical benefits of $52,983. In addition he was asked to relocate to the US for 
a period of 2 years and received relocation expenses of $108,375 and tax equalisation support.

Pension (audited)
Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah participate in the Hikma Pharmaceutical Defined Contribution Retirement Benefit Plan (the Jordan Benefit 
Plan) on the same basis as other employees located in Jordan. Under the Jordan Benefit Plan, Hikma matches employee contributions made, 
up to a maximum of 10% of applicable salary. Participants become entitled to all of Hikma’s contributions once they have been employed for 
three years. Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah have served for in excess of three years and receive their benefits under the Jordan Benefit 
Plan because they are over 60 years of age. 

Riad Mishlawi receives a cash allowance of 10% of base salary in lieu of pension.

117

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration
continued

Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 31 December 2023 (audited)
On 30 May 2023, Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah received awards of performance shares under the Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 2023 as a percentage of salary as outlined below. The three-year period over which performance will be measured is 1 January 
2023 to 31 December 2025.

The performance measures for these awards are outlined below:

Measure

Rationale

Weighting

Threshold

Target

Maximum

Core compound EPS growth for 
1 January 2023 to 31 December 2025

Alignment with shareholders return

Percentage of revenue from 
new business over 3 years

Developing revenue from new business 
is a key element of Hikma’s business plan

Relative TSR performance compared to 
FTSE 50-150 (excluding investment trusts) Alignment with shareholders return

30%

30%

5%

13%

20%

Median

8%

16%

–

11%

19%

Upper 
Quartile

Percentage of females on the Executive 
Committee and their direct reports1

Increase in diversity of management

10%

30%

35%

40%

Achieve good water management 
at all Hikma’s sites in MENA

Hikma has significant operations in 
water stressed countries in MENA.

10% The following task has been set:

 – establishing water management 

systems and process, collecting and 
analysing robust data on water usage
 – identifying gaps and opportunities for 
efficient water use and setting water 
use and setting water efficiency targets

 – By the end of H1 2024, targets should 

be set for sites in Jordan, Algeria, Egypt 
and KSA, and progress made against 
these targets by the end of 2025
 – By the end of 2025, targets should 
be set for all other MENA sites.

Details of the value of these awards2 are shown in the table below:

Executive Director

Said Darwazah

Mazen Darwazah

Riad Mishlawi3

Riad Mishlawi3

Date of grant

Award made

Grant price

Face value 
$000

Face value  
as % salary

30 May 2023

132,783

$23.0

$3,054,009

30 May 2023

105,233

30 May 2023

75,339

31 August 2023

12,263

$23.0

$23.0

$26.5

$2,420,359

$1,732,797

$324,969

300%

300%

225%

32%

1.   Subject to applicable laws these targets are not intended to act as quotas or preferences and selections will continue to be based on merit
2.   No award vests for performance below threshold, 25% at threshold and 62.5% at target. 
3.   Riad Mishlawi received a pro-rated Performance share award on 31 August 2023 in recognition of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 September 2023 (shown as 

a percentage of his annual salary of $1m). The award at 30 May 2023 related to his role as President of Injectables

The proportion of the awards outlined above that will vest will depend on the achievement against the performance objectives and their 
continued employment. The final value that vests may be zero if the threshold performance for each of the objectives is not achieved. 
The vesting outcome of the awards will be disclosed in the 2025 Annual Report.

Vested share awards (audited)
During 2023, the following share awards vested for Executive Directors. The total shares vested in 2023 are summarised in the following 
three tables.

Under the EIP, performance criteria must be met before an award is granted. There are three award types under the EIP which are treated in the 
following manner in respect of the table above:

 – Element A – a cash bonus that is payable immediately and attributed to the earnings for the performance year
 – Element B – an award of shares that vests two years after grant subject to there being no forfeiture events and is attributed to the earnings 

in respect of the year in which it vests (i.e. two years after being granted)

 – Element C – an award of shares that vests three years after grant and, due to their being no further performance requirements, is attributed 

to the earnings for the performance year in the same manner as Element A

118

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023The tables below detail share awards (Elements B and C) vesting during the year ended 31 December 2023. Whilst these shares vested during 
2023, they are attributed to earnings as detailed in the paragraph above.

Said Darwazah — EIP

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element B1

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element C

Forfeiture

Vesting price

Number of vested shares

Total value of vested shares

Siggi Olafsson — EIP

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element B1

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element C

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element C

Forfeiture

Vesting price

Number of vested shares

Total value of vested shares

Mazen Darwazah — EIP

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element B1

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element C

Forfeiture

Vesting price

Number of vested shares

Total value of vested shares

Riad Mishlawi – EIP1

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element B2

Maximum number of shares capable of vesting – Element C

Forfeiture

Vesting price

Number of vested shares

Total value of vested shares

1.  The shares that vested for Riad Mishlawi were in respect of grants made before appointment as CEO
2.  Share price at vesting date was $ 22.18 ( £17.93 and foreign exchange rate of $ 1.237 to £1 )

Policy deviation
During 2023, the Committee has not deviated from the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGM on 28 April 2023.

34,827

27,057

Nil

 Nil

61,884

$1,372,550

-

-

-

Nil

Nil

-

-

24,319

18,831

Nil

Nil

43,150

$957,041

 20,285 

 22,437 

Nil

Nil

 42,722 

$947,549

119

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration
continued

2023 Annual Bonus Performance outcome: Executive Chairman (audited)
Readers are directed to the commentary on business performance that is included in the Chair’s letter on pages 103 to 104.  
The following table sets out the performance conditions and targets for 2023 and their level of satisfaction:

Performance condition

Performance level

Achievement

Application

Section

Financial

Description

Rationale and measurement

Core revenue

Historically, the pricing of generic pharmaceutical products has decreased with time. The 
Committee is cognisant that this could lead to declining revenue over the longer term, which 
could ultimately result in a declining business overall. By ensuring that a significant proportion 
of performance remuneration is based on revenue, the Committee is able to ensure that the 
Executive Directors are focused on mitigating pricing declines by maximising the potential  
of the in-market portfolio, launching new products, and developing the pipeline. See page 3  
of the Strategic report for further detail on the performance related to this target.

Core operating profit 
(COP)

Ultimately, the COP is a key measure of value to Hikma’s shareholders. Given the highly 
competitive business environment in which Hikma operates, the Executive Directors must 
focus continuously on optimising Hikma’s cost base. 

Weighting

50% of salary awarded

100% of salary awar ded

200% of salary awarded

Results

Achievement

% of salary

Minimum

Target

Maximum

30%

Target -10%  

$2,454m

Target  

$2,727m

Target +10%  

$3,000m

Core revenue of  

$2,875m

Target to 

maximum

46.3%

50%

Target -10%  

$573m

Target  

$637m

Target +10%  

$701 million

Core EBIT of 

$707m

Maximum

100.0%

Strategic

CEO onboarding

An effective onboarding of the new CEO is important to ensure that they are fully effective in 
the role as quickly as possible and driving the strategy. In addition stability and continuity need 
to be established by working with the new CEO to ensure an appropriate Executive Committee 
is in place together with succession plans.

10%

Committees’ 

assessment of 

onboarding and 

succession planning

Achievement against 

Target

10.0%

objectives reviewed

Reduction in Scope 1 
and 2 emissions

To ensure continued focus on Hikma’s commitment to reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
by 2030 the Committee has set interim targets to be achieved by 31 December 2023.

10%

15%

17%

 19%

Achievement against 

Minimum

5.0%

objectives reviewed

Total

100%

Acceptable

Good

Excellent

161.3%

The above performance results 

in performance remuneration 

under the new Policy as follows 

(audited):

Participant

Calculation

Receive

Maximum 

potential (% of 

Application 

Executive

Policy element

Salary

salary)

% of salary

Value of bonus/shares

Receive

Notes

Cash bonus

100%

80.6%

$820,832

Cash now 

(March 2024)

Executive 

Chairman 

$1,018,000

Deferred  

shares

All shares vesting 

are subject 

to continued 

employment and 

a holding period 

after vesting. These 

100%

80.6%

$820,832

3 years

after grant.

Shares deferred 

shares may not be 

for a period of 

sold until 5 years 

Total

200%

161.3%

$1,641,665

120

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 20232023 Annual Bonus Performance outcome: Executive Chairman (audited)

Readers are directed to the commentary on business performance that is included in the Chair’s letter on pages 103 to 104.  

The following table sets out the performance conditions and targets for 2023 and their level of satisfaction:

Section

Financial

Description

Rationale and measurement

Core revenue

Historically, the pricing of generic pharmaceutical products has decreased with time. The 

Committee is cognisant that this could lead to declining revenue over the longer term, which 

could ultimately result in a declining business overall. By ensuring that a significant proportion 

of performance remuneration is based on revenue, the Committee is able to ensure that the 

Executive Directors are focused on mitigating pricing declines by maximising the potential  

of the in-market portfolio, launching new products, and developing the pipeline. See page 3  

of the Strategic report for further detail on the performance related to this target.

Performance condition

Performance level

Achievement

Application

Weighting

30%

Minimum
50% of salary awarded

Target
100% of salary awar ded

Maximum
200% of salary awarded

Results

Achievement

% of salary

Target -10%  
$2,454m

Target  
$2,727m

Target +10%  
$3,000m

Core revenue of  
$2,875m

Target to 
maximum

46.3%

Core operating profit 

Ultimately, the COP is a key measure of value to Hikma’s shareholders. Given the highly 

(COP)

competitive business environment in which Hikma operates, the Executive Directors must 

50%

Target -10%  
$573m

Target  
$637m

Target +10%  
$701 million

Core EBIT of 
$707m

Maximum

100.0%

focus continuously on optimising Hikma’s cost base. 

Strategic

CEO onboarding

An effective onboarding of the new CEO is important to ensure that they are fully effective in 

10%

the role as quickly as possible and driving the strategy. In addition stability and continuity need 

to be established by working with the new CEO to ensure an appropriate Executive Committee 

is in place together with succession plans.

Committees’ 
assessment of 
onboarding and 
succession planning

Achievement against 
objectives reviewed

Target

10.0%

Reduction in Scope 1 

To ensure continued focus on Hikma’s commitment to reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 

and 2 emissions

by 2030 the Committee has set interim targets to be achieved by 31 December 2023.

10%

15%

17%

 19%

Achievement against 
objectives reviewed

Minimum

5.0%

Total

100%

Acceptable

Good

Excellent

161.3%

The above performance results 
in performance remuneration 
under the new Policy as follows 
(audited):

Participant

Calculation

Receive

Executive

Policy element

Salary

Maximum 
potential (% of 
salary)

Application 
% of salary

Value of bonus/shares

Receive

Notes

Cash bonus

100%

80.6%

$820,832

Cash now 
(March 2024)

Executive 
Chairman 

$1,018,000

Deferred  
shares

Total

100%

80.6%

$820,832

200%

161.3%

$1,641,665

All shares vesting 
are subject 
to continued 
employment and 
a holding period 
after vesting. These 
shares may not be 
sold until 5 years 
after grant.

Shares deferred 
for a period of 
3 years

121

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration
continued

2023 Annual Bonus Performance outcome: Executive Vice Chairman (audited)
Readers are directed to the commentary on business performance that is included in the Chair’s letter on pages 103 to 104  
The following table sets out the performance conditions and targets for 2023 and their level of satisfaction:

Performance condition

Performance level

Achievement

Application

Section

Financial

Description

Rationale and measurement

Core revenue

Historically, the pricing of generic pharmaceutical products has decreased with time. The 
Committee is cognisant that this could lead to declining revenue over the longer term, which 
could ultimately result in a declining business overall. By ensuring that a significant proportion 
of performance remuneration is based on revenue, the Committee is able to ensure that the 
Executive Directors are focused on mitigating pricing declines by maximising the potential  
of the in-market portfolio, launching new products, and developing the pipeline. See page 3  
of the Strategic report for further detail on this target.

Core operating profit 
(COP)

Ultimately, the COP is a key measure of value to Hikma’s shareholders. Given the highly 
competitive business environment in which Hikma operates, the Executive Directors must 
focus continuously on optimising Hikma’s cost base. 

MENA revenue 

MENA COP

The Executive Director is responsible for this region. The Committee considered financial 
metrics to be the best method of ensuring delivery of the strategy that could be measured in an 
objective manner that is readily understandable by investors. Measured by target MENA revenue 
compared to audited MENA revenue for the year ended 31 December 2023 (see page 31)

The Executive Director is responsible for this region. The Committee considered financial 
metrics to be the best method of ensuring delivery of the Board-approved strategy that could 
be measured in an objective manner that is readily understandable by investors. Measured 
by target MENA COP compared to audited MENA COP for the year ended 31 December 2023 
(see page 31).

Strategic

Environmental, Social, 
and Governance 
Strategy

To ensure continued focus on Hikma’s commitment to reduce scope 1 and 2
GHG emissions by 25% by 2030 see page 50. The Executive Vice Chairman was set a target for 
the completion of energy audits in two MENA countries together with action plans for achieving 
reductions by the end of 2023

Gender Diversity

A diverse workforce is important for the development of the Hikma business. The MENA 
business, which currently has a lower participation of women in management positions than the 
rest of the Group. A target was set of increasing the number of women in management positions 
by 9% in 2023.

MENA business 
development

To ensure that the MENA business has the production capability to meet its business plans the 
Executive Vice Chairman was set the target of ensuring that the feasibility and all government 
approvals for expansion of Hikma’s facility in KSA are completed by the end of 2023.

Total

100%

Acceptable

Good

Excellent

Weighting

50% of salary awarded

100 % of salary awarded

200% of salary award

Results

Achievement

% of salary

Minimum

Target

Maximum  

12%

Target -10%

$2,454m

Target  

$2,727m

Target +10% 

$3,000m

$2,875m

Target to 

maximum

18.5%

18%

Target -10%  

$573m

20%

Target -10%  

$818m

Target +10%  

$701m

Target +10%  

$1,000m

$707m

Maximum

36.0%

$908m

Minimum to 

19.9%

target

30%

Target -10%  

$178m

Target +10%  

$218m

$204m

Target to 

maximum

39.0%

Target  

$637m

Target  

$909m

Target  

$198m

5%

Target is completion of energy audits in 2 MENA countries 

Achievement against 

objectives reviewed

Target to 

maximum

7.5%

7.5%

Threshold  

unchanged

Target  

9% increase

Maximum  

17% increase

Achievement against 

Minimum

3.8%

objective reviewed

7.5%

Committees assessment of progress

Achievement against 

Target

7.5%

objectives reviewed

Committee final determination  

(see page 103)

132.1%

168.7%

The above performance results 

in performance remuneration 

under the new Policy as follows 

(audited):

Participant

Executive

EIP Element

Salary

Calculation

Receive

Maximum 

potential (% of 

salary)

Application 

% of salary

Value of bonus/

shares

Cash bonus

100%

84.3%

$680,638

Executive 

Vice Chairman

806,787

Deferred  

shares

Receive

Notes

Cash now 

(March 2024)

All shares vesting are 

subject to continued 

employment and a 

holding period after 

Shares deferred 

vesting. These shares 

for a period 

may not be sold until 

Total

100%

200%

168.7%

$1,361,276

84.3%

$680,638

3 years 

5 years after grant.

122

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 20232023 Annual Bonus Performance outcome: Executive Vice Chairman (audited)

Readers are directed to the commentary on business performance that is included in the Chair’s letter on pages 103 to 104  

The following table sets out the performance conditions and targets for 2023 and their level of satisfaction:

Section

Financial

Description

Rationale and measurement

Core revenue

Historically, the pricing of generic pharmaceutical products has decreased with time. The 

Weighting

12%

Minimum
50% of salary awarded

Target
100 % of salary awarded

Maximum  
200% of salary award

Target -10%
$2,454m

Target  
$2,727m

Target +10% 
$3,000m

Results

$2,875m

Achievement

% of salary

Target to 
maximum

18.5%

Performance condition

Performance level

Achievement

Application

18%

20%

30%

Target -10%  
$573m

Target -10%  
$818m

Target  
$637m

Target  
$909m

Target +10%  
$701m

Target +10%  
$1,000m

$707m

Maximum

36.0%

$908m

Minimum to 
target

19.9%

Target -10%  
$178m

Target  
$198m

Target +10%  
$218m

$204m

Target to 
maximum

39.0%

Strategic

Environmental, Social, 

To ensure continued focus on Hikma’s commitment to reduce scope 1 and 2

5%

Target is completion of energy audits in 2 MENA countries 

Achievement against 
objectives reviewed

Target to 
maximum

7.5%

Total

100%

Acceptable

Good

Excellent

Committee final determination  
(see page 103)

132.1%

168.7%

7.5%

Threshold  
unchanged

Target  
9% increase

Maximum  
17% increase

Achievement against 
objective reviewed

Minimum

3.8%

7.5%

Committees assessment of progress

Achievement against 
objectives reviewed

Target

7.5%

Committee is cognisant that this could lead to declining revenue over the longer term, which 

could ultimately result in a declining business overall. By ensuring that a significant proportion 

of performance remuneration is based on revenue, the Committee is able to ensure that the 

Executive Directors are focused on mitigating pricing declines by maximising the potential  

of the in-market portfolio, launching new products, and developing the pipeline. See page 3  

of the Strategic report for further detail on this target.

Core operating profit 

Ultimately, the COP is a key measure of value to Hikma’s shareholders. Given the highly 

(COP)

competitive business environment in which Hikma operates, the Executive Directors must 

focus continuously on optimising Hikma’s cost base. 

MENA revenue 

The Executive Director is responsible for this region. The Committee considered financial 

metrics to be the best method of ensuring delivery of the strategy that could be measured in an 

objective manner that is readily understandable by investors. Measured by target MENA revenue 

compared to audited MENA revenue for the year ended 31 December 2023 (see page 31)

MENA COP

The Executive Director is responsible for this region. The Committee considered financial 

metrics to be the best method of ensuring delivery of the Board-approved strategy that could 

be measured in an objective manner that is readily understandable by investors. Measured 

by target MENA COP compared to audited MENA COP for the year ended 31 December 2023 

(see page 31).

and Governance 

GHG emissions by 25% by 2030 see page 50. The Executive Vice Chairman was set a target for 

Strategy

the completion of energy audits in two MENA countries together with action plans for achieving 

reductions by the end of 2023

Gender Diversity

A diverse workforce is important for the development of the Hikma business. The MENA 

business, which currently has a lower participation of women in management positions than the 

rest of the Group. A target was set of increasing the number of women in management positions 

by 9% in 2023.

MENA business 

development

To ensure that the MENA business has the production capability to meet its business plans the 

Executive Vice Chairman was set the target of ensuring that the feasibility and all government 

approvals for expansion of Hikma’s facility in KSA are completed by the end of 2023.

The above performance results 
in performance remuneration 
under the new Policy as follows 
(audited):

Participant

Calculation

Receive

Executive

EIP Element

Salary

Maximum 
potential (% of 
salary)

Application 
% of salary

Value of bonus/
shares

Cash bonus

100%

84.3%

$680,638

Executive 
Vice Chairman

806,787

Deferred  
shares

Total

100%

200%

84.3%

$680,638

168.7%

$1,361,276

Receive

Notes

Cash now 
(March 2024)

All shares vesting are 
subject to continued 
employment and a 
holding period after 
vesting. These shares 
may not be sold until 
5 years after grant.

Shares deferred 
for a period 
3 years 

123

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration
continued

2023 Annual Bonus Performance outcome: CEO1 (audited)
Readers are directed to the commentary on business performance that is included in the Chair’s letter on pages 103 to 104.  
The following table sets out the performance conditions and targets for 2023 and their level of satisfaction:

Performance condition

Performance level

Achievement

Application

Section

Financial

Description

Rationale and measurement

Core revenue

Historically, the pricing of generic pharmaceutical products has decreased with time. The 
Committee is cognisant that this could lead to declining revenue over the longer term, which 
could ultimately result in a declining business overall. By ensuring that a significant proportion 
of performance remuneration is based on revenue, the Committee is able to ensure that the 
Executive Directors are focused on mitigating pricing declines by maximising the potential 
of the in-market portfolio, launching new products, and developing the pipeline. See page 3 
of the Strategic report for further detail on the performance related to this target.

Core operating profit 
(COP)

Ultimately, the COP is a key measure of value to Hikma’s shareholders. Given the highly 
competitive business environment in which Hikma operates, the Executive Directors must 
focus continuously on optimising Hikma’s cost base. 

Weighting

50% of salary awarded

100% of salary awarded

200% of salary awarded

Results

Achievement

% of salary

Minimum

Target

Maximum

30%

Target -10%  

$2,454m

Target  

$2,727m

Target +10%  

$3,000m

Core revenue of  

$2,875m

Target to 

maximum

46.3%

50%

Target -10%  

$573m

Target  

$637m

Target +10%  

$701m

Core EBIT of 

$707m

Maximum

100%

Strategic

Succession plan for 
Injectables business

It is critical that the Injectables business continues to deliver effectively against the business 
plan. The new CEO was therefore set the performance target of ensuring that there were 
effective succession plans in place and a smooth transition of responsibilities to the new 
President of the Injectables business.

20%

Committees’ 

assessment of 

progress

Achievement against 

Target

20.0%

objectives reviewed

Total

100%

Acceptable

Good

Excellent

166.3%

1. Riad Mishlawi was appointed as CEO with effect from 1 September 2023. The incentive payments are therefore pro-rated for the period 1 September to 31 December 2023

Calculation

Receive

Maximum 

potential (% of 

Application 

Executive

Policy element

Salary

salary)

% of salary

Value of bonus/shares Receive

Notes

100%

83.1%

$277,106

Cash now 

(March 2024)

The above performance results 

in performance remuneration 

under the new Policy as follows 

(audited):

Participant

CEO

$333,333

Cash bonus

Deferred  

shares

All shares vesting are 

subject to continued 

employment and a 

holding period after 

Shares deferred 

vesting. These shares 

for a period of 

may not be sold until 

100%

83.1%

$277,106

3 years

5 years after grant.

Total

200%

166.3%

$554,213

124

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 20232023 Annual Bonus Performance outcome: CEO1 (audited)

Readers are directed to the commentary on business performance that is included in the Chair’s letter on pages 103 to 104.  

The following table sets out the performance conditions and targets for 2023 and their level of satisfaction:

Section

Financial

Description

Rationale and measurement

Core revenue

Historically, the pricing of generic pharmaceutical products has decreased with time. The 

Committee is cognisant that this could lead to declining revenue over the longer term, which 

could ultimately result in a declining business overall. By ensuring that a significant proportion 

of performance remuneration is based on revenue, the Committee is able to ensure that the 

Executive Directors are focused on mitigating pricing declines by maximising the potential 

of the in-market portfolio, launching new products, and developing the pipeline. See page 3 

of the Strategic report for further detail on the performance related to this target.

Performance condition

Performance level

Achievement

Application

Weighting

30%

Minimum
50% of salary awarded

Target
100% of salary awarded

Maximum
200% of salary awarded

Results

Achievement

% of salary

Target -10%  
$2,454m

Target  
$2,727m

Target +10%  
$3,000m

Core revenue of  
$2,875m

Target to 
maximum

46.3%

Core operating profit 

Ultimately, the COP is a key measure of value to Hikma’s shareholders. Given the highly 

(COP)

competitive business environment in which Hikma operates, the Executive Directors must 

50%

Target -10%  
$573m

Target  
$637m

Target +10%  
$701m

Core EBIT of 
$707m

Maximum

100%

focus continuously on optimising Hikma’s cost base. 

Strategic

Succession plan for 

It is critical that the Injectables business continues to deliver effectively against the business 

20%

Injectables business

plan. The new CEO was therefore set the performance target of ensuring that there were 

effective succession plans in place and a smooth transition of responsibilities to the new 

President of the Injectables business.

Committees’ 
assessment of 
progress

Achievement against 
objectives reviewed

Target

20.0%

Total

100%

Acceptable

Good

Excellent

166.3%

1. Riad Mishlawi was appointed as CEO with effect from 1 September 2023. The incentive payments are therefore pro-rated for the period 1 September to 31 December 2023

The above performance results 
in performance remuneration 
under the new Policy as follows 
(audited):

Participant

Calculation

Receive

Executive

Policy element

Salary

Maximum 
potential (% of 
salary)

Application 
% of salary

Value of bonus/shares Receive

Notes

Cash bonus

100%

83.1%

$277,106

Cash now 
(March 2024)

$333,333

Deferred  
shares

CEO

Total

100%

83.1%

$277,106

200%

166.3%

$554,213

All shares vesting are 
subject to continued 
employment and a 
holding period after 
vesting. These shares 
may not be sold until 
5 years after grant.

Shares deferred 
for a period of 
3 years

125

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Annual report on remuneration
continued

Outstanding share awards (audited) 
Hikma continued to operate the EIP with the final award being made in May 2023. The first award under the new LTIP was made on 30 May 2023. 
The outstanding share awards under the EIP in respect of each of the Executive Directors are:

Participant

Director

Scheme description1

Type of interest

Date 
of award

Date of vesting 

Basis of award 

Shares (max) 

Face value2

Share scheme

Quantum

EIP Element C

EIP Element B

EIP Element C

Conditional 
award 

Conditional 
award

Conditional 
award

EIP Element B

Conditional 

25-Feb-22

25-Feb-25

award 30-May-23

30-May-25

EIP Element C

Conditional 

award 30-May-23

30-May-26

LTIPs 20235

Conditional 

25-Feb-21

25-Feb-24

66%

19,830

$673,028

25-Feb-22

25-Feb-24

101%

34,652

$1,023,967

53%

69%

43%

18,420

31,679

19,761

$544,311

$707,075

$441,066

award 30-May-23

30-May-26

291%

132,783

$2,963,717

EIP Element C

EIP Element B

EIP Element C

Conditional 
award 

Conditional 
award 

Conditional 
award 

25-Feb-21

25-Feb-24

25-Feb-22

25-Feb-24

25-Feb-22

25-Feb-25

EIP Element B

Conditional 

award  30-May-23

30-May-25

EIP Element C

Conditional 

award  30-May-23

30-May-26

LTIPs 20235

Conditional 

257,125
2022: 134,786

$6,353,163
2022: $4,108,412

17,120

$581,053

22,099

$653,025

18,691

36,371

30,749

$552,319

$811,811

$686,318

69%

77%

65%

96%

81%

award  30-May-23

30-May-26

198%

75,339

$1,681,566

LTIPs 20235

Conditional 
award

31-Aug-23

31-Aug-26

40%

12,263

EIP Element C

EIP Element B

EIP Element C

Conditional 
award

Conditional
award

Conditional
award

25-Feb-21

25-Feb-24

25-Feb-22

25-Feb-24

25-Feb-22

25-Feb-25

EIP Element B

Conditional

212,632
2022: N/A

13,903

26,812

14,844

66%

98%

54%

$340,176

 $5,306,268
2022: N/A

 $471,868 

 $792,295 

 $438,640 

award 30-May-23

30-May-25

100%

36,171

 $807,337 

EIP Element C

Conditional

award 30-May-23

30-May-26

57%

20,650

 $460,908 

LTIPs 20235

Conditional

award 30-May-23

30-May-26

291%

105,233

 $2,348,801 

217,613
2022: 98,709

 $5,319,848 
2022: $3,004,989

Said Darwazah

Total

Riad Mishlawi4

Total

Mazen Darwazah

Total

1.  The performance criteria for Elements B and C of the EIP are assessed before a grant is considered. Additionally, Element B is subject to forfeiture criteria for the first two years after grant
2.  The face value is the value at the point of the EIP grant which is the 30-day average to the 31 December of the performance year. The face value (30-day average price) in respect of 
awards granted in 2020 $25.32 (£19.30p), and 2021 $33.94 (£25.25p), and 2022 $29.55(£22.20), and 2023 $18.44(£15.15). The actual value received by Executive Directors under the 
share incentive arrangements is dependent upon the share price of Hikma at the time of vesting, the satisfaction of performance criteria and the non-occurrence of forfeiture events 
(EIP Element B only).  Forfeiture would apply to 50% of any unvested Element B shares if the financial performance in any year is less than 30% of the target.

3.  The minimum value of the awards at vesting will be the share price on the day of vesting multiplied by the number of shares vesting. If the Executive Director leaves employment during 

the vesting period, the normal position is that zero shares vest. If all the forfeiture conditions occur in each year of the vesting period under Element B only, zero shares will vest. 
The weighting of each forfeiture condition has a proportional impact on the vesting percentage under Element B only

4.  The outstanding awards shown for Riad Mishlawi relate to grants made prior to appointment as CEO and percentage is based on full year equivalent salary
5.  The share price was determined by the average closing price in the five business days preceding the grant date.  25% of grant vests at threshold and 62.5% vests at target performance

126

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023The applicable share prices for Hikma during the period under review were:

Date

1 January 2023

31 December 2023

2023 Range (low to high)

21 February 2024

Market price
(Closing price)

1,621p

1,789p

1,606p to 2,205p

1,997.5p

Dilution
In accordance with the guidelines set out by the Investment Association, Hikma can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital 
in a rolling ten-year period to employees under all its share plans and a maximum of 50% of this (representing 5% of issued share capital) 
for discretionary share plans. The following table summarises the current level of dilution resulting from Hikma’s share plans since 2013:

Type of plan

Discretionary Share Plans (5% Limit)

Granted in a 
rolling ten-year 
period

Granted during 
the year

4.42%

0.86%

Director share interests (audited)
Said Darwazah, Mazen Darwazah and Ali Al-Husry are Directors and shareholders of Darhold Limited. Darhold holds 60,000,000 Ordinary 
Shares in Hikma. The table below breaks down their shareholdings in Hikma by shares effectively owned through Darhold and shares held 
personally or by connected people. The cancellation and issuance of shares in Darhold and Hikma, as well as changes in the number of 
Hikma shares held by Darhold, can lead to a degree of variation in the ‘Effective Hikma shares’.

Director

Said Darwazah

Mazen Darwazah1

Ali Al-Husry2

Darhold

Interest in 
Darhold 

22.40%

11.29%

8.28%

Effective 
Hikma shares

13,437,000

6,771,000

4,968,600

Personal

Shares 
(incl. connected 
people)

Total 
shareholding

797,985

14,234,985

1,351,507

8,122,507

1,162,811

6,131,411

1.  Mazen Darwazah holds his shares in Darhold Limited through a family trust
2.  Ali Al-Husry holds his shares in Hikma and Darhold Limited through a family trust

The following table sets out details of the Directors’ shareholdings in Hikma as at 31 December 2023 and, where there are shareholding 
requirements, whether these have been met:

Director

Said Darwazah1

Riad Mishlawi2

Mazen Darwazah3

Ali Al-Husry5

Patrick Butler

John Castellani

Nina Henderson

Cynthia Flowers

Douglas Hurt

Deneen Vojta

Laura Balan

Victoria Hull

Ownership requirements

Total

Scheme Interests

Total

Percentage 
of salary

300%

300%

300%

Number 
of shares

134,162

44,168

106,292

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Requirement 
fulfilled?

Shares 
owned3

Yes

Yes

Yes

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

14,234,985

92,838

8,122,507

6,131,411

3,875

3,500

7,100

1,100

4,500

1,000

N/A

N/A

Awards subject
to performance
conditions4

199,114

146,072

168,216

EIP subject to 
service 
(Element C)

Share 
interests

58,011

14,492,110

66,560

212,632

49,397

8,340,120

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

6,131,411

3,875

3,500

7,100

1,100

4,500

1,000

–

–

Including shares effectively owned through Darhold as per the table above

1. 
2.  Riad Mishlawi was appointed CEO with effect from 1 September 2023
3.  Mazen Darwazah holds his shares in Darhold Limited through a family trust, in which he has a beneficial interest
4.  This includes element B awards made under the EIP (see page 116) and the LTIP under the new Policy.
5.  Ali Al-Husry holds his shares in Hikma and Darhold Limited through a family trust, in which he has a beneficial interest

There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the shares of Hikma between 31 December 2023 and the date of this report. 
The share price used to calculate whether the shareholding requirements have been met is the price on 31 December 2023 of £17.89 and foreign 
exchange rate of $1.273 to £1 on the same date.

127

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Corporate Governance 
Financial  
statements

140 

Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Hikma 
Pharmaceuticals PLC

146  Consolidated income statement

147  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income

148  Consolidated balance sheet

149  Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity

150  Consolidated cash flow statement

151  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 

194  Company balance sheet

195  Company statement  
of changes in equity 

196  Notes to the Company  

financial statements 

138

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Financial  

statements

139

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Financial Statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC

Our audit approach
Overview
Audit scope

 – Our audit included full scope audits of four components, an 

audit of specific financial statement line items of one additional 
component and audit procedures performed centrally over 
certain specific material balances at locations around the Group 
and over central consolidation and adjustment entities. Full scope 
components account for 81% of consolidated revenue and 68% of 
core profit before tax.

Key audit matters

 – Adequacy and appropriateness of management’s impairment 

and impairment reversal indicators assessment in respect of the 
Generic Advair Diskus® and Generics cash generating units (Group)

 – Valuation and accuracy of gross to net rebate and returns 

adjustments in the US (Group)

 – Recoverability of the carrying amounts in respect of investments 

in subsidiaries (Company)

Materiality

 – Overall Group materiality: $31 million (2022: $25 million) based 
on approximately 5% of core profit before tax (2022: based on 
approximately 5% of core profit before tax).

 – Overall Company materiality: $37.6 million (2022: $39 million) based 
on approximately 1% of total assets (2022: based on approximately 
1% of total assets).

 – Performance materiality: $23.2 million (2022: $18.75 million) (Group) 

and $28.2 million (2022: $29.2 million) (Company).

The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and 
assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial 
statements.

Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional 
judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and include the most significant 
assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) 
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest 
effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the 
audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These 
matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we 
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.

The key audit matters below are consistent with last year.

Report on the audit of 
the financial statements

Opinion
In our opinion:

 – Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Group financial statements and 

Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a 
true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit and the 
Group’s cash flows for the year then ended;

 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 

accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006;

 – the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law); and

 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 

the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual 
Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance 
sheets as at 31 December 2023; the Consolidated income statement, 
the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the 
Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated and 
Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; 
and the notes to the financial statements, comprising material 
accounting policy information and other explanatory information.

Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.

Separate opinion in relation to IFRS Accounting 
Standards as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 2 to the financial statements, the Group, 
in addition to applying UK-adopted international accounting 
standards, has also applied IFRS Accounting Standards as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).

In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as issued 
by the IASB.

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities 
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as 
applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit 
services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided.

Other than those disclosed in Note 7, we have provided no non-audit 
services to the Company or its controlled undertakings in the period 
under audit.

140

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Adequacy and appropriateness of management’s impairment and 
impairment reversal indicators assessment in respect of the Generic 
Advair Diskus® and Generics cash generating units (Group)

The group has property, plant and equipment (“PPE”) of $1,096 million (2022: 
$1,024 million) and intangible assets of $1,100 million (2022: $1,124 million). 
Management has assessed whether indicators of impairment or impairment 
reversal existed in relation to PPE and intangible assets as at 31 December 
2023, performed at the cash generating units (“CGUs”) level, being the lowest 
level at which largely independent cash inflows are generated. 

The goodwill and certain intangible assets allocated to the Generic Advair 
Diskus® and Generics CGUs were impaired in previous years. This, together 
with recent CGU performance, has resulted in these CGUs being the focus of 
our key audit matter. 

CGUs with finite life assets must be assessed for indicators of impairment at 
each reporting date. Where an impairment indicator has been identified, the 
recoverable amount of the CGU needs to be calculated to assess whether an 
impairment exists. Conversely, where there has been a sustained improvement 
in the conditions that gave rise to a prior impairment an impairment reversal 
should be recorded, other than where the impairment related to goodwill which 
cannot be reversed. Management’s assessment did not identify any indicators 
of impairment or impairment reversal.

The assessment of whether an impairment trigger has occurred requires 
exercise of judgement. The determination of whether there has been a 
sustained improvement in the conditions that gave rise to a previous 
impairment, to support an impairment reversal, also involves a significant 
degree of judgement and careful consideration. This includes, but is not limited 
to, consideration of actual performance in the year and management’s view of 
future cash flow forecasts. These forecasts are based on management’s 
expectations of external factors such as market competition, likelihood of 
regulatory product approvals and changes to regulations in addition to its own 
intentions. These impact key assumptions like market share, pricing, revenue 
growth and profit margins. 

Accordingly, the adequacy and appropriateness of management’s impairment 
and impairment reversals indicators assessment for these two CGUs was 
determined to be a key audit matter.

Refer to the Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement, 
accounting policies (note 2), critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty (note 3), and goodwill and other intangible assets 
(note 15) and property, plant and equipment (note 16) in the Group financial 
statements.

Valuation and accuracy of gross to net rebate and returns 
adjustments in the US (Group)

Management is required to make estimates in respect of revenue recognition, 
specifically the level of returns and rebates to be realised against the Group’s 
revenue. The Group recorded significant revenue deductions for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 and determined provisions for customer rebates 
of $27 million, indirect rebates of $67 million and returns of $133 million.

In aggregate, these estimates are complex, material to the financial statements 
and require significant estimation by Directors to establish an appropriate 
provision and accordingly this was determined to be a key audit matter. 

Refer to the Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement, 
accounting policies (note 2), critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty (note 3), trade and other receivables (note 21) and 
other current liabilities (note 27) in the Group financial statements.

We performed the following audit procedures in order to evaluate the 
reasonableness of management’s indicators assessment and their 
conclusions:

 – We reconciled the carrying values of the CGUs to underlying financial 

records and understood the constituents of the CGU;

 – We obtained management’s five-year business plan (“5YBP”) and verified 

that the 5YBP was approved by the Board;

 – We evaluated the current year performance of the CGUs against prior year 
forecasts, compared the previous 5YBP to the current year 5YBP and 
challenged management to understand the reasons for improvement in 
the performance of both CGUs;

 – We considered the changes to the 5YBP since the last formal recoverable 
value determination in 2022, focusing on changes in the forecasts with 
respect to key contributor products. 

 – We analysed the changes to forecasts for key contributor products since 

the last formal recoverable amount determination for the CGUs in 2022 to 
assess whether these changes have a material impact on the recoverable 
amounts of the CGUs in order to determine if they represent an indicator 
of impairment or impairment reversal;

 – We made enquiries of management including the commercial, regulatory 
and legal teams to further understand the key inputs and assumptions 
underpinning the forecasts for the overall CGU and in respect of key 
contributor products. We corroborated and challenged these key inputs 
and assumptions from these discussions using available third party 
data (e.g. IQVIA market intelligence, analyst reports), by inspecting 
correspondence with the regulator, and agreeing information to 
contracts; and,

 – Our internal valuation experts determined discount rate ranges for these 
CGUs. We considered the movement in these ranges since the prior year 
to identify any potential triggering events which may indicate a full 
impairment assessment is required as per IAS 36.

Based on our procedures we consider management’s conclusion that there 
are no indicators of impairment or impairment reversal to be reasonable.

We also evaluated the disclosures in note 2, note 3, note 15 and note 16 
and consider these to be appropriate.

We considered the Group’s processes for making judgements in this area 
and performed the following procedures:

 – We assessed the revenue recognition policy and applicable controls in 

place around this process;

 – We tested controls over the validation and approval of payment claims;
 – We tested returns, rebates payments and credit memos throughout the 
year by agreeing selected transactions back to the underlying source 
documentation including customer claims and payment information;
 – We confirmed channel inventory with major wholesalers or performed 

alternative procedures where confirmations were not received;

 – We developed an independent expectation or tested management’s 
process for the largest elements of the reserves at 31 December 2023 
using assumptions and inputs based on contracted prices and rebate 
terms, historical rebates, discounts, validated channel inventory levels, 
and invoices received or payments made, as applicable, subsequent to 
year-end to validate provisions. We compared this expectation to the 
actual accrual recognised by the Group; and,

 – We considered the historical accuracy of the Group’s estimates in 
previous years and the effect of any adjustments to prior years’ 
accruals in the current year’s results.

Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material 
differences between our independent expectations and the reserves 
recorded. We also evaluated the disclosures in note 2, note 3, note 21 
and note 27 which we consider to be appropriate.

141

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Financial Statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
continued

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Recoverability of the carrying amounts in respect of investments 
in subsidiaries (Company)

The investments in subsidiaries of $3,303m (2022: $3,296m) are accounted for 
at cost less impairment in the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2023.

We performed the following audit procedures in relation to the carrying 
amount of investments in subsidiaries:

Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less provision for 
impairment in the Company balance sheet. Investments are tested for 
impairment if impairment indicators exist. If such indicators exist, the 
recoverable amounts of investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. Any such impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement.

The impairment assessment was identified as a key audit matter due to the size 
of the underlying investment carrying values at 31 December 2023. Impairment 
indicators were identified in connection with certain investments in subsidiaries 
due to the carrying value of investments exceeding the net assets of the 
underlying subsidiaries. As a result, the recoverable amount of the investments 
are determined by reference to the value in use, in order to determine the 
headroom, if any. The determination of the recoverable amount requires the 
application of management judgement and estimates, particularly in 
determining the key assumptions to be applied in preparing cash flow 
projections.

Refer to accounting policies (note 2) and investment in subsidiaries (note 4)  
in the Company financial statements.

 – We evaluated management’s assessment of whether any indicators of 
impairment existed by comparing the carrying values of investments 
in subsidiaries with the net assets of the underlying subsidiaries at 
31 December 2023;

 – For investments where the net assets were lower than the carrying values, 
we assessed their recoverable value by reference to the value in use of 
the investments compared to their carrying values at 31 December 2023. 
Where applicable, we verified that the recoverable values of investments 
were consistent with the recoverable values of the related CGUs tested for 
goodwill impairment purposes, leveraging the audit work undertaken as 
part of the Group audit; and,

 – We separately evaluated the difference between the carrying value of 
the Company’s investments in subsidiaries and the Group’s market 
capitalisation.

Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues 
arising from our work.

The impact of climate risk on our audit
As explained in the Sustainability Report, the Group is mindful of 
its impact on the environment and is focussed on ways to reduce 
climate related impacts. In planning and executing our audit we 
have considered the Group’s risk assessment process to identify 
and model the potential impact of climate change on the financial 
statements and further engaged with our own sustainability experts. 
Based on this, we understand that the key impact to the Group could 
be a potential increase in input costs for energy intensive supplies 
such as active pharmaceutical ingredients and packaging materials 
due to carbon pricing. This would impact the financial statement line 
items and estimates associated with future cash flows since the 
impact of climate change is expected to become more notable in the 
medium to long term. The key areas impacted include recoverability 
of goodwill, intangible assets and deferred tax assets. We note that 
management’s assessment is that the impact on Hikma is currently 
immaterial, nevertheless, while auditing the estimates associated 
with the forecasts, we have challenged management on reflecting 
the impact of climate change and any climate change related 
commitments in the cash flows particularly in the context of the 
Group’s target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 25% by 
2030. We have not identified any matters as part of this work which 
contradict the disclosures in the Annual Report or lead to any 
material adjustments to the financial statements.

Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to 
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of 
our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items 
and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.

How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the 
Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry 
in which they operate.

Procedures, including oversight discussions and site visits by senior 
team members, were performed prior to year-end to refine the audit 
approach and evaluate component auditor procedures and controls 
testing. As at 31 December 2023, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC had 57 
subsidiaries and one joint venture as part of the Group. These entities 
may operate solely in one segment but more commonly operate 
across two. Each component submits a Group reporting package to 
Hikma’s central accounting team including its income statement and 
balance sheet prepared under Group accounting policies which are in 
accordance with the accounting standards. We instructed component 
teams in the US, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Algeria to audit reporting 
packages of certain entities in these territories and report to us the 
results of their full scope audit work. We also engaged our component 
team in Portugal to perform an audit over specific balances. 
In addition to instructing and reviewing the reporting from our 
component audit teams, we conducted file reviews and participated 
in key meetings with local management both remotely and in person. 
We had regular dialogue with component teams throughout the year 
and performed site visits to the US, Jordan, Algeria and Portugal. In 
addition to the work performed by our component teams, central 
audit procedures were performed by the Group engagement team 
in relation to specific material balances not covered by component 
auditors. The Group consolidation and related central consolidation 
and other adjustments, financial statement disclosures and corporate 
functions were also audited by the Group engagement team. This 
included our work over central taxation adjustments, valuation of 
goodwill and intangible assets and major transactions. Taken together, 
audit work over the full scope components and central procedures 
performed covered approximately 81% of the Group’s revenue and 
68% of the Group’s core profit before tax. In addition to the audit 
procedures noted above, we also performed disaggregated analytical 
review procedures over certain of the Group’s smaller and lower 
risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit 
scope. This provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. We also 
performed a full scope audit of the Company to a separate 
Company standalone materiality.

142

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Overall materiality

$31 million (2022: $25 million).

Financial statements – Group

Financial statements – Company

$37.6 million (2022: $39 million).

How we determined it

Rationale for 
benchmark applied

Based on approximately 5% of core profit before 
tax (2022: Based on approximately 5% of core 
profit before tax)

The Group’s principal measure of earnings is core 
results. Management believes that it reflects the 
underlying performance of the Group and is a 
meaningful measure of the Group’s performance 
to stakeholders.

Based on approximately 1% of total assets (2022: 
Based on approximately 1% of total assets)

Total assets is used as the benchmark as the 
Company’s principal activity is to hold the Group’s 
investments and perform treasury functions on 
behalf of the Group.

For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a 
materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range of 
materiality allocated across components was between $12 million and 
$27.5 million. Certain components were audited to a local statutory 
audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.

We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low 
level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and 
undetected misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, 
we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit 
and the nature and extent of our testing of account balances, classes 
of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample 
sizes. Our performance materiality was 75% (2022: 75%) of overall 
materiality, amounting to $23.2 million (2022: $18.75 million) for the 
Group financial statements and $28.2 million (2022: $29.2 million) for 
the Company financial statements.

In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number 
of factors – the history of misstatements, risk assessment and 
aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls – and concluded 
that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5 million (Group 
audit) (2022: $1.2 million) and $1.8 million (Company audit) (2022: 
$1.2 million) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, 
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.

Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and the 
Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting included:

 – agreeing the underlying cash flow projections to board approved 

forecasts, assessing how these forecasts are compiled, and 
assessing the accuracy of management’s forecasts;

 – evaluating the key assumptions within management’s forecasts;
 – considering liquidity and available financial resources;
 – considering compliance with covenants in the current year and 
ability to comply with these at each future covenant reporting 
date in the going concern period;

 – assessing whether the plausible downside scenario prepared by 
management appropriately considered the principal risks facing 
the business; and

 – evaluating the feasibility of management’s mitigating actions in 

the plausible downside scenario.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any 
material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of 
at least twelve months from when the financial statements are 
authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or 
draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial 
statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with 
respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of 
this report.

Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual 
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report 
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other 
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, 
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any 
form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an 
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are 
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a 
material misstatement of the financial statements or a material 
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing 
to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors’ report, we also 
considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies 
Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions 
and matters as described below.

143

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Financial Statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
continued

Strategic report and Directors’ report
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the 
audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors’ 
report for the year ended 31 December 2023 is consistent with the 
financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with 
applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and 
Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, 
we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report 
and Directors’ report.

Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Annual Report on Remuneration to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements 
in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of 
the corporate governance statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with respect 
to the corporate governance statement as other information are 
described in the Reporting on other information section of this report.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have 
concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement, included within the Corporate Governance 
Report is materially consistent with the financial statements and our 
knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing material to 
add or draw attention to in relation to:

 – The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust 

assessment of the emerging and principal risks;

 – The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal 
risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and 
an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;

 – The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether 
they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the Group’s and Company’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements;

 – The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Group’s 
and Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers 
and why the period is appropriate; and

 – The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable 

expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention 
to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.

Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term 
viability of the Group and Company was substantially less in scope 
than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering 
the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the 
statement is in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement 
is consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge and 
understanding of the Group and Company and their environment 
obtained in the course of the audit.

In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we 
have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:

 – The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and 
provides the information necessary for the members to assess the 
Group’s and Company’s position, performance, business model 
and strategy;

 – The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of 

effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and

 – The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit 

Committee.

We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report 
when the directors’ statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant 
provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by 
the auditors.

Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the financial statements, the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the 
applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. The directors are also responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible 
for assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to 
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements 
in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our 
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, 
is detailed below.

144

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified 
that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations 
related to patent protection, product safety (including but not limited 
to the United States Food and Drug Administration regulations), 
competition and antitrust laws, pricing practices and legislation, and 
anti-bribery and corruption legislation (including but not limited to the 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and we considered the extent to which 
non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial 
statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have 
a direct impact on the financial statements such as applicable tax 
legislation, the Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). We evaluated management’s incentives and 
opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements 
(including the risk of override of controls), and determined that the 
principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries 
to manipulate financial results and management bias in accounting 
estimates. The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment 
with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate 
audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit 
procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or 
component auditors included:

 – discussions with management and the Group’s legal counsel, 
including consideration of known or suspected instances of 
non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud;

 – assessment of matters reported on the Group’s whistleblowing 

hotline and results of management’s investigation of such matters;

 – challenging assumptions made by management in its significant 
accounting estimates particularly in relation to estimation of 
rebate and returns provisions, and recoverability of intangible 
assets (see related key audit matters above); and

 – identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal 

entries posted with unusual account combinations and 
consolidation journals.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described 
above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to 
events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, 
the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher 
than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional 
misrepresentations, or through collusion.

Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of 
certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing 
techniques. However, it typically involves selecting a limited number 
of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will 
often seek to target particular items for testing based on their size 
or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to 
enable us to draw a conclusion about the population from which 
the sample is selected.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:  
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description  
forms part of our auditors’ report.

Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:

 – we have not obtained all the information and explanations we 

require for our audit; or

 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, 

or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or

 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 

are not made; or

 – the Company financial statements and the part of the Annual 
Report on Remuneration to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Appointment
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were 
appointed by the members on 11 May 2016 to audit the financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent 
financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement 
is eight years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 
31 December 2023.

Other matter
In due course, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.14R, these financial 
statements will form part of the ESEF-prepared annual financial report 
filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct 
Authority in accordance with the ESEF Regulatory Technical Standard 
(‘ESEF RTS’). This auditors’ report provides no assurance over whether 
the annual financial report will be prepared using the single electronic 
format specified in the ESEF RTS.

Nigel Comello
(Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors

London 
21 February 2024

145

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Financial Statements 
Consolidated income statement 

For the year ended 31 December 2023 

Revenue 

Cost of sales 

Gross profit/(loss) 

Selling, general and administrative 
expenses 

Impairment loss on financial assets, net 

Research and development expenses 

Other operating expenses 

Other operating income 

Total operating expenses 

Operating profit/(loss) 

Finance income 

Finance expense 

Gain/(loss) from investment at fair value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL) 

Gain from investment divestiture, net 

Profit/(loss) before tax 

Tax 

Profit/(loss) for the year 

Attributable to: 

Non-controlling interests  

Equity holders of the parent 

Earnings per share (cents) 

Basic 

Diluted 

Note 
4 

9 

9 

5 

10 

11 

12 

32 

14 

14 

2023 
Exceptional items 
and other 
adjustments 
 (Note 6) 
$m 
– 

(17) 

(17) 

(223) 

(29) 

– 

(71) 

– 

(323) 

(340) 

– 

(5) 

– 

– 

(345) 

42 

(303) 

(1) 

(302) 

2023 
Core 
 results  
$m 
2,875 

(1,468) 

1,407 

(544) 

(3) 

(149) 

(9) 

5 

(700) 

707 

7 

(90) 

2 

– 

626 

(131) 

495 

3 

492 

223 

221 

2023 
Reported  
results  
$m 
2,875 

(1,485) 

1,390 

(767) 

(32) 

(149) 

(80) 

5 

(1,023) 

367 

7 

(95) 

2 

– 

281 

(89) 

192 

2 

190 

86 

85 

2022 
Exceptional items 
and other  
adjustments 
 (Note 6) 
$m 
– 

(27) 

(27) 

(106) 

– 

– 

(181) 

– 

(287) 

(314) 

26 

(4) 

– 

5 

(287) 

69 

(218) 

– 

(218) 

2022 
Core 
 results  
$m 
2,517 

(1,252) 

1,265 

(509) 

(5) 

(144) 

(25) 

14 

(669) 

596 

3 

(77) 

(2) 

– 

520 

(111) 

409 

3 

406 

181 

180 

2022 
Reported  
results  
$m 
2,517 

(1,279) 

1,238 

(615) 

(5) 

(144) 

(206) 

14 

(956) 

282 

29 

(81) 

(2) 

5 

233 

(42) 

191 

3 

188 

84 

84 

146

 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 

For the year ended 31 December 2023 

Profit/(loss) for the year 

Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) 

Items that may subsequently be 
reclassified to the consolidated 
income statement: 

Currency translation and 
hyperinflation movement 

Deferred tax on currency translation 

Reclassification of translation gain on 
disposal of subsidiary 

Items that will not subsequently be 
reclassified to the consolidated 
income statement: 

Change in investments at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI) 

Total other comprehensive expense 
for the year 

Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) for the year 

Attributable to: 

Non-controlling interests 

Equity holders of the parent 

2023 
Exceptional items 
and other 
adjustments 
 (Note 6) 
$m 
 (303) 

2023 
Core 
 results  
$m 
 495  

2023 
Reported 
results  
$m 
 192  

2022 
Exceptional items 
and other  
adjustments 
 (Note 6) 
$m 
 (218) 

2022 
Core 
 results  
$m 
 409  

2022 
Reported 
results  
$m 
 191  

Note 

19 

 (3) 

1  

– 

 (13) 

 (15) 

480  

2  

478  

480  

–  

– 

– 

– 

– 

 (303) 

– 

 (303) 

 (303) 

 (3) 

1  

– 

 (13) 

 (15) 

177  

2  

175  

177  

 (87) 

– 

–  

 (8) 

 (95) 

314  

– 

314  

314  

– 

– 

 (8) 

– 

 (8) 

 (226) 

– 

 (226) 

 (226) 

 (87) 

– 

 (8) 

 (8) 

 (103) 

88  

– 

88  

88  

147

Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2023Financial Statements 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
