Divisions 

Volkswagen Financial Services

The  main  refinancing  sources  for  Volkswagen  Financial  Services  are  money  market  and  capital  market  instru-
ments,  asset-backed  securities  (ABS)  transactions,  customer  deposits  from  the  direct  banking  business  and 
bank  credit  lines.  Volkswagen  Financial  Services  AG  published  its  first  “Green  Finance  Framework”  in  the 
reporting year. The framework supports the current sustainability strategy of the automotive financial and mobil-
ity services provider with regard to its refinancing and thereby enables the company to tap into a new investor 
base. The “Green Finance Framework” covers all refinancing products of Volkswagen Financial Services AG. The 
funds  generated  under  the  framework  will  be  used  exclusively  to  refinance  credit  and  leasing  contracts  for 
battery-electric vehicles.  

On the basis of the Green Finance Framework, Volkswagen Leasing GmbH placed three green bonds with a 
total volume of €2 billion on the capital markets for the first time in September 2023. In December of the fiscal 
year now ended, Volkswagen Financial Services N.V. also issued bonds amounting to 1.5 billion Swedish kronor 
and 1 billion Norwegian kroner based on the Green Finance Framework. 

Other  bond  transactions  were  conducted  in  currencies  such  as  pounds  sterling,  Swedish  kronor,  South 
Korean won  and Japanese  yen,  among  others. Furthermore,  bonds  were issued in Australia, Poland, Brazil  and 
Türkiye on the basis of local documentation requirements. In addition to this, private placements were issued in 
various currencies.  

Volkswagen  Bank  issued  three  unsecured  bonds  denominated  in  euro  in  the  reporting  year  with  a  total 

volume of €2.0 billion.  

In fiscal year 2023, Volkswagen Leasing GmbH placed three ABS transactions secured by lease receivables 
with a total volume of €2.75 billion. The issuances met the quality criteria of the STS Securitization Regulation 
for particularly high-value securitizations and were oversubscribed several times.  

Outside  Germany,  Volkswagen Financial Services  issued  ABS  transactions  in  Brazil,  Japan,  the  United 

Kingdom and Australia. 

In  the  US  capital  market,  Volkswagen  Group  of  America  Finance,  LLC  placed  bonds  with  a  total  volume  of 
USD 5.65 billion in September and November 2023. Notes with a volume of CAD 750 million were issued in the 
Canadian refinancing market. 

Bicycle leasing 

38 

 
Divisions 

Volkswagen Financial Services

In  fiscal  year 2023,  the  number  of  new  financing,  leasing,  service  and  insurance  contracts  from  Volks-
wagen Financial Services signed was up on the prior-year figure at 8.7 (7.8) million. At the end of the reporting 
year,  the  total  number  of  contracts  stood  at  22.3  (22.0) million.  The  number  of  contracts  in  the  Customer 
Financing/Leasing  area  fell  by  1.5%  to  10.2 million.  The  Service/Insurance  area  accounted  for  12.1 million 
contracts, 3.9% more than in the previous year. From January 1, 2024, other types of insurance contracts will be 
taken into account; in this case, the number of contracts in the Service/Insurance area as of December 31, 2023 
would have been 15.6 million and the total contract portfolio would have comprised 25.8 million contracts. With 
credit eligibility criteria remaining unchanged, the penetration rate, expressed as the ratio of financed or leased 
vehicles to relevant Group delivery volumes – including the Chinese joint ventures – increased to 32.6 (32.3)%. 

On December 31, 2023, Volkswagen Bank managed 1.8 (1.3) million deposit accounts. Volkswagen Financial 

Services employed 15,439 people worldwide, including 7,311 in Germany, as of year-end 2023. 

SALES REVENUE AND EARNINGS 
Volkswagen Financial Services generated sales revenue of €50.8 billion in the reporting year, 15.5% more than in 
the previous year. As expected, the operating result contracted to €3.3 (5.6) billion. In addition to higher interest 
expenses,  the  decline  was  primarily  attributable  to  adverse  effects  from  derivatives,  which  had  had  a  positive 
effect in the prior year. Lower risk costs and strong demand for used vehicles had also had a positive impact in 
the previous year. 

VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES  

thousands

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

%

%

€ million

€ million

2023 

20221 

22,275 

5,299 

4,888 

12,088 

63,884 

69,292 

26,167 

53,771 

37,531 

267,777 

39,545 

219,180 

14.8 

8.3 

5.5 

3,253 

3,244 

15,439 

21,976 

5,557 

4,783 

11,636 

57,906 

70,266 

19,868 

47,446 

25,431 

239,400 

38,238 

190,588 

16.0 

15.4 

5.0 

5,584 

5,528 

14,796 

% 

+1.4 

–4.6 

+2.2 

+3.9 

+10.3 

–1.4 

+31.7 

+13.3 

+47.6 

+11.9 

+3.4 

+15.0 

–41.7 

–41.3 

+4.3 

Number of contracts 

Customer financing 

Leasing 

Service/Insurance 

Lease assets 

Receivables from 

Customer financing 

Dealer financing 

Leasing agreements 

Direct banking deposits 

Total assets 

Equity 

Liabilities2 

Equity ratio 

Return on equity before tax3 

Leverage4 

Operating result 

Earnings before tax 

Employees at Dec. 31 

1  Prior-year figures adjusted (see disclosures on IFRS 17). 
2  Excluding provisions and deferred tax liabilities. 
3   Earnings before tax as a percentage of average equity (continuing operations).  
4   Liabilities as a percentage of equity. 

  F U R T H E R   I N F O R M AT I O N  

www.vwfs.com 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate  G overnance
Corporate  G overnance

41
41

56
56

58
58

61
61

Group Corporate Governance Declaration
Konzernerklärung zur Unternehmensführung

Members of the Board of Management
Mitglieder des Vorstands

Members of the Supervisory Board and Composition of the Committees
Mitglieder des Aufsichtsrats und Besetzung der Ausschüsse

Remuneration Report
Vergütungsbericht

Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

Group Corporate Governance 
Declaration 

The following chapter contains the content of the Group Corporate Governance Declaration 
required by sections 289f and 315d of the HGB and the recommendations and principles of 
the German Corporate Governance Code.  

THE GERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE –  
A BLUEPRINT FOR SUCCESSFUL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Corporate  governance  provides  the  regulatory  framework  for  corporate  management  and  supervision.  This 
includes  a  company’s  organization  and  values,  and  the  principles  and  guidelines  for  its  business  policy.  The 
German  Corporate  Governance  Code  (the  Code)  contains  principles,  recommendations  and  suggestions  for 
corporate  management  and  supervision.  Its  principles,  recommendations  and  suggestions  were  prepared  by  a 
dedicated  government  commission  on  the  basis  of  the  material  provisions  and  nationally  and  internationally 
accepted  standards  of  sound,  responsible  corporate  governance.  In  the  interests  of  best  practice,  the  govern-
ment  commission  regularly  reviews  the  Code’s  relevance  in  light  of  current  developments  and  updates  it  as 
necessary. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG base their work on the prin-
ciples,  recommendations  and  suggestions  of  the  Code.  We  consider  good  corporate  governance  to  be  a  key 
prerequisite for achieving a lasting increase in the Company’s value. It helps strengthen the trust of our share-
holders, customers, employees, business partners and investors in our work and enables us to meet the steadily 
increasing demand for information from national and international interest groups. 

DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY 
(valid as of the date of the declaration) 

The  Board  of  Management  and  the  Supervisory  Board  of  Volkswagen AG  issued  the  annual  declaration  of 
conformity with the Code as required by section 161 of the Aktiengesetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act) 
on November 17, 2023 with the following wording: 
“The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board declare the following:  
The recommendations of the Government Commission of the German Corporate Governance Code in the version 
dated 28 April 2022 (the Code) that was published by the German Ministry of Justice in the official section of the 
Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on 27 June 2022 was complied with in the period from the last Declaration of 
Conformity dated 11 November 2022 and will continue to be complied with, with the exception of the recom-
mendations listed below for the reasons stated there. 
>  a) Recommendation B.3 (Duration of first-time appointments to the Management Board) 

As it has done in the past, the Supervisory Board will determine the duration of first-time appointments to the 
Board of Management as it deems fit for each individual case and for the good of the company. 

41 

 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

>  b) Recommendation B.5 (Age limit for members of the Board of Management) 

Pursuant to Recommendation B.5, an age limit is to be specified for members of the Board of Management and 
disclosed  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Declaration.  This  has  been  complied  with.  In  September  2023,  the 
Supervisory Board re-appointed Dr Manfred Döss and in so doing exceeded the stipulated age limit by way of 
exception.  The  Supervisory  Board  considered  this  exception  to  be  in  the  interest  of  the  company.  The  trans-
formation of the VOLKSWAGEN Group affects a large number of topics being addressed by the Integrity and 
Legal  Affairs  division  for  which  Dr  Döss  is  responsible,  for  example  with  regard  to  autonomous  vehicles  and 
ESG (environmental, social and governance) issues. Dr Döss has already positioned the VOLKSWAGEN Group 
well in  this respect. The  renewed  appointment of Dr  Döss  ensures  that  the Group will continue  to  tread  this 
path  as  effectively  and  efficiently  as  possible.  The  Supervisory  Board  otherwise  adheres  to  the  age  limit 
specified for members of the Board of Management. It cannot, however, be ruled out that legal commentators 
would  regard  a  company  as  having  deviated  from  Recommendation  B.5  even  if  it  had  exceeded  a  specific 
applicable age limit only once while the age limit as such remained in force. As a precautionary measure, such 
deviation is therefore being declared. 

>  c) Recommendation C.5 (Mandate ceiling regarding Board of Management mandate) 

The  Chair  of  the  Supervisory  Board  is  on  the  supervisory  boards  of  three  listed  companies  of  the  VOLKS-
WAGEN Group, namely VOLKSWAGEN AG (as Chair), Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG and TRATON SE (as Chair), as 
well as being on the Supervisory Board of Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA. He is also Chair of the Board of Man-
agement  of  Porsche  Automobil  Holding  SE.  Porsche  Automobil  Holding  SE  is  not  part  of  the  same  group  as 
VOLKSWAGEN AG, Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG and TRATON SE within the meaning of German stock corporation 
law.  We  are,  however,  confident  that  the  Chair  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of  VOLKSWAGEN  AG  has  sufficient 
time at his disposal to fulfill the duties related to his mandates. 

>  d) Recommendation C.13 (Disclosure regarding election proposals) 

Under  this  recommendation,  certain  circumstances  shall  be  disclosed  when  the  Supervisory  Board  makes 
election proposals to the General Meeting, but the requirements are vague and the definitions unclear. Purely 
as a precautionary measure, we therefore declare a deviation in this respect. Notwithstanding this, the Super-
visory Board will make every effort to satisfy the requirements of the recommendation. 

>  e) Recommendation G.6 (Predominance of long-term variable remuneration) 

On  20  July  2022,  Dr  Ing.  h.c.  F.  Porsche  AG  (Porsche  AG)  agreed  upon  a  so-called  IPO  bonus  with  Dr  Oliver 
Blume in the event of the successful IPO of Porsche AG. Since an IPO of this nature is also in the interest of 
VOLKSWAGEN  AG,  we  are,  as  a  precaution,  treating  the  IPO  bonus  agreed  upon  with  Porsche  AG  as  part  of 
Mr Blume’s remuneration at VOLKSWAGEN AG (third-party remuneration arrangement). The Supervisory Board 
of  VOLKSWAGEN  AG  approved  the  third-party  remuneration  arrangement  for  Dr  Blume.  The  IPO  bonus  was 
awarded in the form of virtual shares. These virtual shares are converted into monetary sums in three tranches 
over  periods  of  one,  two,  and  three  years  depending  on  the  development  of  the  share  price  of  Porsche  AG 
shares  during  the  relevant  time  period,  and  these  monetary  sums  are  then  paid  out  to  Dr  Blume.  As  a  pre-
caution,  the  Supervisory  Board  assumes  that  the  first  one  and  two-year  tranches  of  the  IPO  bonus  will  be 
allocated  to  the  short-term  variable  remuneration  of  Dr  Blume,  whilst  the  last,  three-year  tranche  of  the  IPO 
bonus will be allocated to the long-term variable remuneration. This means that the total target value of the 
short-term variable remuneration approved for Dr Blume for fiscal year 2022 exceeded the target value of the 
long-term variable remuneration. In the current fiscal year 2023, the IPO bonus granted in fiscal year 2022 had 
still not been fully settled. As a precautionary measure, we are therefore continuing to declare a deviation from 
Recommendation G.6 in  this respect. Nevertheless,  the  Board of Management remuneration for Dr Blume  on 
the  whole  continues  to  be  oriented  towards  the  company’s  sustainable  and  long-term  development.  The 
Supervisory Board deems the payment of the IPO bonus in three tranches over one, two, and three years to be a 
purposeful  and  appropriate  incentive  for  Dr  Blume,  which  is  not  limited  solely  to  work  carried  out  in  prepa-
ration for the IPO but which also takes into account how sustained the success of the IPO is. 

>  f) Recommendation G.10 sentence 2 (Four-year commitment period) 

Dr Blume can have access to the third tranche of the IPO bonus previously described under e) as part of the 
long-term variable remuneration after three years rather than after four. 

42 

 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

>  g) Recommendation G.13 sentence 1 (Severance cap) 

At  the  end  of  July  2022,  the  Supervisory  Board  of  VOLKSWAGEN  AG  resolved  by  mutual  agreement  with  
Dr Diess to terminate his appointment as member and as Chair of the Board of Management with effect from 
the close of 31 August 2022. According to the agreement reached with Dr Diess, his contract shall continue to 
run  until  the  end  of  its  regular  term,  i.e.  until  the  close  of  24  October  2025,  even  following  the  premature 
termination of his appointment, provided that Dr Diess does not resign at an earlier date. Dr Diess shall accord-
ingly not receive a severance payment but shall potentially receive his contractual remuneration for a period of 
more than two years following his departure from the Board of Management. It is not clear to us whether this 
recommendation refers only to severance payments or also to payments to a retired member of the Board of 
Management due to a continuing contract of service. As a precautionary measure, we are therefore continuing 
to declare a deviation from Recommendation G.13 sentence 1 in this respect.” 

The current declaration of conformity and previous declarations of conformity are also published on our website 
shown hereafter. 

Our listed indirect subsidiaries Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche  AG and TRATON SE also issued a declaration of con-

formity with the German Corporate Governance Code. These can be accessed at the websites shown below.   

The suggestions of the Code are complied with.  

  D EC L A R AT I O N   O F  C O N F O R M I T Y  O F V O L KS WAG E N   AG  

www.volkswagen-group.com/declaration 

  D EC L A R AT I O N   O F  C O N F O R M I T Y  BY  D R .   I N G .   H .C .   F.   P O R S C H E  AG  

https://investorrelations.porsche.com/en/corporate-governance/ 

  D EC L A R AT I O N   O F  C O N F O R M I T Y  O F T R ATO N   S E  

https://ir.traton.com/websites/traton/English/5000/corporate-governance.html 

BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 
The Volkswagen AG Board of Management has sole responsibility for managing the Company in the Company’s 
best interests, in accordance with the Articles of Association and the rules of procedure for the Board of Man-
agement issued by the Supervisory Board. 

Accordingly, responsibilities in the Board of Management are currently divided among ten Board functions. In 
addition to the “Chair of the Board of Management” function, the other Board functions have been “Technology”, 
“Finance  and  Operations”  (formerly  “Finance”),  “Human  Resources  and  Trucks  brand  group”  (formerly  “Human 
Resources and Truck & Bus”), “Integrity and Legal Affairs”, “Progressive brand group” (formerly “Premium”), “Sport 
Luxury  brand  group” (formerly  “Sport  & Luxury”),  “China”,  “IT” and  “Core brand group” (formerly  “Volume”).  The 
Chair of the Board of Management is also responsible for the “Sport Luxury brand group” Board function. 

Directly attached to the Board are a number of Group Management functions that act as an extension to the 
Board  functions.  These  comprise  the  Group  Sales,  Group  Production,  Group  Procurement  and  Group  Research 
and Development functions. 

Further  information  on  the  composition  of  the  Board  of  Management  can  be  found  in  the  “Members  of  the 

Board of Management” section. 

Working procedures of the Board of Management 
In accordance with Article 6 of the Articles of Association, Volkswagen AG’s Board of Management consists of at 
least  three  people,  with  the  precise  number  determined  by  the  Supervisory  Board.  As  of  December  31,  2023, 
there were nine members of the Board of Management.   

The Board of Management generally meets weekly. Its rules of procedure require it to meet at least twice a 
month. Meetings of the Board of Management are convened by the Chair of the Board of Management. The Chair 
is  required  to  convene  a  meeting  if  requested  by  any  member  of  the  Board  of  Management.  The  Chair  of  the 
Board of Management chairs the Board of Management meetings. The full Board of Management decides on all 
matters  unless  they  have  been  assigned  to  a  single  member  of  the  Board  of  Management  by  the  rules  of 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

procedure for the Board of Management or by a resolution of the Board of Management, on matters assigned to 
the  full  Board  of  Management  by  law  or  by  the  Articles  of  Association,  and  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of 
procedure for the Board of Management on matters of general or fundamental importance. The Board of Man-
agement  takes  decisions  after  prior  debate  or  –  if  no  other  Board  of  Management  member  objects  –  using  the 
written  circulation  procedure.  Resolutions  of  the  Board  of  Management  are  adopted  by  a  majority  vote.  In  the 
event  of  a  tie,  the  Chair  of  the  Board  of  Management  casts  the  deciding  vote.  The  Board  of  Management  is 
quorate if at least half of the members of the Board of Management participate in passing the resolution. Absent 
members  of  the  Board  of  Management  may  participate  in  passing  the  resolution  orally,  in  writing  or  via  cus-
tomary  communications  media  (e.g.  by  e-mail).  Details  of  the  responsibilities  of  the  full  Board  of  Management 
and  of  meetings  and  resolutions  of  the  Board  of  Management  are  governed  by  the  rules  of  procedure  for  the 
Board  of  Management  issued  by  the  Supervisory  Board  and  published  on  Volkswagen AG’s  website  at 
www.volkswagen-group.com/en/corporate-governance. 

Each Board of Management member manages their area of responsibility independently, without prejudice to 
the collective responsibility of the Board of Management. All Board of Management members must inform each 
other of events within their remit. 

All members of the Board of Management must immediately disclose conflicts of interest to the Chairman of 
the Supervisory Board and the Chair of the Board of Management and inform the other members of the Board of 
Management accordingly. 

The Volkswagen Group companies are managed solely by their respective managements. The management 
of each individual company takes into account not only the interest of its own company but also the interests of 
the Group, the relevant brand group and the individual brands in accordance with the framework laid down by law. 

Board of Management committees 
Board  of  Management  committees  exist  at  Group  level  on  the  following  areas:  products,  technologies,  invest-
ments,  digital  transformation,  integrity  and  compliance,  risk  management,  human  resources  and  management 
issues. Alongside the responsible members of the Board of Management, the relevant central departments and 
the relevant functions of the divisions are represented on the committees. 

Cooperation with the Supervisory Board 
The  Supervisory  Board  of  Volkswagen  AG  advises  and  monitors  the  Board  of  Management  with  regard  to  the 
management  of  the  Company.  Through  the  requirement  for  the  Supervisory  Board  to  provide  consent,  it  is 
directly involved, especially in decisions of fundamental importance to the Company. In addition, the Supervisory 
Board  and  the  Board  of  Management  regularly  discuss  factors  affecting  the  strategic  orientation  of  the  Volks-
wagen  Group,  including  the  sustainability  strategy.  The  two  bodies  jointly  assess,  at  regular  intervals,  the 
progress  made  in  implementing  the  corporate  strategy.  The  Board  of  Management  reports  to  the  Supervisory 
Board regularly, promptly  and  comprehensively  in  both  written  and  oral  form  on  all  issues  of  relevance  for  the 
Company particularly with regard to strategy, planning, the development of the business, the risk situation, risk 
management and compliance. 

The Chair of the Board of Management is responsible for dealings with the Supervisory Board. The Chair is in 
regular  contact  with  the  Chair  of  the  Supervisory  Board  and  reports  to  him  on  all  matters  of  particular  signifi-
cance without delay. 

The  Supervisory  Board  has  set  out  the  Board  of  Management’s  obligations  to  provide  detailed  information 
and reports in a comprehensive information policy; the information policy has been published as Annex II to the 
rules of procedure for the Board of Management on Volkswagen AG’s website at www.volkswagen-group.com/ 
en/corporate-governance.  The  Board  of  Management  must  report  conscientiously  and  faithfully  to  the  Super-
visory Board or its committees. With the exception of the immediate reports from the Chair of the Board of Man-
agement to the Chair of the Supervisory Board on matters of particular importance, the Board of Management is 
required to report to the Supervisory Board in writing as a rule.  

44 

 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

The documents required for decision-making purposes must be provided to the Supervisory Board members in 
good  time  in  advance  of  the  meeting.  Further  statements  about  the  information  provided  to  the  Supervisory 
Board by the Board of Management can be found in the Report of the Supervisory Board. 

Related party transactions 
The Audit Committee agreed on a suitable procedure with the Board of Management for ongoing monitoring of 
the Volkswagen Group’s related party transactions. As part of this procedure, the Board of Management ensures 
that related party transactions are generally at arm’s length using the best-price principle. In addition, all trans-
actions with the individual related parties are analyzed to determine whether they exceed the threshold of 1.5% 
of  the  Volkswagen  Group’s  total  fixed  and  current  assets,  above  which  obligations  under  the  rules  on  related 
party transactions apply (RPT threshold). In addition, Procurement reports all transactions in which the volume of 
the contract exceeds the amount of €1 billion; in such cases, it is then checked separately whether the contrac-
tual partner is a related party within the meaning of the rules on related party transactions.  

The Audit Committee continuously monitors the actions of the Board of Management. To this end, the Audit 
Committee  regularly  engages  the  auditor,  most  recently  for  fiscal  year  2023,  to  conduct  spot  checks  of  the 
related parties with whom Volkswagen AG or other Volkswagen Group companies conduct transactions with a 
total financial value in the fiscal year exceeding the RPT threshold. If and to the extent that the economic value of 
the  related  party  transactions  exceeds  the  RPT  threshold,  these  transactions  are  also  checked  to  establish 
whether they were conducted at arm’s length in accordance with proper business practice. 

If  a  transaction  between  Volkswagen AG  and  a  related  party  exceeds  the  RPT  threshold,  the  Supervisory 
Board’s  approval  is  generally  required  except  where  exceptional  circumstances  exist  in  accordance  with  sec-
tion 111a(2) or (3) of the AktG. Insofar as the Supervisory Board’s approval is required, the Supervisory Board of 
Volkswagen AG generally decides as a full Board. There are no plans to form a committee that decides on the 
approval  of  related  party  transactions;  however,  the  Supervisory  Board  reserves  the  right  to  establish  such  a 
committee if required in individual cases in accordance with the provisions of the German Stock Corporation Act. 
Supervisory Board members who are involved in the transaction as related parties or whose relationship with the 
related party leads to concerns of a conflict of interest do not participate in decisions on the approval of related 
party transactions. 

The rules of procedure for the Board of Management of Volkswagen AG stipulate that transactions between 
Volkswagen AG and a related party that is also a direct or indirect shareholder of Volkswagen AG and holds at 
least  5%  of  the  share  capital  are  generally  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  Supervisory  Board  even  if  the  RPT 
threshold is not exceeded. The Executive Committee decides on such approval. 

Diversity concept and succession planning for the Board of Management 
The Supervisory Board has laid down the following diversity concept for the composition of the Board of Man-
agement (section 289f(2) no. 6 HGB): 

The  Supervisory  Board  must  also  take  diversity  into  account  when  considering  who  would  be  the  best 
persons to appoint to the Board of Management as a body. The Supervisory Board understands diversity, as an 
assessment criterion, to mean in particular different yet complementary specialist profiles and professional and 
general  experience,  also  in  the  international  domain,  with  both  genders  being  appropriately  represented.  The 
Supervisory Board will also take the following aspects into account in this regard, in particular: 
>  Members of the Board of Management should have many years of management experience. 
>  Members  of  the  Board  of  Management  should,  if  possible,  have  experience  based  on  different  training  and 

professional backgrounds. 

>  The  Board  of  Management  as  a  whole  should  have  technical  expertise,  especially  knowledge  of  and  experi-
ence in the manufacture and sale of vehicles and engines of any kind as well as other technical products, and 
experience in the international domain. 

>  The  Board  of  Management  as  a  whole  should  have  many  years  of  experience  in  research  and  development, 

production, sales, finance and human resources management, as well as law and compliance. 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

>  Efforts are made to achieve a higher proportion of women than the statutory minimum. 
>  The Board of Management should also have a sufficient mix of ages. 
The aim of the diversity concept is for the Board of Management members to embody a range of expertise and per-
spectives. This diversity promotes a good understanding of Volkswagen AG’s organizational and business affairs. 
Particularly,  it  enables  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Management  to  be  open  to  new  ideas  by  avoiding  group-
think. In this way, it contributes to the successful management of the Company. With regard to the participation of 
women and men on the Board of Management, a mandatory participation requirement applies to Volkswagen AG. 
In  deciding  who  should  be  appointed  to  a  specific  Board  of  Management  position,  the  Supervisory  Board 
takes  into  account  the  interests  of  the  Company  and  all  the  circumstances  of  the  specific  case.  In  taking  this 
decision and in long-term succession planning, the Supervisory Board orients itself on the diversity concept. The 
Supervisory Board is of the view that the diversity concept is essentially reflected by the current composition of 
the Board of Management. The members of the Board of Management have many years of professional experi-
ence, particularly in an international context, and cover a broad spectrum of educational and professional back-
grounds. The Board of Management collectively has excellent technical expertise and many years of collective 
experience in research and development, production, sales, finance and human resources management, as well 
as law and compliance. In addition, the Board of Management has a sufficient mix of ages that corresponds to 
the  requirements  set  by  the  Supervisory  Board  in  the  diversity  concept.  The  gender  balance  meets  the  legal 
requirements (see also section “Disclosures required by the Führungspositionen-Gesetz” (FüPoG - Act on Equal 
Participation of Women and Men in Leadership positions)).   

Long-term succession planning within the meaning of Recommendation B.2 of the Code is achieved through 
regular discussions between the Chair of the Board of Management and the Chair of the Supervisory Board as 
well as  regular discussions  in  the Executive Committee. The contract  terms for existing Board  of Management 
members are discussed, along with potential extensions and potential successors. In particular, the discussions 
look at what knowledge, experience and professional and personal competencies should be represented on the 
Board  of  Management  with  regard  to  the  corporate  strategy  and  current  challenges,  and  to  what  extent  the 
current composition of the Board of Management already reflects this. Long-term succession planning is based 
on the corporate strategy and corporate culture and takes into account the diversity concept determined by the 
Supervisory  Board.  In  the  rules  of  procedure  for  the  Supervisory  Board,  the  Supervisory  Board  specified  the 
following  age  limit  for  members  of  the  Board  of  Management  in  accordance  with  Recommendation  B.5  of  the 
Code: as a rule, members of the Board of Management should be appointed for a term of office ending no later 
than their 65th birthday. Board of Management members may be appointed to serve beyond their 65th birthday 
until no later than their 68th birthday, provided this is agreed by a two-thirds majority of the Supervisory Board. 

SUPERVISORY BOARD 
The Volkswagen AG Supervisory Board performs its role through its members working together. It advises and 
monitors the Board of Management with regard to the management of the Company and, through the require-
ment  for  the  Supervisory  Board  to  provide  consent,  is  directly  involved  in  certain  decisions  of  fundamental 
importance to the Company. 

Information  on  the  composition  of  the  Supervisory  Board  and  the  Supervisory  Board  committees  and  their 
chairs  as  well  as  on  the  terms  of  office  of  the  individual  Supervisory  Board  members  can  be  found  in  the 
“Members  of  the  Supervisory  Board  and  Composition  of  the  Committees”  section.  Further  information  on  the 
work of the Supervisory Board can be found in the Report of the Supervisory Board. 

Overview 
The Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG consists of 20 members, half of whom are shareholder representatives. 
In accordance with Article 11(1) of the Articles of Association of Volkswagen AG, the State of Lower Saxony is 
entitled to appoint two of these shareholder representatives for as long as it directly or indirectly holds at least 
15% of the Company’s ordinary shares. The remaining shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board are 
elected by the Annual General Meeting. 

46 

 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

The other half of the Supervisory Board consists of employee representatives who are elected by the employees 
in  accordance  with  the  Mitbestimmungsgesetz  (MitbestG  –  German  Codetermination  Act).  A  total  of  seven  of 
these  employee  representatives  are  Company  employees  elected  by  the  workforce;  the  other  three  employee 
representatives are trade union representatives elected by the workforce. 

The Chair of the Supervisory Board is generally a shareholder representative, and the Deputy Chair is gener-

ally an employee representative. Both are elected by the other members of the Supervisory Board. 

The business of the Supervisory Board is managed by a dedicated office of the Supervisory Board Chair. The 
Chair  of  the  Supervisory  Board  ensures  the  independence  of  the  office  of  the  Supervisory  Board  Chair  and  its 
staff and exercises the right to appoint and supervise staff in consultation with the responsible Board of Man-
agement members. 

The Supervisory Board appoints the Board of Management members and, on the basis of the Executive Com-
mittee’s  recommendations,  decides  on  a  clear  and  comprehensible  system  of  remuneration  for  the  Board  of 
Management members. It presents this system to the Annual General Meeting for approval every time there is a 
material change, but at least once every four years. 

Each member of the Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG is obliged to act in the Company’s best interests. 

Supervisory Board members are not permitted to delegate their responsibilities to others. 

In  accordance  with  the  rules  of  procedure  for  the  Supervisory  Board,  each  Supervisory  Board  member  is 
obliged to disclose any conflicts of interest to the Chair of the Supervisory Board without delay. In its report to 
the  Annual  General  Meeting,  the  Supervisory  Board  informs  the  Annual  General  Meeting  of  any  conflicts  of 
interest that have arisen and how these were dealt with. Material and not merely temporary conflicts of interest 
on the part of a Supervisory Board member should result in a termination of the member’s mandate. 

The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board stipulate that Supervisory Board members should not hold 
board or advisory positions at major competitors of Volkswagen AG or major competitors of a company depen-
dent on Volkswagen AG and should not be in a personal relationship involving a major competitor. 

Members of the Supervisory Board receive appropriate support from the Company upon induction as well as 
with respect to education and training. Education and training measures are outlined in the “Report of the Super-
visory Board”. 

Working procedures of the Supervisory Board 
As a rule, the Supervisory Board adopts its resolutions in meetings of all its members. It must hold at least two 
meetings in both the first and second halves of the calendar year. The precise number of meetings and the main 
topics discussed are outlined in the “Report of the Supervisory Board”.  

The  Chair  of  the  Supervisory  Board  coordinates  the  work  within  the  Supervisory  Board.  He  represents  the 
interests of the Supervisory Board externally and represents the Company to the Board of Management on behalf 
of the whole Supervisory Board. Within reason, the Chair of the Supervisory Board discusses Supervisory Board-
specific topics with investors and, in consultation with the Board of Management, may also discuss non-Super-
visory Board-specific topics. More information on these discussions with investors is provided in the “Report of 
the Supervisory Board”. 

To underline the importance of environmental sustainability, social responsibility and good corporate gover-
nance, the Supervisory Board has appointed an ESG (environmental, social and governance) officer. This role is 
currently performed by Mr. Hans Dieter Pötsch. 

The  Supervisory  Board  meets  regularly  also  without  the  Board  of  Management.  Each  Supervisory  Board 
meeting  generally  ends  in  a  debate.  Board  of  Management  members  are  not  present  during  this  part  of  the 
meeting. The Chair of the Supervisory Board convenes and chairs the Supervisory Board meetings. If the Chair is 
unable to do so, the Deputy Chair performs these tasks. If the auditor is called to a meeting of the Supervisory 
Board or one of its committees as an expert, members of the Board of Management do not attend such a meeting 
if the Supervisory Board or the committee does not deem their attendance necessary. 

The Supervisory Board is only quorate if at least ten members participate in passing the resolution. The Chair 
of the Supervisory Board or of the relevant committee decides the form of the meeting and the voting procedure 
for the Supervisory Board and its committees. Should the Chair so decide in individual cases, meetings may also 

47 

 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

be held  using  telecommunications  technology,  or members  may participate in  meetings using  this  technology. 
The Chair may also decide that members can participate in the Supervisory Board’s or its committees’ decision 
making  in  writing,  by  telephone  or  in  another,  similar  form.  Supervisory  Board  resolutions  require  a  majority  of 
votes cast, unless legislative  provisions  or  the  Articles  of  Association stipulate otherwise. Resolutions on con-
sent to establishing or relocating production sites require a two-thirds majority of the Supervisory Board mem-
bers. If a vote results in a tie on this item, the vote is repeated. If this vote is also tied, the Chair of the Supervisory 
Board  casts  two  votes.  Minutes  must  be  taken  of  each  meeting  of  the  Supervisory  Board  and  its  committees. 
Minutes of a meeting must record the time and location of the meeting, the participants, the items on the agenda, 
the material content of the discussions and the resolutions adopted. 

In  individual  cases,  the  Supervisory  Board  and  its  committees  may  decide  to  call  upon  experts  and  other 

appropriate individuals to advise on individual matters. 

Further  details  on  tasks,  meetings,  resolutions  and  working  procedures  of  the  Supervisory  Board  are 
governed by the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board issued by the Supervisory Board and published on 
Volkswagen AG’s website at www.volkswagen-group.com/en/corporate-governance. 

Supervisory Board committees 
In  order  to  discharge  the  duties  entrusted  to  it,  the  Supervisory  Board  has  established  four  committees:  the 
Executive  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee,  the  Mediation  Committee  established  in  accordance  with 
section 27(3) of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz (MitbestG – German Codetermination Act) and the Audit Committee. 
The  Executive  Committee  is  currently  comprised  of  four  shareholder  representatives  and  four  employee  repre-
sentatives.  The  shareholder  representatives  on  the  Executive  Committee  make  up  the  Nomination  Committee. 
The Mediation Committee is comprised of two shareholder representatives and two employee representatives, 
and the Audit Committee is comprised of three shareholder representatives and three employee representatives. 
Which  tasks  the  Supervisory  Board  has  generally  transferred  to  the  respective  committees  is  described 
below. This does not rule out that the Supervisory Board will not transfer other tasks to committees in individual 
cases, where legally admissible. 

At  its  meetings,  the  Executive  Committee  meticulously  prepares  the  resolutions  of  the  Supervisory  Board, 
discusses  the  composition  of  the  Board  of  Management  and  takes  decisions  on  matters  such  as  contractual 
issues  concerning  the  Board  of  Management  other  than  remuneration  and  consent  to  ancillary  activities  by 
members of the Board of Management. The Executive Committee also exercises the function of a “Remuneration 
Committee”,  preparing  the  Supervisory  Board’s  decisions  on  questions  about  Board  of  Management  remuner-
ation. The Executive Committee supports and advises the Chair of the Supervisory Board. It works with the Chair 
of the Board of Management to ensure long-term succession planning for the Board of Management. 

The  Nomination  Committee  proposes  suitable  candidates  for  the  Supervisory  Board  to  recommend  to  the 
Annual  General  Meeting  for  election.  Before  presenting  such  proposals,  it  ensures  that  the  candidates  can 
commit the expected time to their role and identifies the personal and business relationships of the candidates 
to  Volkswagen AG  and  its  Group  companies,  to  Volkswagen AG’s  corporate  bodies  and  to  shareholders  who 
directly or indirectly hold more than 10% of the voting shares in Volkswagen AG. In its proposals to the Super-
visory  Board,  the  Nomination  Committee  also  takes  into  account  the  requirement  for  the  Supervisory  Board  to 
adhere, in its proposals to the Annual General Meeting, to the specific targets it has set for the composition of 
the Supervisory Board and to the profile of skills and expertise it has decided on for the Board as a whole; in so 
doing, the Nomination Committee  also  particularly makes sure that  there  are no  gaps in the  Board’s skills and 
expertise  as  a  whole  (Skill  Gaps  Assessment).  The  Nomination  Committee  furthermore  takes  into  account  the 
diversity concept for the composition of the Supervisory Board. 

The Mediation Committee has the task of submitting proposals to the Supervisory Board for an appointment 
or revocation of appointment of Board of Management members if there is no majority for the relevant measure on 
the Supervisory Board in the first vote. The majority involves at least two-thirds of all Supervisory Board members. 
Among other things, the Audit Committee discusses the auditing of financial reporting, including the annual 
and consolidated financial statements, the group management report and the separate nonfinancial statement, 
including the sustainability report. In addition, the Audit Committee concerns itself with supervising the financial 

48 

 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

reporting  process,  the  audit  of  the  financial  statements,  in  particular  the  selection  and  independence  of  the 
auditor, the quality of the audit, and any additional services provided by the auditor. Moreover, the Audit Com-
mittee concerns itself with compliance, the appropriateness and effectiveness of the risk management system 
and internal control system, including the compliance management system and the internal audit system; it also 
concerns itself with internal processes within the meaning of section 111a (2) of the AktG for regularly assessing 
whether  related  party  transactions  were  conducted  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  and  at  arm’s  length.  In 
addition,  the  Audit  Committee  particularly  concerns  itself  with  the  Volkswagen  Group’s  quarterly  financial 
reports and half-yearly financial report. 

Further details on tasks, meetings, resolutions and working procedures of the Supervisory Board committees 
are governed by the rules of procedure issued by the Supervisory Board for the respective Supervisory Board com-
mittees and published on Volkswagen AG’s website at www.volkswagen-group.com/en/corporate-governance. 

Objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board, profile of skills and expertise  
and diversity concept 
In view of the Company’s specific situation, its purpose, its size and the extent of its international activities, the 
Supervisory  Board  of  Volkswagen AG  strives  to  achieve  a  composition  that  takes  the  Company's  ownership 
structure and the following aspects into account: 
>  At  least  three  members  of  the  Supervisory  Board  should  be  persons  who  embody  the  criterion  of  inter-

nationality to a particularly high degree. 

>  In addition, at least four of the shareholder representatives should be persons who, in line with the criteria of 
Recommendations C.7 to C.9 of the Code, are independent within the meaning of Recommendation C.6 of the 
Code. 

>  At least three of the seats on the Supervisory Board should be held by people who make a special contribution 

to the diversity of the Board. 

>  Proposals for election should not normally include persons who have reached the age of 75 on the date of the 

election. 

The Supervisory Board is of the view that the above criteria have been met. Numerous members of the Super-
visory  Board  embody  the  criterion  of  internationality  to  a  particularly  high  degree;  various  nationalities  are 
represented  on  the  Supervisory  Board  and  numerous  members  have  international  professional  experience. 
Several  members  of  the  Supervisory  Board  contribute  to  the  Board’s  diversity  to  a  particularly  high  degree, 
especially  Ms.  Hessa  Sultan  Al  Jaber,  Ms.  Daniela  Cavallo,  Ms.  Julia  Willie  Hamburg,  Ms.  Marianne  Heiß,  
Mr. Mansoor Ebrahim Al-Mahmoud and Mr. Matías Carnero Sojo. The Supervisory Board comprises members of 
various  generations.  Independent  Supervisory  Board  members  within  the  meaning  of  Recommendation  C.6  of 
the  Code  currently  comprise  at  least  the  following:  Ms.  Hessa  Sultan  Al Jaber,  Ms.  Julia  Willie  Hamburg,  
Mr. Mansoor Ebrahim Al-Mahmoud and Mr. Stephan Weil. 

With  regard  to  the  shareholder  representatives’  independence  from  the  Company  and  its  Board  of  Manage-
ment,  the  shareholder  representatives  have  come  to  the  following  assessment  in  accordance  with  C.7,  8 of  the 
Code: 

Supervisory Board members Mr. Hans Michel Piëch, Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Mr. Wolfgang Porsche 
have been members of the Supervisory Board for more than 12 years and therefore fulfill one of the indicators set 
out  in  C.7  of  the  Code  regarding  a  lack  of  independence  from  the  Company  and  its  Board  of  Management. 
However,  considering  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case  in  hand,  the  shareholder  representatives  are  of  the 
opinion that the aforementioned Supervisory Board members are nevertheless independent from the Company 
and its Board of Management. This opinion is based in particular on the following reasons: 
>  Mr. Hans  Michel  Piëch,  Mr. Ferdinand  Oliver  Porsche  and  Mr. Wolfgang  Porsche,  together  with  other  family 
shareholders,  are  indirectly  controlling  shareholders  of  Porsche  Automobil  Holding SE,  which  is  the  largest 
single  shareholder  of  Volkswagen AG.  The  management  by  the  Board  of  Management  of  Volkswagen AG 
therefore economically affects the personal assets of Mr. Hans Michel Piëch, Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and 
Mr. Wolfgang Porsche. 

49 

 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

>  The composition of the Board of Management has changed fundamentally several times during the tenure of 
Mr. Hans Michel Piëch, Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Mr. Wolfgang Porsche. The incumbent Board of Man-
agement members have been in office for a maximum of just under six years. There are therefore no indications 
that Mr. Hans Michel Piëch, Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Mr. Wolfgang Porsche would stop behaving in an 
impartial  manner  towards  incumbent  members  of  the  Board  of  Management  as  a  result  of  a  long  period  of 
collaboration.  There  is  also  no  other  evidence  of  “tunnel  vision”  on  the  part  of  Mr. Hans  Michel  Piëch, 
Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Mr. Wolfgang Porsche. 

>  Mr. Hans Michel Piëch, Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Mr. Wolfgang Porsche are not financially dependent 

on their remuneration as members of the Supervisory Board. 

Aside  from  their  Supervisory  Board  appointments,  Mr. Hans  Michel  Piëch,  Mr. Ferdinand  Oliver  Porsche  and 
Mr. Wolfgang Porsche have no personal relationship with the Company or the Board of Management that could 
give  rise  to  a  material  and  not  merely  temporary  conflict  of  interest.  The  Supervisory  Board  work  of  Mr. Hans 
Michel Piëch, Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Mr. Wolfgang Porsche of previous years has also not given rise to 
any conflicts of interest. 

The  Supervisory  Board  member  Mr.  Hans  Dieter  Pötsch  moved  directly  from  the  Board  of  Management  to  the 
Supervisory Board upon his appointment by the court in autumn 2015. This move was less than two years prior 
to his election as a Supervisory Board member by the subsequent Annual General Meeting in 2016, meaning that 
one of the indicators of a lack of independence from the Company and Board of Management, set out in C.7 of 
the Code, applies to Mr. Pötsch. It also cannot be ruled out that Mr. Pötsch still fulfills this requirement. However, 
considering all the circumstances of the case in hand, the shareholder representatives are of the opinion that Mr. 
Pötsch is nevertheless independent from the Company and its Board of Management: it is now more than eight 
years since Mr. Pötsch’s move from the Board of Management to the Supervisory Board. Mr. Pötsch has already 
been  elected  as  a  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board  for  a  second  time  by  the  Annual  General  Meeting  in  July 
2021.  Since  his  transfer  from  the  Board  of  Management  to  the  Supervisory  Board  in  October  2015,  the  com-
position of the Board of Management has also completely changed. 

In  addition,  the  Supervisory  Board  adopted  the  following  profile  of  skills  and  expertise  for  the  full  Board:  to 
properly  perform  its  supervisory  and  advisory  duties,  the  Supervisory  Board  as  a  whole  must  collectively  have 
the  required  expertise,  i.e.  knowledge,  skills  and  professional  experience.  For  this,  the  members  of  the  Super-
visory Board must collectively be familiar with the sector in which the Company operates – i.e. the automotive 
industry  –  and  be  able  to  assess  the  business  conducted  by  the  Company.  In  addition,  the  Supervisory  Board 
members as a whole must collectively have expertise relating to sustainability issues relevant to the Company. 

The key skills and expertise that the Supervisory Board must have collectively as a whole are, in particular, 

knowledge, skills and professional experience 
>   in the manufacture and sale of all types of vehicles and engines or other technical products (vehicles – manu-

facture/sale) 

>   in  the  automotive  industry  and  its  transformation,  particularly  with  regard  to  the  topics  of  e-mobility  and 
mobility  services,  the  business  model  and  the  markets,  customer  needs  and  product  expertise  (automotive 
industry) 

>   in  the  field  of  research  and  development,  particularly  of  technologies  with  relevance  for  the  Company 

(research/development) 

>   in  the  fields  of  digitalization  and  digital  transformation,  software,  artificial  intelligence,  automation,  infor-

mation technology and security (digitalization/IT) 

>   in management positions and supervisory bodies of companies, including holding companies and start-ups, or 

large organizations (management/supervision) 

>  in the fields of law and compliance (law/compliance) 
>  in  the  field  of  sustainability,  particularly  with  regard  to  environmental,  social  and  governance  aspects  (ESG), 
e.g.  in  resources,  supply  chains,  energy  supply,  corporate  social  responsibility,  sustainable  technologies  and 
corresponding business models (sustainability/ESG) 

50 

 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

>   in  finance,  accounting  and  auditing,  above  all  special  knowledge  and  experience  of  the  application  of 
accounting principles and internal control and risk management systems, sustainability reporting, the audit of 
financial  statements  and  the  audit  and  assurance  of  sustainability  reporting  (financial  experts)  (finance/ 
accounting/auditing) 

>   in human resources (particularly the search for and selection of members of the Board of Management and the 
succession  process)  and  knowledge  of  incentive  and  remuneration  systems  for  the  Board  of  Management 
(human resources) 

>  in codetermination, employee matters and the working environment in the Company (employee matters). 

The Supervisory Board has also specified the following diversity concept for its composition: 
>  The Supervisory Board must be comprised such that its members collectively have the knowledge, skills, and 

professional experience needed to properly perform their duties. 

>  It has therefore set targets for its composition that also take into account the recommendations of the German 
Corporate  Governance  Code.  The  targets  set  by  the  Supervisory  Board  for  its  composition  also  describe  the 
concept  through  which  the  Supervisory  Board  as  a  whole  strives  to  achieve  a  diverse  composition  (diversity 
concept  in  accordance  with  section  289f(2)  no.  6  of  the  HGB).  Attention  should  also  be  generally  paid  to 
diversity when seeking qualified individuals to best strengthen the specialist and managerial expertise of the 
Supervisory Board as a whole in line with these targets. In preparing proposals for appointments to the Super-
visory Board, it should be considered in each case how the work of the Supervisory Board will benefit from a 
diversity  of  expertise  and  perspectives  among  its  members,  from  professional  profiles,  professional  and 
general experience that complement one another (including in the international domain) and from an appro-
priate  gender  balance.  A  wide  range  of  experience  and  specialist  knowledge  should  be  represented  on  the 
Supervisory Board. In addition, the Supervisory Board should collectively have an extensive range of opinions 
and knowledge in order to develop a good understanding of the status quo and the longer-term opportunities 
and risks in connection with the Company’s business activities. 

>  In proposing candidates to the Annual General Meeting for the election of shareholder representatives to the 
Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board should take its diversity concept into account in such a way that the 
corresponding election of these candidates by the Annual General Meeting would contribute to the implemen-
tation  of  this  concept.  However,  the  Annual  General  Meeting  is  not  obliged  to  accept  the  candidates  nomi-
nated. 

>  The  aim  of  the  diversity  concept  is  for  the  Supervisory  Board  members  to  embody  a  range  of  expertise  and 
perspectives. This diversity promotes a good understanding of Volkswagen AG’s organizational and business 
affairs.  It  also  enables  the  Supervisory  Board  members  to  challenge  the  Board  of  Management’s  decisions 
constructively and to be open to new ideas by avoiding groupthink. In this way, it contributes to the effective 
supervision of the management. 

The  Supervisory  Board  and  Nomination  Committee,  in  particular,  are  called  upon  to  implement  the  profile  of 
skills  and  expertise  and  the  diversity  concept  within  the  context  of  their  candidate  proposals  to  the  Annual 
General Meeting. The Supervisory Board also recommends to employee representatives and unions (which have 
the right to submit proposals in employee representative elections) and the State of Lower Saxony (which has a 
right to appoint Supervisory Board members) that the diversity concept, composition targets and profile of skills 
and expertise should be taken into account. The same applies to individuals entitled to make proposals should a 
court-appointed replacement be necessary. 

The current composition of the Supervisory Board implements both the diversity concept and the profile of 
skills and expertise. The qualification matrix below shows the extent to which the profile of skills and expertise 
has been implemented, and indicates which Supervisory Board member has which skills and expertise.  

51 

 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

QUALIFICATION MATRIX 1 

Vehicles – 

manufacture/ 

Automotive 

Research/ 

Digitalization/

Management/ 

Law/

Sustainability/ 

accounting/

Human 

Employee 

Finance/

sale 

industry

development 

IT

supervision 

compliance

ESG 

auditing

resources 

matters

Hessa Sultan 
Al Jaber 

Mansoor 
Ebrahim  
Al-Mahmoud 

Rita Beck 

Harald Buck 

Matías 
Carnero Sojo 

Daniela 
Cavallo 

Julia Willie 
Hamburg 

Marianne 
Heiß 

Jörg Hofmann 

Arno 
Homburg 

Günther 
Horvath 

Daniela 
Nowak 

Hans Michel 
Piëch 

Hans Dieter 
Pötsch 

Ferdinand 
Oliver 
Porsche 

Wolfgang 
Porsche 

Gerardo 
Scarpino 

Karina Schnur 

Conny 
Schönhardt 

Stephan Weil 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

x 

1  The skills, knowledge and professional experience associated with the respective key words can be found in the profile of skills. A skill can be attributed to a Supervisory Board 

member even if they have expertise in just one subsection of the skill, i.e. for skill in vehicles, for example, either in the area of manufacture or in sales. The allocation of 
competencies is based on a self-assessment by the respective Supervisory Board member. 

In  addition,  several  Supervisory  Board  members,  including  Mr.  Mansoor  Al-Mahmoud,  Ms.  Marianne  Heiß,  
Mr.  Ferdinand  Oliver  Porsche  and  Mr.  Hans  Dieter  Pötsch,  have  expertise  in  both  financial  reporting,  including 
sustainability reporting, and auditing, including the audit and assurance of sustainability reporting.  

As the long-standing CEO of the Qatar Investment Authority and its former Head of Risk Management, and 
from  his  management  roles  at  a  bank  and  stock  exchange,  Mr.  Al-Mahmoud  has  gained  particular  knowledge 
and experience in the application of accounting principles and internal control and risk management systems as 
well  as  in  the  field  of  auditing.  This  knowledge  and  experience  also  relate  to  sustainability  reporting  and  the 
auditing and assurance thereof: at the Qatar Investment Authority, Mr. Al-Mahmoud has reoriented the invest-
ment  strategy  toward  investments  with  ESG  goals  and  implemented  a  sustainability  agenda,  which  was  also 
included  in  the  Qatar  Investment  Authority’s  sustainability  reporting.  Mr.  Al-Mahmoud  therefore  also  studies  

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

companies’ sustainability reports in detail with a view to whether they fit the Qatar Investment Authority’s sus-
tainability strategy.  

Ms.  Heiß  worked  as  a  CFO  for  a  long  time  and,  prior  to  that,  worked  for  audit  and  tax  consulting  firms  for 
several years; Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche is a long-standing member of audit committees and worked for an 
audit firm for several years; Mr. Pötsch is a long-standing member and chair of audit committees and worked for 
many years as CFO of Volkswagen AG and previously as Head of Controlling at BMW AG. As part of their long-
standing  work  in  audit  committees,  Ms.  Heiß,  Mr.  Ferdinand  Oliver  Porsche  and  Mr.  Pötsch  have  also  been 
involved in the auditing and assurance of nonfinancial statements, which relate to sustainability in the form of 
important  environmental  and  social  issues.  Ms.  Heiß  was  also  involved  in  sustainability  reporting  and  the 
auditing and assurance thereof as part of her former activities at BBDO Group Germany GmbH, and Mr. Pötsch as 
part of his activities at Porsche Automobil Holding SE. Ms. Heiß is also an ESG expert on the Supervisory Board 
of Porsche Automobil Holding SE. Ms. Heiß, Mr. Al-Mahmoud, Mr. Pötsch and Mr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche track 
and  monitor  the  latest  developments  in  the  area  of  sustainability  reporting  and  the  auditing  and  assurance 
thereof and contribute their expertise to Volkswagen AG’s Audit Committee. 

Further details on the expertise of the Supervisory Board members can be found in their curricula vitae. The 
curricula  vitae  of  the  members  of  the  Supervisory  Board,  which  are  updated  annually,  are  available  online  at 
www.volkswagen-group.com/executive-bodies. 

The  Nomination  Committee  and  Supervisory  Board  also  took  into  account  the  diversity  concept,  specific 
composition targets and profile of skills and expertise (in their latest valid versions) in its proposals to the Annual 
General  Meeting  in  fiscal  year  2023  for  the  election  of  three  Supervisory  Board  members.  The  composition 
targets, diversity concept and profile of skills and expertise were also taken into account in the court appoint-
ment of two new Supervisory Board members as employee representatives in fiscal year 2023. 

Self-evaluation of the Supervisory Board 
On a regular basis every two years, the Supervisory Board internally evaluates how effectively the Board and its 
committees are performing their tasks. This initially involves distributing a questionnaire to all Supervisory Board 
members, in which they are able to give their view of the effectiveness of the work of the Supervisory Board and 
its  committees,  the  exchange  of  information  with  the  Board  of  Management,  and  the  depth  and  quality  of  the 
presentations  to  and  discussions  in  the  Supervisory  Board  and  may  suggest  possible  improvements.  In  par-
ticular, the members of the Supervisory Board are also asked to make comparative observations with comparable 
boards  of  other  companies  on  which  they  also  serve  and,  drawing  on  these,  to  make  specific  suggestions  for 
improvement as required. Following analysis of the questionnaires, the findings and potential improvements are 
usually discussed at the next regular meeting of the full Board. Measures to improve the work of the Supervisory 
Board  are  continuously  developed  and  implemented  on  the  basis  of  the  findings.  The  Supervisory  Board 
members assess whether the measures have achieved the targeted improvements at the latest in the next self-
evaluation. The most recent internal self-evaluation took place from late 2023 to early 2024. 

53 

 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY THE FÜHRUNGSPOSITIONEN-GESETZ 
The  statutory  quota  of  at  least  30%  women  and  at  least  30%  men  has  applied  to  new  appointments  to  the 
Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG since January 1, 2016 as required by the Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte 
Teilhabe  von  Frauen  und  Männern  an  Führungspositionen  in  der  Privatwirtschaft  und  im  öffentlichen  Dienst 
(Führungspositionen-Gesetz, FüPoG – German Act on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership 
Positions in the Private and Public Sectors). Shareholder and employee representatives have resolved that each 
side will meet this quota separately. The shareholder representatives have met the quota of at least 30% women 
and at least 30% men since the end of the 56th Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2016. The employee repre-
sentatives  have  met  the  quota  since  the  end  of  the  57th  Annual  General  Meeting  on  May 10,  2017.  Both  the 
shareholder and the employee representatives also fulfilled the quota on December 31, 2023. 

In line with the Gesetz zur Ergänzung und Änderung der Regelungen für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von 
Frauen an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst (Führungspositionen-Gesetz II, 
FüPoG  II  –  Second  Act  on  Equal  Participation  of  Women  and  Men  in  Leadership  Positions  in  the  Private  and 
Public  Sector),  Volkswagen AG  is  subject  to  a  mandatory  participation  requirement  under  which  the  Board  of 
Management must have at least one woman and at least one man. The participation requirement has applied to 
the  appointment  of  one  or  more  members  of  the  Board  of  Management  since  August 1,  2022.  Volkswagen AG 
complies with this participation requirement. 

For  the  proportion  of  women  in  management  in  accordance  with  the  Führungspositionen-Gesetz,  Volks-
wagen AG has set itself  the  target of 16.5% women in  the first level of  management and 23.4% women in  the 
second level of management, each as a proportion of the active workforce, to be achieved by the end of 2025. As 
of  December  31,  2023,  the  proportion  of  women  in  the  active  workforce  at  the  first  level  of  management  was 
15.3 (14.2)% and at the second level of management it was 21.5 (19.7)%. 

REMUNERATION REPORT 
The remuneration systems for the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board and the Remu-
neration  Report  for  fiscal  year  2023  are  available  on  the  website  www.volkswagen-group.com/remuneration. 
Previous years’ remuneration reports can also be found at this address. The remuneration reports contain both 
extensive explanations and descriptions of the remuneration systems for the members of the Board of Manage-
ment  and  Supervisory  Board  as  well  as  information  on  and  explanations  of  the  individual  remuneration  of 
members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. 

CORPORATE PRACTICES APPLIED IN ADDITION TO STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS 
Code of Conduct and Volkswagen Group Essentials 
The  Volkswagen  Group’s  Code  of  Conduct  is  the  key  instrument  for  reinforcing  employees’  awareness  of 
responsible  action  and  decision  making.  The  Group’s  underlying  values  and  the  foundation  for  its  shared  cor-
porate culture are defined by the seven Volkswagen Group Essentials: responsibility, honesty, bravery, diversity, 
pride, solidarity and reliability. 

54 

 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

Ethics, compliance and risk management 
To  foster  trust  in  our  Company  as  well  as  our  products,  services  and  innovations,  it  is  essential  that  we  act 
honestly and with integrity at all times. In all lines of work and all functions we therefore invariably make deci-
sions that are in line with our corporate values, applicable national and international legislation, regulations and 
in-house voluntary commitments. This includes the following areas: 
>  Integrity and compliance  

Adherence to statutory provisions, internal company policies, ethical principles and our own values in order to 
protect the Company and its brands. 

>  Whistleblower System  

The whistleblower system is the central point of contact for reporting cases of rule-breaking by Group employ-
ees  or  by  direct  and  indirect  suppliers.  This  includes  white  collar  crimes,  acts  of  corruption,  tax  offenses, 
environmental offenses, human rights violations, infringements of antitrust and competition legislation, money 
laundering and terrorism financing, breaches of product safety and licensing regulations, and serious breaches 
of data protection.  

>  Business and human rights  

Volkswagen fully recognizes key international conventions and declarations, particularly the International Bill 
of  Human  Rights  and  the  Fundamental  Conventions  of  the  International  Labour  Organization  (ILO).  We  align 
our business activities with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UN Global 
Compact), which represent crucial pillars for our actions. 

>  Anti-Corruption  

The Volkswagen Group has a zero-tolerance policy on active or passive corruption. This is anchored in both the 
Group’s internal Code of Conduct and its Code of Conduct for Business Partners. 

>  Risk management and internal control system 

A comprehensive risk management and internal control system (RMS/ICS) helps the Volkswagen Group deal 
with risks in a responsible manner. The organizational design of the Volkswagen Group’s RMS/ICS is based on 
the internationally recognized COSO framework for enterprise risk management (COSO: Committee of Spon-
soring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) and can be accessed on the COSO website. Uniform Group 
principles are used as the basis for managing risks in a transparent and appropriate manner. 

Voluntary commitments and principles 
The Volkswagen Group has committed itself to sustainable, transparent and responsible corporate governance. 
We align our activities with the principles, recommendations and suggestions of the German Corporate Gov-
ernance  Code.  We  coordinate  our  sustainability  activities  across  the  entire  Group  and  have  put  in  place  a 
forward-looking  system  of  risk  management  and  a  clear  framework  for  dealing  with  environmental  issues  in  a 
future-oriented  manner,  for  employee  responsibility  and  for  social  commitment  across  our  brands  and  in  the 
regions in which we operate. 

Voluntary commitments and principles that apply across the Group are the basis and backbone of our sus-
tainability  management.  These  documents  are  publicly  accessible  on  the  Volkswagen  Group’s  website  in  the 
section entitled “Sustainability.” 

55 

 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 

(appointments: as of December 31, 2023 or the date of departure from the Board of Management of Volkswagen AG)  

DR. OLIVER BLUME (*1968) 

RALF BRANDSTÄTTER (*1968) 

DR. GERNOT DÖLLNER (*1969) 

Chair (since September 1, 2022), 

China, 

Progressive brand group, 

Sport Luxury brand group, 

Chair of the Board of Management (CEO)  

Chair of the Board of Management of AUDI AG  

Chair of the Executive Board of  

of Volkswagen (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 

(since September 1, 2023) 

Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG,  

January 1, 20221, appointed until 2026 

September 1, 20231, appointed until 2026 

April 13, 20181, appointed until 2028 

Nationality: German 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

Appointments: 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg3 

 FC Bayern München AG, Munich (Deputy Chair)2 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg (Chair)3 

 Audi (China) Enterprise Management Co., Ltd., 

 Audi (China) Enterprise Management Co., Ltd., 

DR. ARNO ANTLITZ (*1970) 

 FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

 Automobili Lamborghini S.p.A.,  

Finance and Operations,  

Changchun (Deputy Chair)2 

Sant´Agata Bolognese (Chair)3 

April 1, 20211, appointed until 2027 

 Mobility Asia Smart Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing3 

 Bentley Motors Ltd., Crewe3 

Beijing3 

Beijing (Chair)3 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

 SAIC Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., Shanghai 

 Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A., Bologna (Chair)3 

(Deputy Chair)2 

 FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart3, 4 

 Volkswagen (Anhui) Automotive Co., Ltd., Hefei 

Changchun2 

 PowerCo SE, Salzgitter3 

(Chair)3 

 SAIC Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

 Volkswagen Financial Services AG, 

 Volkswagen Group (China) Technology Company, 

Shanghai2 

Braunschweig (Chair)3 

Ltd., Hefei (Chair)3 

 Volkswagen (China) Investment Co., Ltd., Beijing3 

 Volkswagen Financial Services Europe AG, 

Braunschweig (Chair)3 

 Porsche Austria GmbH, Salzburg (Deputy Chair)3 

 Porsche Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg  

(Deputy Chair)3 

 Porsche Retail GmbH, Salzburg (Deputy Chair)3 

 Volkswagen (China) Investment Co., Ltd., Beijing3 

 Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., Herndon, VA 

(Chair)3 

DR. JUR. MANFRED DÖSS (*1958) 

Integrity and Legal Affairs 

February 1, 20221, appointed until 2028 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt (Chair)3 

 TRATON SE, Munich3, 4 

 Grizzlys Wolfsburg GmbH, Wolfsburg2 

  Membership of statutory supervisory boards in  

1  Beginning or period of membership in the  

 Germany. 

Board of Management. 

  Comparable appointments in Germany and 

2  Appointment outside the Group. 

abroad.  

3  Appointment within the Group. 

4  Listed company. 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

MARKUS DUESMANN (*1969) 

THOMAS SCHÄFER (*1970) 

HAUKE STARS (*1967) 

Progressive brand group, 

Core brand group, 

IT 

Chair of the Board of Management of AUDI AG 

Chair of the Board of Management of the  

February 1, 20221, appointed until 2025 

(until August 31, 2023)  

Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand, 

Nationality: German 

April 1, 2020 – August 31, 20231 

July 1, 20221, appointed until 2025 

Appointments:  

Nationality: German 

Nationality: German 

Appointments (as of August 31, 2023): 

Appointments: 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg3 

 FC Bayern München AG, Munich (Deputy Chair)2 

 FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart3, 4 

 Audi (China) Enterprise Management Co., Ltd., 

Changchun2 

 PowerCo SE, Salzgitter3 

Beijing (Chair)3 

 SAIC Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

 RWE AG, Essen2, 4 

 Automobili Lamborghini S.p.A.,  

Shanghai2 

 Kühne + Nagel International AG, Schindellegi2, 4 

Sant´Agata Bolognese (Chair)3 

 SEAT, S.A., Martorell (Chair)3 

 Bentley Motors Ltd., Crewe3 

 Škoda Auto a.s., Mladá Boleslav (Chair)3 

 Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A., Bologna (Chair)3 

 Volkswagen (China) Investment Co., Ltd.,  

 FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

Beijing (Chair)3 

Changchun2 

 SAIC Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

THOMAS SCHMALL-VON WESTERHOLT 

Shanghai2 

(*1964) 

 Volkswagen (China) Investment Co., Ltd., Beijing3 

Technology, 

Chair of the Board of Management of 

GUNNAR KILIAN (*1975) 

Volkswagen Group Components, 

Human Resources and Trucks brand group 

January 1, 20211, appointed until 2028 

April 13, 20181, appointed until 2026 

Nationality: German, Brazilian 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

Appointments: 

 PowerCo SE, Salzgitter (Chair)3 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 Brose Sitech Sp. Z o.o., Polkowice2 

 MAN Energy Solutions SE, Augsburg (Chair)3 

 Volkswagen Group (China) Technology  

 MAN Truck & Bus SE, Munich3 

Company, Ltd., Hefei3 

 PowerCo SE, Salzgitter3 

 TRATON SE, Munich3, 4 

 Volkswagen Group Services GmbH, Wolfsburg 

(Chair)3 

 Wolfsburg AG, Wolfsburg (Deputy Chair)2  

 Autostadt GmbH, Wolfsburg (Chair)3 

 FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd., 

Changchun2 

 Scania AB, Södertälje3 

 Scania CV AB, Södertälje3  

 VfL Wolfsburg-Fußball GmbH, Wolfsburg3 

 Volkswagen Immobilien GmbH, Wolfsburg 

(Chair)3 

  Membership of statutory supervisory boards in  

1  Beginning or period of membership in the  

 Germany. 

Board of Management. 

  Comparable appointments in Germany and 

2  Appointment outside the Group. 

abroad.  

3  Appointment within the Group. 

4  Listed company. 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance  

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEES 

(appointments: as of December 31, 2023 or the date of departure from the Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG or the start date after December 31, 2023)

HANS DIETER PÖTSCH (*1951) 

DR. HESSA SULTAN AL JABER (*1959) 

HARALD BUCK (*1962) 

Chair (since October 7, 2015), 

Former Minister of Information and Communications 

Chair of the General and Group Works Councils of  

Chair of the Board of Management of  

Technology, Qatar 

Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG 

Porsche Automobil Holding SE 

June 22, 20161, elected until 2024 

October 4, 20221, appointed until 2027 

October 7, 20151, elected until 2026 

Nationality: Qatari 

Nationality: Austrian 

Appointments: 

Appointments: 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

 Malomatia Q.S.C, Doha (Chair)2 

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart3, 4  

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 MEEZA QSTP–LLC (Public), Doha2, 4 

 Bertelsmann Management SE, Gütersloh2 

 Qatar Satellite Company (Es'hailSat), Doha 

MATÍAS CARNERO SOJO (*1968) 

 Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA, Gütersloh2 

(Chair)2 

Chair of the General Works Council of SEAT, S.A. 

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart3, 4 

 Trio Investment, Doha (Chair)2 

April 1, 20211, appointed until 2027 

 TRATON SE, Munich (Chair)3, 4 

Nationality: Spanish 

 Wolfsburg AG, Wolfsburg2 

MANSOOR EBRAHIM AL-MAHMOUD (*1974) 

 Autostadt GmbH, Wolfsburg3 

Chief Executive Officer of  

DANIELA CAVALLO (*1975) 

 Porsche Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg 

Qatar Investment Authority  

Chair of the General and Group Works Councils  

(Chair)3 

May 12, 20221, elected until 2025 

of Volkswagen AG 

 Porsche Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg 

Nationality: Qatari 

May 11, 20211, appointed until 2027 

(Chair)3 

Appointments: 

Nationality: Italian, German 

 Porsche Retail GmbH, Salzburg (Chair)3 

 Harrods Ltd., London (Board member)2 

Appointments: 

 VfL Wolfsburg-Fußball GmbH, Wolfsburg  

 Harrods Group (Holding) Ltd., London (Chair)2 

 PowerCo SE, Salzgitter (Deputy Chair)3 

(Deputy Chair)3 

 Qatar Airways, Doha (Deputy Chair)2 

 TRATON SE, Munich3, 4 

 Qatar National Bank, Doha (Board member)2, 4 

 Volkswagen Financial Services AG, 

JÖRG HOFMANN (*1955) 

 Qatar Stock Exchange, Doha (Deputy Chair)2 

Braunschweig (Deputy Chair)3 

Deputy Chair (since November 20, 2015), 

 Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Company, 

 Wolfsburg AG, Wolfsburg2  

IG Metall 

Doha (Board member)2 

 Allianz für die Region GmbH, Braunschweig 

November 20, 20151, appointed until 2027 

(until May 31, 2023)2 

Nationality: German 

RITA BECK (*1970) 

 Autostadt GmbH, Wolfsburg3 

Deputy Chair of the Works Council  

 Brose Sitech Sp. Z o.o., Polkowice2 

of AUDI AG, Ingolstadt plant 

 Porsche Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg3 

January 9, 20241, appointed until 2027 

 SEAT, S.A., Martorell3 

Nationality: German 

 Škoda Auto a.s., Mladá Boleslav3 

Appointments (as of January 9, 2024): 

 VfL Wolfsburg-Fußball GmbH, Wolfsburg3 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg3 

 Volkswagen Group Services GmbH3 

  Membership of statutory supervisory boards in  

1  Beginning or period of membership in the 

 Germany. 

Supervisory Board. 

  Comparable appointments in Germany and 

2  Appointment outside the Group. 

abroad.  

3  Appointment within the Group. 

4  Listed company. 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance  

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

JULIA WILLIE HAMBURG (*1986) 

SIMONE MAHLER (*1971) 

DR. JUR. HANS MICHEL PIËCH (*1942) 

Minister of Education and Cultural Affairs for the 

Chair of the Joint Works Council of  

Supervisory Board 

Federal State of Lower Saxony 

Volkswagen Financial Services AG and  

August 7, 20091, elected until 2024 

November 8, 20221, delegated until 2027 

Volkswagen Bank GmbH 

Nationality: Austrian 

Nationality: German 

May 12, 2022 - May 31, 20231 

Appointments: 

Nationality: German 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

MARIANNE HEIß (*1972) 

Appointments (as of May 31, 2023): 

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart3, 4  

Chief Executive Officer of BBDO Group 

 EURO-Leasing GmbH, Sittensen3 

 Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart  

Germany GmbH (until April 30, 2023) 

 Volkswagen Financial Services AG, 

(Deputy Chair)2, 4 

Member of the Supervisory Board 

Braunschweig3 

 Porsche Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg3 

February 14, 20181, elected until 2028 

 Volkswagen Pension Trust e.V., Wolfsburg3 

 Schmittenhöhebahn AG, Zell am See2 

Nationality: Austrian 

Appointments: 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 Flix SE, Munich2 

PETER MOSCH (*1972) 

DR. JUR. FERDINAND OLIVER PORSCHE 

Chair of the General Works Council of AUDI AG 

(*1961) 

(until September 30, 2023) 

Member of the Board of Management of Familie 

 Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart2, 4 

January 18, 2006 - December 31, 20231 

Porsche AG Beteiligungsgesellschaft 

Nationality: German 

Managing Director of Real Estate Holding GmbH, 

DR.-ING. ARNO HOMBURG (*1968) 

Appointments (as of December 31, 2023): 

Managing Director of Neckar GmbH 

Chair of the Board of Management of Volkswagen 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt (Deputy Chair)3 

August 7, 20091, elected until 2024 

Management Association e.V. 

 Audi Pensionskasse – Altersversorgung der  

Nationality: Austrian 

May 12, 20221, appointed until 2027 

AUTO UNION GmbH, VVaG, Ingolstadt3 

Appointments: 

Nationality: German 

Appointments: 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg (Deputy Chair)3 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 Audi Stiftung für Umwelt GmbH, Ingolstadt3  

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart3, 4  

 Volkswagen Pension Trust e.V., Wolfsburg3 

 Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart2, 4 

DR. GÜNTHER HORVATH (*1952) 

Chair of the Works Council of Volkswagen AG,  

 Porsche Lifestyle GmbH & Co. KG, Ludwigsburg3 

DANIELA NOWAK (*1970) 

 Porsche Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg3 

Managing Director of  

Braunschweig plant  

Dr. Günther J. Horvath Rechtsanwalt GmbH  

May 12, 20221, appointed until 2027 

and self-employed attorney at 

Nationality: German 

Dr. Günther J. Horvath Rechtsanwalt GmbH 

Appointments:  

February 28, 20231, elected until 2028  

 Volkswagen Pension Trust e.V., Wolfsburg3 

Nationality: Austrian 

Appointments: 

 Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart2, 4 

  Membership of statutory supervisory boards in  

1  Beginning or period of membership in the 

 Germany. 

Supervisory Board. 

  Comparable appointments in Germany and 

2  Appointment outside the Group. 

abroad.  

3  Appointment within the Group. 

4  Listed company. 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance  

Group Corporate Governance Declaration

DR. RER. COMM. WOLFGANG PORSCHE 

KARINA SCHNUR (*1977) 

SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES 

(*1943) 

Chair of the General and Group Works Councils of 

Chair of the Supervisory Board of  

MAN Truck & Bus SE and 

Members of the Executive Committee 

Porsche Automobil Holding SE;  

Chair of the Group Works Council of TRATON SE 

Hans Dieter Pötsch (Chair) 

Chair of the Supervisory Board of  

July 11, 20231, appointed until 2027 

Jörg Hofmann (Deputy Chair) 

Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG 

Nationality: German 

Rita Beck (since January 24, 2024) 

April 24, 20081, elected until 2028 

Appointments: 

Daniela Cavallo 

Nationality: Austrian 

Appointments: 

 MAN Truck & Bus SE, Munich3 

Peter Mosch (until December 31, 2023) 

 TRATON SE, Munich3, 4 

Dr. Hans Michel Piëch 

 AUDI AG, Ingolstadt3 

 Rheinmetall MAN Military Vehicles GmbH, 

Dr. Wolfgang Porsche 

 Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart (Chair)3, 4 

Munich2 

 Porsche Automobil Holding SE, Stuttgart (Chair)2, 4 

Gerardo Scarpino 

Stephan Weil 

 Familie Porsche AG Beteiligungsgesellschaft, 

CONNY SCHÖNHARDT (*1978) 

Salzburg (Chair)2 

Union Secretary and Head of the Mobility and 

Members of the Mediation Committee established  

 Porsche Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Salzburg3 

Vehicle Construction Unit attached to the  

in accordance with section 27(3) of the 

 Schmittenhöhebahn AG, Zell am See2 

IG Metall Board 

Mitbestimmungsgesetz (German  

June 21, 20191, appointed until 2027 

Codetermination Act) 

JENS ROTHE (*1970) 

Nationality: German 

Hans Dieter Pötsch (Chair) 

Chair of the General Works Council  

Appointments: 

Jörg Hofmann (Deputy Chair) 

of Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg3 

October 22, 2021 - March 3, 20231 

 PowerCo SE, Salzgitter3 

Daniela Cavallo 

Stephan Weil 

Nationality: German 

 Volkswagen Bank GmbH, Braunschweig3  

Appointments (as of March 3, 2023): 

Members of the Audit Committee 

 Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH, Zwickau  

STEPHAN WEIL (*1958) 

Mansoor Ebrahim Al-Mahmoud (Chair) 

(Deputy Chair)3 

Minister President of the Federal State of  

Daniela Cavallo (Deputy Chair) 

GERARDO SCARPINO (*1962) 

February 19, 20131, delegated until 2027 

Dr. Ferdinand Oliver Porsche 

Lower Saxony 

Marianne Heiß 

Executive Director of the Volkswagen  

Nationality: German 

Group Works Council  

April 21, 20231, appointed until 2027 

Nationality: Italian 

Appointments: 

 CARIAD SE, Wolfsburg3 

Gerardo Scarpino 

Conny Schönhardt 

Members of the Nomination Committee 

Hans Dieter Pötsch (Chair) 

Dr. Hans Michel Piëch 

Dr. Wolfgang Porsche 

Stephan Weil 

  Membership of statutory supervisory boards in  

1  Beginning or period of membership in the 

 Germany. 

Supervisory Board. 

  Comparable appointments in Germany and 

2  Appointment outside the Group. 

abroad.  

3  Appointment within the Group. 

4  Listed company. 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 

Remuneration Report 2023

Remuneration Report 2023 

The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG must prepare a  
clear and understandable remuneration report in accordance with section 162 of the 
Aktiengesetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act). In this report, we explain the main 
features of the remuneration system for the members of the Board of Management and 
Supervisory Board. The remuneration report also contains an individualized breakdown of 
the remuneration components provided to current and former members of the  
Board of Management and Supervisory Board. 

A. REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 
In the reporting year, the Volkswagen Group’s business was impacted by the challenging global market environ-
ment,  parts  supply  shortages  and  disruptions  in  the  logistics  chain.  In  this  environment,  the  Group  delivered 
9.2 million units to customers. This was 11.8% more vehicles than in the previous year. While sales revenue rose 
by 15.5%, the operating result of €22.6 billion was similar to the previous year’s.  

I. Principles of Board of Management remuneration 
The  remuneration of  the Board of Management is based on  the remuneration system developed by  the Super-
visory  Board  and  adopted  for  the  first  time  on  December 14,  2020  with  effect  from  January 1,  2021.  The 
remuneration system for the members of the Board of Management implements the requirements of the AktG as 
amended  by  the  Gesetz  zur  Umsetzung  der  zweiten  Aktionärsrechterichtlinie  (ARUG  II  –  German  Act  on  the 
Implementation of the Second Shareholder Rights Directive) and takes into account the recommendations of the 
German Corporate Governance Code (the Code).  

On  March 3,  2023,  the  Supervisory  Board  resolved  to  modify  the  remuneration  system  with  effect  from 
January 1, 2023, particularly to heed the call by investors to give long-term variable remuneration more weight. 
This led to the relative share of the fixed remuneration components being reduced and the relative share of the 
long-term  variable  remuneration  being  increased.  To  reinforce  the  principle  of  pay  for  performance  and  imple-
ment investors’ requirements, it is also no longer possible to agree a special bonus with future effect. In addition, 
the maximum target achievement levels for the annual bonus and the performance share plan as well as their 
respective  maximum  payout  amounts  have  been  increased  so  that  higher  levels  of  target  achievement  are 
appropriately rewarded. In this context, the maximum remuneration and the cap on cash remuneration have also 
been increased to reflect current market conditions. The Annual General Meeting approved the modified remu-
neration system on May 10, 2023 with 98.82% of the votes cast. 

The modified remuneration system has applied since January 1, 2023 to all Board of Management members 
with  service  contracts  newly  concluded  or  renewed  after  the  Annual  General  Meeting’s  approval  of  the  remu-
neration system on May 10, 2023. For the Board of Management members already appointed at the time of the 
Annual General Meeting’s approval of the remuneration system on May 10, 2023, the new remuneration system 
has  also  applied  in  principle  since  January 1,  2023.  To  implement  the  remuneration  system,  Volkswagen  AG 
reached an agreement with the members of the Board of Management on corresponding amendments to their 

61 

 
 
 
