HSBC Holdings plc

8 Canada Square

London E14 5HQ

United Kingdom

T: +44 (0)20 7991 8888

www.hsbc.com

HSBC Holdings plc
Annual Report and
Accounts 2023
Accounts 2024

HSBC Annual Report and Accounts 2023HSBC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Opening up a world of opportunity

Our ambition is to be the preferred  
international financial partner for our clients.

Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our  
strategy and support our focus on execution.

 Read more on our values and strategy  
on pages 4 and 11. 

Contents

Strategic report

Risk review

136   Our approach to risk
140   Top and emerging risks
145   Our material banking risks

Corporate governance report

239   Biographies of Directors and 

senior management

262   Board committees
279   Directors’ remuneration report

Financial statements

318   Independent auditors’ report
329   Financial statements
341   Notes on the financial statements

Additional information

435   Shareholder information
444   Abbreviations

Performance in 2023
Highlights

1 
2 
4  Who we are
6 
8 
11  Our strategy
14 
20  Board decision making and 

Group Chairman’s statement 
Group Chief Executive’s review

ESG overview

engagement with stakeholders 
(Section 172(1) statement)

24  Remuneration
25 
Financial overview
30  Global businesses
37  Risk overview
40 

Long-term viability and going 
concern statement

Environmental, social and 
governance (‘ESG’) review

42  Our approach to ESG
44  Environmental
75  Social
87  Governance

Financial review

100   Financial summary
111   Global businesses and 

legal entities

130   Reconciliation of alternative 
performance measures

HSBC Holdings plc
Annual Report and
Accounts 2023

Cover image: Opening up a world of opportunity
We connect people, capital and ideas across the world.  
By unlocking the true power of our international networks,  
we are able to deliver our purpose of opening up a world  
of opportunity.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

This Strategic Report was approved by the 
Board on 21 February 2024. 

Mark E Tucker 
Group Chairman

A reminder 
The currency we report in is US dollars. 

Our approach to ESG reporting
We embed our ESG reporting and Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(‘TCFD’) within our Annual Report and 
Accounts. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted 
with the following symbol:  TCFD  

Constant currency performance
We supplement our IFRS Accounting Standards 
figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards 
measures used by management internally that 
constitute alternative performance measures 
under European Securities and Markets Authority 
guidance and non-GAAP financial measures 
defined in and presented in accordance with US 
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and 
regulations. These measures are highlighted with 
the following symbol:

Further explanation may be found on page 29.

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’
From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 
‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4  
‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data 
have been restated. For further details of our 
adoption of IFRS 17, see page 100. 

None of the websites referred to in this  
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 (including where a 
link is provided), and none of the information 
contained on such websites, are incorporated 
by reference in this report.

  @HSBC

linkedin.com/company/hsbc
facebook.com/HSBC

 
Performance in 2023 

HSBC is one of the world’s leading  
international banks. 

We have a clear strategy to deliver revenue  
and profit growth, enhance customer service  
and improve returns to shareholders.

Financial performance 
indicators

Our financial performance indicators 
demonstrate our continued focus on the 
delivery of sustainable returns for our 
shareholders and providing a strengthened 
platform for growth. They also provide insight 
into the performance that has driven the 
outcomes of our financial targets.

 Read more on our financial performance in 2023 
on pages 2 and 27. 
 For an explanation of performance against our 
key Group financial targets, see page 25.
 For a reconciliation of our target basis operating 
expenses to reported operating expenses, see 
page 133.
 For our financial targets we define medium term 
as three to four years and long term as five to six 
years, commencing 1 January 2024.

Strategic performance 
indicators 

Our strategy supports our ambition of being 
the preferred international financial partner  
for our clients. 

We are committed to building a business  
for the long term, developing relationships  
that last. 

Read more on our strategy on pages 11 to 13.
 Read more on multi-jurisdictional client revenue 
on page 111. 
 Read more on how we set and define our  
ESG metrics on page 16.
 Read more on our definition of sustainable 
finance and investment on page 49.
 We no longer report the metric ‘Asia as a 
percentage of Group tangible equity’.

Return on average tangible equity

Common equity tier 1 capital ratio

14.8%

(2022: 14.2%)

Dividend per share

$0.61

(2022 dividend per share: $0.32) 

14.6%

(2022: 10.0%)

Profit before tax

$30.3bn

(2022: $17.1bn)

Operating expenses

$32.1bn

Target basis operating expenses  
up 6% to $31.6bn
(2022: $32.7bn)

Net new invested assets 

$84bn

Generated in 2023, of which $47bn  
were in Asia.
(2022: $80bn generated, of which  
$59bn were in Asia)

Gender diversity

34.1%

Women in senior leadership roles.
(2022: 33.3%)

Wholesale multi-jurisdictional  
client revenue 

61%

Wholesale client revenue generated by clients 
banking with us across multiple markets.

Sustainable finance and investment

$294.4bn

Cumulative total provided and facilitated  
since January 2020.
(2022: $210.7bn)

Digitally active Commercial 
Banking customers

83%

(2022: 78%)

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

1

Strategic report 
 
Strategic report

Highlights

Financial performance reflected net interest income growth,  
and we continued to make progress against our four strategic pillars. 

Financial performance (vs 2022)

 – Profit before tax rose by $13.3bn to
$30.3bn, primarily reflecting revenue
growth. This included a favourable year-on-
year impact of $2.5bn relating to the sale 
of our retail banking operations in France, 
which completed on 1 January 2024, and a 
$1.6bn provisional gain recognised on the 
acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited 
(‘SVB UK‘) in 2023. These were partly offset 
by the recognition of an impairment charge 
in 2023 of $3.0bn relating to the investment 
in our associate, Bank of Communications 
Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), which followed 
the reassessment of our accounting value-
in-use. On a constant currency basis,
profit before tax increased by $13.8bn
to $30.3bn. Profit after tax increased by
$8.3bn to $24.6bn.

 – Revenue rose by $15.4bn or 30% to

$66.1bn, including growth in net interest
income (‘NII’) of $5.4bn, with rises in all
of our global businesses due to the higher
interest rate environment. Non-interest
income increased by $10.0bn, reflecting
a rise in trading and fair value income of
$6.4bn, mainly in Global Banking and
Markets. The associated funding costs
reported in NII grew by $6.2bn. The increase
also included the impact of the strategic
transactions referred to above, partly offset
by disposal losses of $1.0bn relating to
repositioning and risk management activities
in our hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio.

 – Net interest margin (‘NIM’) of 1.66%
increased by 24 basis points (‘bps’),
reflecting higher interest rates.

 – Expected credit losses and other credit

impairment charges (‘ECL’) were $3.4bn,
a reduction of $0.1bn. The net charge in 2023 
primarily comprised stage 3 charges, notably 
related to mainland China commercial real 
estate sector exposures. It also reflected 
continued economic uncertainty, rising interest 
rates and inflationary pressures. ECL were
33bps of average gross loans, including a 
3bps reduction due to the inclusion of loans 
and advances classified as held for sale.

 – Operating expenses fell by $0.6bn or
2% to $32.1bn, mainly due to the non-
recurrence of restructuring and other related
costs following the completion of our cost to
achieve programme at the end of 2022. This
more than offset higher technology costs,
inflationary pressures and an increase in
performance-related pay. We also incurred a
higher UK bank levy and a charge relating to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(‘FDIC’) special assessment in the US.
Target basis operating expenses rose
by 6%. This is measured on a constant
currency basis, excluding notable items and
the impact of the acquisition of SVB UK and
related investments internationally. It also
excludes the impact of retranslating the prior
year results of hyperinflationary economies
at constant currency.

 – Customer lending balances rose by

$15bn on a reported basis, but fell by
$3bn on a constant currency basis.
Growth included a $7.8bn reclassification of
secured loans in France from held for sale,
an addition of $8bn from the acquisition of
SVB UK, and higher mortgage balances in
HSBC UK and Hong Kong. These increases
were more than offset by a reduction in
wholesale term lending, notably in Asia, and
from business divestments in Oman and
New Zealand.

 – Customer accounts rose by $41bn

on a reported basis, and $13bn on a
constant currency basis, primarily in
Wealth and Personal Banking, reflecting
growth in Asia, partly offset by reductions in
HSBC UK, reflecting cost of living pressures
and the competitive environment, despite an
increase of $6bn from the acquisition of SVB
UK. There was also a reduction due to the
sale of our business in Oman.

 – Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
ratio of 14.8% rose by 0.6 percentage
points, as capital generation was partly
offset by dividends and share buy-backs.

 – The Board has approved a fourth interim

dividend of $0.31 per share, resulting in a
total for 2023 of $0.61 per share. We also
intend to initiate a share buy-back of up to
$2.0bn, which we expect to complete by our
first quarter 2024 results announcement.

Outlook
 – We continue to target a return on

average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) in the
mid-teens for 2024, excluding the impact
of notable items (see page 25 for information
on our RoTE target for 2024). Our guidance 
reflects our current outlook for the global 
macroeconomic environment, including 
customer and financial markets activity.

 – Based upon our current forecasts, we

expect banking NII of at least $41bn for
2024. This guidance reflects our current
modelling of a number of market dependent
factors, including market-implied interest
rates (as of mid-February 2024), as well
as customer behaviour and activity levels,
which we would also expect to impact our
non-interest income. We do not reconcile
our forward guidance on banking NII to
reported NII.

 – While our outlook for loan growth remains

cautious for the first half of 2024, we
continue to expect year-on-year

customer lending percentage growth 
in the mid-single digits over the medium 
to long term.

 – Given continued uncertainty in the forward

economic outlook, we expect ECL charges
as a percentage of average gross loans
to be around 40bps in 2024 (including
customer lending balances transferred to
held for sale). We continue to expect our
ECL charges to normalise towards a range
of 30bps to 40bps of average loans over the
medium to long term.

 – We retain a Group-wide focus on

cost discipline. We are targeting cost
growth of approximately 5% for 2024
compared with 2023, on a target basis.
This target reflects our current business plan 
for 2024, and includes an increase in staff
compensation, higher technology spend
and investment for growth and efficiency, in
part mitigated by cost savings from actions
taken during 2023.

 – Our cost target basis for 2024 excludes the
impact of the disposal of our retail banking
business in France and the planned disposal
of our banking business in Canada from
the 2023 baseline. Our cost target basis
is measured on a constant currency basis
and excludes notable items and the impact
of retranslating the prior year results of
hyperinflationary economies at constant
currency. We do not reconcile our forward
guidance on target basis costs to reported
operating expenses.

 – We intend to continue to manage the
CET1 capital ratio within our medium-
term target range of 14% to 14.5%.

 – Our dividend payout ratio target

remains at 50% for 2024, excluding
material notable items and related impacts.
We have announced a further share buy-
back of up to $2.0bn. Further buy-backs
remain subject to appropriate capital levels.

2

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Highlights

Strategic transactions

 – During 2023, we continued to acquire

businesses that allow us to build scale and
enhance our capabilities. In March, we
acquired SVB UK, and subsequently
launched HSBC Innovation Banking,
which includes SVB UK and new teams in
the US, Hong Kong and Israel, as well as in
Denmark and Sweden, to deliver a globally
connected, specialised banking proposition
to support innovation businesses and
their investors.

 – As part of our ambition to be a leading

wealth provider in Asia, we entered into an
agreement to acquire Citi’s retail wealth
management portfolio in mainland
China. This acquisition comprised the
assets under management and deposits,
and the associated wealth customers. We
also announced a partnership with the
fintech Tradeshift to launch a joint

ESG highlights

Transition to net zero
 – In January 2024, we published our first net
zero transition plan, which is an important
milestone in our journey to achieving our
net zero ambition – helping our people,
customers, investors and other stakeholders
to understand our long-term vision,
the challenges, uncertainties and
dependencies that exist, the progress
we are making and what we plan to do
in the future. The plan includes details
on our sectoral approach, and on our
implementation plan to embed net zero
across key areas of our organisation.

 – Our net zero transition plan provides an

overview of the progress we have made to
date and what we plan to do next, although
we acknowledge there is still much
more to do. It will form the basis of further
work on our journey to net zero over time,
and we expect to review and update
it periodically.

 – Following the recent launch of the
Partnership for Carbon Accounting
Financials (‘PCAF’) accounting standard
for capital markets, we have now set
combined on-balance sheet financed
emissions and facilitated emissions
targets for two emissions-intensive
sectors: oil and gas, and power and
utilities, and report the combined progress
for both sectors. We recognise that data,
methodologies and standards for measuring
emissions and for target setting will
continue to evolve.

venture focusing on embedded 
finance solutions and financial  
services applications. 

 – We continue to make good progress on
our strategic disposals. The planned sale
of our banking business in Canada received
government approval and is expected to
complete in the first quarter of 2024. We
completed the sale of our retail banking
operations in France on 1 January 2024, as
we reshape the organisation to focus on our
international customer base. In addition, we
announced the planned sale of our retail
business in Mauritius, and also completed
the sale of our operations in Greece, the
merger of HSBC Bank Oman with Sohar
International, and the sale of our New
Zealand retail mortgage loan portfolio.

 – While we remain committed to the sale of

our business in Russia, the sale became less

certain. As a result, the business is no longer 
classified as held for sale, the previously 
recognised loss has been reversed, and 
a broadly offsetting charge relating to 
recoverability was recognised in the fourth 
quarter of 2023.

 – We remain committed to consider

the payment of a special dividend of
$0.21 per share as a priority use of the
proceeds from the sale of our banking
business in Canada in the first half of
2024. The remaining proceeds will accrue
into CET1 capital in consideration for organic
growth and investment, and we intend to
use any excess capital to supplement
share buy-backs. Upon completion, the sale
is expected to result in an initial increase
in the CET1 ratio of approximately 1.2
percentage points.

Act responsibly
 – We aim to be a top-three bank for customer
satisfaction. In 2023, we were ranked as a
top three bank against our competitors
in 58% of our six key markets across
Wealth and Personal Banking and
Commercial Banking, but we still have
work to do to improve our rank position
against competitors.

 – We published guides to help our buyers
and our suppliers better understand
our net zero ambitions. The guides
provide further details to support suppliers
in understanding our sustainability
expectations, as set out in our supplier code
of conduct.

 – We continued to raise awareness and

develop our understanding of our salient
human rights issues. In 2023, we
provided practical guidance and
training, where relevant, to our colleagues
across the Group, on how to identify and
manage human rights risk.

 – Since 2020, we have provided and

facilitated $294.4bn of sustainable
finance and investment, which was an
increase of $83.7bn in the past year. Of our
sustainable finance and investment progress
to 31 December 2023, $258.3bn related to
green and sustainable activities and $36.1bn
related to social activities.

 – Within our own operations, we have

made a 57.3% reduction in our absolute
greenhouse gas emissions from a
2019 baseline.

Build inclusion and resilience
 – In 2023, 34.1% of senior leadership
roles were held by women. We have
a target to achieve 35% by 2025, which
we are on track to achieve, although we
recognise that progress in the past year
has not been as fast paced as we would
like. We also continued to work towards
meeting our ethnicity goals.

 – We continue to make the banking

experience more accessible in both
physical and digital spaces. We are
working to ensure that our digital channels
are usable by everyone, regardless of ability.
We also expanded our efforts to support
customers with disabilities in our
branch spaces.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3

Strategic reportStrategic report

Who we are

HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world. 
We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders and capture opportunity. 

Our values

Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our 
long-term success. 

We value difference
Seeking out different 
perspectives

We succeed together
Collaborating across 
boundaries

We take responsibility
Holding ourselves 
accountable and taking 
the long view

We get it done
Moving at pace and 
making things happen

Our strategy

Our strategy supports our ambition of being the preferred international financial partner 
for our clients, centred around four key areas.

Focus 
 – Maintain leadership in

Digitise
 – Deliver seamless

scale markets

 – Double-down

on international
connectivity

 – Diversify our revenue

 – Maintain cost discipline

and reshape our
portfolio

customer experiences

 – Ensure resilience and

security

 – Embrace disruptive
technologies and
partner with innovators

 – Automate and simplify

at scale

Energise
 – Inspire leaders to

drive performance
and delivery

 – Unlock our edge to
enable success

 – Deliver a unique and

exceptional colleague
experience

 – Prepare our workforce

for the future

Transition
 – Support our customers

 – Embed net zero into the

way we operate

 – Partner for systemic

change

 – Become net zero in
our own operations
and supply chain by
2030, and our financed
emissions by 2050

For further details on progress made in each of our strategic areas, see pages 11 to 13.

Our global reach

Our global businesses serve around 42 million customers worldwide through a network
that covers 62 countries and territories.

Our customers range from individual savers 
and investors to some of the world’s biggest 
companies, governments and international 
organisations. We aim to connect them to 
opportunities and help them to achieve  
their ambitions.

Assets of

$3.0tn

Approximately 

42m

Customers bank with us

Operations in 

We employ approximately 

62

221,000

Countries and territories

Full-time equivalent staff

 For further details of our customers and approach  
to geographical information, see page 110. 

4

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Who we are

Our global 
businesses

We serve our customers through three global businesses.

On pages 30 to 36 we provide 
an overview of our performance 
in 2023 for each of our global 
businesses, as well as our 
Corporate Centre.

In each of our global businesses, 
we focus on delivering growth  
in areas where we have  
distinctive capabilities and have 
significant opportunities.

Each of the chief executive 
officers of our global businesses 
reports to our Group Chief 
Executive, who in turn reports to 
the Board of HSBC Holdings plc.

Wealth and Personal  
Banking (’WPB’) 
We help millions of our customers 
look after their day-to-day 
finances and manage, protect and 
grow their wealth.

Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) 
Our global reach and expertise 
help domestic and international 
businesses around the world 
unlock their potential. 

Global Banking and  
Markets (’GBM’) 
We provide a comprehensive 
range of financial services 
and products to corporates, 
governments and institutions. 

For further details, see page 30.

For further details, see page 32.

For further details, see page 34.

Revenue by  
global business1

Wealth and Personal Banking

Commercial Banking

Global Banking and Markets

41%

35%

24%

1  Calculation is based on revenue of our global businesses excluding Corporate Centre. Corporate Centre had negative 

revenue of $199m in 2023.

Our stakeholders

Building strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver 
our strategy in line with our long-term values, and operate the business  
in a sustainable way. 

Our stakeholders are the people 
who work for us, bank with us, 
own us, regulate us, and live 
in the societies we serve and 
the planet we all inhabit. These 
human connections are complex 
and overlap.

Many of our employees are 
customers and shareholders, 
while our business customers are 
often suppliers. We aim to serve, 
creating value for our customers 
and shareholders. 

Our size and global reach mean 
our actions can have a significant 
impact. We are committed to 
doing business responsibly, and 
thinking for the long term. This is 
key to delivering our strategy.

Customers

Employees

Investors

Communities Regulators and 

Suppliers

governments

For further details of how we are engaging with our stakeholders, see page 15.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

5

Strategic reportStrategic report

Group Chairman’s statement

In 2023, reported profit before tax was  
$30.3bn, which was an increase of $13.3bn 
compared with 2022. This was due mainly to 
higher revenue and a number of notable items. 
Our three global businesses delivered good 
revenue growth, and we ended the year with 
strong capital, funding and liquidity positions.

We remain committed to sharing the benefits 
of our improved performance with our 
shareholders. The Board approved a fourth 
quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share, bringing 
the total dividend for 2023 to $0.61 per share. 
Furthermore, in 2023 we announced three 
share buy-backs worth a total of $7bn and, 
today, have announced a further share buy-
back of up to $2bn.

The planned sale of our banking operations 
in Canada received final approval from the 
Canadian government at the end of last year. 
Subject to completion of the transaction, 
which is expected in the first quarter of 2024, 
the Board will consider a special dividend of 
$0.21 per share, to be paid in the first half of 
2024, as a priority use of the proceeds.

With this anticipated transaction and the 
completion of the sale of our retail banking 
business in France last month, our focus 
has moved to investing for growth, while 
maintaining efficiency. Two examples of 
growth opportunities last year were the 
agreed acquisition of Citi’s retail wealth 
business in mainland China, which will 
help accelerate our Wealth strategy, and 
the acquisition of SVB UK, following the 
difficulties experienced by its US parent entity. 
Acquiring SVB UK was opportunistic, but the 
deal made excellent strategic sense for HSBC, 
and it also helped to protect clients, safeguard 
jobs and maintain financial stability.

Technology and sustainability are two of the 
trends transforming banking and the world 
around us. The opportunities from generative 
AI are among the most transformative within 
my working life. We are actively exploring a 
number of use cases, while also working to 
manage the associated risks.

Meanwhile the global climate challenge is 
becoming increasingly acute. Our presence 
in many of the sectors and markets where 
the need to reduce emissions is the greatest 
provides us with an opportunity to work with 
our clients to help address it. This is set out 
in our first net zero transition plan. The Board 
discussed and contributed to the net zero 
transition plan in depth. We believe that it is 
a realistic and ambitious assessment of the 
long-term journey ahead, as we continue to 
work with our clients on their transitions to 
a low-carbon future. It is clear there will be 
many uncertainties and dependencies, and 
that our approach will need to continue to 
evolve with the real world around us.

Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman

Against a challenging global economic and political  
backdrop, HSBC’s strategy has delivered improved financial 
performance and increased returns for shareholders

The global economy performed better 
than expected in 2023, but growth 
remained sluggish and the economic 
environment was challenging for many  
of our customers. Although inflation fell 
globally, core inflation levels and interest 
rates remained elevated. There was also 
significant variability in growth from 
market to market and increased volatility 
within the banking sector. Our core 
purpose of ‘opening up a world of 
opportunity’ underlines our focus on 
helping our customers and clients to 
navigate this complexity and access 
growth, wherever it is.

Many of our customers and colleagues are 
living through very difficult times. Higher 
interest rates have had a significant impact 
on businesses and households, and we will 
remain conscious of this with interest rates 
expected to begin to fall back in 2024. The 
wars between Russia and Ukraine, and now 
between Israel and Hamas, are absolutely 
devastating. Our thoughts are with all those 
impacted, including our colleagues in those 
parts of the world, and their families and 
friends. Their resilience, professionalism and 
care for one another during these most testing 
of times has been, and is, exceptional.

Progress and performance
Turning to our performance, I want to again 
pay tribute to my colleagues. The record 
profit performance that we delivered in 2023 
was supported by the impact of interest rates 
on our strong balance sheet, but it was also 
testament to the tireless efforts of our people 
around the world. I would like to thank them 
sincerely for their hard work, dedication and 
commitment to serving our customers.

6

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group Chairman’s statement

” Acquiring SVB UK was 
opportunistic, but the 
deal made excellent 
strategic sense for HSBC, 
and it also helped to 
protect clients, safeguard 
jobs and maintain 
financial stability.”

Board operations
Our work on sustainability was one of the 
many topics discussed with our shareholders 
at our 2023 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) 
in May. Ahead of that, Noel and I were pleased 
to meet with Hong Kong shareholders at 
our Informal Shareholders’ Meeting. At both 
meetings, we also discussed the resolutions 
that were requisitioned by shareholders on 
the Group’s strategy and dividend policy. 
Shareholders expressed strong support 
for the Group’s current strategy by voting 
overwhelmingly with the Board and against 
these resolutions at the AGM. This enabled the 
Board, my colleagues and our shareholders to 
focus on our shared objectives of serving our 
customers, driving stronger performance, and 
creating more value for our investors.

In 2023, the Board held meetings in London, 
Birmingham, Hong Kong, Paris, New York, 
Mumbai and Delhi. We also returned to Beijing 
and Shanghai last month. On each occasion, 
the Board engaged with clients, colleagues, 
government officials and regulators – with 
these discussions underlining that HSBC 
continues to have a key role connecting the 
world’s trade and finance hubs.

There were a number of changes to the 
composition of the Board last year. At the 
2023 AGM, we said farewell to Jackson Tai, 
who made an important, extensive and lasting 
contribution to the success of HSBC during 
his time as a non-executive Director. His 
leadership in strengthening risk and conduct 
governance and oversight was particularly 
critical through a period of significant change. 

We also announced in December that David 
Nish intends to retire from the Board at the 
2024 AGM. David has made an invaluable 
contribution to the Board over the past eight 
years, particularly in recent years as Chair of 
the Group Audit Committee and as Senior 
Independent Director. I would like to thank  
him warmly for his consistent counsel  
and guidance.

I am pleased that Kalpana Morparia, Ann 
Godbehere, Brendan Nelson and Swee Lian 
Teo joined the Board during 2023. Each 
of them brings experience and expertise 
that is an asset to the Board. Specifically, 
Ann’s extensive public-listed company 
board experience means that she is ideally 
placed to take over as Senior Independent 
Director, while Brendan’s UK and international 
financial expertise and significant experience 
as audit chair at UK-listed companies will 
be particularly valuable as he takes over 
leadership of the Group Audit Committee.

Macroeconomic outlook
Looking ahead, 2024 is likely to be another 
eventful year. The slowing of inflation in the 
second half of 2023 means that monetary 
tightening now appears to be coming to 
an end. However, current inflation levels 
in many economies remain above their 
targets. As central banks continue to try to 
bridge this gap, voters head to the polls in a 
significant number of countries across the 
globe. The timing and outcomes of these 
elections will impact the decision making of 
governments and have geopolitical, as well 
as fiscal, implications. We will monitor the 
results closely, and take a long-term view of 
strategy, purpose and capital allocation, while 
cognisant of any short-term challenges.

Among these potential challenges are the 
increased uncertainties due to wars in Europe 
and the Middle East, and disruption to global 
trade and supply chains caused by these and 
attacks on shipping in the Red Sea. However, 
we remain cautiously optimistic about 
economic prospects for 2024. We expect 
growth to slow in the first half of the year and 
recover thereafter. We also expect the variable 
economic growth that has characterised 
recent years to continue.

The economies of south and south-east Asia 
carry good economic momentum into 2024. 
India and Vietnam are currently among the 
fastest-growing economies in the world, 
benefiting from competitive labour costs, 
supportive policies and changing supply 
chains. Chinese companies are among those 
increasingly looking towards these and other 
markets, as China’s economic transformation 
towards high-quality growth and domestic 
consumption continues. 

China’s recovery after reopening was bumpier 
than expected, but its economy grew in line 
with its annual target of around 5% in 2023. 
We expect this to be maintained in 2024, 
with recently announced policy measures 
to support the property sector and local 
government debt gradually flowing through  
to the wider economy. Hong Kong’s growth 
has moved along at a slower but healthy  
pace and is likely to remain in line with  
pre-pandemic levels.

As Asia continues to grow, a significant 
opportunity is emerging to connect it to 
another high-growth region. The Middle East 
region performed very well economically 
in 2023 and the outlook remains strong for 
2024, notwithstanding the risks arising from 
conflicts in the region. As countries like Saudi 
Arabia and the UAE continue to diversify their 
economies, new opportunities are created to 
connect them to Asia, and Asia to them.

The US economy grew more quickly than 
expected in 2023 in the face of higher interest 
rates. Growth is likely to be lower in 2024, 
although it should remain higher than in 
Europe where growth remains subdued. 
The UK economy, which entered a technical 
recession at the end of 2023, has nonetheless 
been resilient. Headline inflation should fall 
in the first half of the year, with core inflation 
following by the end of 2024. This will of 
course determine the pace of interest  
rate cuts.

I would like to end by reiterating my thanks to 
my colleagues for all that they have done, and 
all that they continue to do, for HSBC. Their 
tireless efforts are reflected by our improved 
financial performance and increased returns 
for shareholders in 2023 – and I look forward 
to them securing the foundations for our  
future success.

Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman

21 February 2024

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

7

Strategic reportStrategic report 

Group Chief Executive’s review

As we move into 2024, I am confident that 
there are opportunities ahead for us and our 
clients that can help us to sustain our good 
performance going into the next phase of the 
interest rate cycle. 

The environment does, however, remain 
challenging. The wars in Europe and the 
Middle East are beyond comprehension on a 
human level, and my thoughts remain with all 
those impacted. Both conflicts also still have 
the potential to escalate further. That would 
first and foremost deepen the humanitarian 
crisis, but also likely lead to another wave of 
market and economic turmoil. Interest rates 
are expected to fall this year, which we believe 
should in turn help to increase economic 
activity. The outlook currently remains 
uncertain, however, and many of our customers 
remain concerned about their finances. In the 
midst of these challenges, we will stay focused 
on what we are here to do – which is to serve 
our customers and clients, and help them with 
any financial difficulties they face.

Financial performance
Our results are a testament to the way we 
stayed focused in 2023. Reported profit 
before tax was $30.3bn, which was $13.3bn 
higher than in 2022. This included a number 
of notable items, including a favourable 
year-on-year impact of $2.5bn relating to 
the sale of our retail banking operations in 
France and a $1.6bn provisional gain on the 
acquisition of SVB UK. These were offset by 
a valuation adjustment of $3.0bn relating to 
our investment in BoCom, which followed 
the reassessment of our accounting value-in-
use in line with recent market developments 
in mainland China. This adjustment has no 
material impact on our capital, capital ratio 
and distribution capacity, and therefore no 
impact on our share buy-backs or dividends. 
We remain confident in the resilience of 
the Chinese economy, and the growth 
opportunities in mainland China over the 
medium to long term.  

Reported revenue grew by 30% or $15.4bn, 
driven by an increase in net interest income of 
$5.4bn from all three global businesses. Non-
interest income increased by $10bn, reflecting 
increased trading and fair value income of 
$6.4bn, mainly in Global Banking and Markets, 
and the favourable year-on-year impact from 
the impairment relating to the sale of our retail 
banking operations in France and provisional 
gain on the acquisition of SVB UK. 

In 2023, we delivered a return on average 
tangible equity of 14.6%, or 15.6% excluding 
strategic transactions and the impairment on 
our investment in BoCom.

Noel Quinn
Group Chief Executive 

Our record profit performance in 2023 reflected the hard  
work of the last four years and the inherent strength of our 
balance sheet, supported by interest rates.

Return on average tangible equity 

14.6%

(2022: 10%)

Profit before tax 

$30.3bn

(2022: $17.1bn)

2023 was a very good year for HSBC. I 
would like to start by paying tribute to 
my colleagues for all that they did last 
year, and in the preceding three years.  
As I have said before, they have fully 
embraced our core purpose of ‘opening 
up a world of opportunity’ in all they do 
– from helping clients and customers to 
expand to new markets or move overseas, 
to digitising our business and helping our 
people to be their best, to our ongoing 
work on the transition to net zero.

Our performance last year was great credit to 
them. We delivered strong revenue growth 
across all three global businesses, supported 
by higher interest rates, which enabled us to 
deliver our best return on average tangible 
equity in more than a decade. As well as 
improving financial performance, our strategy 
is increasing shareholder returns. I am pleased 
that we have rewarded our shareholders 
for their loyalty with the highest full-year dividend 
per share since 2008, as well as three share
buy-backs in 2023 totalling $7bn. In total, we 
returned $19bn to shareholders by way of 
dividend and share buy-backs in respect of 2023. 
In addition, we have today announced a further 
share buy-back of up to $2bn.

8

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group Chief Executive’s review

” I am confident that there 
are opportunities ahead 
for us and our clients  
that can help us to 
sustain our good 
performance going into 
the next phase of the 
interest rate cycle.”

Our three global businesses performed well. 
In Commercial Banking, profit before tax was 
up by 76% to $13.3bn on a constant currency 
basis, driven by revenue increases across all 
our main legal entities. Within this, Global 
Payments Solutions revenue increased by 78% 
or $5.4bn on a constant currency basis, driven 
by higher margins reflecting higher interest 
rates and repricing. Fee income increased 
by 4% due to growth in transaction banking 
and higher volumes in cards and international 
payments, while our trade business performed 
well relative to the market and we increased 
our market share.

Global Banking and Markets delivered profit 
before tax of $5.9bn, up 26% compared with 
2022, on a constant currency basis. Revenue 
grew by 10% on a constant currency basis, 
due to higher net interest income in Global 
Payments Solutions and Securities Services. In 
Wealth and Personal Banking, profit before tax 
of $11.5bn was $6.1bn higher than in 2022, on 
a constant currency basis. Revenue was up by 
31% or $6.4bn on a constant currency basis, 
reflecting growth in Personal Banking and in 
Wealth, as well as the positive year-on-year 
impact relating to the sale of our French retail 
banking business. Within this, Wealth revenue 
of $7.5bn was up 8% or $0.6bn on a constant 
currency basis, with good growth in private 
banking and asset management.

Reported costs for 2023 were down by 2% 
compared with the previous year, as lower 
restructuring costs offset higher technology 
spending, inflation, higher performance-
related pay and levies. On a target basis, costs 
increased by 6%, which was 1% higher than 
previously guided due to levies including a 
charge relating to the FDIC special assessment 
levy in the US. Our reported cost-efficiency 
ratio improved to 48.5% from 64.6% in 2022, 
supported by higher net interest income.

Our 2023 reported ECL charge of $3.4bn 
was $0.1bn lower than in 2022. This primarily 
comprised stage 3 net charges, notably 
related to mainland China commercial real 
estate sector exposures, and reflected the 
continued uncertainty within the global 
economy. After good capital generation in 
2023, we ended the year with a CET1 ratio 
of 14.8%. We are able to pay a fourth interim 
dividend of $0.31 per share, bringing the total 
2023 dividend to $0.61 per share, which is the 
highest since 2008.

From transform to sustain and grow
Looking forward, supportive interest rates and 
good underlying business growth have given 
us strong momentum. We continue to target 
a mid-teens return on average tangible equity. 
We are also, however, mindful of the interest 
rate cycle and the subsequent impact on net 
interest income. In 2023, we increased the size 
and duration of our structural hedges to reduce 
the sensitivity of banking net interest income 
to interest rate movements and help stabilise 
future earnings. We also see a number of 
growth opportunities within our strategy that 
play to our strengths.

The first is to further grow our international 
businesses, which remains our biggest 
differentiator and growth opportunity. 
International expansion remains a core 
strategy for corporates and institutions 
seeking to develop and expand, especially 
the mid-market corporates that HSBC is 
very well-positioned to serve. Rather than 
de-globalising, we are seeing the world 
re-globalise, as supply chains change and 
intra-regional trade flows increase. Our 
international network and presence in markets 
that are benefiting like the ASEAN region and 
Mexico help us to capitalise on these trends. 
As a result, our market-leading trade franchise 
facilitated more than $850bn of trade in 2023, 
while we are the second biggest payments 
company by revenue and we processed 
around $500tn of payments electronically in 
2023. This helped to grow wholesale multi-
jurisdictional client revenue from customers 
who bank with us in more than one market, 
by 29% in 2023. With multi-jurisdictional 
corporate customers in Commercial Banking 
generating around five times as much client 
revenue as an average domestic customer, 
we continue to focus on growing this further, 
especially in the mid-market segment where 
we have a competitive advantage and there 
is still potential to further extend our market 
leadership. 

The second is to diversify our revenue. 
Building our wealth business to meet the rising 
demand for wealth management services, 
especially in Asia, has been a strategic priority. 
Last year, we attracted net new invested 
assets of $84bn, following $80bn in 2022 and 
$64bn in 2021, underlining the traction that 
we have gained. Our agreement to acquire 
Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in 
mainland China helps accelerate our plans. 
Another trend is the increasing demand for 
seamless, integrated, cross-border banking 
services, which innovation is helping us 
to deliver. We now have 1.3 million Global 
Money customers, up from 550,000 in 2022, 
and grew revenue from Wealth and Personal 
Banking international customers by 41% 
last year, from $7.2bn to $10.2bn. Critically, 
there was a 43% increase in new-to-bank 
international customers compared with 2022, 
driven by the new international proposition 
that we launched and continue to develop.  
As in wholesale, these international  
customers generate higher revenue, bringing 
in around three times as much as average 
domestic-only customers.

The third is continued growth in our two 
home markets. Our business is built on two 
very deep pools of liquidity in Hong Kong 
and the UK, which underpin our exceptional 
balance sheet strength and, therefore, all 
that we do as a business. Hong Kong and 
the UK are both also very profitable, well-
connected markets. We are well positioned 
to capitalise on our positions as the number 
one bank in Hong Kong and a leading bank 
in the UK. Hong Kong’s connectivity, both 
globally and to mainland China, are helping 
us to grow our franchise. We have increased 
our market share in trade in Hong Kong by 
6.6 percentage points over the last three 
years, according to HKMA data. Meanwhile 
new-to-bank customers in Hong Kong 
increased by 36% over the same period as 
we have capitalised on the return of visitors 
from mainland China. In the UK, we have 
good traction in Commercial Banking and 
continue to grow market share in Wealth and 
Personal Banking. We are the leading bank 
for UK large corporates, with more than 70% 
market penetration last year, according to 
Coalition Greenwich. Euromoney also named 
us as the best bank in the UK for small and 
medium-sized enterprises, as digitisation 
helped to grow new-to-bank clients through 
Kinetic. We also increased our market share 
of UK mortgage stock, from 7.4% in 2020 to 
8% in 2023, according to Bank of England 
data. As economic conditions improve and 
we continue to invest, we are confident in our 
ability to grow further in these critical markets.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

9

Strategic reportStrategic report | Group Chief Executive’s review

Future growth levers

In 2023, we continued to build in areas 
we expect to drive future growth.

We brought in 

$84bn 

of net new invested assets in wealth.

We grew multi-jurisdictional  
wholesale revenue by

29% 

from $15.8bn in 2022 to $20.4bn in 2023.

We have also continued to diversify our profit 
generation geographically across multiple 
markets. The positions that we have as a 
leading foreign bank in mainland China, 
India, Singapore, the UAE, Saudi Arabia and 
Mexico – all of which are also well connected 
to our international network – mean we are 
well placed to capture opportunities in these 
fast-growing economies. This was again 
evident as they all grew reported profits 
significantly in 2023, with mainland China 
(excluding associates), India, and Singapore 
each contributing in excess of $1bn of profits 
to the Group.

It is critical that we maintain tight cost 
discipline. This was challenging in 2023 in 
a high inflation environment, and will likely 
remain so in 2024. At the same time, we 
need to invest in growth, so we remain very 
focused on maintaining tight underlying 
costs. The sale of our French retail banking 
operations completed on 1 January 2024, and 
the planned sale of our banking business in 
Canada remains due to complete in the first 
quarter of 2024. A number of smaller exits 
remain underway as we continue to look at 
opportunities to reshape our portfolio. At the 
same time, our acquisition of SVB UK enabled 
us to create a bigger, new proposition in HSBC 
Innovation Banking, which combines deep 
sector specialisms with our balance sheet 
strength and global reach, ensuring  
we continue our long history of  
supporting entrepreneurs. 

Driving cost savings enables us to invest in 
technology, which is the fourth opportunity. 
The digitisation of our business continues to 
improve customer experience and increase 
efficiency. Using AI to help price complex 
structural options in our Foreign Exchange 
business has cut execution times down from 
hours to minutes. We have also identified 
hundreds of opportunities to leverage 
generative AI, and will focus our efforts on use 
cases with tangible benefits for the Group and 
our customers. 

Innovation also creates new avenues for 
growth. We recently launched Zing, which is 
our open market mobile platform focused on 
cross-border payments, initially available in 
the UK. It offers similar capabilities as Global 
Money does to our international Wealth and 
Personal Banking customers, but is targeted  
at non-HSBC customers and allows us to  
drive growth beyond our traditional  
customer footprint.

Underpinning all of this is our work to build 
a stronger performance culture, improve 
colleague experience and prepare our 
workforce for the future. This is important 
because achieving our ambitions depends on 
our 220,000 colleagues feeling motivated and 
believing in our strategy. In our most recent 
staff survey, I was pleased that the number of 
colleagues seeing the positive impact of our 
strategy in 2023 was up 11 percentage points 
on 2020, which is also above the financial 
services sector benchmark.

Finally, helping to finance the substantial 
investment needs of our customers in the 
transition to net zero is a growing commercial 
opportunity, as well as a necessity to mitigate 
rising financial and wider societal risks. Our 
first net zero transition plan shows how we 
intend to finance and support the transition 
to net zero and collaborate globally to help 
enable change at scale. It also sets out our 
roadmap for implementing net zero, which 
we will do by supporting our customers, 
embedding net zero into the way we operate 
and partnering for systemic change. We 
understand that our approach – including 
our own transition plan – will need to evolve 
over time to keep pace with both the evolving 
science and real economy decarbonisation 
across the sectors and geographies we serve.

Thank you
On a personal note, one of the most enjoyable 
parts of 2023 for me was spending time with 
many of my colleagues around the world. 
Reconnecting with them, and seeing first-
hand their passion for serving our customers, 
pride in HSBC and ambitions for the future, 
was energising and inspiring. Leading HSBC 
is a privilege, and my colleagues are the main 
reason why.

2023 was a very good year for HSBC. We now 
have an opportunity to ensure that it becomes 
part of a longer-term trend of ongoing good 
performance and to secure the foundations for 
future success. I am confident that we have 
the opportunities, the platform and the team 
to enable us to get it done.

Noel Quinn
Group Chief Executive

21 February 2024

10

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our strategy

Our strategy

We are implementing our strategy across the four strategic pillars 
aligned to our purpose, values and ambition.

Our strategy remains anchored around our four 
strategic pillars: ‘Focus’, ‘Digitise’, ‘Energise’ and 
‘Transition’. 

We delivered a good set of results in 2023 
supported by the interest rate environment and 
the execution of our strategy.  

Our reported profit before tax was $30.3bn 
and we achieved a reported return on tangible 
equity of 14.6%, or 15.6% excluding the impact 
of strategic transactions and the impairment 
of our investment in BoCom. In our global 
businesses, WPB revenue increased by 31% 
on a constant currency basis, including a 

favourable year-on-year impact relating to the 
sale of our retail banking business in France. In 
CMB, revenue increased by 40% on a constant 
currency basis, including a provisional gain on 
the acquisition of SVB UK. In addition, revenue 
in GBM increased by 10% on a constant 
currency basis.

Focus 
Wholesale – double down on leadership in international connectivity

Our strength in international connectivity 
remains one of our key differentiators. We 
seek to partner with our clients as they expand 
internationally, and capitalise on opportunities 
arising from the reconfiguration of global 
supply chains. 

In 2023, we grew wholesale multi-jurisdictional 
client revenue1 by 29% since 2022, supported 
by the interest rate environment. These 
customers also generate more revenue with 
us. In CMB, multi-jurisdictional corporate 
clients generate approximately five times 
the revenue of a domestic-only corporate 
customer. In addition, there was increased 
collaboration across markets. In GBM, cross-
border client revenue from clients managed in 
the West and booked in the East increased by 
39% from 2022.

Our ambition is to maintain strong, resilient 
returns through the interest rate cycle. As 
such, we are prioritising growing capital-
light, fee-income generating businesses, 
such as transaction banking. In 2023, we 
processed around $500tn electronic payment 
transactions, ranking second by Global 
Payments Solutions revenue in the first half 
of 20232. We also facilitated over $850bn in 
trade and have been ranked first in revenue 
since 20182.

1  For further information and the basis of 

preparation for multi-jurisdictional client revenue, 
see page 134.

2  Global Payments Solutions and trade revenue 
rankings sourced from Coalition Greenwich.

WPB – build our international and wealth propositions

We continued to build our international and 
wealth propositions, taking advantage of the 
growth of wealth assets globally but especially 
in Asia. We amassed $84bn in net new 
invested assets in 2023, bringing total wealth 
invested assets to $1,191bn, an increase of 
17% from 2022.

In 2023, our international strategy generated 
good results. We continued to attract 
international customers, who are either 
multi-jurisdictional, non-resident or resident 
foreigners, from our top 11 markets1. We 
increased new-to-bank customers2 in this 
segment by 43% since 2022, bringing total 
international customers to 6.7 million. These 
customers also each generated approximately 
three times the income compared with 
domestic customers. As a result, we increased 
revenue in this segment by 41% compared 
with 2022.

Customers increasingly demand seamless 
banking across geographies. We continued 
to enhance Global Money, our mobile 
proposition that allows customers to spend 
and send money in multiple currencies. The 
product gained traction with more than 
750,000 new customers in 2023, taking total 
customers to over 1.3 million.

1  Top 11 markets include the UK, Hong Kong, 

Mexico, the US, India, Singapore, Malaysia, the 
UAE, Australia, mainland China and the Channel 
Islands and the Isle of Man.

2  New-to-bank customers includes both new to 

bank customers and those customers who have 
opened an account in a new market, including 
those who already bank with us in one or more 
other markets.

Percentage of wholesale revenue 
from multi-jurisdictional customers

61%

Multi-jurisdictional 
customers

Multi-jurisdictional customers
Domestic-only customers

Percentage of WPB revenue from 
international customers

Multi-jurisdictional 
21%

Non-resident and 
resident foreigner
19%

40%

International 
customers

International customers
Domestic-only customers

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

11

Strategic reportStrategic report | Our strategy

Focus continued
Maintain leadership in scale markets

We continued to take advantage of our 
strengths, especially our leading positions in 
our scale markets: Hong Kong and the UK. 

Hong Kong
We have a well established business in Hong 
Kong, with $544bn in customer deposits and 
market leadership in a number of product areas1.  

In 2023, profit before tax was $10.7bn, an 
increase of 80% on a reported basis. In 
our wholesale businesses, we focused on 
maintaining our leading position across multiple 
products. In trade finance, our market share was 
25.7%, an increase of 6.6 percentage points 
from 20202. We also continued to solidify our 
leadership position and grow our WPB business 
through the launch of a new Premier Elite 
proposition and acquisition of new customers, 
with new-to-bank WPB customers increasing 
by 36% from 2020, reaching 634,500 in 2023.   

HSBC UK
HSBC UK has a universal franchise with $340bn 
in customer deposits. We are a market leader 
across multiple CMB products, including trade 
finance and cash management, according to 
Euromoney and Coalition Greenwich. We aim 
to take advantage of our international network 
to maintain this position in CMB and grow our 
international presence in WPB.

Profit before tax was $8.3bn in 2023, an 
increase of 84% on a reported basis, including 
a $1.6bn provisional gain on the acquisition 
of SVB UK. We continued to grow our CMB 
business and achieved a market penetration 
of more than 70% within the large corporate 
banking segment in 20233. In our WPB 
business, we opened over 1 million new current 
accounts and continued to grow our mortgage 
stock market share in the UK, reaching 8.0% 
in 2023, an increase of 0.6 percentage points 
since 20204. 

634,500

New-to-bank WPB customers in Hong Kong

25.7%

Share of the trade finance market  
in Hong Kong2

>70%

UK large corporate banking market 
penetration in 20233

8.0%

HSBC UK’s mortgage stock market share4

1 Including deposits, assets, card spend and insurance. Source: Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’), Hong Kong Insurance Authority.
2 Source: HKMA, 31 December 2023.
3 Source: Coalition Greenwich Voice of Client – 2023 European Large Corporate Cash Management Study. 
4 Source: Bank of England.

Diversify our revenue

In addition to Hong Kong and the UK, five 
markets in particular represent growth 
opportunities for us. We aim to be the leader 
within the affluent and international customer 
segments in mainland China, India, Singapore 
and the UAE, and we are a market leader 
within retail banking in Mexico. These markets 
delivered strong results in 2023, with mainland 
China excluding BoCom, India and Singapore 
each delivering over $1bn in profit before tax. 
The UAE and Mexico each delivered profit 
before tax of over $0.8bn.

Mainland China
We have a strong client franchise in mainland 
China capitalising on our role as a bridge to 
support clients’ international needs. We were 
ranked number one in foreign exchange by 
FX Markets Asia in 2023. We entered into 
an agreement to acquire Citi’s retail wealth 
management portfolio, and supported by our 
expanded onshore Global Private Banking and 
our Pinnacle proposition, we grew our wealth 
invested assets by 53% compared with 2022.  

India
We aim to continue growing our wholesale 
franchise by taking advantage of corporate 
supply chains. In 2023, we were ranked number 
one by Euromoney in cash management in 
India. We are also tapping into the wealth 
pools of the Indian diaspora with the launch 
of onshore Global Private Banking. In 2023, 
we were the top foreign bank for non-resident 
Indians in wealth1.

Singapore
Our ambition is to be the primary wholesale 
offshore booking centre and wealth hub 
within the ASEAN region. In 2023, we 
were  recognised by AsiaMoney as the Best 
International Bank in Singapore. Additionally, 
we grew our retail franchise, with a 76% 
increase in new-to-bank WPB international 
customers compared with 2022, supported by 
the launch of our new customer onboarding 
journey.  

UAE
We are growing our institutional and 
international wholesale business from a strong 
foundation. In 2023, we were ranked number 
one in equity and debt capital markets in 
MENAT2. Within wealth, following the launch 
of onshore Global Private Banking, we grew 
our wealth invested assets by 35% from 2022. 
We also grew international new-to-bank 
customers by 51% since 2022.

Mexico
Within our wholesale businesses, we continue 
to capitalise on trade flows between Mexico 
and North America. In 2023, we were ranked 
number one by Euromoney within trade 
finance in Mexico. In our wealth and retail 
businesses, we remain focused on delivering 
improved customer experience and growing 
our Global Private Banking business. In 
addition, over half of WPB client acquisitions 
in 2023 were referred by the wholesale 
businesses through our Employee Banking 
Solutions proposition.

1st

Foreign exchange ranking in mainland China 
Source: FX Markets Asia

1st

Cash management ranking in India 
Source: Euromoney

76%

Increase in new-to-bank WPB international 
customers in Singapore compared with 2022

35%

Increase in wealth invested assets  
in the UAE compared with 2022

51%

WPB client acquisition from  
wholesale referrals in Mexico

1 Source: Indian Mutual Fund Industry
2 Source: Dealogic

12

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our strategy

Focus continued
Maintain cost discipline and reshape our portfolio

In 2023, our costs were up by 6% on a target 
basis. Our aim is to maintain cost discipline 
by driving efficiencies in our operations and 
reinvesting cost savings in areas that will drive 
future growth. We are prioritising investments 
in transaction banking, wealth and international 
propositions, and product innovation. At 
the same time, we continue to reshape our 
portfolio through exits and bolt-on acquisitions. 

We completed our exit from our retail banking 
operations in France, our WPB business in 
New Zealand, and our businesses in Greece 
and Oman. Further exits from Canada, Russia 
and Armenia are underway as well as in our 
retail banking business in Mauritius. 

These exits will pave the way for investments 
in growth and efficiency areas such as HSBC 

Innovation Banking, which was launched after 
the acquisition of SVB UK. We also entered 
into an agreement to acquire Citi’s retail 
wealth management portfolio in mainland 
China in August 2023, and completed our 
purchase of SilkRoad Property Partners,  
a real estate fund manager in January 2024, 
which will be integrated into our asset 
management business.

Digitise 
Improve customer experience and efficiency while investing in innovation

In 2023, we made progress on our goal to 
become a digital-first bank, and our customers 
have been increasingly adopting our digital 
services. In CMB, 83% of customers were 
digitally active, an increase of 5 percentage 
points since 2022. Our net promoter score for 
onboarding wholesale international clients in 
the last quarter of 2023 improved by 12 points 
when compared with the first three months 
of the year. At 54%, more than half of WPB 
customers were mobile active, an increase of 
6 percentage points from 2022. Furthermore, 
a total of 75% of WPB’s international customer 
accounts were opened digitally in 2023, an 
increase of 30 percentage points from 2022.

We are also focused on building future-ready 
business models by investing in open-market 
propositions. In 2023, we announced a 
partnership with Tradeshift to launch a new 
embedded finance solution in the first half 
of 2024, which will provide payment and 
financial services embedded into trade, 
e-commerce and marketplace experiences. 
In January 2024, in the UK we launched Zing, 
a mobile platform enabling cross-border 
payments available to non-HSBC consumers.

We are also investing in innovative 
technologies for the future. In 2024, we plan to 
both concentrate our efforts and increase our 

investment in artificial intelligence (‘Al’).  
At present, we employ Al in areas such as 
fraud detection and transaction monitoring. 
We also launched Al Markets, a digital service 
that utilises natural language processing to 
enrich the way investors interact with global 
markets. Additionally, we are in the process 
of piloting numerous generative Al use 
cases in areas like developer augmentation, 
creative content generation and knowledge 
management, and have identified hundreds 
more potential opportunities.

Energise 
Inspire a dynamic culture 

We are opening up a world of opportunity 
for our colleagues by building an inclusive 
organisation that empowers and energises 
them. We intend to accomplish this by 
building a stronger performance culture, 
improving colleague experience and preparing 
a workforce for the future.

Our success is underpinned by our colleagues. 
In a changing world, we empower our 
colleagues by providing clarity of our strategy 
and opportunities for them to develop and have 

fulfilling careers. Our 2023 employee Snapshot 
survey showed that 73% of our colleagues  
see the positive impact of our strategy, a  
3 percentage point increase from 2022, and 
a 11 percentage point improvement from 
2020. The survey also showed that 81% of our 
colleagues feel confident about HSBC’s future, a 
4 percentage point increase from 2022, and also 
a 11 percentage point improvement over 2020.

We remain focused on creating a diverse and 
inclusive environment. In 2023, 34.1% of senior 

leadership roles were held by women, and we 
are on track to achieve our ambition of 35% 
by 2025. We also set a Group-wide ethnicity 
strategy to better represent the communities 
we serve, with 3.0% of leadership roles in 
the UK and US held by colleagues of Black 
heritage in 2023, against our ambition of 3.4% 
by 2025. Additionally, in 2023, over 37.8% of 
our senior leaders have identified as being 
from an Asian heritage background. 

 In the following ‘ESG overview‘ section, we outline 
how we put our purpose and values into practice.

Transition
Support the transition to net zero

In 2020, we set out our ambition to become 
a net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have 
taken a number of steps to execute on our 
ambition and manage climate risks. In January 
2024, we published our first net zero transition 
plan, which provides an overview of the 
progress we have made to date and the actions 
being taken and planned to embed our net 
zero ambition across HSBC. It sets out how we 
intend to harness our strengths and capabilities 
in the areas where we believe we can support 
large-scale emissions reduction: transitioning 
industry, catalysing the new economy, and 
decarbonising trade and supply chains.

To support our customers through the transition 
to net zero and to a sustainable future, in 2020, 
we set out an ambition to provide and facilitate 
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and 
investments by 2030. In 2023, we provided and 
facilitated $83.7bn of sustainable finance and 
investments, bringing our cumulative total since 
January 2020 to $294.4bn.

As part of our ambition to align our financed 
emissions to achieve net zero by 2050, we 
have set on-balance sheet or combined 
financed emissions targets for a number of 
emission-intensive sectors.

Management’s actively managed product 
offerings to help ensure the ESG risks faced 
by companies are considered when making 
investment decisions and to assess ESG 
risks and opportunities that could impact 
investment performance. 

We also made progress in our ambition to 
become net zero in our own operations and 
supply chain by 2030. In 2023, we reduced 
our absolute greenhouse gas emissions in our 
operations to 293,333 tonnes CO2e, which 
represents a 57.3% reduction from our  
2019 baseline.

Work continues on the integration of ESG 
and climate analysis into HSBC Asset 

 For further details on our climate ambition,  
see the following ‘ESG overview’ section.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

13

Strategic reportStrategic report | ESG overview

ESG overview

We are taking steps to incorporate environmental, social and governance principles throughout 
the organisation, supporting the success of our customers, people and other stakeholders.

Our approach

We are guided by our purpose: to open up 
a world of opportunity for our customers, 
colleagues and communities. Our purpose 
is underpinned by our values: we value 
difference; we succeed together; we take 
responsibility; and we get it done. 

Our approach to ESG is shaped by  
our purpose and values and a desire to  
create sustainable long-term value for our 
stakeholders. As an international bank with 
significant breadth and scale, we understand 
that our economies, societies, supply chains 
and people’s lives are interconnected. We 
recognise we can play an important role in 
helping to tackle ESG challenges. We focus 
our efforts on three areas: the transition to net 
zero, building inclusion and resilience, and 
acting responsibly. 

Transition to net zero
In 2020, we set an ambition to become a 
net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have 
made progress in support of this ambition – 
including providing and facilitating sustainable 
finance and investment for our customers, 
updating several of our sustainability and 
investment risk policies, and setting 2030 
targets for financed emissions in a range  
of high-emitting sectors. 

We recognise both the commercial 
opportunity of taking action to transition to 
net zero and the potential risks of inaction 
by society at large. In our net zero transition 
plan, we provide an overview of the actions 
we are taking and plan to take to support our 
customers, embed net zero into the way we 
operate and partner for systemic change. 
We also set out how we are starting to 
work to integrate nature and just transition 
considerations into our net zero approach.

We set out in more detail the steps we are 
taking on our climate ambitions in the ESG 
review on page 41.

Build inclusion and resilience
To help create long-term value for all 
stakeholders, we focus on fostering  
inclusion and building resilience for 
our colleagues, our customers and the 
communities we operate within.

For colleagues, we focus on creating an 
inclusive, healthy and rewarding environment 
as this helps us to attract, develop and retain 
the best talent, and we support their resilience 
through well-being and learning resources. 
We continue to make progress towards our 
goals for gender and ethnic diversity.

We strive to provide an inclusive and 
accessible banking experience for our 
customers. We do this by providing  
resources that help them manage their 
finances, and services that help them  
protect what they value.

We are developing an updated global 
philanthropy strategy that aligns with our  
ESG areas of focus: ‘transition to net zero’  
and ‘building inclusion and resilience’. 

Act responsibly
We are focused on operating a strong and 
sustainable business that puts the customer 
first, values good governance, and gives our 
stakeholders confidence in how we do what 
we do. Our conduct approach guides us to 
do the right thing and to focus on the impact 
we have on our customers and the financial 
markets in which we operate. Customer 
experience is at the heart of how we operate. 
We aim to act responsibly and with integrity 
across the value chain.

On page 15, we have set out ways that we 
have supported our stakeholders through  
a challenging year.

ESG disclosure map and directory

Transition 
to net zero

Our approach to the transition

Read more on our approach to the transition to net zero

Supporting our customers

Read more on our progress made against our $750bn  
to $1tn sustainable finance and investment ambition

Read more on our progress made against our ambition  
to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050

Embedding net zero into the way we 
operate

Read more on our ambition to achieve net zero in our own 
operations and supply chain by 2030

Read more on how we partner externally in support of  
systemic change

We make disclosures consistent with Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations, 
highlighted with the symbol:  TCFD

Read more on how we are building an inclusive environment 
that reflects our customers and communities, and our latest  
pay gap statistics

Read more on our approach to ESG governance and  
human rights

Partnering for systemic change

Detailed Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)

Diversity and inclusion disclosures 

Pay gap disclosures

How we govern ESG 

Human rights and modern  
slavery disclosures

How our ESG targets link to 
executive remuneration

Detailed ESG information 

Build 
inclusion 
and 
resilience

Act 
responsibly

ESG Data 
Pack

14

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 Page 45

 Page 49

 Page 53

 Page 63

 Page 68

 Page 69

 Page 76

 Page 77

 Page 88

 Page 89

Read more on our ESG targets embedded in executive 
remuneration

Our ESG Data Pack provides more granular ESG information, 
including the breakdown of our sustainable finance and 
investment progress, and complaints volumes

 Page 16
 Pages 284 to 298

www.hsbc.com/esg

ESG overview

Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics

We know that engaging with our stakeholders 
is core to being a responsible business. 
To determine material topics that our 
stakeholders are interested in, we conduct 
a number of activities throughout the year, 

including engagements outlined in the table 
below. Disclosure standards such as the TCFD, 
World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder 
Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), as well 

as the ESG Guide under the Hong Kong  
Stock Exchange Listing Rules and other 
applicable rules and regulations, are 
considered as part of the identification  
of material issues and disclosures. 

Our stakeholders

How we engage

Material topics highlighted by the engagement1

Customers

Our customers’ voices are heard through our interactions with them, 
surveys and by listening to their complaints.

Employees

Investors

Communities

Regulators and 
governments

Suppliers

Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our annual Snapshot 
survey, Exchange meetings, global jams, townhalls, leadership 
summits, and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global 
whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential.
We engage with our shareholders through our AGMs, virtual  
and in-person meetings, investor roadshows, conferences and  
our annual investor survey.

We engage with non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’), charities 
and other civil society groups through forums, summits and 
roundtables supporting ESG causes such as COP28. We engage 
directly on specific issues by taking part in working groups.
We proactively engage with regulators and governments to  
build strong relationships through virtual and in-person meetings 
and by responding to consultations individually and jointly  
via industry bodies.

Our code of conduct sets out our ambitions, targets and 
commitments on the environment, diversity and human rights,  
and outlines the minimum standards we expect of our suppliers.  
We engage with key suppliers in real estate, technology and  
other sectors through meetings.

 – Customer advocacy

 – Cybersecurity

 – Employee training

 – Diversity and inclusion

 – Employee engagement 

 – Supporting our customers – financed emissions

 – Embedding net zero into the way we operate 

 – Sustainability risk policies, including thermal 

coal phase-out policy and energy policy

 – Net zero transition plan

 – Financial inclusion and community investment

 – Climate risk

 – Anti-bribery and corruption

 – Conduct and product responsibility

 – Supply chain management

 – Human rights

1  These form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements, and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group. For further details of 

our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.

Supporting our customers in challenging 
economic times
We know that many of our customers 
continue to face difficult financial 
circumstances due to cost of living pressures, 
and we are working to support them. As 
the rising cost of living has been particularly 
high in the UK, one of our largest markets, 
most of our initiatives focused on supporting 
our UK personal and business customers. 
We have enhanced our range of digital 
resources available on our website and we are 
proactively approaching those most in need 
– both personal and business customers – to 
offer targeted support and help build their 
financial resilience.

Proactive support
For personal customers in financial difficulty, 
we have developed our digital services with 
improvements to the ‘Rising cost of living’ 
hub on our public website in the UK. Use of 
segmentation data has enabled us to take a 
proactive approach to supporting customers 
and offering targeted solutions to those who 
are identified as being most in need.

We have engaged with vulnerable customer 
groups through cost of living calls, targeted 
emails and direct mail. In 2023, we also:

 – offered customers the option to switch 

mortgage rates early, extend their mortgage 
term with an option to reverse it at a later 
date, or pay interest only for six months, 
as part of our commitment to the new UK 
Mortgage Charter;

 – offered a temporary reduction of fees  

on arranged overdrafts to help those most  
in need pay less;

 – held over 1,000 financial well-being webinars, 

including 227 cost of living sessions for 
50,000 customers and colleagues;

 – helped more than 37,000 customers  
identify £2.9m in potential benefits by 
providing access to a benefits calculator  
tool via our website; and

 – helped more than 130,000 customers 
generate a financial fitness score, and  
obtain tips on how to improve their  
financial resilience using our online  
financial fitness tool. 

In the UK, CMB has continued to support 
commercial banking clients exhibiting signs 
of financial vulnerability. We reviewed client 
needs on a case-by-case basis and provided 
solutions including repayment holidays, 
extending loan repayments and offering 
extensions to collection periods. The use  
of data and front-line insights has improved 
our ability to identify financially  
vulnerable customers. 

In 2023, we contacted targeted clients to help 
improve awareness of the support available, 
including communicating with over 178,000 
SMEs and proactively making over 43,000 
outbound calls. 

Increasing understanding of fraud and scam 
risk and education on how to protect against 
becoming a victim continues to be another 
key area of focus. In 2023, we also:

 – held fraud and scam awareness webinars 

to highlight recent trends and case studies, 
attended by approximately 4,300 customers; 

 – sent 2.1 million emails and 300,000 letters 

in quarterly campaigns to share our insights 
and enhance understanding of key fraud 
topics and trends; and 

 – published 44 articles and alerts on the HSBC 

Fraud and Cyber Awareness mobile app, 
covering a broad range of topics as well as 
any emerging threats and trends.

 For further details of our work to support 
vulnerable communities and customers  
see page 85.
 For further details on our conduct and product 
responsibilities, see the ESG review on page 96. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

15

Strategic reportStrategic report | ESG overview

Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets  TCFD

We have established ambitions and targets 
that guide how we do business, including 
how we operate and how we serve our 
customers. These include targets designed 
to help track our progress against our 
environmental and social sustainability goals. 
They also help us to improve employee 
advocacy and the diversity of senior 
leadership, as well as strengthen our market 
conduct. The targets for these measures 

are linked to the pillars of our ESG strategy: 
transition to net zero, building inclusion and 
resilience, and acting responsibly. 

For a summary of how all financial and 
non-financial metrics link to executive 
remuneration, see pages 284 to 298 of  
the Directors’ remuneration report.

To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a 
number of measures are included in the annual 
incentive and long-term incentive scorecards 
of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
Financial Officer and Group Executives that 
underpin the ESG metrics in the table below. 

The table below sets out some of our key  
ESG metrics that we use to measure our 
progress against our ambitions. For further 
details of how we are doing, see the ESG 
review on page 41.

Environmental:

Transition to  
net zero1 

Social: 

Build inclusion 
and resilience

Governance: 

Acting 
responsibly

Sustainable finance  
and investment2 

$294.4bn 

Cumulative total provided and 
facilitated since January 2020.
(2022: $210.7bn) 

Ambition: Provide and facilitate
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable
finance and investment by 2030.

Gender diversity5

34.1%

Senior leadership roles  
held by women.
(2022: 33.3%)

Ambition: Achieve 35% senior 
leadership roles held by women  
by 2025.

Conduct training7

98%

Employees who completed  
conduct training in 2023.
(2022: 98%)

Target: At least 98% of employees 
complete conduct and financial 
crime training each year.

Net zero in our own  
operations3

57.3% 

Reduction in absolute operational 
greenhouse gas emissions from 
2019 baseline.
(2022: 58.5%)

Ambition: To be net zero in our  
own operations and supply chain  
by 2030.

Financed  
emissions4

7 sectors 

Number of sectors where we have 
set financed emissions targets, 
comprising five on-balance sheet 
and two combined financed 
emissions targets.

Ambition: Align our financed 
emissions to achieve net zero by 2050.

Black heritage5

3.0% 

Senior leadership roles held by Black 
heritage colleagues in the UK and 
US combined (2022: 2.5% )
Ambition: 3.4% of senior leadership 
roles held by Black heritage 
colleagues in the UK and US 
combined by 2025.

Employee engagement6

77%

Employee engagement score.
(2022: 74%)

Ambition: Maintain 72% in  
the employee Snapshot 
engagement index.

Customer satisfaction8 

3 out of 6

WPB markets that sustained  
top-three rank and/or improved  
in customer satisfaction.
(2022: 4 out of 6)

5 out of 6

CMB markets that sustained  
top-three rank and/or improved  
in customer satisfaction.
(2022: 5 out of 6)

Target: To be ranked top three and/or 
improve customer satisfaction rank.

Target: To be ranked top three and/or 
improve customer satisfaction rank

1  For further details of our approach to transition to net zero, methodology and PwC’s limited assurance reports on financed emissions, sustainable finance and 

investment progress, and our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel and supply chain) greenhouse gas emissions data, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-
are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.

2  In October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details 

and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 49. For details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284. 

3  This absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 business travel emissions. For further details of how this target links with the 

scorecards, see page 284. 

4  See page 53 for further details of our targets, which include combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emission targets for two emissions-

intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities. The remaining five sectors for which we have set on-balance sheet financed emissions targets are: cement; 
iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining.

5  Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. For further details, see the ESG review on page 77. For details of 

how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284. Colleagues in Canada are excluded from this disclosure to align with scorecards.

6 For further details, see the ESG review on page 79. For details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284.
7  The completion rate shown relates to the ‘Fighting financial crime’ training module in 2023 and covers permanent and non-permanent employees. The latest global 

conduct training ‘Conduct matters and taking responsibility – 2023’ was launched in December 2023 and will run through the first quarter.

8  The markets where we report rank positions for WPB and CMB – the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Mexico and Singapore – are in line with the annual 

executive scorecards. Our WPB NPS ranking in mainland China is based on 2022 results. Due to data integrity challenges, we are unable to produce a 2023 
ranking. For further details of customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 91. For further details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284.

16

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
ESG overview

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)  TCFD

The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(‘TCFD’) recommendations set an important 
framework for understanding and analysing 
climate-related risks, and we are committed 
to regular and transparent reporting to help 
communicate and track our progress. We 
will advocate the same from our customers, 
suppliers and the industry. 

We have set out our key climate-related 
financial disclosures throughout the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023 and related 
disclosures. We recognise that further work 
lies ahead as we continue to develop our 
management and reporting capabilities. In 
2023, we made certain enhancements to our 
disclosures. These include enhancing our 
merger and acquisition process to consider 
potential climate and sustainability-related 
targets, net zero transition plans and climate 
strategy, and how this relates to HSBC. In 
addition, we published our net zero  
transition plan.

We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ 
obligation under both the UK’s Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and 
Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK 
Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we 
have made disclosures consistent with the 
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended 
Disclosures, including its annexes and 
supplemental guidance, save for certain  
items, which we summarise below. 

 – For financed emissions we do not plan to 

 – We do not fully disclose impacts from 

set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with 
the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) 
guidelines by setting 2030 targets. While 
the NZBA defines 2030 as intermediate, we 
use different time horizons for climate risk 
management. For climate, we define short 
term as time periods up to 2025; medium 
term is between 2026 and 2035; and long 
term is between 2036 and 2050. These time 
periods align to the Climate Action 100+ 
disclosure framework. In 2023, we disclosed 
interim 2030 targets for financed emissions 
for a number of sectors as we outline  
on page 18. Following this, we have now 
set combined on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and facilitated emissions targets 
for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and 
gas, and power and utilities.

 – The methodology and data used for 

financed emissions is evolving and we 
expect industry guidance, market practice, 
data availability, scenarios and regulatory 
disclosure requirements to continue to 
change, along with the shape of our own 
business. We expect to periodically review 
and, if required, update our methodologies, 
baselines, scenarios, and targets to reflect 
real economy decarbonisation and evolving 
guidance and data. 

climate-related opportunities on financial 
planning and performance including on 
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, 
quantitative scenario analysis, detailed 
climate risk exposures for all sectors and 
geographies or physical risk metrics. This 
is due to transitional challenges in relation 
to data limitations, although nascent work 
is ongoing in these areas. We expect 
these data limitations to be addressed in 
the medium term as more reliable data 
becomes available and technology solutions 
are implemented.

 – We currently disclose four out of 15 

categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions including business travel, supply 
chain and financed emissions. In relation to 
financed emissions, we publish on-balance 
sheet financed emissions for a number of 
sectors as detailed on page 18. We also 
publish facilitated emissions for the oil and 
gas, and power and utilities sectors. Future 
disclosures on financed emissions and 
related risks are reliant on our customers 
publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas 
emissions, targets and plans, and related 
risks. We recognise the need to provide 
early transparency on climate disclosures 
but balance this with the recognition that 
existing data and reporting processes 
require significant enhancements. 

 For a full summary of our TCFD disclosures, 
including detailed disclosure locations for 
additional information, see pages 69 to 74.  
The additional information section on  
page 440 provides further detail.

Backing renewable connections in South America

We helped to finance one of the largest transmission lines in South America, which will 
connect central and southern Chile to renewable energy generated in the north.

Conexión is building the Kimal-Lo Aguirre initiative after winning a tender from Chile’s 
Minister of Energy in 2022. The project will aim to develop approximately 1,400km of critical 
infrastructure with the ability to carry up to 3,000 million watts of energy when scheduled  
to complete in 2029. 

We provided a $160m equity bridge loan to support China Southern Power Grid’s 
contribution to the project. China Southern Power Grid is the second largest electric power 
company in China. The funds will help unlock energy transition infrastructure required  
to support Chile in achieving its net zero goals.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

17

Strategic reportStrategic report | ESG overview

How we measure our net zero progress  TCFD

We are helping the transition to a net zero 
economy by transforming ourselves, and 
supporting our customers to make their  
own transitions. Our ambition is to align  
our financed emissions to net zero by 2050  
or sooner.

Our net zero transition plan sets out how 
we intend to harness our strengths and 
capabilities in areas where we believe we 
can support large-scale emissions reduction: 
transitioning industry, catalysing the new 
economy, and decarbonising trade and supply 
chains. The plan also provides details on our 
sectoral approach, and on our implementation 
plan to embed net zero into the way  
we operate.

We continue to track our progress against our 
ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to 
$1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 
2030, aligned to our published data dictionary, 
and our ambition to achieve net zero in our 
own operations and supply chain by 2030. 
We also recognise that green and sustainable 
finance and investment taxonomies are not 
consistent globally, and evolving taxonomies 
and practices could result in revisions in our 
sustainable finance reporting going forward. 

To date, we have set 2030 financed emissions 
targets across energy, heavy industry and 

transport, specifically for the following sectors: 
oil and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, 
steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and 
thermal coal mining. 

Following a reduction in our exposure to the 
shipping sector after the strategic sale of part 
of our European shipping portfolio in 2023, 
and work undertaken to assess the materiality 
of our remaining portfolio from a financed 
emissions perspective, we have concluded 
that the remaining exposure as of year-end 
2023 is not material enough to warrant setting 
a stand-alone target. This aligns with NZBA 
guidelines on sector inclusion for target 
setting. Due to ongoing data availability and 
quality challenges, we continue to assess our 
financed emissions for our real estate and 
agriculture sectors. 

We recognise that there is a significant 
amount of uncertainty and complexity related 
to the transition, and that progress in the real 
economy will depend heavily on external 
factors including the policy and regulatory 
landscape across markets, the speed of 
technological innovation and growth, and 
economic and geopolitical events. In addition, 
climate science and the availability and quality 
of climate data continue to evolve, and the 
net zero-aligned scenarios upon which we 
have based our approach will also update 

over time to keep pace with real economy 
developments. Emissions and broader 
customer data is also expected to improve, 
as well as approaches and standards for 
greenhouse gas accounting and target setting. 
As a result of this, we expect to regularly 
refine and update our analysis as well as 
data collection and consolidation processes 
to accommodate new data sources and 
updated methodologies and scenarios, and 
intend to be transparent on any changes 
we make and why. As an example, our ESG 
review includes recalculated 2019 and 2020 
financed emissions figures for the oil and gas, 
and power and utilities sectors. In addition, 
periodic updates to published net zero-aligned 
scenarios mean that it will be important that 
our net zero-aligned reference scenario choice, 
and by extension our target-setting approach, 
remain in step with the evolving real economy 
context and is informed by the latest science. 

In the following table, we set out our metrics 
and indicators and assess our progress 
against them. 

 For further details of our approach to measuring 
financed emissions, including scope, 
methodology, assumptions and limitations,  
see page 53.

Net zero 
implementation plan

Supporting our 
customers

Embedding net zero 
into the way we 
operate

Metrics and indicators

Progress to date

Sustainable finance and investment 
provided and facilitated ($bn)1

$294.4bn cumulative progress since 2020 (for further breakdown  
see page 49)

Number of sectors analysed for  
financed emissions2

We have set seven financed emissions targets, comprising five 
on-balance sheet and two combined financed emissions targets  
so far (see pages 53 to 62)

Thermal coal financing exposures2,3

Our thermal coal financing drawn balance exposure was approximately 
$1bn as at 31 December 2020 (for further details, see page 67)

Percentage of absolute operational 
greenhouse gas emissions reduced4

57.3% reduction in absolute greenhouse gas emissions from 2019 
baseline (see page 63)

Percentage of renewable electricity 
sourced across our operations

Increase from 48.3% in 2022 to 58.4% (see page 63)

Percentage of energy  
consumption reduced

26.3% reduction in energy consumption from 2019 baseline  
(see page 63)

Partnering for  
systemic change

Philanthropic investment in climate 
innovation ventures, renewable energy, 
and nature-based solutions

Committed $105m to our NGO partners since 2020, as part of the 
Climate Solutions Partnership (see page 68)

1  The detailed definitions of the contributing activities for sustainable finance and investment are available in our revised Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary 2023. For this, together with our ESG Data Pack and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.

2  For further details of our financed emissions methodology, exclusions and limitations, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology at  

www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. 

3  Data is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal 

Coal Exposures Methodology and PwC’s limited assurance report at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.

4  Our reported scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions of our own operations in 2023 are related to business travel. For further details on scope 1, 2 and 3, and our 
progress on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy targets, see page 64 and our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. For further details of our 
methodology and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.

18

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

ESG overview

Responsible business culture

We have a responsibility to help protect our 
customers, our communities and the integrity 
of the financial system.

91% of our colleagues to disclose their 
ethnicity, with 62% currently choosing to do 
so, where this is legally permissible. 

relief when needed. For examples of our 
programmes, see the ‘Communities’ section 
of the ESG review on page 86.

Employee matters 
We are building a responsible business culture 
that values difference, takes responsibility, 
seeks different perspectives and upholds good 
standards of conduct.

There may be times when our colleagues 
need to speak up about behaviours in the 
workplace. In the first instance we encourage 
colleagues to speak to their line manager, and 
our annual Snapshot survey showed that 86% 
of colleagues have trust in their direct manager. 
HSBC Confidential is our whistleblowing 
channel, which allows colleagues past and 
present to raise concerns confidentially and, if 
preferred, anonymously (subject to local laws). 
Our Snapshot survey showed that 80% of 
colleagues feel able to speak up when they  
see behaviours they consider to be wrong.

We promote an environment where our 
colleagues are treated with dignity and 
respect and we act where we find behaviours 
that fall short. Our inclusion index measures 
our colleagues’ sense of belonging and 
psychological safety within the organisation, 
and in 2023 this increased to 78%. 

We aspire to be an organisation that is 
representative of the communities in which we 
serve. We have committed to achieving a 35% 
representation of women in senior leadership 
roles (classified as those at band 3 and above 
in our global career band structure) by 2025. 
We remain on track, having achieved 34.1% 
in 2023.

We aspire to achieve a 3.4% representation of 
Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership 
roles across the UK and US combined by 
2025. We are on track to achieve this, having 
increased our representation to 3.0% this year. 
We continue to make progress but we know 
there is more to be done. 

To ensure we set representation goals that are 
locally relevant, we enable our employees to 
self-disclose ethnicity data. We have enabled 

The table below outlines high-level 
diversity metrics. 

All employees

Male

Female

Senior leadership1

Male

Female

Holdings Board

Male

Female

48%

52%

66%

34%

53%

47%

1  Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 
and above in our global career band structure.

 For further details of how we look after our 
people, including our diversity targets, how we 
encourage our employees to speak up, and our 
approach to employee conduct, see the Social 
section of the ESG review on page 75.

Listening to our customers
We continue to listen, learn and act on our 
customers’ feedback. We have implemented 
the net promoter system, enabling us to 
share customer feedback with our front-line 
teams and allowing them to respond directly 
to customers. We also have dedicated global 
forums to promote continuous improvement 
of our customers’ experience. 

Social matters
We invest in the long-term prosperity of 
the communities where we operate. We 
aim to provide people, especially those in 
marginalised and vulnerable communities, 
with the skills and knowledge needed to 
thrive through the transition to a sustainable 
future. For this reason, we focus our support 
on programmes that help build inclusion and 
resilience. We also support climate solutions 
and innovation, and contribute to disaster 

Human rights 
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we 
recognise the role of business in respecting 
human rights. Our approach is guided by 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on 
Responsible Business Conduct. Our Human 
Rights Statement, and annual statements 
under the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, are 
available on www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
centre. For further details of our approach, see 
the ‘Human rights’ section of the ESG review 
on page 89.

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
We are required to comply with all applicable 
anti-bribery and corruption laws in every 
market and jurisdiction in which we operate 
while focusing on the spirit of relevant 
laws and regulations to demonstrate our 
commitment to ethical behaviours and 
conduct as part of our environmental, social 
and corporate governance.

Environmental matters
For details of our climate ambition and carbon 
emission metrics, see the ESG review on  
page 44. 

Group non-financial and sustainability 
information statement
This section primarily covers Group non-
financial and sustainability information as 
required by applicable regulations. Other 
related information can be found as follows:

 For further details of our key performance 
indicators, see page 1. 
 For further details of our business model,  
see page 4.
 For further details of our principal risks and 
how they are managed, see pages 37 to 39.
 For further details of our TCFD disclosures, 
including alignment with sections 414CA and 
414CB of the Companies Act 2006, see pages 
69 to 74.

Training colleagues and partners on digital accessibility 

With ‘Digitise’ being one of our strategic pillars, we are committed to improving how our 
customers can access our online and mobile services. We review against the Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines for our websites in 23 markets and mobile apps in 18 markets, and 
engaged with more than 10,000 colleagues, partners and companies through our digital 
accessibility training and awareness programme in 2023. To share best practice externally, 
HSBC sponsored and hosted AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro at our head office in the UK. Our work 
on digital accessibility was recognised through 11 awards in 2023, including in Hong Kong, 
where we were the only financial services provider to be recognised for our core banking apps.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

19

Strategic reportStrategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders

Board decision making and 
engagement with stakeholders 

The Board is committed to effective engagement with all our  
stakeholders and seeks to understand their interests and the  
impacts on them when making decisions.

Section 172(1) statement

This section, from pages 20 to 23, forms our 
section 172(1) statement. It describes how 
the Directors have performed their duty 
to promote the success of the company, 
including how they have considered 
and engaged with stakeholders and, in 
particular, how they have taken account of 
the matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to 
(f) of the Companies Act 2006. The Board 
continued to focus on its engagement with 

our key stakeholders, acknowledging that this 
engagement is core to being a responsible 
business and furthers the fulfilment of our 
strategy. In discharging their responsibilities, 
the Directors sought to understand, and have 
regard to, the interests and priorities of the 
Group’s key stakeholders, including in relation 
to material decisions that were taken by the 
Board during the course of the year.

The following table includes instances where 
the Directors have had regard to section 172(1) 
factors (which are not mutually exclusive) 
when discussing certain matters in Board 
meetings and taking decisions where relevant. 
Some of these instances are explained in more 
detail in this section 172(1) statement and in 
the report of the Directors.

Section 172(1) factor

Where section 172(1) factor featured in Board considerations

a

b

c

d

e

f

Likely consequences of any 
decision in the long term

 – Group strategy – setting and monitoring
 – Mergers and acquisitions activity
 – Share capital activity – dividend and buy-back

Interests of our employees

 – Workforce engagement non-executive Director programme
 – Directors’ workforce engagement activities
 – Annual employee Snapshot survey

The need to foster our business 
relationships with suppliers, 
customers and others

 – Annual statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act and human rights disclosure approvals
 – Directors’ stakeholder engagement activities
 – Regular Board reports from Directors and executives

Impact of our operations on the 
community and the environment

 – Directors’ engagement with community initiatives
 – Net zero transition plan
 – Participation at ESG events such as COP28 and representation at the  

World Economic Forum

Our desire to maintain a reputation 
for high standards of business 
conduct

 – The Financial Conduct Authority’s new Consumer Duty obligations
 – Global mandatory training
 – Regular engagement with global regulators including presentations by the Prudential 

Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority to the Board

Acting fairly between members of 
the company

 – Annual General Meeting and Hong Kong Informal Shareholders’ Meeting
 – Retail shareholder activities and investor policies’ approvals
 – Directors’ engagement with top investors

During 2023, the Board continued with an 
active stakeholder engagement programme, 
meeting numerous stakeholders in several 
international locations. For further details of 
how we engaged with our stakeholders, see 
pages 21 and 257.

On pages 22 and 23, we describe how the 
Board exercises its Directors’ section 172(1) 
duty and takes into account the impact on 
relevant stakeholders when making principal 
decisions in order to support and deliver on 
the Group’s strategy.

20

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders

Directors’ key engagements with stakeholders in 2023

Stakeholders

Engagement

Impact and outcomes

Customers
We recognise that the  
greater our understanding  
of our customers’ needs,  
the better we can help 
support them to achieve  
their financial aims and 
succeed in our purpose  
and strategy.

 – Engagement events with business customers, 

including customers of HSBC Innovation Banking, to 
discuss challenges and opportunities in key markets

 – Meetings with business customers to discuss plans 

 – The Board’s continued engagement with customers and 
potential customers around the world helps to further the 
Board’s understanding of their purposes and business needs, 
and how they can be supported to achieve their varied goals. 

regarding the transition to net zero

 – Meetings with customers help the Board understand how the 

 – Board reporting on retail customer surveys including 

net promoter scores

 – Visits to branches in the UK, Hong Kong and India to 

better understand customers’ changing needs

Group can help customers transition to net zero.

 – Customer surveys provide insights into how the Group  

can drive meaningful improvements in customer  
propositions outcomes.

 – Retail branch visits help the Board see the positive impact of 
Group initiatives such as the No Fixed Address and Survivor 
Bank account propositions, and how opportunities are being 
realised for customers.

 – Meeting with colleagues across jurisdictions allowed  
the Board to hear first-hand the employee voice on  
important issues. 

 – These interactions helped to ensure continued connectivity 
with the workforce, and inform the Board’s decision making 
around people-specific matters. Employee engagement also 
helps the Board to put into perspective employee Snapshot 
survey results.

 – Meeting with employee directors of Group subsidiaries helped 
to assure the Board that a consistent approach to governance 
has been adopted across the Group.

 – Regular interactions with institutional and retail investors 

throughout the year helped the Board understand investor 
sentiment on material matters, such as strategy delivery and 
transition to net zero, and gauge investors’ continued support 
for the Group. 

Employees
We want to continue to be 
a positive place to work 
and build careers, with 
the success of the Group’s 
strategy dependent upon 
having motivated people 
with the expertise and skills 
required to deliver it.

 – Employee events, including leadership forums, 
webcasts, townhalls, global jams, off-sites and 
employee Exchanges, as well as events that form  
part of the workforce engagement non-executive 
Director programme

 – Interaction with respective employee resource groups 

across multiple events in many jurisdictions

 – Participation in the annual Non-Executive Director 

Summit in Hong Kong

Investors
We seek to understand 
investor needs and  
sentiment through ongoing 
dialogue and a variety of 
engagements with both retail 
and institutional investors.

 – Numerous meetings with analysts and several 
investor roadshows to discuss interim and  
year-end results

 – Remuneration Committee Chair investor meetings 

with top investors and proxy advisers

 – Annual retail investor events such as the AGM in  
the UK and the Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in 
Hong Kong

 – Board meeting attendance by one of our largest 

investors to discuss Group strategic execution and 
the wider market outlook

Communities
We seek to play an  
important role in supporting 
the communities in which  
we operate through our 
corporate social  
responsibility and broader 
engagement activities.

Regulators and 
governments
Maintaining constructive 
dialogue and relations with 
the relevant authorities in  
the markets in which we 
operate helps support  
the achievement of our 
strategic aims. 

Suppliers
We engage with suppliers, 
which helps us operate our 
business effectively and 
execute our strategy.

 – Meetings with charities and NGOs on topics such 
as financial education for rural women in India, 
reintroducing biodiversity and endangered species 
in Europe and financial inclusion and resilience of 
people facing homelessness in the UK

 – The Directors’ participation at a range of community initiatives 
helped them to understand the effect the Group has on local 
communities as an employer, sponsor, collaborator and 
supporter, and helped to break down barriers for certain 
communities to access our products. 

 – Meetings with Shelter to discuss the Group’s 

 – The Board’s interaction with, and understanding of, the 

partnership and to hear about the impact of the  
Hero Partnership initiative

 – Forums, summits and roundtables supporting  

ESG causes, such as the Abu Dhabi Sustainability 
Week, COP28, New York Climate Week and London 
Climate Action Week

 – Meetings with members of the Sustainable Markets 

Initiative Council to discuss future priorities

communities in which the Group operates helped the Board 
appreciate how the Group can influence meaningful change, 
including by educating, encouraging broader thinking, helping 
to shape policy and formulating solutions, creating supportive 
environments, and helping to achieve net zero ambitions.

 – Various meetings across our key markets with heads 

 – Frequent and varied engagements between the Board and 

of state, international leaders and government 
officials including ministers and ambassadors

 – Regular meetings with, and presentations from,  
our many regulators, including in the UK and  
Hong Kong, and elsewhere

heads of state, international leaders, government officials and 
regulators provide an opportunity for open dialogue. It is also 
critical in ensuring that the Board understands and continues 
to meet its regulatory obligations.

 – Meeting with international officials allows the Board to 

communicate the Group’s strategy, perspectives and insights 
while ensuring that Directors remain abreast of political and 
regulatory developments. It also allows the Board to share 
perspectives on industry best practices.

 – Regular reports and updates to the Board from the 
Group Chief Operating Officer on supplier matters

 – Meetings with key technology suppliers to discuss 

the Group’s innovation ambitions and how they could 
further support HSBC’s data requirements, including 
to inform and support its net zero ambitions

 – Meetings with key suppliers in sectors such as  

real estate

 – Meeting with our suppliers helps the Directors understand our 
suppliers’ challenges and how we can work collaboratively to 
succeed, including in digitising at scale and achieving our net 
zero ambitions.

 – It is key for the Board to understand the Group’s supply chain 
and how suppliers’ operations are aligned to our purpose and 
values. Such reporting and engagement supports the Board 
when approving the annual statement under the UK Modern 
Slavery Act.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

21

Strategic reportStrategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders

Principal strategic decisions

The Board operates having regard to the duties of the Directors, including the relevant matters set out in section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the Companies Act 
2006. A key focus for the Board is setting, and monitoring execution against, the Group strategy. Principal decisions taken by the Board consider 
how the decision furthers the Group purpose, and aligns with one or all of the strategic pillars: ‘Focus’, ‘Digitise’, ‘Energise’ and ‘Transition’.

The following examples demonstrate how the Board operated having regard to the duties of the Directors. Good governance practices adopted by 
the Board facilitate its key decision taking. Governance features as an agenda item at all scheduled Board meetings. Papers presented to the Board 
for consideration are expected to follow a template to help ensure that Directors get the right level of information to take informed decisions in 
keeping with their duties. The template requests authors to, among others things, describe the extent to which relevant stakeholders are engaged 
with, or impacted by, the matter under consideration, and whether this has influenced the recommendation to the Board.

Group strategy 

As part of the Board’s responsibility to set, 
and monitor execution against, HSBC’s 
strategy, Directors take into consideration 
the Group’s strategies across the global 
businesses and legal entities. The Board 
continued to oversee the progression of the 
Group’s divestment of non-core operations 
while targeting select acquisitions. One 
such principal decision taken during the year 
was the acquisition by HSBC UK Bank plc 
of SVB UK. In considering this opportunity, 
the Board took into account the views of 
key stakeholders, including UK regulators 
and the government. It also considered 
the potential impact of the acquisition on 
SVB UK customers, principally that their 
banking services would be maintained, 
backed by the strength, safety and security 
of HSBC. The Board also considered how 
the acquisition would enhance shareholder 
value, strengthen our CMB franchise, and 
further its ability to serve innovation and 
fast-growing firms in the technology and 
life sciences sectors, supporting our ‘Focus’ 
strategic pillar. Following the acquisition 
of SVB UK, HSBC Innovation Banking was 

launched in June 2023. Senior management 
embarked on a programme of communication 
and interactions with customers, employees 
and investors by way of townhalls and Q&A 
sessions to help key stakeholders understand 
the rationale for the transaction and reiterate 
HSBC’s support for its customers. 

The Board continued its monitoring and 
oversight of the impacts flowing from its 
principal strategic decisions taken in the 
current and previous years, in particular the 
sale of the retail banking operations in France 
and the planned sale of the banking business 
in Canada. The Board met in order to agree 
amended terms to complete our France 
business sale. It was updated regularly, and 
provided input as appropriate, on actions 
required to ensure the successful completion 
of these transactions. It also liaised with 
relevant stakeholders such as governments, 
regulators, work councils, employees and 
customers, as necessary. 

In this way, the Board effectively carried out 
its duties and assured itself that the principal 

strategic decisions taken were, and continue 
to be, most likely to promote the long-term 
success of the company. 

During the course of the year, the Board 
continued a targeted focus on receiving 
relevant and succinct management 
information, including key metrics and 
data, to help demonstrate progress against 
strategic areas of interest. The Board 
considered how it should be informed, in 
the most transparent way, on the evolution 
of the Group’s strategy from transformation 
to one focused on growth. The Board has 
agreed key performance indicators to 
help keep it informed on relevant areas of 
strategic progress, all of which are focused 
on four overarching perspectives: external 
commitments/key outcomes; key business 
drivers; sustainable financial performance; and 
the ability to transform and license to operate. 
These indicators will also be used to foster a 
culture of performance and discipline across 
the organisation and will be factored into 
executive Directors’ scorecards.

Sustainability 

The Board is responsible for the oversight of the 
Group’s sustainability and ESG strategy setting 
and delivery, and monitors progress against 
execution of our net zero ambitions. Key 
outcomes are reviewed regularly by the Board. 
Directors also received training on ESG-related 
matters as part of their ongoing development. 

The Board’s understanding of the progress 
against the Group’s ESG strategy was informed 
by the ESG dashboard. The data provided in 
this dashboard included key metrics that help 
the Board to monitor progress against the 
Group’s ESG ambitions, including the transition 
to net zero, building inclusion and resilience, 
and acting responsibly. Additional details were 
provided on metrics relating to the roll-out of 
the Group’s supplier code of conduct, female 
entrepreneurship and gender diversity in  
senior roles.

In 2023, the Board gave the Group Executive 
Committee feedback on the need to better 

define core areas of the Group’s sustainability 
execution programme, a Group-wide 
programme to enable the delivery of our 
sustainability agenda. The core areas 
included accountability, governance, 
capability, investment in infrastructure and 
data. Governance was enhanced by the 
establishment of the Sustainability Execution 
Committee, with responsibility to oversee 
delivery of the sustainability execution 
programme. This committee reports to the 
Group Executive Committee which receives 
regular updates on progress towards 
fulfilment of our net zero ambitions. It takes 
into account key stakeholder considerations 
and potential impacts on the Group’s strategic 
direction for sustainability, and reports these 
to the Board, helping Directors take relevant 
decisions. In addition, three non-executive 
Directors participated in climate advisory 
panel meetings with external subject matter 
experts to discuss sustainability, including the 
Group’s net zero transition plan. 

Appreciating the importance of the Group’s 
commitment to publish a net zero transition 
plan, the Board took the decision to establish 
a dedicated sub-group with responsibility 
for overseeing its finalisation, taking into 
consideration the implications for all our 
stakeholders and communication of the plan 
to the market. This sub-group included four 
non-executive Directors, the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Chief Financial 
Officer, as well as other members of senior 
management. It took into consideration the 
short-term consequences on stakeholders, 
particularly for customers and investors, and 
balanced these against long-term benefits for 
the Group, the society in which we live, and 
the success of the company as a whole for 
the long term. Recommendations made to the 
Board by the sub-group, including stakeholder 
impacts, helped to inform the Board’s 
deliberations, leading to its final approval of 
the net zero transition plan, published  
in January 2024.

22

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders

Technology 

In support of the strategic pillar ‘Digitise’, the 
Board continued its oversight of the Group’s 
technology strategy, Vision 27, recognising 
that technology is an integral part of business 
success. In overseeing legal entity and global 
business strategies, the Board acts to promote 
connectivity of technology strategies across 
the organisation. 

To help assure the Board that the Vision 27 
initiatives remained strategically aligned and 
appropriately resourced, it supported the 
appointment of a third-party professional 
services firm to conduct a review. The third 
party engaged with employees from across 

the global businesses and functions to explore 
how the organisation was executing various 
technological initiatives. 

The third party’s review was facilitated by its 
attendance at the newly formed technology 
steering committee, overseen by the Board’s 
Technology Governance Working Group. 
This steering committee comprised senior 
management including global business 
representatives to ensure that business views 
were well represented. The insights gained 
from the steering committee helped to form 
its reports to the Technology Governance 
Working Group, which in turn reports to the 

Board. It also attended a Board meeting in 
person to discuss the independent review. The 
findings from the report helped deepen the 
Board’s understanding of contributing factors 
to the success of Vision 27. 

As a result of the review and related Board 
discussions, in order to enhance governance 
around overseeing the progress of the Group’s 
long-term technology strategy, the Board 
agreed that a new Board committee will be 
established in 2024 in place of the Technology 
Governance Working Group, to be chaired by 
a non-executive Director.

Financial performance and capital returns 

When taking its decision to approve the 
annual financial resource plan, the Board 
engaged in active deliberation, taking into 
account stakeholders’ perspectives, including 
customers, employees and investors, as 
well as market perception and regulatory 
expectations. The Board considered the 
alignment between the Group’s medium-term 
strategic and investment plans with projected 
performance throughout the annual financial 
resource plan. In addition, consideration 
was given to scenario analysis related to the 
macroeconomic and geopolitical environment 
to ascertain the risks – and potential mitigating 
actions – to best protect the Group’s financial 
performance and capital returns. 

In 2023, the Board adopted a dividend 
policy designed to provide sustainable cash 

dividends, while retaining the flexibility to 
invest and grow the business in the future, 
supplemented by additional shareholder 
distributions, if appropriate. To this end, in 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2022, the 
Board approved the Group’s announcement 
regarding its intention to revert to paying 
quarterly dividends from the first quarter of 
2023. Following discussion at the Board, 
subject to the completion of the sale of the 
banking business in Canada, the Board 
agreed its intention to consider the payment 
of a special dividend of $0.21 per share as 
a priority use of the proceeds generated 
by the completion of the transaction. On 
21 February 2023, an interim dividend of 
$0.23 per share for the 2022 full-year was 
announced, followed by interim dividends of 
$0.10 each on 2 May 2023, 1 August 2023 and 

30 October 2023. In approving the payment of 
the dividends, the Board took into account the 
interests of the shareholders and sought to act 
in the best interests of the members as a whole.

In addition to dividend payments, HSBC 
undertook share buy-backs of up to $2bn each 
commencing on 10 May 2023 and 3 August 
2023, and commenced a further buy-back of 
up to $3bn on 1 November 2023. In considering 
the buy-backs, the Board (or the Chairman’s 
Committee with delegated authority from the 
Board) took into account its stated intention 
to consider buy-backs subject to appropriate 
capital levels, the views of its regulators with 
regard to its regulatory capital requirements 
and, in particular, the benefit to shareholders, 
and determined that the buy-backs would 
promote the success of the company.

People and culture 

Each Board meeting starts with a culture 
moment – a standing agenda item for one 
of the Board members, on a rotational basis, 
to share insights into their perceptions 
on how the Group culture is being lived. 
These perceptions help the Board to fulfil 
its responsibility of monitoring the Group’s 
culture. They also serve to shape and frame 
discussions more generally in Board meetings. 

The Board regularly considers updates on 
people and the workforce, supported by 
key metrics and culture insights. These 
updates help the Board understand employee 
sentiment, including any upward or downward 
trends, which informs considerations of how 
the tone from the top is being embedded. 
Regular reporting to the Board and/or its 
committees from the Group Chief Human 
Resources Officer includes metrics on attrition, 
whistleblowing, escalations, employee 
understanding of strategy and pay sentiment 
across our legal entities. This, together with the 
annual Snapshot survey results, demonstrate 

people-related challenges and successes 
across the Group and legal entities. In these 
ways the Board broadens its understanding of 
the interests of our employees, which in turn 
helps to shape its decisions or add value when 
asked to approve HR policy and other people-
related matters.

The dedicated workforce engagement 
non-executive Director provides a regular 
report to Board meetings, which together 
with the Directors’ own participation in 
arranged employment engagement activities, 
strengthen the Board’s appreciation of what 
matters to employees, and help to inform 
decisions related to HR and people matters. 
An example of people and culture data 
and engagements assisting Board decision 
making in 2023 included the discussion held 
by the Board on a strategic focus around ‘the 
workforce of the future’ programme. This 
programme is looking at the key workforce 
skills necessary for the future, the role of 
technology in the workplace and development 

of a plan for its implementation. For further 
details of how we structure engagement 
between the Board and the workforce,  
see page 257.

The Board took the decision in 2023 to 
approve HSBC’s new headquarters and 
to move to the new Panorama St Paul’s 
development. This decision was facilitated 
by people data gathered from the Snapshot 
survey and other methods that demonstrated 
a desire from colleagues to continue to create 
an agile and technologically fit-for-purpose 
environment to work and succeed together. 
The Board took this decision knowing that a 
new purpose-built office and the continuation 
of a hybrid working model would enable the 
Group to continue to attract top talent, and 
provide them with collaboration spaces to 
support their success and well-being. The 
Board concluded the new headquarters would 
be in the best interests of the company for the 
long term. For further details of the new head 
office, see page 99.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

23

Strategic reportStrategic report 

Remuneration

The Group’s financial and strategic performance is 
reflected in remuneration outcomes for colleagues.

Our reward principles and commitments to colleagues

Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional 
experience to colleagues so that we sustain 
our performance in competitive markets. Our 
reward principles and commitments centre on 
rewarding colleagues responsibly, recognising 
their success and supporting colleagues  
to grow.

Pay is a critical part of our proposition. We 
were encouraged by a nine percentage 
point improvement to 52% in colleagues’ 
perceptions they are paid fairly because of 
actions we took through 2022. The Group 
Remuneration Committee remain very 
focused on the need to improve this further. 
For 2024, we are putting more structure in 
place to improve transparency and clarity 
about how we make pay decisions.

Rewarding colleagues responsibly
Fixed pay increases for 2024 were determined 
based on consistent principles to help address 
wage inflation in the markets where  
we operate.

As part of the 2023 pay review we introduced 
fixed pay ranges to help managers make 
fair and competitive fixed pay decisions and 
improve clarity for colleagues.

We will award an overall global fixed pay 
increase of 4.4% in 2024, compared with 5.5% 
for the previous year, reflecting lower wage 
inflation in many markets. 

The level of increases vary by market, 
depending on the economic situation and 
individual roles.

Variable pay pool 
($m)
($m)

To ensure fixed pay levels provide financial 
security to colleagues, we established Living 
Wage benchmarks for every market and have 
been certified by the Fair Wage Network as 
a global Living Wage employer for 2024. This 
is an important commitment we make to our 
employees and the communities in which we 
operate to help ensure we pay responsibly and 
provide financial security.

More than 95% of colleagues have private 
medical insurance, a retirement plan and life 
insurance.

Recognising colleagues’ success
The Group Remuneration Committee 
determined an overall variable pay pool for 
Group employees of $3,774m (2022: $3,359m). 
This followed a review of our performance 
against financial and non-financial metrics set 
out in the Group risk framework. 

Individual variable pay outcomes varied 
significantly depending on role, business area 
and performance. Our highest performers 
and those who role-model our values-aligned 
behaviours received the largest increases in 
variable pay compared with the previous year. 

2023

2022

3,774

3,359

From 2024, we will introduce a new variable 
pay structure for over 150,000 junior and 
middle management colleagues, providing 
2019
more clarity around the variable pay levels 
for on-target performance, while retaining 
flexibility to differentiate outcomes  
for performance.

Supporting colleagues to grow
Guided by data and colleague feedback,  
the pillars of our well-being programme  
are mental, physical, financial and social  
well-being.

In our 2023 employee Snapshot survey, 83% 
of employees said their mental health was 
positive, while all measures of physical well-
being (exercise, sleep, nutrition) have improved. 
For the second year running, HSBC has been 
ranked top tier for mental health in the global 
CCLA Corporate Mental Health Benchmark. 

 For details of how the Group Remuneration 
Committee sets the pool, see page 279.

Remuneration for our executive Directors

Variable pay for our executive Directors is 
driven by achievement against performance 
scorecards set by the Group Remuneration 
Committee at the start of the year to align pay 
outcomes with the delivery of our strategy  
and plan.

The Committee considered carefully the 
impact of strategic transactions and one-offs 
on the Group’s financial performance in 2023. 
Consistent with the approach in prior years, 
the Committee judged that it was appropriate 
to assess financial performance for the 
purpose of the annual scorecard excluding 
these items, to ensure that out-turns were not 
impacted by one-offs.

Reflecting on the overall risk management 
in the year and in respect of the PRA Notice 
relating to compliance with the UK Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme and related 
Depositor Protection rules, the Committee 
applied a downward adjustment of 7.5% to 
Noel Quinn’s annual incentive outcome.

Executive Directors’ scorecard outcomes 
(% of maximum opportunity)

2023 annual incentive

Group Chief Executive

Group Chief Financial Officer

70.24%

76.75%

The Committee also carefully considered 
the executive Directors’ pay outcomes in the 
context of pay decisions made for the wider 
workforce and determined that these were an 
appropriate reflection of Group, business and 
individual performance delivered in 2023.

 Details of the current executive Directors’ 
remuneration policy can be found on pages 257 
to 265 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2021.

2021–2023 long-term incentive1

Group Chief Executive

75.00%

1  The current Group Chief Financial Officer did not 
participate in the 2021–2023 long-term incentive.

 For details of Directors’ pay and performance for 
2023, see the Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 284.

24

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial overview

Financial overview

In assessing the Group’s financial performance, management uses a range  
of financial measures that focus on the delivery of sustainable returns for  
our shareholders and maintaining our financial strength.

Executive summary

Our financial performance demonstrates 
the execution of our strategy and the 
strengthened platform for growth, and  
in 2023 it was favourably impacted by a higher 
global interest rate environment.

these in 2023, and – where relevant – our 
expectations for 2024 and beyond. We also 
include a more detailed table covering further 
key financial metrics that we consider insightful 
for understanding the Group’s performance.

that has driven the outcomes of our 
financial targets. It covers income statement 
performance on both a reported and constant 
currency basis, and the main factors impacting 
the strength of our balance sheet, capital and 
liquidity position. 

This section sets out our key Group financial 
targets and the progress we made towards 

The Group financial results that follow provide 
more detailed insight into the performance 

Group financial targets

Return on average tangible equity

14.6%

(2022: 10.0%)

In 2023, RoTE was 14.6%, an increase of 
4.6 percentage points from 2022. Excluding 
the impact of strategic transactions and the 
impairment of our investment in BoCom, RoTE 
was 15.6%.

From 2024, we intend to revise the 
adjustments made to RoTE to exclude all 
notable items, improving alignment with the 
treatment of notable items in our other income 
statement disclosures. On this basis, we 
continue to target a RoTE in the mid-teens for 
2024. If this basis had been adopted for 2023, 
our RoTE excluding notable items would have 
been 16.2%. 

Our guidance reflects our current outlook 
for the global macroeconomic environment, 
including customer and financial  
markets activity.

Target basis operating expenses

$31.6bn

(2022: $29.8bn)

In 2023, the Group targeted cost growth of 
approximately 3% on a target basis. Our target 
basis excluded the impact of foreign currency 
translation differences, notable items and 
the impact of retranslating the 2022 results 
of hyperinflationary economies at constant 
currency, as well as cost growth from our 
acquisition of SVB UK and related  
investments internationally. 

primarily due to technology expenditure, 
which we did not mitigate. We also increased 
performance-related pay, which resulted in 
a further rise of around 1%. Costs grew by 
an additional 1%, primarily due to a charge 
relating to the FDIC special assessment.

In 2024, we will target growth of 
approximately 5% compared with 2023, on a 
target basis (2023: $31.1bn). This target reflects 
our current business plan for 2024, and 
includes an increase in staff compensation, 
higher technology spend and investment for 
growth and efficiency, in part mitigated by 
cost savings from actions taken during 2023.

Our cost target basis for 2024 excludes the 
direct cost impact of the disposal in France 
and the planned disposal in Canada from the 
2023 baseline. It is measured on a constant 
currency basis and excludes notable items 
and the impact of retranslating the prior year 
results of hyperinflationary economies at 
constant currency.

Capital and dividend policy
CET1 ratio

14.8%

Dividend payout ratio

50%

At 31 December 2023, our CET1 capital 
ratio was 14.8%, which was higher than our 
medium-term target range of 14% to 14.5%. 
We intend to continue to manage the CET1 
ratio to within this range.

exclude from earnings per share material 
notable items and related impacts. See page 
131 for our calculation of earnings per share.

We aim to retain our dividend payout ratio 
of 50% for 2024, excluding material notable 
items and related impacts. From 2024 this 
will be disclosed as our ‘dividend payout ratio 
target basis’.

Interest rate management strategy
Our ambition is to maintain strong, resilient 
returns through the interest rate cycle. As 
part of our balance sheet structural hedging 
and risk management strategy we continue 
to seek opportunities to stabilise future 
earnings and mitigate downside risk from 
interest rate movements. During 2023, 
we took actions to increase the size and 
duration of our structural hedge. This has 
the effect of stabilising our future earnings 
and contributed to a reduction in the 
sensitivity of banking net interest income 
(‘NII’), a new alternative performance 
measure introduced in 2023, from changes 
in interest rates. 

Banking NII adjusts our NII, primarily for 
the impact of funding trading and fair value 
activities reported in interest expense. It 
represents the Group’s banking revenue 
that is directly impacted by changes in 
interest rates. To supplement banking NII, 
we also provide banking NII sensitivity to 
demonstrate our revenue sensitivity to 
interest rate movements. Management 
uses these measures to determine the 
deployment of our surplus funding, and to 
help optimise our structural hedging and 
risk management actions.

In 2023, target basis cost growth was 
6% compared with 2022. In addition to 
our targeted growth of 3%, there was an 
incremental rise of approximately 1%, 

The total dividend per share in 2023 of $0.61 
resulted in a dividend payout ratio of 50% 
of earnings per share. For the purposes of 
computing our dividend payout ratio, we 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

25

Strategic report 
 
Strategic report | Financial overview

Key financial metrics

Reported results

Profit before tax ($m)

Profit after tax ($m)

Cost efficiency ratio (%)

Net interest margin (%)

Basic earnings per share ($)

Diluted earnings per share ($)

Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)

Dividend payout ratio (%)2

Alternative performance measures

Constant currency profit before tax ($m)

Constant currency cost efficiency ratio (%)

Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average 
gross loans and advances to customers (%)

Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average 
gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale (%)

Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts ($)

Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (%)

Return on average tangible equity (%)

Return on average tangible equity excluding strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom (%)

Target basis operating expenses ($m)

Balance sheet

Total assets ($m)

Net loans and advances to customers ($m)

Customer accounts ($m)

Average interest-earning assets ($m)

Loans and advances to customers as % of customer accounts (%)

Total shareholders’ equity ($m)

Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity ($m)

Net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($)

Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($)

Capital, leverage and liquidity

Common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%)3

Risk-weighted assets ($m)3,4

Total capital ratio (%)3,4

Leverage ratio (%)3,4

High-quality liquid assets (liquidity value) ($m)4,5

Liquidity coverage ratio (%)4,5

Net stable funding ratio (%)4,5

Share count

2021

18,906

14,693

69.9

1.20

0.62

0.62

0.25

40

17,400

70.0

(0.07)

(0.07)

N/A

7.1

8.3

N/A

N/A

2021

2,957,939

1,045,814

1,710,574

2,209,513

61.1

198,250

158,193

8.76

7.88

For the year ended

2023

30,348

24,559

48.5

1.66

1.15

1.14

0.61

50

20221

17,058

16,249

64.6

1.42

0.72

0.72

0.32

44

30,348

16,541

48.5

0.36

0.33

1.22

13.6

14.6

15.6

64.8

0.36

0.35

N/A

9.0

10.0

11.3

31,614

29,811

At 31 December

2023

20221

3,038,677

2,949,286

923,561

1,570,303

2,143,758

58.8

177,833

146,927

8.01

7.44

938,535

1,611,647

2,161,746

58.2

185,329

155,710

8.82

8.19

14.8

854,114

20.0

5.6

14.2

15.8

839,720

838,263

19.3

5.8

21.2

5.2

647,505

647,046

688,209

136

133

132

136

139

N/A

Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding (millions)

Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential 
ordinary shares (millions)

19,006

19,135

19,739

19,876

20,073

20,189

Average basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding (millions)

19,478

19,849

20,197

For reconciliation and analysis of our reported results on a constant currency basis, including lists of notable items, see page 111. Definitions and calculations of other 
alternative performance measures are included in ‘Reconciliation of alternative performance measures’ on page 130.
1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended 31 

December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

2  In 2023, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts, including all associated income statement impacts relating to those 

items. In 2022, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for the loss on classification to held for sale of our retail banking business in France, items relating to the planned 
sale of our banking business in Canada, and the recognition of certain deferred tax assets. No items were adjusted for in 2021.

3  Unless otherwise stated, regulatory capital ratios and requirements are based on the transitional arrangements of the Capital Requirements Regulation in force at the 
time. References to EU regulations and directives (including technical standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK‘s version of such regulation or 
directive, as onshored into UK law under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be subsequently amended under UK law.

4  Regulatory numbers and ratios are as presented at the date of reporting. Small changes may exist between these numbers and ratios and those submitted in 

regulatory filings. Where differences are significant, we may restate in subsequent periods.

5  The liquidity coverage ratio is based on the average value of the preceding 12 months. The net stable funding ratio is based on the average value of four preceding quarters. 

26

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial overview

Basis of presentation

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’
On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 
‘Insurance Contracts’. As required by the 
standard, the Group applied the requirements 
retrospectively with comparative data 
previously published under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance 
Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022 
transition date.

 For further details, see ‘Changes to presentation 
from 1 January 2023’ on page 100.

Changes to our reporting framework
On 1 January 2023, we updated our financial 
reporting framework. We no longer report 
‘adjusted’ results, which excluded the 
impact of both foreign currency translation 
differences and significant items. Instead, we 
compute constant currency performance by 
adjusting comparative reported results only 
for the effects of foreign currency translation 
differences between the relevant periods. 

Constant currency performance
Constant currency performance is computed 
by adjusting reported results of comparative 

Reported results (vs 2022)

Reported profit
Reported profit before tax of $30.3bn was 
$13.3bn higher. This was driven by a $15.4bn 
increase in revenue, primarily due to growth 
in net interest income, reflecting the impact of 
interest rate rises. The increase also included 
a provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised on 
the acquisition of SVB UK in 2023, as well as 
a year-on-year favourable impact of $2.5bn 
associated with the sale of our retail banking 
operations in France. This reflected an initial 
impairment loss of $2.3bn following the initial 
classification of these operations as held 
for sale in 2022, a reversal of $2.1bn in the 
first quarter of 2023 as the sale became less 
certain, and a subsequent impairment loss of 
$2.0bn as we reclassified these operations as 
held for sale in the fourth quarter of 2023. 

These increases were in part offset by an 
impairment charge in 2023 of $3.0bn relating 
to our investment in BoCom. This impairment 
reflected a reduction to the accounting 
value-in-use in line with recent market-wide 
developments in mainland China. For further 
details, see page 101. This impairment will 
have no material impact on HSBC’s capital, 
capital ratios or distribution capacity and 
therefore no impact on dividends or share 
buy-backs. Reported operating expenses 
decreased, primarily reflecting a reduction in 
restructuring and other related costs following 
the completion of our cost-saving programme 
at the end of 2022, which mitigated growth 
notably from higher technology spend, an 
increase in the performance-related pay 

periods for the effects of foreign currency 
translation differences, which distort period-
on-period comparisons.

We consider constant currency performance 
to provide useful information for investors by 
aligning internal and external reporting, and 
reflecting how management assesses period-
on-period performance.

Material notable items are a subset of 
notable items, which are excluded from our 
earnings per share measure for the purposes 
of calculating our dividend payout ratio, and 
from 2024 will be referred to as on a ‘dividend 
payout ratio target basis’. Categorisation as a 
material notable is dependent on the nature 
of each item in conjunction with the financial 
impact on the Group’s income statement.

The results of our global businesses are 
presented on a constant currency basis, which 
is consistent with how we manage and assess 
global business performance.

Notable items
We separately disclose ‘notable items‘, which 
are components of our income statement that 
management would consider as outside the 
normal course of business and generally  
non-recurring in nature.

The tables on pages 112 to 113 and pages 
123 to 128 detail the effects of notable items 
on each of our global business segments and 
legal entities during 2023, 2022 and 2021.

Management view of revenue  
on a constant currency basis
Our global business segment commentary 
includes tables that provide breakdowns of 
revenue on a constant currency basis by major 
product. These reflect the basis on which 
revenue performance of the businesses is 
assessed and managed.

Comparative periods
Unless otherwise stated, all performance 
commentary that follows compares our results 
in 2023 with those of 2022.

These increases were partly offset by lower 
Credit and Lending revenue in CMB and 
GBM, mainly driven by a fall in balances and 
margin compression, and a decline in revenue 
in Equities in GBM, reflecting weaker client 
demand and softer market conditions. 

Revenue reduced in Markets Treasury due 
to the impact of rising interest rates on our 
funding costs and flattening yield curves, 
partly offset by increases from dynamic risk 
management and redeployment of asset 
disposals. We incurred losses on asset 
disposals of $1.0bn relating to repositioning 
and risk management activities in our hold-to-
collect-and-sell portfolio in certain key legal 
entities. These actions are accretive to net 
interest income and reduce the consumption 
of the Group‘s financial resources. This 
revenue is allocated to our global businesses.

Revenue in 2023 was also adversely affected 
by a $1.4bn impact of hyperinflationary 
accounting in Argentina, including the 
devaluation of the Argentinian peso, compared 
with a $0.4bn adverse impact in 2022.

accrual and the impact of inflation. Reported 
ECL of $3.4bn decreased by $0.1bn and 
included charges of $1.0bn relating to 
exposures in the commercial real estate sector 
in mainland China.

Reported profit after tax of $24.6bn was 
$8.3bn higher than in 2022. This included a 
higher tax expense, in part from the non-
recurrence of a $2.2bn gain in 2022 resulting 
from the recognition of a deferred tax asset 
from historical tax losses in HSBC Holdings.

Reported revenue
Reported revenue of $66.1bn was $15.4bn or 
30% higher, which included a $2.5bn year-
on-year favourable impact relating to the sale 
of our retail banking operations in France, 
and the recognition of a $1.6bn provisional 
gain on the acquisition of SVB UK in 2023, as 
mentioned above.

The remaining growth primarily reflected the 
impact of interest rate rises, mainly in Global 
Payments Solutions (‘GPS’) in CMB and GBM, 
Personal Banking and Global Private Banking 
in WPB, as well as Securities Services in 
GBM. There were also good performances in 
Capital Markets and Advisory and Securities 
Financing in GBM, as well as in life insurance 
and asset management in WPB. An increase 
in revenue in Corporate Centre was driven 
by Central Treasury, mainly due to the non-
recurrence of adverse fair value movements 
on financial instruments, and valuation gains 
on structural hedging. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

27

Strategic reportStrategic report | Financial overview

Reported results continued

Reported results

Net operating income before change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment charges (‘revenue’)

ECL

Net operating income

Total operating expenses

Operating profit

Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment

Profit before tax

Tax expense

Profit after tax

Notable items 

Revenue

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Fair value movements on financial instruments1

Restructuring and other related costs

Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning

Currency translation on revenue notable items

Operating expenses

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Impairment of non-financial items

Restructuring and other related costs

Currency translation on operating expenses notable items

Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment

Impairment of interest in associate

1 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.

Reported ECL
Reported ECL of $3.4bn were $0.1bn or  
4% lower. The charge in 2023 primarily  
comprised stage 3 net charges, notably  
related to mainland China commercial real  
estate sector exposures. ECL charges in this  
sector were $1.0bn in 2023. The charge in  
2023 also reflected the impact of continued 
economic uncertainty, rising interest rates  
and inflationary pressures. The charge in  
2022 included $1.3bn of charges related  
to mainland China commercial real  
estate exposures.

 For further details of the calculation of ECL,  
see pages 156 to 168.

Reported operating expenses
Reported operating expenses of $32.1bn 
were $0.6bn or 2% lower, primarily driven by 
lower restructuring and other related costs of 
$3.0bn following the completion of our cost 
to achieve programme, which concluded at 
the end of 2022. The reduction also included 
favourable foreign currency translation 
differences between the periods of $0.4bn, a 
$0.2bn reduction due to a reversal of historical 
asset impairments, and the effects of our 

continued cost discipline. There was also a 
favourable impact of $0.2bn due to the impact 
of hyperinflationary accounting in Argentina 
in 2023.

These reductions were partly offset by 
increases in technology costs, the impacts of 
inflation, a higher performance-related pay 
accrual and severance payments. There was 
also an increase in the UK bank levy of $0.3bn, 
including adjustments relating to prior years, 
and we incurred a $0.2bn charge in the US 
relating to the FDIC special assessment.

The number of employees expressed in full-
time equivalent staff (‘FTE’) at 31 December 
2023 was 220,861, an increase of 1,662 
compared with 31 December 2022. The 
number of contractors at 31 December 2023 
was 4,676, a decrease of 1,371 due to the 
completion of our cost-saving programme.

Reported share of profit from associates 
and joint ventures less impairment 
Reported share of profit from associates and 
joint ventures included an impairment charge 
of $3.0bn relating to our investment in BoCom 
due to a reduction to the accounting value-

28

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

$m

2022

$m

2021

$m

2023 vs 2022

$m

66,058

50,620

49,552

15,438

(3,447)

(3,584)

928

137

62,611

47,036

50,480

15,575

(32,070)

(32,701)

(34,620)

631

%

30

4

33

2

30,541

(193)

30,348

14,335

2,723

17,058

15,860

3,046

18,906

16,206

>100

(2,916)

>(100)

13,290

78

(5,789)

(809)

(4,213)

(4,980)

>(100)

24,559

16,249

14,693

8,310

51

2023

$m

2022

$m

1,298

(2,737)

Impact of 
FX

%

(2)

1

(2)

(1)

(6)

—

(6)

2021

$m

—

(221)

(307)

—

—

—

(587)

(618)

(247)

—

(105)

(18)

—

14

—

(977)

—

(321)

—

136

—

(2,882)

(1,836)

(31)

113

(3,000)

—

—

in-use of the investment, resulting in a loss of 
$0.2bn in 2023. This compared with a profit of 
$2.7bn in 2022. The impact of the impairment 
in 2023 was partly offset by an increase in the 
share of profit from Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’).

Tax expense
The effective tax rate for 2023 of 19.1% was 
higher than the 4.7% in 2022. The effective tax 
rate for 2023 was increased by 2.3 percentage 
points by the non-deductible impairment of 
investments in associates, and reduced by 1.6 
percentage points by the release of provisions 
for uncertain tax positions and reduced by 1.5 
percentage points by the non-taxable bargain 
purchase gain on the acquisition of SVB UK. 
The effective tax rate for 2022 was reduced by 
12.8 percentage points by the recognition of 
a deferred tax asset on historical tax losses of 
HSBC Holdings as a result of improved profit 
forecasts for the UK tax group. Excluding 
these items, the effective tax rates were 19.9% 
for 2023 and 17.5% for 2022.

 
 
Financial overview

Constant currency results

Results – on a constant currency basis

Revenue

ECL

Total operating expenses

Operating profit

Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment

Profit before tax

2023

$m

2022

$m

2021

$m

2023 vs 2022

$m

66,058

49,871

46,079

16,187

(3,447)

(3,630)

758

(32,070)

(32,302)

(32,244)

183

232

%

32

5

1

30,541

(193)

30,348

13,939

2,602

16,541

14,593

2,807

17,400

16,602

>100

(2,795)

>(100)

13,807

83

Profit before tax of $30.3bn was $13.8bn 
higher than in 2022 on a constant currency 
basis, primarily driven by higher revenue.

Revenue increased by $16.2bn or 32% on a 
constant currency basis, which included a 
$2.6bn year-on-year favourable impact relating 
to the sale of our retail banking operations 
in France, and a provisional gain of $1.6bn 
recognised on the acquisition of SVB UK in 
2023. The remaining increase in revenue was 
primarily due to growth in net interest income 
from the impact of global interest rate rises. 
There was also a good performance from 
Capital Markets and Advisory in GBM and 
higher revenue in Corporate Centre.

Revenue reduced in Markets Treasury due 
to the impact of rising interest rates on our 
funding costs and flattening yield curves, 
partly offset by increases from dynamic risk 

Balance sheet and capital

Balance sheet strength
Total assets of $3.0tn were $89bn higher than 
at 31 December 2022 on a reported basis, 
and included the favourable effects of foreign 
currency translation differences of $58bn. 
Within total assets, there were $114bn of 
assets held for sale, mainly related to our retail 
banking operations in France and our banking 
operations in Canada, which was broadly 
unchanged compared with 2022. 

On a constant currency basis, total assets rose 
by $31bn, mainly from an increase in financial 
investments and higher trading balances, 
while cash and balances at central banks and 
derivative asset balances fell.

Reported loans and advances to customers 
increased by $15bn. On a constant currency 
basis, loans and advances fell by $3bn, which 
included an increase in secured home loans, 
previously classified as held for sale in France. 
There was mortgage balance growth in our 
main legal entity in Hong Kong and in HSBC 
UK, although lending fell in CMB and GBM 
in our main entity in Hong Kong, including a 
reduction in commercial real estate lending.

Reported customer accounts of $1.6tn 
increased by $41bn. On a constant currency 
basis, they grew by $13bn, notably from 
growth in WPB in our main legal entity in Asia 
and CMB in Europe.

management and the deployment of asset 
disposals. Markets Treasury also incurred 
losses on asset disposals of $1.0bn relating to 
repositioning and risk management activities 
in our hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio in 
certain key legal entities. These actions are 
accretive to net interest income and reduce 
the consumption of the Group‘s financial 
resources. This revenue is allocated to our 
global businesses. 

ECL were $0.2bn or 5% lower on a constant 
currency basis. The charge in 2023 primarily 
comprised stage 3 net charges, notably 
related to mainland China commercial real 
estate sector exposures. ECL charges in this 
sector were $1.0bn in 2023. The charge in 
2023 also reflected the impact of continued 
economic uncertainty, rising interest rates and 
inflationary pressures.

Operating expenses were $0.2bn or 1% lower 
on a constant currency basis, as reduced 
restructuring and other related costs following 
the completion of our cost-saving programme 
were broadly offset by increases in technology 
costs, the impacts of inflation, and a higher 
performance-related pay accrual. There 
was also an increase in the UK bank levy, 
including adjustments relating to prior years, 
and a charge in the US relating to a special 
assessment of the FDIC.

Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures less impairment included a $3.0bn 
impairment of our investment in BoCom due 
to a revision to the accounting value-in-use of 
the investment, resulting in a loss of $0.2bn in 
2023. This compared with a share of profit of 
$2.6bn in 2022 on a constant currency basis. 
The impact of the impairment was partly offset 
by an increase in the share of profit from SAB.

Loans and advances to customers as a 
percentage of customer accounts was 58.2%, 
compared with 58.8% at 31 December 2022.

adjustments, which was partly offset by an 
increase in risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) 
during the year.

Distributable reserves
The distributable reserves of HSBC Holdings 
at 31 December 2023 were $30.9bn, a 
$4.3bn decrease since 2022, primarily driven 
by $18.6bn in ordinary dividend, additional 
tier 1 coupon and share buy-back payments, 
offset by profits generated and other reserve 
movements of $14.3bn. Distributable reserves 
are sensitive to impairments of investments in 
subsidiaries to the extent they are not offset 
by the realisation of related reserves. The 
impairment of BoCom in 2023 did not impact 
distributable reserves, as its intermediate 
parent and direct subsidiary of HSBC 
Holdings, HSBC Asia Holdings Limited, was 
not impaired.

Capital position
We actively manage the Group’s capital 
position to support our business strategy and 
meet our regulatory requirements at all times, 
including under stress, while optimising our 
capital efficiency. To do this, we monitor our 
capital position using a number of measures. 
These include our capital ratios and the impact 
on our capital ratios as a result of stress.

Our CET1 ratio at 31 December 2023 was 
14.8%, up 0.6 percentage points from 2022, 
mainly driven by capital generation net of 
dividends, share buy-backs and regulatory 

Liquidity position
We actively manage the Group’s liquidity and 
funding to support the business strategy and 
meet regulatory requirements at all times, 
including under stress. To do this, we monitor 
our position using a number of risk appetite 
measures, including the liquidity coverage 
ratio and the net stable funding ratio. During 
2023, the average high-quality liquid assets 
we held was $647.5bn. This excludes high-
quality liquid assets in legal entities which are 
not transferable due to local restrictions. 

For further details, see page 206.

Total assets
($bn)

$3,039bn

(2022: $2,949bn)

Common equity tier 1 ratio
(%)

14.8%

(2022: 14.2%)

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

29

Strategic report 
Strategic report | Global businesses 

Wealth and Personal Banking

We serve 41 million customers globally, including  
6.7 million who are international, from retail customers  
to ultra high net worth individuals and their families.

Contribution to Group proﬁt before tax   

$11.5bn
38%

To meet our customers’ needs, we offer  
a full suite of products and services 
across transactional banking, lending  
and wealth. 

WPB continued to invest in our key strategic 
priorities of expanding our Wealth franchise, 
developing our transactional banking and 
lending capabilities, and addressing our 
customers’ international needs. 

Performance in 2023 benefited from rising 
interest rates and balance sheet growth, 
including Wealth deposits. There was also 
positive growth in Wealth, including strong 
sales in insurance and net new invested  
assets growth. The results included a 
broadly stable ECL charge, despite ongoing 
macroeconomic uncertainty.

Results – on a constant currency basis

2023

$m

2022

$m

2021

2023 vs 2022

$m

$m

%

31

11

(3)

Calculation is based on profit before tax of our 
global businesses excluding Corporate Centre.

Net operating income

27,275

20,884

20,972

6,391

ECL

Operating expenses

(1,058)

(1,186)

195

(14,738)

(14,248)

(15,338)

128

(490)

Launching our 
international proposition

We launched our redesigned international 
proposition in February 2023 to strengthen 
our position as a leading banking 
provider for international customers, 
which is WPB’s fastest-growing segment 
representing 40% of revenue in 2023. The 
refresh involved six services launched 
across 10 international markets, with the 
aim of helping customers move and invest 
overseas easier.

This included supporting our international 
customers, who generate around 
three times the average revenue of a 
domestic customer, so they can open 
an international account digitally pre-
departure, gain access to a credit card 
in their new market with an appropriate 
limit, and make use of quick, competitively 
priced cross-border payment solutions 
with 24/7 global support to manage their 
international needs.

Share of profit in associates and JVs

Profit before tax

RoTE (annualised)1 (%)

65

11,544

28.5

30

5,480

13.8

36

35 >100

5,865

6,064 >100

1  RoTE (annualised) in 2022 included a 4.7 percentage point adverse impact from the impairment losses 

relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France. 

Divisional highlights

$84bn

WPB net new invested assets in 2023,  
up 6% compared with 2022. 

6.7 million

International customers at 31 December 2023, 
an increase of 12% compared with 2022.

Constant currency proﬁt before tax
($bn)

Constant currency net operating income
($bn)

$11.5bn

$27.3bn

2023

2022

2021

2019

11.5

2023

5.5

5.9

2022

2021

2019

27.3

20.9

21.0

 International customers are those who bank with us in our 11 key markets, excluding Canada, and who 
bank in more than one market, those whose address is different from the market we bank them in and 
customers whose nationality, or country of birth for non-resident Indians and overseas Chinese, is 
different to the market we bank them in. Customers may be counted more than once when banked  
in multiple countries.

30

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Global businesses 

Management view of revenue

Wealth

 – investment distribution

 – Global Private Banking

net interest income

non-interest income

 – life insurance (IFRS 17)1

 – life insurance manufacturing (IFRS 4)1

 – asset management

Personal Banking

 – net interest 

 – non-interest income

Other2

 – of which: impairment (loss)/reversal relating to the sale of 

our retail banking operations in France3

2023

$m

7,524

2,528

2,252

1,155

1,097

1,462

1,282

20,463

19,124

1,339

(712)

4

2022

$m

6,970

2,469

2,016

965

1,051

1,354

1,131

15,939

14,631

1,308

(2,025)

(2,354)

2021

$m

8,812

3,367

1,777

630

1,147

—

2,512

1,156

11,648

10,298

1,350

512

—

Net operating income4

27,275

20,884

20,972

2023 vs 2022

$m

554

59

236

190

46

108

151

4,524

4,493

31

1,313

2,358

6,391

%

8

2

12

20

4

8

13

28

31

2

65

>100

31

1  From 1 January 2023 we adopted IFRS 17 and have restated 2022 financial data. Data for 2021 is not restated, and ‘Life insurance manufacturing’ is disclosed on 

the basis of preparation prevailing in 2021, which includes our manufacturing business only. Insurance distribution of $518m is presented in ‘investment distribution’.

2  Other’ includes Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation. It also includes the distribution and manufacturing (where applicable) of 

retail and credit protection insurance, disposal gains and other non-product-specific income.

3  The amounts associated with the sale of our retail banking operations in France include all related impacts disclosed in notable items, which are presented across 

various lines in our consolidated income statement.

4 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).

Notable items

Revenue

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Restructuring and other related costs

Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning

Currency translation on revenue notable items

Operating expenses

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Impairment of non-financial items

Restructuring and other related costs

Currency translation on operating expenses notable items

2023

$m

4

—

(391)

—

(53)

—

20

—

2022

$m

(2,212)

98

—

(142)

(7)

—

(357)

—

2021

$m

—

14

—

(5)

—

(587)

(296)

4

Financial performance
Profit before tax of $11.5bn was $6.1bn higher 
than in 2022 on a constant currency basis. 
The growth in revenue reflected growth 
in both Personal Banking and Wealth. The 
increase also reflected a $2.4bn year-on-
year impact relating to the sale of our retail 
banking operations in France. ECL remained 
broadly stable and operating expenses grew 
by $0.5bn.

Revenue of $27.3bn was $6.4bn or 31% higher 
on a constant currency basis.

In Wealth, revenue of $7.5bn was up  
$0.6bn or 8%.

 – Global Private Banking revenue was $0.2bn 
or 12% higher due to rising interest rates 
and deposit growth of $11bn or 15%. 

 – Asset management revenue was $0.2bn or 
13% higher, driven by an increase in assets 
under management of 15%, and from 
positive market movements.

 – Life insurance revenue rose by $0.1bn or 

8%, mainly driven by an increase of $0.2bn 

in contractual service margin (‘CSM’) 
earnings and favourable net investment 
returns of $0.1bn, partly offset by a $0.3bn 
loss from corrections to historical valuation 
estimates. There was strong growth in the 
new business CSM, up $0.6bn or 47%, 
mainly in Hong Kong.

In Personal Banking, revenue of $20.5bn was 
up $4.5bn or 28%.

 – Net interest income was $4.5bn or 31% 
higher due to rising interest rates and 
balance sheet growth. Mortgage lending 
balances rose in Hong Kong by $6bn and 
in HSBC UK by $5bn. Unsecured lending 
balances increased by $3bn, notably in 
HSBC UK, Mexico and Hong Kong. In 
addition, there was an increase of $7.8bn 
from a reclassification of secured loans in 
France from held for sale. Deposit balances 
remained broadly stable as growth in Asia 
was partly offset by outflows, mainly in 
HSBC UK due to higher cost of living and 
competitive pressures, and in our main 
entity in the US.

Other revenue increased by $1.3bn, mainly 
due to a $2.4bn year-on-year impact relating 
to the sale of our retail banking operations 
in France. This was partly offset by a $0.7bn 
reduction in Markets Treasury allocated 
revenue, including disposal losses on 
repositioning and an adverse impact of $0.5bn 
due to hyperinflationary accounting. 

ECL were $1.1bn in 2023, down $0.1bn 
on a constant currency basis, as credit 
performance remained resilient, despite a rise 
in inflationary pressures.

Operating expenses of $14.7bn were $0.5bn 
or 3% higher on a constant currency basis, 
mainly due to continued investments, 
notably in wealth in Asia, higher technology 
spend, higher performance-related pay 
and the impact of higher inflation. These 
increases were partly offset by a reduction in 
restructuring and other related costs following 
the completion of our cost-saving programme 
at the end of 2022 and ongoing cost discipline.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

31

Strategic reportStrategic report | Global businesses 

Commercial Banking

We operate in more than 50 markets, serving around 1.3 million  
customers, ranging from small enterprises to large companies  
operating globally including those in the new innovation economy.

Contribution to Group proﬁt before tax   

$13.3bn
43%

We partner with businesses around the 
world, supporting every stage of their 
growth, their international ambitions and 
their sustainability transitions. We deliver 
value to our clients through our 
international network, financing strength, 
digital capabilities and our universal 
banking capabilities, including our 
industry leading global trade and 
payments solutions.

We aim to be a leader in the innovation 
economy, with the launch of HSBC Innovation 
Banking in 2023 enhancing our proposition 
to clients in the technology and healthcare 
sectors. During 2023, we delivered a 
strong revenue performance, notably in 
Global Payments Solutions (‘GPS’) and in 
collaboration revenue from GBM products.

Calculation is based on profit before tax of our 
global businesses excluding Corporate Centre.

Backing a manufacturer 
in its international 
expansion 

When Polygroup, a leading 
manufacturing business specialising in 
seasonal goods, decided to expand into 
new international markets, it was able to 
take advantage of our global network and 
local market insights.

The group, which employs more than 
15,000 people across four continents, 
partnered with us to expand to new 
locations in mainland China, Indonesia 
and Mexico. With our broad range 
of banking capabilities across our 
international network, we were able to 
provide capital expenditure financing to 
help build new manufacturing facilities. 

We also supported Polygroup in 
improving its cash flow during off-peak 
seasons by extending tailor-made 
trade solutions delivered through an 
international digital platform, and we 
continue to support it on its ESG journey.

Results – on a constant currency basis

2023

$m

2022

$m

2021

2023 vs 2022

$m

$m

Net operating income

22,867

16,283

12,699

6,584

ECL

Operating expenses

Share of profit/(loss) in associates  
and JVs

Profit before tax

RoTE (annualised)1 (%)

(2,062)

(7,524)

(1,862)

(6,894)

(1)

—

339

(6,691)

1

(200)

(630)

(1)

13,280

23.4

7,527

13.7

6,348

5,753

76

%

40

(11)

(9)

—

1  RoTE (annualised) in 2023 included a 3.1 percentage point favourable impact of the provisional gain 

recognised on the acquisition of SVB UK. 

Divisional highlights

78%

Increase in GPS revenue.

10%

Increase in collaboration income from the sale 
of GBM products to CMB clients. 

Constant currency proﬁt before tax
($bn)

Constant currency net operating income
($bn)

$13.3bn

$22.9bn

2023

2022

2021

2019

13.3

2023

7.5

6.3

2022

2021

2019

22.9

16.3

12.7

32

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Global businesses 

Management view of revenue

Global Trade and Receivables Finance 

Credit and Lending 

Global Payments Solutions

Markets products, Insurance and Investments and Other1

 – of which: share of revenue for Markets and Securities 

Services and Banking products

2023

$m

2,025

5,343

12,381

3,118

1,299

 – of which: provisional gain on the acquisition of Silicon Valley 

1,591

2022

$m

2,075

5,745

6,966

1,497

1,182

—

2021

$m

1,832

5,752

3,411

1,704

1,008

—

Bank UK Limited

Net operating income2

 – of which: transaction banking3

22,867

15,393

16,283

9,940

12,699

5,971

2023 vs 2022

$m

(50)

(402)

5,415

1,621

117

1,591

6,584

5,453

%

(2)

(7)

78

>100

10

>100

40

55

1  Includes CMB’s share of revenue from the sale of Markets and Securities Services and Banking products to CMB customers. GBM’s share of revenue from the sale 
of these products to CMB customers is included within the corresponding lines of the GBM management view of revenue. Also includes allocated revenue from 
Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation.

2 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
3  Transaction banking comprises Global Trade and Receivables Finance, Global Payments Solutions and CMB’s share of Global Foreign Exchange (shown within 

‘share of revenue for Markets and Securities Services and Banking products’).

Notable items

Revenue

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Restructuring and other related costs

Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning

Currency translation on revenue notable items

Operating expenses

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Restructuring and other related costs

Currency translation on operating expenses notable items

2023

$m

1,591

—

(316)

—

(55)

32

—

2022

$m

—

(16)

—

1

—

(266)

(5)

2021

$m

—

(3)

—

(6)

—

(83)

7

Financial performance 
Profit before tax of $13.3bn was $5.8bn 
or 76% higher than in 2022 on a constant 
currency basis. This was driven by an increase 
in revenue in all our main legal entities, 
primarily from a $5.3bn increase in GPS net 
interest income. It also included a provisional 
gain of $1.6bn from HSBC UK’s acquisition of 
SVB UK. These increases were partly offset 
by a rise in operating expenses as a result 
of the SVB UK acquisition and increases in 
technology costs.

Revenue of $22.9bn was $6.6bn or 40% 
higher on a constant currency basis.

 – In GPS, revenue increased by $5.4bn, 

with growth in all main legal entities. The 
increase was driven by higher margins, 
reflecting interest rate rises and repricing 
actions, which were partly offset by lower 
average balances notably due to a market-
wide reduction in the UK. There was a 
6% increase in fee income, as business 
initiatives drove growth in transaction 
banking, with higher volumes in cards and 
international payments.

 – In Global Trade and Receivables Finance 
(‘GTRF’), revenue decreased by $0.1bn or 

2%, driven by lower average balances in 
our main legal entities in Asia and Europe, 
primarily reflecting the softer trade cycle, 
partly offset by wider margins in our legal 
entities in Latin America and the UK. In 
addition, there was a $28m or 3% increase 
in fee income. 

 – In Credit and Lending, revenue decreased 
by $0.4bn or 7%, notably in our main legal 
entities in Asia and Europe, primarily due 
to margin compression. It also reflected 
lower balances due to softer demand from 
customers across these markets, and 
reduced exposures in the commercial real 
estate sector, notably in mainland China  
and the US.

 – In GBM products, Insurance and 

Investments and Other, revenue increased 
by $1.6bn, driven by incremental revenue 
from HSBC Innovation Banking of $2.1bn, 
which included the provisional gain of 
$1.6bn on the acquisition of SVB UK. 
There was also an increase in collaboration 
revenue from GBM products of $0.1bn, 
notably in Foreign Exchange. These 
increases were partly offset by a reduction 
in Markets Treasury allocated income 
of $0.6bn, including disposal losses on 
portfolio repositioning and the adverse 

impacts of hyperinflationary accounting of 
$0.6bn. The remaining increase in revenue 
reflected higher interest on capital held in 
the business, partly offset by higher HSBC 
Holdings interest expense.

ECL were a charge of $2.1bn, compared with 
a charge of $1.9bn in 2022 on a constant 
currency basis. The increase of $0.2bn was 
mainly driven by higher stage 3 charges in 
the UK, and included provisions from HSBC 
Innovation Banking, and charges in the Middle 
East. ECL in both periods reflected charges 
relating to the commercial real estate sector 
in mainland China, although they were lower 
in 2023.

Operating expenses of $7.5bn were higher 
by $0.6bn on a constant currency basis. The 
increase reflected incremental costs in HSBC 
Innovation Banking of $0.3bn including the 
acquisition and integration of SVB UK, higher 
performance-related pay, ongoing investment 
in technology and inflationary impacts. These 
increases were in part mitigated by the impact 
of continued cost discipline and a reduction in 
restructuring and other related costs following 
the completion of our cost-saving programme 
at the end of 2022.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

33

Strategic reportStrategic report | Global businesses 

Global Banking and Markets

We support multinational corporates, financial institutions and institutional  
clients, as well as public sector and government bodies. 

Contribution to Group proﬁt before tax   

$5.9bn
19%

We are a leader in facilitating global trade 
and payments, particularly into and 
within Asia and the Middle East, helping 
to enable our clients in the East and West 
to achieve their objectives by accessing 
our expertise and geographical reach. 
Our product specialists deliver a 
comprehensive range of transaction 
banking, financing, capital markets and 
advisory, and risk management services.

Profit before tax increased in 2023, reflecting 
a strong revenue performance due to rising 
interest rates and from Capital Markets and 
Advisory. This was partly offset by weaker 
client activity in our Equities business. 
We continued to invest in technology to 
modernise our infrastructure, innovate  
product capabilities and support our clients.

Calculation is based on profit before tax of our 
global businesses excluding Corporate Centre.

Leading on a $2.4bn 
rights issue for Link REIT

Our international connectivity and 
balance sheet strength help support 
clients when they need to carry out  
large strategic transactions in the  
capital markets. 

In March 2023, we supported Asia’s 
largest real estate investment trust to 
complete the largest ever rights issue 
from a non-bank issuer in Hong Kong. 
We acted as sole global coordinator and 
lead underwriter on a $2.4bn one-for-five 
rights issue for Link REIT, which was 
conducted to strengthen its capital base 
and position itself for the next phase  
of growth.

The transaction was the largest ever 
rights issue in the Asian real estate sector 
and the largest equity offering in Hong 
Kong since September 2021.

Results – on a constant currency basis

Net operating income

ECL

Operating expenses

Share of profit/(loss) in associates  
and JVs

Profit before tax

RoTE (annualised) (%)

2021

2023 vs 2022

2023

$m

2022

$m

$m

16,115

14,602

13,086

(326)

(573)

221

(9,865)

(9,338)

(9,255)

$m

1,513

247

(527)

%

10

43

(6)

—

(2)

—

2

100

5,924

11.4

4,689

4,052

1,235

26

9.8

Divisional highlights

11.4%

RoTE in 2023, up 1.6 percentage points 
compared with 2022.

56%

Increase in GPS revenue.

Constant currency proﬁt before tax
($bn)

Constant currency net operating income
($bn)

$5.9bn

$16.1bn

2023

2022

2021

2019

5.9

2023

4.7

4.1

2022

2021

2019

16.1

14.6

13.1

34

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Global businesses 

Management view of revenue 

Markets and Securities Services

 – Securities Services

 – Global Debt Markets

 – Global Foreign Exchange

 – Equities

 – Securities Financing

 – Credit and funding valuation adjustments

Banking

 – Global Trade and Receivables Finance

 – Global Payments Solutions

 – Credit and Lending

 – Capital Markets and Advisory

 – Other1

GBM Other

 – Principal Investments

 – Other2

Net operating income3

 – of which: transaction banking4

2023

$m

9,008

2,411

823

4,133

552

1,116

(27)

8,540

669

4,483

1,970

1,033

385

(1,433)

(4)

(1,429)

16,115

11,696

2022

$m

8,874

2,022

697

4,137

1,003

918

97

6,721

678

2,879

2,231

731

202

(993)

55

(1,048)

14,602

9,716

2021

$m

7,684

1,776

819

3,097

1,156

827

9

5,858

626

1,581

2,332

1,180

139

(456)

372

(828)

13,086

7,080

2023 vs 2022

$m

134

389

126

(4)

(451)

198

(124)

1,819

(9)

1,604

(261)

302

183

(440)

(59)

(381)

1,513

1,980

%

2

19

18

—

(45)

22

>(100)

27

(1)

56

(12)

41

91

(44)

>(100)

(36)

10

20

1 Includes portfolio management, earnings on capital and other capital allocations on all Banking products.
2 Includes notional tax credits and Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation.
3 ‘Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
4  Transaction banking comprises Securities Services, Global Foreign Exchange (net of revenue shared with CMB), Global Trade and Receivables Finance and Global 

Payments Solutions.

Notable items

Revenue

Restructuring and other related costs

Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning

Currency translation on revenue notable items

Operating expenses

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Restructuring and other related costs

Currency translation on operating expenses notable items

2023

$m

—

(270)

—

3

21

—

2022

$m

2021

$m

(184)

(395)

—

3

—

(252)

(4)

—

25

—

(195)

20

Financial performance 
Profit before tax of $5.9bn was $1.2bn or 26% 
higher than in 2022 on a constant currency 
basis. This was driven by an increase in 
revenue of $1.5bn or 10%, notably from higher 
net interest income in GPS and Securities 
Services. ECL fell by $0.2bn, while operating 
expenses increased by $0.5bn or 6%.

Revenue of $16.1bn was $1.5bn or 10% higher 
on a constant currency basis.

In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’), 
revenue was marginally higher by $0.1bn or 2%.

 – Securities Services revenue grew by $0.4bn 
or 19%, from higher net interest income as 
global interest rates rose.

 – Global Debt Markets revenue increased by 
$0.1bn or 18%, from favourable primary 
market conditions and higher client trading 
volumes as the market environment 
normalised. The 2022 performance 
was impacted by lower primary activity 
and client flow due to uncertainty and 
challenging market conditions.

 – Global Foreign Exchange revenue was 
largely in line with 2022 and reflected 
continued elevated client activity and trading 
facilitation, as we captured the benefit of 
market-wide volatility relating to interest rate 
and inflation differentials.

 – Equities revenue fell by $0.5bn or 45%, due 
to lower client activity as a result of reduced 
market volatility.

 – Securities Financing revenue rose by $0.2bn 

or 22%, driven by higher client flows, 
growth in prime finance and the onboarding 
of new clients.

In Banking, revenue increased by  
$1.8bn or 27%.

 – GPS revenue increased by $1.6bn or 56%, 
driven by margin growth as a result of the 
rising global interest rate environment and 
business pricing actions.

 – Capital Markets and Advisory revenue rose 
by $0.3bn or 41%, primarily from increased 
financing activities and higher interest 
rates, against a backdrop of a smaller global 
market fee pool.

 – Credit and Lending revenue decreased by 

$0.3bn or 12%, due to weaker client demand.

 – Banking Other revenue increased by $0.2bn 
or 91%, from higher interest on capital held 
in the business.

In GBM Other, there was a $0.4bn reduction 
in revenue, mainly due to lower Markets 
Treasury allocated revenue, including disposal 
losses on repositioning, higher HSBC Holdings 
interest expense and the adverse impacts of 
hyperinflationary accounting.

ECL of $0.3bn were $0.2bn lower on 
a constant currency basis, reflecting a 
favourable credit performance, including lower 
charges in the commercial real estate sector in 
mainland China.

Operating expenses of $9.9bn increased by 
$0.5bn or 6% on a constant currency basis 
due to the impact of higher inflation and 
strategic investments, which was in part 
mitigated by business actions and a reduction 
in restructuring and other related costs 
following the completion of our cost-saving 
programme at the end of 2022.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

35

Strategic reportStrategic report | Global businesses 

Corporate Centre

The results of Corporate Centre primarily comprise the share of profit 
from our interests in our associates and joint ventures and related 
impairments. It also includes Central Treasury, stewardship costs  
and consolidation adjustments.

Corporate Centre performance in 2023 
reflected the recognition of an impairment 
in our investment in our associate BoCom. 
Additionally, the non-recurrence of 
restructuring and other related costs following 
the completion of our cost-saving programme 
at the end of 2022 resulted in lower operating 
expenses, while higher revenue included 
the non-recurrence of adverse fair value 
movements on financial instruments and the 
impacts of restructuring our business  
in Europe.

Financial performance
Loss before tax of $0.4bn was $0.8bn 
or 65% lower than the loss in 2022, on a 
constant currency basis. This reflected lower 
restructuring and other related costs and 
higher revenue, partly offset by the impact of 
an impairment of our investment in BoCom. 
This impairment reflects a reduction to the 
accounting value-in-use in line with recent 
market-wide developments in mainland China. 
For further details, see page 101.

Revenue was $1.7bn or 90% higher than 
in 2022 on a constant currency basis. 
The increase was primarily from the non-
recurrence of adverse fair value movements 
on financial instruments in Central Treasury 
and structural hedges, together with the non-
recurrence of losses and charges associated 
with the disposals of our branch operations in 
Greece and our French retail banking business, 
the planned disposal of our business in Russia, 
and legacy portfolios. These favourable year-
on-year impacts were partly offset by adverse 
fair value movements in 2023 on foreign 
exchange hedges related to the planned sale 
of our banking business in Canada.

Operating expenses decreased by $1.9bn on 
a constant currency basis, primarily driven 
by the non-recurrence of restructuring and 
other related costs following the completion 
of our cost-saving programme at the end 
of 2022. These were partly offset by the 
recognition of a charge related to the FDIC 
special assessment, costs associated with 
the disposal of our retail banking operations 
in France and the planned disposal of our 
banking business in Canada, and a higher 
allocation of the UK bank levy, including 
adjustments related to prior years. Since 2021, 
the UK bank levy and any related adjustments 
have been allocated across our global 
businesses and Corporate Centre, primarily  
to GBM. 

Results – on a constant currency basis

Net operating income

ECL

Operating expenses

2023

$m

2022

$m

(199)

(1,898)

(9)

(1)

57

2021

2023 vs 2022

$m

(678)

3

$m

1,699

8

%

90

89

(1,822)

(960)

1,879 >100

Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures less impairment

(257)

2,574

2,770

(2,831) >(100)

 – of which: impairment loss relating  

(3,000)

—

—

(3,000)

to our investment in BoCom

Profit/loss before tax

RoTE (annualised) (%)

Management view of revenue 

Central Treasury1

Legacy portfolios

Other2,3

Net operating income4

(400)

(1.0)

2023

$m

99

3

(301)

(199)

(1,155)

1,135

755

65

2.8

2022

$m

(742)

(174)

(982)

(1,898)

2021

$m

(324)

(54)

(300)

(678)

2023 vs 2022

$m

841

177

681

1,699

%

>100

>100

69

90

1  Central Treasury comprises valuation differences on issued long-term debt and associated swaps and fair 

value movements on financial instruments.

2  Other comprises consolidation adjustments, funding charges on property and technology assets, 

revaluation gains and losses on investment properties and property disposals, gains and losses on certain 
planned disposals, including charges relating to our business in Russia, and other revenue items not 
allocated to global businesses.

3  Revenue from Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings net interest expense and hyperinflation are allocated out 
to the global businesses, to align them better with their revenue and expense. The total Markets Treasury 
revenue component of this allocation for 2023 was $(139)m (2022: $1,431m; 2021: $2,142m).

4  ‘Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 

credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).

Notable items

Revenue

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Fair value movements on financial instruments

Restructuring and other related costs

Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning

Currency translation on revenue notable items

Operating expenses

Disposals, acquisitions and related costs

Restructuring and other related costs

Currency translation on operating expenses notable items

Impairment of interest in associate

2023

$m

2022

$m

2021

$m

(297)

14

—

—

—

(525)

(618)

(145)

—

33

—

(221)

77

—

(16)

(216)

(11)

—

63

—

(3,000)

(2,007)

(1,262)

(22)

—

81

—

Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 
in 2023 included an impairment charge of 
$3.0bn in 2023 relating to our investment in 
BoCom due to a reduction of the accounting 
value-in-use of our investment, resulting in a 

loss of $0.3bn. This compared with a share 
of profit of $2.6bn in 2022. The impact of the 
impairment was partly offset by growth of 
$0.2bn, mainly driven by an increase in the 
share of profits from SAB.

36

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk overview

Risk overview

Active risk management helps us to achieve our strategy, 
serve our customers and communities and grow our 
business safely.

Managing risk

The global economy proved more resilient in 
2023 than had been expected, supported by 
strong growth in the US, and a stabilisation in 
China’s economy, although there continues 
to be uncertainty and weakness in Europe. In 
most key markets, a fall in energy prices and 
other commodity prices facilitated a decrease 
in inflation. Central banks in most developed 
markets are expected to have concluded 
monetary policy tightening in the second half 
of 2023 and to start reducing interest rates in 
2024. Certain emerging market central banks 
began reducing interest rates during 2023. 
However, interest rates in the medium term 
are likely to remain materially higher than in 
recent years.  

Geopolitical tensions are a source of 
significant risk, including the ongoing Russia-
Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars. Both could 
have significant global economic and political 
consequences. The Israel-Hamas war has 
led to renewed volatility in energy prices, and 
recent attacks on commercial shipping in the 
Red Sea and the counter-measures taken to 
improve security have begun to disrupt supply 
chains. These developments have the potential 
to halt or reverse the recent decline in inflation 
especially in Europe and North America.

Sanctions and trade restrictions are complex, 
novel and evolving. In particular, the US, the 
UK and the EU, as well as other countries, 
have imposed significant sanctions and trade 
restrictions against Russia. In December 2023, 
the US established a new secondary sanctions 
regime, providing itself broad discretion to 
impose severe sanctions on non-US banks 
that are knowingly or even unknowingly 
engaged in certain transactions or services 
involving Russia’s military-industrial base. 
This creates challenges associated with the 
detection or prevention of third-party activities 
beyond HSBC’s control. The imposition of 
such sanctions against any non-US HSBC 
entity could result in significant adverse 
commercial, operational and reputational 
consequences for HSBC. 

The relationships between China and 
several other countries, including the US 
and the UK, remain complex. Supply chains 
remain vulnerable to a deterioration in these 
relationships and this has resulted in efforts 
to de-risk certain sectors by reshoring 
manufacturing activities. The US, the UK, the 
EU and other countries have imposed various 
sanctions and trade restrictions on Chinese 

Key risk appetite metrics 

Component

Measure

Capital

CET1 ratio – end point basis

Change in 
expected credit 
losses and  
other credit 
impairment 
charges

Change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges as a % of advances: (WPB) 

Change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges as a % of advances: 
wholesale (GBM, CMB)

Risk 
appetite

≥13.0%

≤0.50%

2023

14.8%

0.21%

≤0.45%

0.40%

the right support to customers in line with 
regulatory, government and wider stakeholder 
expectations. This follows our adoption of the 
UK government’s Mortgage Charter released 
in June 2023.

We engage closely with regulators to help 
ensure that we continue to meet their 
expectations regarding financial institutions’ 
activities to support economies during times 
of market volatility.

Our approach to macroeconomic scenarios 
in relation to IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ 
remained unchanged in the fourth quarter 
of 2023 compared with the corresponding 
period in 2022. Adjustments to the design 
and narrative of the most severe downside 
scenario were made to reflect increased 
geopolitical risks.

In addition, management adjustments to ECL 
were applied to reflect persisting uncertainty 
in certain sectors, driven by inflation, interest 
rate sensitivity and other macroeconomic 
risks, which were not fully captured by  
our models.

We continue to monitor, and seek to manage, 
the potential implications of all the above 
developments on our customers and our 
business. While the financial performance 
of our operations varies by geography, our 
balance sheet and liquidity remained strong.

 For further details of our Central and other 
scenarios, see ‘Measurement uncertainty  
and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’  
on page 156.

persons and companies. The approach 
of countries to strategic competition and 
engagement with China continues to develop. 
In response, China has imposed sanctions, 
trade restrictions and law enforcement 
measures. Further sanctions or counter-
sanctions may adversely affect the Group,  
its customers and various markets.

Fiscal deficits are expected to remain large 
in both developed and emerging markets, as 
public spending on social welfare, defence 
and climate transition initiatives is expected 
to remain high. In many countries, the fiscal 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic has also 
left a very high public debt burden. Against 
a backdrop of slower economic growth and 
high interest rates, elevated borrowing costs 
could increase the strains on highly  
indebted sovereigns. 

Political changes may also have implications 
for policy. Many countries are expected to 
hold elections in 2024. This may result in 
uncertainty in some markets in response to 
domestic political priorities.

Sectoral risks are also a focus, and the real 
estate sector in particular faces challenges in 
many of our major markets. In mainland China, 
commercial real estate conditions remain 
distressed and signs of a material or sustained 
recovery are yet to emerge. Market data 
continues to reflect reduced investment and 
weak sentiment in the short term, although 
authorities are expanding fiscal and monetary 
support to the economy including specific 
measures to support developers and stimulate 
housing demand. We continue to closely 
monitor this sector, and take action to manage 
our commercial real estate portfolio risk.

The impact of the rising cost of living on retail 
customers is a key risk for our society. Our 
primary concern is to ensure that we offer 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

37

Strategic reportStrategic report | Risk overview

Managing risk continued

Our risk appetite
Our risk appetite defines our desired forward-
looking risk profile and informs the strategic 
and financial planning process. It provides an 
objective baseline to guide strategic decision 
making, helping to ensure that planned 
business activities provide an appropriate 
balance of return for the risk assumed, while 
remaining within acceptable risk levels. 
Risk appetite supports senior management 
in allocating capital, funding and liquidity 
optimally to finance growth, while monitoring 
exposure to non-financial risks. 

At 31 December 2023, our CET1 ratio and 
ECL charges were within their defined risk 
appetite thresholds. Our CET1 capital ratio 
at 31 December 2023 was 14.8%, up 0.6 
percentage points from 2022, mainly driven 
by capital generation net of dividends, share 
buy-backs and regulatory adjustments, partly 
offset by an increase in RWAs during the 
year. For further details of the key drivers 
of the overall CET1 ratio, see ‘Own funds 
disclosure’ on page 207. Wholesale ECL 
charges during the year reflected the default of 
several mainland China commercial real estate 
developer clients. Wholesale ECL charges fell 
outside of appetite in the first half of 2023, 
although returned within appetite during the 
second half of 2023, due to relatively lower 
defaults in the UK and most other markets. 
During 2023, we enhanced the coverage of 
interest rate risk metrics in the banking book 
within the Group’s appetite statement.

Stress tests
We regularly conduct stress tests to assess 
the resilience of our balance sheet and 
our capital adequacy, as well as to provide 
actionable insights into how key elements 
of our portfolios may behave during a crisis. 
We use the outcomes to calibrate our risk 
appetite to review and calibrate as required 
our strategic and financial plans, helping to 
improve the quality of management’s decision 
making. The results from the stress tests also 
drive recovery and resolution planning to 
help enhance the Group’s financial stability 
under various macroeconomic scenarios. The 
selection of stress scenarios is based upon the 
identification and assessment of our top risks, 
emerging risks and our risk appetite. 

In January 2023, HSBC Holdings and HSBC 
UK, its UK ring-fenced bank, submitted the 
internally modelled results of the Bank of 
England’s (‘BoE’) 2022–2023 annual cyclical 
scenario to the regulator. The BoE uses 

Top and emerging risks 

In the second half of 2023, we ran further 
internal climate scenario analyses. The 
outcomes were used to identify challenges 
and opportunities to our net zero strategy, 
inform capital planning and risk appetite, as 
well as to respond to climate stress tests for 
regulators, including the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority and the Central Bank of the United 
Arab Emirates.

 For further details of our approach to climate risk 
stress testing, see ‘Insights from scenario 
analysis’ on page 225.

Our operations
We remain committed to investing in the 
reliability and resilience of our IT systems and 
critical services, including those provided 
by third parties, which support all parts of 
our business. We do so to help protect our 
customers, affiliates and counterparties, and 
to help ensure that we minimise any disruption 
to services. In our approach to defending 
against these threats, we invest in business 
and technical controls to help us detect, 
manage and recover from issues in a  
timely manner. 

We are working to ensure that we balance the 
opportunity AI presents to accelerate delivery 
of our strategy with the need to ensure 
appropriate controls are in place to mitigate 
the associated risks. HSBC is committed 
to using AI ethically and responsibly. We 
continue to refine and embed robust and 
effective governance and controls into our 
risk management processes to help meet 
the Group’s needs and increasing regulatory 
expectations for when AI is both developed 
internally and enabled through third parties.

We continue to focus on improving the quality 
and timeliness of the data used to inform 
management decisions, and are progressing 
with the implementation of our strategic and 
regulatory change initiatives to help deliver 
the right outcomes for our customers, people, 
investors and communities. 

 For further details of our risk management 
framework and risks associated with our banking 
and insurance manufacturing operations, see 
pages 137 and 145, respectively.

the annual cyclical scenario stress test to 
determine the banking sector’s ability to 
withstand an adverse scenario and continue to 
serve UK households and businesses. 

The results were published on 12 July 2023  
by the BoE in its Financial Stability Report  
and indicated that both HSBC Holdings and 
HSBC UK are sufficiently capitalised with  
a CET1 capital ratio remaining well above  
the regulatory reference rate on both an  
IFRS 9 transitional basis and on a  
non-transitional basis.

During the second half of 2023, the Group-
wide internal stress test was completed 
alongside testing of the Group’s strategy. The 
concluding results of the Group-wide internal 
stress test provided updates to the Group 
Risk Committee in support of its assessment 
of adequacy of HSBC Holdings capital levels. 
The underlying conclusions drawn from this 
exercise will also be included in the Group 
internal capital adequacy assessment process 
(‘ICAAP‘) in the first quarter of 2024.

Climate risk
Climate risk relates to the financial and 
non-financial impacts that may arise as a 
consequence of climate change and the move 
to a net zero economy. Climate risk can impact 
us either directly or through our relationships 
with our clients. These include the potential 
risks arising as a result of our net zero 
ambition, which could lead to reputational 
concerns, and potential legal and/or regulatory 
action if we are perceived to mislead 
stakeholders on our business activities or if we 
fail to achieve our stated net zero targets.

We seek to manage climate risk across 
all our businesses in line with our Group-
wide risk management framework and are 
incorporating climate considerations within 
our traditional risk types. 

 For further details of our approach to climate risk 
management, see ‘Climate risk‘ on page 221.
 For further details of our TCFD disclosures, see 
the ‘ESG review‘ on page 42.

Climate stress tests
To support the requirements for assessing the 
impacts of climate change, we continue to 
develop a set of capabilities to execute climate 
stress testing and scenario analysis. These are 
used to help improve our understanding of 
risk exposures for managing risk and business 
decision making. 

Our top and emerging risks report identifies 
forward-looking risks so that they can be 
considered in determining whether any 
incremental action is needed to either prevent 
them from materialising or to limit their effect. 
Top risks are those that have the potential 
to have a material adverse impact on the 

financial results, reputation or business model 
of the Group. We actively manage and take 
actions to mitigate our top risks. Emerging 
risks are those that, while they could have a 
material impact on our risk profile were they to 
occur, are not considered immediate and are 
not under active management.

Our suite of top and emerging risks is subject 
to regular review by senior governance forums. 
During 2023, we removed Ibor transition as a 
top risk given the cessation of the publication 
of US dollar Libor in June 2023. We continue to 
monitor closely the identified risks and ensure 
management actions are in place, as required.

38

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk overview

Risk

Trend Description

Externally driven

Geopolitical and 
macroeconomic 
risks 

Technology and 
cybersecurity risk

Environmental, 
social and 
governance (‘ESG’) 
risks

Financial crime risk 

Digitalisation and 
technological 
advances 

Evolving regulatory 
environment risk

Internally driven

Data risk

Risks arising from 
the receipt of 
services from  
third parties 

Model risk

Change execution 
risk

Risks associated 
with workforce 
capability, capacity 
and environmental 
factors with potential 
impact on growth

Our operations and portfolios are subject to risks associated with political instability, civil unrest and military 
conflict, which could lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/or physical damage to our 
assets. Conflict in certain regions and geopolitical tensions are creating a more complicated business 
environment. Despite expected reductions, global interest rates are nevertheless likely to remain high in 2024, 
which could slow the growth of the global economy and affect our credit portfolio.

There is a risk of service disruption or loss of data resulting from technology failures or malicious activities by 
internal or external threats. We continue to monitor changes to the threat landscape, including those arising from 
ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic events, and the impact this may have on third-party risk management. 
We operate a continuous improvement programme to help protect our technology operations and counter a 
fast-evolving cyber threat environment.

We are subject to ESG risks including in relation to climate change, nature and human rights. These risks have 
increased owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, increasing frequency of severe 
weather events, and due to stakeholders placing more emphasis on financial institutions’ actions and investment 
decisions in respect of ESG matters. Failure to meet these evolving expectations may result in financial and 
non-financial risks, including reputational, legal and regulatory compliance risks.

We are exposed to financial crime risk from our customers, staff and third parties engaging in criminal activity. 
The financial crime risk environment is heightened due to increasingly complex geopolitical challenges, the 
macroeconomic outlook, the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance, evolving financial crime 
regulations, rapid technological developments, an increasing number of national data privacy requirements and 
the increasing sophistication of fraud. As a result, we will continue to face the possibility of regulatory 
enforcement and reputational risk.

Developments in technology and changes in regulations continue to enable new entrants to the banking industry 
and new products and services offered by competitors. This challenges us to continue to innovate with new 
digital capabilities and adapt our products, to attract, retain and best serve our customers. Along with 
opportunities, new technology, including generative AI, can introduce risks and we seek to ensure these are 
understood and managed with appropriate controls.

The regulatory and compliance risk environment remains complex, in part due to the UK’s Financial Conduct 
Authority’s (‘FCA’) implementation of its Consumer Duty in July 2023. There continues to be an intense 
regulatory focus on ESG matters, including on ‘green’ products. Regulatory scrutiny of financial institutions 
following recent banking failures may result in new or additional regulatory requirements impacting the Group in 
the short to medium term. 

We use data to serve our customers and run our operations, often in real-time within digital experiences and 
processes. If our data is not accurate and timely, our ability to serve customers, operate with resilience or meet 
regulatory requirements could be impacted. We seek to ensure that non-public data is kept confidential, and  
that we comply with the growing number of regulations that govern data privacy and cross-border movement  
of data.

We procure goods and services from a range of third parties. Due to the current macroeconomic and 
geopolitical climate, the risk of service disruption in our supply chain has heightened. We continue to  
strengthen our controls, oversight and risk management policies and processes to select and manage third 
parties, including our third parties’ own supply chains, particularly for key activities that could affect our 
operational resilience.

Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. We use models in both 
financial and non-financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications. Evolving regulatory 
requirements are driving material changes to the way model risk is managed across the banking industry, with a 
particular focus on capital models. New technologies, including AI and generative AI, are driving a need for 
enhanced model risk controls.

Failure to effectively prioritise, manage and/or deliver transformation across the organisation impacts our ability 
to achieve our strategic objectives. We continue to monitor, manage and oversee change execution risk to try to 
ensure that our change portfolios and initiatives deliver the right outcomes for our customers, people, investors 
and communities.

Our businesses, functions and geographies are exposed to risks associated with employee retention and talent 
availability, and compliance with employment laws and regulations. While high employee attrition has continued 
to ease generally, a small number of markets still experience heightened inflation, turnover and labour market 
difficulties. Failure to manage these risks may impact the delivery of our strategic objectives or lead to regulatory 
sanctions or legal claims.

 Risk heightened during 2023 

Risk remained at the same level as 2022 

 Risk decreased during 2023

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

39

Strategic reportStrategic report 

Long-term viability and going  
concern statement 

Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors are required to provide a viability 
statement that must state whether the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities, taking into account its current 
position and the principal risks it faces. They 
must also specify the period covered by, and 
the appropriateness of, this statement.

The Directors have specified a period of 
three years to 31 December 2026. They are 
satisfied that a forward-looking assessment 
of the Group for this period is sufficient to 
enable a reasonable statement of viability. In 
addition, this period is covered by the Group’s 
stress testing programmes, and its internal 
projections for profitability, key capital ratios 
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, 
our stress testing programmes also cover 
scenarios out to five years and our assessment 
of risks are beyond three years where 
appropriate (see page 140):

 – This period is representative of the time 

horizon to consider the impact of ongoing 
regulatory changes in the financial  
services industry.

 – Our updated business plan covers  

2024 –2028.

The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, 
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has 
adequate resources to continue operations for 
a period of at least 12 months from the date 
of this report, and it therefore continues to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.

Based upon their assessment, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and  
meet liabilities as they fall due over the  
next three years.

In making their going concern and viability 
assessments, the Directors have considered 
a wide range of detailed information relating 
to present and potential conditions, including 
projections for profitability, liquidity, capital 
requirements and capital resources.

The Directors carried out a robust assessment 
of the emerging and principal risks facing the 
Group to determine its long-term viability, 
including those that would threaten its 

solvency and liquidity. They determined that 
the principal risks are the Group’s top and 
emerging risks as set out on page 38. These 
include geopolitical and macroeconomic 
risks (including geopolitical tensions and 
their impact on sanctions, trade restrictions 
and continued distressed Chinese economic 
activity), digitalisation and technological 
advances, financial crime risk and ESG risks, 
all of which have remained at heightened 
levels during 2023.

The Directors assessed that all of the top 
and emerging risks identified are considered 
to be material and, therefore, appropriate 
to be classified as the principal risks to be 
considered in the assessment of viability. They 
also appraised the impact that these principal 
risks could have on the Group’s risk profile, 
taking account of mitigating actions planned 
or taken for each, and compared this with  
the Group’s risk appetite as approved by  
the Board. 

In carrying out their assessment of the 
principal risks, the Directors considered a wide 
range of information including:

 – details of the Group’s business and 
operating models, and strategy  
(see page 11);

 – details of the Group’s approach to managing 

risk and allocating capital;

 – the continued validity of our existing risk 

management practices, liquidity monitoring 
process and metric assumptions, in light 
of the high-profile US and Swiss banking 
failures in the first quarter of 2023; 

 – a summary of the Group’s financial position 

considering performance, its ability to 
maintain minimum levels of regulatory 
capital, liquidity funding and the minimum 
requirements for own funds and eligible 
liabilities over the period of the assessment. 
Notable are the risks which the Directors 
believe could cause the Group’s future 
results or operations to adversely impact 
any of the above;

 – enterprise risk reports, including the Group’s 
risk appetite profile (see page 136) and top 
and emerging risks (see page 140); 

 – the impact on the Group due to the Russia-
Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars; instability 

in China’s commercial real estate sector and 
strained economic and diplomatic relations 
between China and the US, the UK, the EU 
and other countries;

 – reports and updates regarding regulatory 
and internal stress testing. The 2022–2023 
Bank of England annual cyclical scenario 
stress test results were published on  
12 July 2023. The stress scenario explored 
the potential impacts of a global economic 
contraction, persistently higher inflation 
and interest rates in advanced economies 
with materially increased unemployment, 
and a sharp fall in asset prices. Additionally 
during the second half of 2023, the Group-
wide internal stress test was completed, 
which explores a prolonged global stress, 
depicting macroeconomic conditions that 
are generally more severe than that of the 
2022–2023 annual cyclical scenario. The 
results of both these exercises indicated the 
Group is sufficiently capitalised to withstand 
a severe but plausible adverse stress; 

 – the results of our 2023 internal climate 

scenario analysis exercise. The results of 
this exercise further demonstrate the Group 
is sufficiently capitalised to withstand a 
severe stress. Further details of the insights 
from the 2023 climate scenario analysis are 
explained from page 225;

 – reports and updates from management 

on risk-related issues selected for in-depth 
consideration;

 – reports and updates on regulatory 

developments;

 – legal proceedings and regulatory matters  

set out in Note 36 on the financial 
statements; and

 – reports and updates from management on 

the operational resilience of the Group. 

Aileen Taylor
Group Company Secretary and  
Chief Governance Officer

21 February 2024

40

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental, 
social and 
governance 
review

Our ESG review sets out our approach to  
our environment, customers, employees 
and governance. It explains how we  
aim to achieve our purpose, deliver  
our strategy in a way that is sustainable, 
and build strong relationships with all of 
our stakeholders.

42 

44 

75 

87 

Our approach to ESG

Environmental 

Social

Governance

How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 17 
and additional information is included on pages 69 and 
440. Further details have been embedded in this section 
and the Risk review section on pages 221 to 230. Our 
TCFD disclosures are highlighted with the following 
symbol:  TCFD

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

41

ESG review 

 Our approach to ESG

We continue to work to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance principles throughout the organisation and to embed 
sustainability into the way we operate.

About the ESG review 

Our purpose is: ‘Opening up a world  
of opportunity’. 

Our purpose is guided by our values: we value 
difference; we succeed together; we take 
responsibility; and we get it done.

Our approach to ESG is shaped by our purpose 
and values and a desire to create sustainable 
long-term value for our stakeholders. We  
collaborate and aim to build strong relationships 
with all of our stakeholders, which include the 
people who work for us, bank with us, own us, 
regulate us, and live in the societies we serve 
and on the planet we all inhabit to deliver the 
ESG approach. 

Transition to net zero
We have continued to take steps to implement 
our climate ambition to become net zero in 
our operations and our supply chain by 2030, 
and align our financed emissions to net zero 
by 2050. In January 2024, we published our 
net zero transition plan, which is an important 
milestone in our journey to achieving our net 
zero ambition. The plan will help our people, 
customers, investors and other stakeholders to 
understand our long-term vision, the challenges, 
uncertainties and dependencies that exist, 
the progress we are making towards our own 
transition and what we plan to do in the future.

In this ESG review, we publish on-balance sheet 
financed emissions for thermal coal mining, in 
addition to other sectors we have already been 
reporting on, noting the challenge of evolving 
methodologies and data limitations. We also 
publish combined on-balance sheet financed 
and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and 
power and utilities sectors. We expect to iterate 
and mature our approach to supporting sector 
transitions over time. We also continue to work 
on improving our data management processes. 

We continue to review policy implementation 
as we apply our policies in practice and our 
operationalisation of such policies continues to 
be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach 
when identifying transactions and clients to 
which our energy policy and thermal coal 
phase-out policies apply, and when reporting 
on relevant exposures, adopting approaches 
proportionate to risk and materiality. 

We are also working with peers and industry 
bodies to help mobilise the systemic change 
needed to deliver action on climate change, 
nature and the just transition.

Environmental – Transition to net zero

 – In January 2024, we published our net zero transition plan. This provides an overview of the 

progress we have made to date and what we plan to do next, although we acknowledge there 
is still much more to do.

 – We have now set combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions 

targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities, and report the 
combined progress for both sectors.

Read more in the Environmental section on page 44.

Social – Building inclusion and resilience

 – In 2023, 34.1% of senior leadership roles were occupied by women, with a target to achieve 

35% by 2025, although progress has not been as fast paced as we would have liked. We also 
continued on a journey to meet our ethnicity goals.

 – Employee engagement, which is our headline measure, increased by three points in 2023 and 

is now seven points ahead of the external financial services benchmark.

Read more in the Building inclusion and resilience section on page 75.

Governance – Acting responsibly

 – We continue to raise awareness and develop our understanding of our salient human rights 

issues. In 2023, we provided practical guidance and training, where relevant, to our colleagues 
across the Group on how to identify and manage human rights risk.

 – We were ranked as a top three bank against our competitors in 58% of our key six markets, 

although we still have work to do to improve our rank positions. 

Read more in the Governance section on page 87.

Building inclusion and resilience
Our social approach is centred around 
fostering inclusion and building resilience for 
our colleagues, our customers, and in the 
communities we serve. 

We are building a workforce that is 
representative of the communities that we 
serve and we have targets and programmes in 
place to ensure fair and inclusive recruitment 
and to support the equitable progression of 
under-represented groups. We also strive to 
create an inclusive and accessible banking 
experience for all of our customers, and to 
help them access the finance they need 
without unnecessary barriers. 

Employee resilience is central to our success, 
so we provide a wide range of resources to 
support colleagues’ mental, physical and 
financial well-being, as well as training and 
support so that they are equipped with the 
skills they need to further their careers. We 
support customer resilience with products, 
services and education that build their 

capabilities so that they can understand their 
finances and manage them effectively.

Acting responsibly
Our governance approach focuses on acting 
responsibly and recognises topics such as 
human rights, conduct and data integrity. 

Our policies and procedures help us to provide 
the right outcomes for customers, including 
those with enhanced care needs, which in 
2023 took into account pressures from the 
increased cost of living. Customer experience 
is at the heart of how we operate and is 
measured through customer satisfaction and 
customer complaints.

We are continuing our journey to embed 
ESG principles across the organisation, 
including incorporating climate risks within 
the risk management framework, training 
our workforce, incorporating climate-related 
targets within executive scorecards, and 
engaging with customers and suppliers.

42

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

ESG review 

How we decide what to measure

We listen to our stakeholders in a number of 
different ways, which we set out in more detail 
within the ‘ESG overview’ on page 14. We use 
the information they provide us to identify the 
issues that are most important to them and 
consequently also matter to our own business.

Our ESG Committee and other relevant 
governance bodies regularly discuss the new 
and existing themes and issues that matter to 
our stakeholders. Our management team then 
uses this insight, alongside the framework 
of the ESG Guide (which refers to our 
obligations under the Environmental, Social 
and Governance Reporting Guide contained 
in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange 
of Hong Kong Limited), and the LR9.8.6R(8) 
of the Financial Conduct Authority’s (‘FCA’) 
Listing Rules, and other applicable laws and 
regulations to choose what we measure and 
publicly report in this ESG review. Under the 
ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is considered to be 

the threshold at which ESG issues become 
sufficiently important to our investors and 
other stakeholders that they should be publicly 
reported. Our approach to materiality also 
considers disclosure standards and other 
applicable rules and regulations as part of our 
materiality assessment for specific ESG topics 
and relevant disclosures.

Given the recent developments in the ESG 
regulatory environment across various 
jurisdictions in which we operate, combined 
with the relative immaturity of processes, 
systems, data quality and controls, our focus 
remains on supporting a globally consistent 
set of mandatory sustainability standards. 
We aim to continue to evolve our reporting 
to recognise market developments, such 
as the International Sustainability Standard 
Board (‘ISSB’) or the Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), and support the 
efforts to harmonise the disclosures. In this 
Annual Report and Accounts, we continue 

to report against the core World Economic 
Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder Capitalism 
Metrics, and Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (‘SASB’) metrics and will 
continue to review our approach as the 
regulatory landscape evolves. 

Consistent with the scope of financial 
information presented in our Annual Report 
and Accounts, the ESG review covers the 
operations of HSBC Holdings plc and its 
subsidiaries. Given the relative immaturity 
of ESG-related data and methodologies 
in general, we are on a journey towards 
improving completeness and robustness.

 For further details of our material ESG topics, see 
‘Engaging with our stakeholders and our material 
ESG topics’ on page 15.
 For further details of our approach to reporting, 
see ‘Additional information’ on page 439.

Our reporting around ESG

We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and Accounts, including the ’ESG overview’ section of the Strategic Report (pages 14 to 19), 
this ESG review (pages 41 to 98), and the ‘Climate risk’ and ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ sections of the Risk review (pages 221 to 230). In 
addition, we have other supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.

Detailed data

Additional reports

ESG Data Pack 2023, including  
SASB Index 2023 and WEF Index 2023

UK Pay Gap Report 2023

Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2023

Green Bond Report 2023

HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond and Sukuk Report 2023

  For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. 

Assurance relating to ESG data 

TCFD

HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for 
preparation of the ESG information and all 
the supporting records, including selecting 
appropriate measurement and reporting 
criteria, in our Annual Report and Accounts, 
ESG Data Pack and the additional reports 
published on our website.

We recognise the importance of ESG 
disclosures and the quality of data 
underpinning them. We also acknowledge 
that our internal processes to support ESG 
disclosures are in the process of being 
developed and currently rely on manual 
sourcing and categorisation of data. Certain 
aspects of our ESG disclosures are subject 
to enhanced verification and assurance 
procedures including the first, second and 
third line of defence. Assurance assists in 
reducing the risk of restatement, although it 
cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges 
in data, evolving methodologies and emerging 
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our 
approach in line with external expectations. 

For 2023, ESG data is subject to stand-
alone independent PwC limited assurance 
in accordance with International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) 
‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and, 
in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, 
in accordance with International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’, 
issued by the International Auditing and 
Assurance Standards Board, on the following 
specific ESG-related disclosures and metrics:

 – our Green Bond Report 2023 (published in 

December 2023);

 – our progress towards our ambition to 

provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of 
sustainable finance and investment by 2030 
(see page 49);

 – our on-balance sheet financed emissions 
for 2021 and 2022 for six sectors, our on-
balance sheet financed emissions for 2020 

for thermal coal mining, and our facilitated 
emissions for two sectors for 2019 to 2022 
(see page 61); 

 – our thermal coal financing drawn balance 

exposures for 2020 (see page 67); and

 – our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 

(business travel) greenhouse gas emissions 
data (see page 64), as well as supply chain 
emissions data.

The work performed for independent limited 
assurance is substantially less than the 
work performed for a reasonable assurance 
opinion, like those provided over financial 
statements.

Our data dictionaries and methodologies for 
preparing the above ESG-related metrics and 
independent PwC’s limited assurance reports 
can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
centre.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

43

ESG review 
ESG review | Environmental 

 Environmental 
Transition to net zero

TCFD

We support the transition of our customers, industries  
and markets to a net zero and a sustainable future,  
while moving to net zero ourselves.

At a glance

Our approach to transition to net zero
Our net zero ambition represents one of 
our four strategic pillars. In January 2024, 
we published our net zero transition plan. It 
provides an overview of our approach to net 
zero and the actions we are taking to help 
meet our ambition. It sets out how we are 
working to embed net zero across key areas 
of our organisation to help ensure that we can 
play a role in the transition to net zero in the 
markets we serve. 

Supporting our customers
To help achieve the scale and speed of change 
required to transition to net zero, we know we 
need to support our customers not just with 
finance, but with the services, insights and 
tools to help them to transition. In 2023, we 
continued to provide sustainable financing 
and investment to our customers in line with 
our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn 
to $1tn by 2030. We report our progress 
against our 2030 financed emissions targets 
and our wider progress towards net zero by 
2050, including how we plan to engage with 
customers in high-emitting sectors.

Embedding net zero into the way 
we operate
We take a risk-based, proportionate and 
iterative approach to embedding net zero 
into our organisation, focusing our efforts 
on where we can help drive material and 
implementable change, and applying learnings 
as we go along. Our approach will continue 
to mature over time with evolving science, 
methodologies, industry standards and 
regulatory requirements, and improvements in 
data and in technology infrastructure. 

Partnering for systemic change 
Our ability to achieve our own net zero 
ambition is heavily reliant on the mobilisation 
of all stakeholders, public and private, across 
multiple geographies. We continue to support 
systemic change through new and existing 
partnerships, and we engage through 
industry alliances and initiatives to help build a 
supportive enabling environment. 

Impact on reporting and  
financial statements
We have assessed the impact of climate risk 
on our balance sheet and have concluded that 
there is no material impact on the financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 
2023. The effects of climate change are a 
source of uncertainty. We capture known and 
observable potential impacts of climate-related 
risks in our asset valuations and balance sheet 
calculations. These are considered in relevant 
areas of our balance sheet, including expected 
credit losses, classification and measurement 
of financial instruments, goodwill and other 
intangible assets; and in making the long term 
viability and going concern assessment. As 
part of assessing the impact on our financial 
statements we conducted scenario analysis to 
understand the impact of climate risk on our 
business (see page 65). For further details of 
our climate risk exposures, see page 221.

 For further details of how management 
considered the impact of climate-related risks on 
its financial position and performance, see 
‘Critical estimates and judgements’ on page 343.

In this section

Overview

Our approach to 
the transition

Understanding our 
climate reporting

We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in 
our own operations and supply chain by 2030.

To achieve our climate ambition we need to be transparent on the 
opportunities, challenges, related risks and progress we make.

Supporting our 
customers

Sustainable finance 
and investment

Our ability to help finance the transformation of businesses and 
infrastructure is key to building a sustainable future for our customers 
and society. 

Embedding net 
zero into the way 
we operate

Financed emissions

We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 
and support our clients on their transition.

Net zero in our 
own operations

Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is to achieve net zero 
carbon emissions in our operations and supply chain by 2030.

Managing climate risk 

Sustainability risk policies

We manage climate risk across all our businesses in line with our 
Group-wide risk management framework. Enhancing our climate 
change stress testing and scenario analysis capability is crucial in 
identifying and understanding climate-related risks and opportunities.

Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure that the financial 
services that we provide to customers do not result in unacceptable 
impacts on people or the environment.

Partnering for 
systemic change

Supporting systemic 
change to deliver net zero

We collaborate with a range of partners to support the development of 
an enabling environment and mobilise finance for nature and climate.

Our approach to 
climate reporting

Task Force on Climate-
related Financial 
Disclosures (‘TCFD’)

Our TCFD index provides our responses to each of the 11 
recommendations and summarises where additional information  
can be found.

 Page 45

 Page 46

 Page 49

 Page 53

 Page 63

 Page 65

 Page 66

 Page 68

 Page 69

44

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Overview  TCFD

Our approach to the transition

The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise 
in global temperatures to well below 2°C, 
preferably to 1.5°C, compared with pre-
industrial levels. To limit the rise to 1.5°C, the 
global economy would need to reach net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. 
We are working to achieve a 1.5°C-aligned 
phase-down of financed emissions from 
our portfolio.

In October 2020, we announced our ambition 
to become a net zero bank by 2050 and 
in 2021 we included the transition to net 
zero as one of the four key pillars of our 
corporate strategy. 

Our starting point in the transition to net 
zero is one of a heavy financed emissions 
footprint. Our history means our balance sheet 
is weighted towards the sectors and regions 
which matter the most in terms of emissions, 
and whose transitions are therefore key to the 
world’s ability to reach net zero on time. This 
means we will have a complex transition, with 
markets and sectors at different starting points 
and moving at different speeds. However, it 
also provides us with an opportunity to work 
with our customers to help make an impact 
– in both the emissions challenge and the 
financing challenge. 

Responding to the challenges and 
opportunities presented by net zero requires 
us to work across HSBC to implement and 
embed our net zero approach, to manage 
associated risks, and to help sustain and grow 
value for our customers, our shareholders 
and our wider stakeholders. We want to 
make financing, facilitating and investment 
choices that can lead to a meaningful impact 
on emissions reduction in the real economy, 
not just in our portfolio. This requires engaging 
with our customers on their transitions to help 
finance decarbonisation in the sectors and 
geographies with the most change ahead.

Our implementation plan 
We are working to embed net zero across 
our organisation. This includes embedding 
net zero into: the way that we support 
our customers, both through customer 
engagement and the provision of financing 
solutions; the way that we operate as an 
organisation, including risk management, 
policies, governance and own operations; 
and how we partner externally in support of 
systemic change. It also means focusing first 
on the sectors and customers with the highest 
emissions and transition risks, and evolving 
and expanding our efforts over time. 

Our net zero principles 
In implementing our approach to net zero, 
we aim to be guided by a set of principles 
which are aligned with our core values: 
science-based, transparent and accountable; 
integrating nature; and just and inclusive. 

 For further details of our approach to the 
transition, see our Net Zero Transition Plan 2024 
at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-
strategy/our-net-zero-transition-plan.

In January 2024, we published our net zero 
transition plan. It provides an overview of 
our approach to net zero and the actions 
we are taking to help meet our ambition. It 
sets out how we intend to use our strengths 
as an organisation to help deliver a broader 
impact on decarbonisation, how we are 
working to embed net zero across key areas 
of our organisation, and the principles that 
we aim to use to guide the implementation of 
our approach.

Our net zero strengths
We aim to rebalance our capital deployment 
towards achieving net zero over the coming 
decades. We believe we can do this best by 
promoting change in three key areas that 
play to our strengths as an organisation: 
transitioning industry; catalysing the new 
economy; and decarbonising trade and 
supply chains. 

Our net zero strengths
Where we believe we can 
best promote change

Transitioning industry

Catalysing the  
new economy

Decarbonising trade  
and supply chains

Our implementation plan
Embedding net zero into 
how we engage, operate 
and collaborate

Supporting  
our customers

Embedding net zero into  
the way we operate

Partnering for  
systemic change

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

45

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Understanding our climate reporting

The availability of high-quality climate-related 
data, transparent reporting standards and 
consistent methodology will play a vital role in 
helping deliver the economic transformation 
required to limit global warming to 1.5°C 
at the speed and scale that is needed. We 
understand that our existing data, systems, 
controls and processes require significant 
enhancements to drive effective change, 
but we recognise the necessity to balance 
this with providing early transparency on 
climate disclosures.

Our stakeholder dependency
Critical to our approach is a recognition that 
as a bank we cannot do this alone. Our ability 
to transition relies on decarbonisation in the 
real economy – both the supply and demand 
side – happening at the necessary pace. Our 
customers and the industries and markets 
we serve will need to transition effectively, 
supported by strong government policies 
and regulation, and substantially scaled 
investment. Engagement and collaboration 
are therefore key to how we respond.

We acknowledge that to achieve our climate 
ambition we need to be transparent about 
the opportunities, challenges, related 
risks we face and progress we make. Our 
reporting must evolve to keep pace with 
market developments, and we will aim 
to work through challenges and seek to 
improve consistency across different markets. 
Standard setters and regulators will play 
a critical role. Some of the limitations and 
challenges that our organisation, and the 
wider industry, currently face with regard  
to climate reporting are highlighted on  
pages 47 to 48. 

Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions

To measure and manage our greenhouse gas emissions, we follow the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol global framework, which identifies three scopes of emissions. Scope 1 
represents the direct emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the indirect emissions 
resulting from the use of electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 represents 
indirect emissions attributed to upstream and downstream activities. Our upstream 
activities include business travel and emissions from our supply chain including transport, 
distribution and waste. Our downstream activities include those related to investments 
and including financed emissions.

Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also broken down into 15 categories, of which 
we provide reporting emissions data for three related to upstream activities. These are: 
purchased goods and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); and business 
travel (category 6). We also report data on downstream activities for financed emissions 
(category 15). 

 For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at 
www.hsbc.com/esg.

Our own
operations and 
supply chain

See page 63

Scope 2
Indirect

Scope 3
Indirect

Scope 1
Direct

Scope 31
Indirect

Our ﬁnanced 
emissions

See page 53

Electricity, 
steam 
heating and 
cooling 

  Purchased 
goods and 
services
(category 1)

Company
facilities

Company
vehicles

  Business 
travel
(category 6)

  Capital 
goods
(category 2) 

Investments and 
ﬁnanced emissions
(category 15) 

Upstream activities

HSBC Holdings

Downstream activities

1  Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and 

‘facilitated emissions’.

Accelerating investment in Baltic offshore wind energy

Polish multi-energy company Orlen Group and Canadian power producer Northland Power 
have set up a joint venture to build the Baltic Power project – the first offshore wind farm in 
Polish waters of the Baltic Sea. 

In September 2023, we played a key role in supporting the construction and operation of 76 
offshore turbines when we acted as a mandated lead arranger for a $3.8bn (€4.4bn) credit 
facility. We helped coordinate a syndicate of 25 Polish and international financial institutions 
to finance the project.

With a target capacity of almost 1.2 gigawatts, the wind farm is expected to represent a 
significant step in reducing Poland’s reliance on fossil fuels and generate enough clean 
electricity to power the equivalent of more than 1.5 million homes annually.

46

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Understanding our climate reporting continued

Keeping up-to-date with real 
economy progress 
Net zero-aligned scenarios are dynamic by 
nature; they are typically updated every few 
years to incorporate significant shifts that have 
occurred in the real economy. Key drivers 
of this include changes in the economic 
environment, new data on technology 
deployment across sectors and geographies, 
new policies, and increased investment in 
clean energy and/or in fossil fuels.

The reference scenario we have selected 
to date for our published 2030 targets, for 
on-balance sheet and facilitated emissions, is 
the International Energy Agency’s (‘IEA’) NZE 
2021 scenario, which is 1.5°C-aligned with 
limited overshoot. In September 2023, the 
IEA’s NZE 2023 scenario was published as an 
update to reflect developments since 2021. As 
outlined in our net zero transition plan, going 
forwards we intend to review each updated 
set of 1.5°C-aligned scenarios to further 
develop and enhance our understanding of 
the latest outlooks for evolving pathways to 
achieve net zero by 2050. This will help us to 
consider whether, how and when to iterate 
and update our approach to scenario selection 
and target setting, portfolio alignment, and 
policies to keep pace with the latest science 
and real-world developments. We anticipate 
standard setter and industry guidance on the 
treatment of updated scenarios in target-
setting to emerge.

We recognise that the so-called ‘hard-to-
abate’ sectors, such as cement, iron, steel 
and aluminium, and aviation have a large 
dependence on nascent technologies and 
the presence (or not) of enabling policies 
and regulations. We may consider tracking 
progress relative to 1.5°C-aligned ambition 
ranges for these sectors in the future, which 
could include industry-specific scenarios 
alongside the IEA NZE scenario. 

Critical dependencies
Progress in the real economy towards net 
zero will likely be non-linear and will depend 
heavily on external factors including the 

policy and regulatory landscape, the speed 
of technological innovation, major economic 
shifts and geopolitical events. There is also 
a risk of government or customer net zero 
pledges or transition plans not turning into the 
necessary emissions reductions in the coming 
decade, or in the case of hard-to abate sectors, 
being pared back if technologies do not scale 
in time. In addition, climate science, the quality 
of data, and the scenarios upon which we 
have based our approach will change. We 
recognise that while we have limited control of 
these external dependencies, we can be clear 
on where we intend to focus our efforts to help 
drive meaningful change, and that we expect 
to iterate and mature our approach over time.

Our internal and external data challenges
Our climate ambition requires us to continue 
to enhance our capabilities including 
governance, processes, systems and controls. 
In addition, there is a heightened need for 
subject matter experts for climate-related 
topics as well as upskilling of key colleague 
groups who are supporting customers 
through their net zero transition. We also 
need new sources of data, some of which 
may be difficult to assure using traditional 
verification techniques. This challenge, 
coupled with diverse external data sources 
and structures, further complicates data 
consolidation. Our internal data on customer 
groups used to source financial exposure 
and emissions data is based on credit and 
relationship management attributes, and is not 
always aligned to the data needed to analyse 
emissions across sector value chains. As a 
consequence, this can result in an inconsistent 
basis in our financed emissions calculations.

We continue to invest in our climate resources 
and skills. Our activities are underpinned 
by efforts to develop our data and analytics 
capabilities and to help ensure that we have the 
appropriate processes, systems, controls and 
governance in place to support our transition. 

We continue to increase automation of 
our processes, with a particular focus on 
developing our ESG data capabilities to help 
address data gaps and improve consistency. 

This includes sourcing more reliable data from 
external providers. We are also developing our 
processes, systems, controls and governance 
to meet the demands of future ESG reporting. 
Certain aspects of our reporting rely on 
manual sourcing and categorisation of data 
that is not always aligned with how our 
businesses are managed. We also have a 
dependency on emissions data from our 
clients. Given the manual nature of the 
process, enhanced verification and assurance 
procedures are performed on a sample basis 
over this reporting, including the first and 
second line of defence. Our climate models 
undergo independent review by an internal 
model review group, and we obtain limited 
assurance on our financed emissions and 
sustainable finance disclosures from external 
parties, including our external auditors.

Policy implementation
We continue to review policy implementation 
as we apply our policies in practice, and our 
operationalisation of such policies continues to 
be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach 
when identifying transactions and clients to 
which our energy and thermal coal phase-
out policies apply, and when reporting on 
relevant exposures, adopting approaches 
proportionate to risk and materiality. This helps 
to focus our efforts on areas where we believe 
we can help drive meaningful change, while 
taking into account experience from policy 
implementation over time.

An evolving approach to embedding 
net zero
We acknowledge that our assessment of 
client transition plans – which to date has 
focused on clients in scope of our thermal coal 
phase-out and energy policies – is at an early 
stage with initial learnings on methodology 
and client engagement. We are also at 
the early stages of embedding transition 
plans alongside financed emissions into 
transaction and portfolio level business and 
risk processes. Our net zero transition plan 
provides further details of work underway and 
planned.

Limited alignment on sustainable finance taxonomies

Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and best practices lack global consistency. As 
standards develop over time and as the regulatory guidance around them evolves across 
jurisdictions, our methodologies, disclosures and targets may need to evolve. This could lead 
to differences in year-on-year reporting and restatements.

We continue to engage with standard setters in different regions to support the development 
of transparent and consistent taxonomies to best incentivise science-based decarbonisation, 
particularly in high transition risk sectors. We aim to align to enhanced industry standards as 
they are further developed, and increase transparency across the different types of green and 
sustainable finance and investment categories going forward. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

47

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Understanding our climate reporting continued

Financed emissions reporting challenges 
The methodologies and data used to assess 
financed emissions and set targets continue 
to evolve alongside changes to industry 
guidance, market practice and regulation. We 
plan to refine our analysis using appropriate 
data sources and current methodologies 
available for the sectors we analyse. We have 
developed an internal recalculation policy (see 
page 56) to define the circumstances under 
which a recalculating of financed emissions 
is necessary to help support the consistency, 
comparability and relevance of our reported 
emissions data over time.

We have now set combined on-balance sheet 
financed emissions and facilitated emissions 
targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil 
and gas, and power and utilities, and report 
the combined progress for both sectors. We 
continue to report on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and targets for cement, iron, steel 
and aluminium, aviation, automotive and in 
2023 we added thermal coal mining financed 
emissions.

Emissions related to our insurance business 
are partially captured within the disclosures of 
HSBC Asset Management, which manages 
the vast majority of our insurance assets. The 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials 
(‘PCAF’) standard for insurance associated 
emissions (part C) is not applicable to our 
insurance business as HSBC Insurance 
focuses on the manufacturing of life 
insurance products.

In November 2023, our asset management 
business updated its 2022 thermal coal 
phase-out policy and released a new energy 
policy. It continues to focus on its portfolios’ 
scope 1 and scope 2 decarbonisation 
target for 2030 with the aim of aligning 
with net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner. 
The commitment covers listed equity and 
corporate fixed income where data is most 
reliable and methodologies are most mature. 

In January 2023, we withdrew our 
commitment to the Science Based Targets 
initiative (‘SBTi’), which we had made in 2016, 
because we determined that it would not be 
feasible for us to meet SBTi’s requirement 
to submit a complete set of sector targets 
for validation by its deadline. We continue to 
engage with SBTi on guidance for financial 
institutions and we participated in SBTi’s 
consultation process on its revised standards 
during the year.

Disclosure revisions
We are committed to timely and transparent 
reporting. However, we recognise that 
challenges on data sourcing, as well as the 
evolution of our processes and industry 
standards, may result in us having to restate 

certain disclosures. In 2023, there has been  
an impact on certain climate disclosures,  
as follows:

 – Financed emissions: we improved our
methodology for calculating financed
emissions using more granular product
identification to isolate exposure in scope,
more consistent emission factors for
estimates, and a revised aggregation method
for emission intensity. Previously reported on-
balance sheet numbers included non-lending
exposures for market products in error. The
more granular product identification will help
ensure these are not included in future.

 – Financed emissions: to reflect these
enhancements we have set out the
recalculated metrics for the oil and gas, and
power and utilities sectors in the financed
emissions section. The oil and gas baseline
for on-balance sheet financed emissions is
now 28.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’) for 2019 versus 33.0
Mt CO2e reported in the Annual Report
and Accounts 2022. The power and utilities
baseline for on-balance sheet financed
emissions is now 537.5 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCO2e/
GWh’) for 2019 versus 589.9 tCO2e/GWh
reported in the Annual Report and Accounts
2022. For other sectors, changes were not
material enough to warrant a recalculation.

 – Thermal coal exposures: we have now
revised the basis of preparation for our
thermal coal exposures. Aligned with our
thermal coal phase-out policy, we applied a
risk-based approach to identify clients and
report on relevant exposures. Our thermal
coal financing drawn balance exposure was
approximately $1bn† as at 31 December
2020. We continue to work on our 2021 and 
2022 numbers based on our revised basis of
preparation and expect to report on these in
future disclosures.

 – Thermal coal power financed emissions: we
have discontinued separate tracking and
reporting of thermal coal power financed
emissions. A review of the counterparties
included within the on-balance sheet
financed emissions calculation showed that
the majority of thermal coal power entities
in scope are included in other financed
emission sector targets. We previously
set separate targets to reduce on-balance
sheet financed emissions for thermal coal
power and thermal coal mining aligned to
our thermal coal phase-out policy. We plan
to maintain a financed emissions target for
thermal coal mining only, and have set an
absolute on-balance sheet reduction target
for 2030 from a 2020 baseline. We used 2020
as a baseline to align with those applied to
our drawn balance exposure targets. These
targets reflect the percentage reduction that
the IEA indicates in its net zero emissions
scenario for global emissions to 2030.

48

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Continuing to evolve our 
climate disclosures
We understand the need to provide early 
transparency on climate disclosures but we 
must balance this with the recognition that 
our existing data and reporting processes 
require significant enhancements. Due 
to ongoing data availability and quality 
challenges, we continue to assess our 
financed emissions for our real estate and 
agriculture sectors. 

We are engaging with standard setters to 
support the development of transparent 
and consistent climate-related industry 
standards in areas such as product 
labelling, sustainability disclosures, 
sustainable finance taxonomy and 
emissions accounting. Voluntary industry 
initiatives can also help shape action and 
collaboration, and often form the basis of 
future climate policy and regulation. For 
example, we supported the TCFD, which is 
now referenced in climate disclosure rules 
around the world.

In 2024, we will continue to review our 
approach to disclosures, and enhance 
as appropriate. 

 – Shipping: following a reduction in our

exposure to the shipping sector after the
strategic sale of part of our European
shipping portfolio in 2023, and work
undertaken to assess the materiality of
our remaining portfolio from a financed
emissions perspective, we have concluded
that the remaining exposure as of year-end
2023 is not material enough to warrant
setting a stand-alone target. This aligns with
Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA’) guidelines
on sector inclusion for target setting.

 For details of assurance over our ESG data, see 
page 43.
 For details of our approach to calculating 
financed emissions and the relevant data and 
methodology limitations, see page 55.
 For details of our sustainable finance and 
investment ambition, see page 49.
 For details of our approach to thermal coal 
financing exposures, see page 67.
 For further details of our asset management 
policies, see page 67.

†  Data is subject to independent limited assurance by 
PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For 
further details, see our Financed Emissions and 
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and PWC’s 
limited assurance report, which are available at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/esg-reporting-centre.

Environmental 

Supporting our customers 

Sustainable finance and investment  TCFD

We recognise that we have an important role 
to play in supporting the transition to a net 
zero global economy. As a global organisation 
with a presence in the regions and sectors 
where most significant change is needed, we 
are well placed to help transition industry and 
catalyse the new economy to reach net zero.

Progress on our sustainable finance 
and investment ambition 
We aim to help our customers transition to 
net zero and a sustainable future by providing 
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of 
sustainable finance and investment by 2030. 
Our sustainable finance and investment 
ambition aims to help promote green, 
sustainable and socially-focused business  
and sustainable investment products  
and solutions.

Since 1 January 2020, we have provided 
and facilitated $267.8bn of sustainable 
finance and $26.6bn of ESG and sustainable 
investing, as defined in our Sustainable 
Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 
2023. This included 38% where the use of 
proceeds were dedicated to green financing, 
12% to social financing, and 15% to other 
sustainable financing. It also included 26% 
of sustainability-linked financing and 9% 
of net new investment flows managed and 
distributed on behalf of investors. In 2023, our 
underwriting of green, social, sustainability 
and sustainability-linked bonds for clients 
decreased over the year, measured on a 
proportional share basis, in line with the 
wider bond market environment, although 
it remained at 15% of our total bond 
underwriting. On-balance sheet sustainable 

lending transactions increased by 7% 
compared with 2022. In 2023, transactions 
totalling $0.7bn were identified as no longer 
fulfilling our eligibility criteria. These were 
declassified and removed from the cumulative 
progress total, and reported as a negative 
entry in 2023. 

Continued progress towards achieving 
our sustainable finance and investment 
ambition is dependent on market demand 
for the products and services set out in our 
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary 2023.

Sustainable finance and investment summary1

Balance sheet-related transactions provided

Capital markets/advisory (facilitated)

ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows)

Total contribution2

Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme

Green use of proceeds3,4

Social use of proceeds3

Other sustainable use of proceeds3,5

Sustainability-linked6

ESG and sustainable investing7

Total contribution2,8

2023 
($bn)

42.7

33.3

7.7

83.7

37.1

8.4

10.7

19.8

7.7

83.7

2022  
($bn)

2021  
($bn)

Cumulative progress 
since 2020
($bn)

2020  
($bn)

42.2

34.5

7.5

84.2

29.0

6.7

12.6

28.4

7.5

84.2

26.0

48.7

7.7

82.4

27.1

11.3

11.7

24.6

7.7

82.4

10.4

30.0

3.7

44.1

18.9

9.7

8.3

3.5

3.7

44.1

121.3

146.5

26.6

294.4

112.1

36.1

43.3

76.3

26.6

294.4

1  The 2023 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023, which includes green, social and 
sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided, the proportional share of 
facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and the net new flows of sustainable investments within assets under management. 

2  The $294.4bn cumulative progress since 2020 is subject to PwC’s limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 
(Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. For our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 
2023 and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.

3  For green, social and other sustainable use of proceeds, the capital markets products are aligned to the International Capital Markets Association’s (‘ICMA’) Green 
Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles or Sustainability Bond Guidelines or the Climate Bonds Initiative as applicable. The lending labelled products are aligned to 
the Green Loan Principles (‘GLP’) or Social Loan Principles of the Loan Market Association (‘LMA’), Asia-Pacific Loan Market Association (‘APLMA’) and the Loan 
Syndications and Trading Association (‘LSTA’) as applicable; or for our sustainable trade instruments, are aligned to HSBC’s internal sustainable trade instrument 
principles which are based on the GLP and reference the UN SDGs. Also included are facilities where HSBC identifies that the use of proceeds would meet 
eligibility criteria as defined and approved by appropriate governance committees but these are not labelled or marketed as green or social.

4  Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive, 

chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 223. Of which approximately $37bn is 
defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023. 

5 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes.
6  Our sustainability-linked labelled products are aligned to either the ICMA Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles or the Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles of the 
LMA, APLMA and the LSTA as applicable. The coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves predefined sustainability performance 
targets. The funds can be used for general purposes.

7  Net new flows of both HSBC-owned (Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments assessed against the 

Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023.

8  Additional detailed information on our sustainable finance and investment progress can be found in the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-

responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

49

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Sustainable finance and investment continued

Sustainable finance and investment 
definitions 
Our data dictionary defining our sustainable 
finance and investment continues to evolve, 
and is reviewed annually to take into account 
the evolving standards, taxonomies and 
practices we deem appropriate. This involves 
reviewing and strengthening our product 
definitions, where appropriate, adding 
and deleting qualifying products, making 
enhancements to our internal standards, and 
developing our reporting and governance. 

Industry and regulatory guidance on 
definitions for sustainable finance continue 
to evolve. In 2023, the Glasgow Financial 
Alliance for Net Zero (‘GFANZ’), NZBA 
and the UK government released work-in-
progress definitions of transition finance. 
We will continue to monitor these and 
other developments in sustainable finance 
definitions.

Our progress will be published each year, 
and we will seek to continue for it to be 
independently assured. 

Mobilising capital to support 
our customers
In 2023, we continued to focus on providing 
our customers with products, services and 
initiatives to help enable emissions reduction 
in the real economy. 

For example, we increased our funding from 
$5bn to $9bn for our sustainable finance 
scheme that supports businesses of all sizes 
in China’s Greater Bay Area to transition to 
low-carbon operations. The scheme, launched 
in 2022, provides successful loan applicants 
access to a range of additional services 
including training, subsidised third-party 
assessments and assistance from a team 
with sustainable financing expertise. For our 
Wealth and Personal Banking customers, we 
launched green mortgages in Mexico, electric 
vehicle loans in India and a referral service to 
our electric vehicle leasing partner in the UK.

In 2023, we introduced an internal briefing 
series called Net Zero in Practice, which 
covers new technologies relevant to the net 
zero transition, drawing on expertise from 
across the organisation and highlighting 
financing opportunities and case studies.

We continue to be a participant in the Just 
Energy Transition Partnerships (‘JETPs‘) in 
Indonesia and Vietnam, and in the Nexus 
for Water, Food and Energy in Egypt. 
These initiatives aim to play a catalytic 
role in mobilising finance to accelerate the 
energy transition. For further details of our 
involvement with the JETPs, see page 68.

In 2023, we won three awards at the 
Environmental Finance Bond Awards. We 
retained the Euromoney award for Best Bank 
for Sustainable Finance in Asia for the sixth 
year in a row, and won the global award 
for Best Bank for Public Sector Clients in 
recognition of our innovation in sustainability 
and tokenised public-sector bonds. 

Our sustainable finance and 
investment data dictionary
We define sustainable finance and 
investment as any form of financial 
service that integrates ESG criteria into 
business or investment decisions. This 
includes financing, investing and advisory 
activities that support the achievement 
of UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(‘SDGs’), including but not limited to the 
aims of the Paris Agreement on climate 
change. 

Details of our revised definitions of the 
contributing activities for sustainable 
finance and investment and how we 
calculate the amounts we count are 
available in our Sustainable Finance and 
Investment Data Dictionary 2023. 

 For our ESG Data Pack and Sustainable 
Finance and Investment Data Dictionary, 
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre. 

Developing sustainable food supply chains in south-east Asia 

Singapore-based Glife Technologies has developed a digital business-to-business food-
sourcing platform that connects farmers from marginalised communities in south-east Asia 
to the hospitality industry.

The distribution network, served by an app, aims to improve the efficiency and sustainability 
of supply chains by aggregating orders and sourcing in bulk direct from farmers, in order to 
help control costs and reduce the risk of food waste from damage or contamination. 

In June 2023, we provided a working capital loan and access to our cross-border network 
to help Glife expand its platform into new markets, including Malaysia and Indonesia. The 
loan also aims to help Glife finance social projects seeking to improve food security and 
creating more sustainable food systems. The loan was drawn from HSBC’s New Economy 
fund, which is dedicated to investing in high-growth, pre-profit new economy businesses 
in Singapore.

50

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Sustainable finance and investment continued

HSBC Asset Management’s fixed income, 
equity and stewardship teams held over 2,000 
meetings with companies in its portfolios. This 
included engaging with companies on the 
priority list across several thematic priorities, 
such as climate change, human rights, public 
health, inclusive growth and shared prosperity, 
biodiversity and nature, trusted technology 
and data, and diversity, equity and inclusion.

For our private banking and wealth customers, 
we expanded our investment offering with 
the launch of eight ESG and sustainable 
investing mutual funds and exchange-traded 
funds in 2023. We also enhanced our ESG 
and sustainable investing structured products 
offering linked to indices such as the MSCI 
World Islamic ESG Select 8% Risk Control 
Index. Throughout 2023, we published regular 
ESG and sustainability-related market insights 
and updates such as #WhyESGMatters 
and Learning about ESG to help clients 
better understand the implications for 
their investments.

HSBC Life, our insurance business, continues 
to expand the availability of ESG investment 
fund options within its investment-linked 
products. In 2023, eight new ESG funds were 
introduced across Hong Kong, France and 
Singapore with a range of investment themes, 
including environmental, circular economy 
and sustainable energy.

In June, under the United Nations Environment 
Programme Finance Initiative (‘UNEP FI’) 
Principles for Sustainable Insurance, HSBC 
Life co-led a team of insurance organisations 
to publish an industry position paper focused 
on the role and opportunity for life and health 
insurers to help build a more inclusive and 
preventative healthcare model. This included 
examples of good industry practice to: help 
insurers improve access to healthcare; close 
the health protection gap; drive better health 
outcomes across populations; and mitigate 
potential health risks due to climate change 
and other environmental factors.

 For further details of our asset management 
policies, see page 67.

Responsible and sustainable investment 
We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities 
across asset management, global markets, 
wealth, private banking and securities 
services, to help institutional and individual 
investors to generate financial returns, manage 
risk and pursue ESG-related opportunities.

Our Asset Management business is 
committed to further developing our 
sustainable product range across asset 
classes, as well as enhancing our existing 
product suite for ESG and climate-related 
criteria where it is in the investors’ interests 
to do so. In 2023, we launched 10 funds 
within our ESG and sustainable strategies, 
which adhere to, and are classified within, 
our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary 2023.

HSBC Asset Management managed over 
$684bn assets at the end of 2023, of which 
$73.3bn comprise assets of funds and 
mandates invested in our ESG and sustainable 
strategies.

Our ESG and sustainable investing approach 
across different investment products can 
include but is not limited to the UN SDGs, 
including climate. For the avoidance of 
doubt, assets invested pursuant to, or 
considered to be in alignment with, HSBC’s 
ESG and sustainable investing approach 
do not necessarily qualify as ‘sustainable 
investments’ as defined by the EU Sustainable 
Finance Disclosures Regulation (‘SFDR’) 
or other relevant regulations. Our ESG and 
sustainable investing approach is an HSBC 
internal classification approach used to 
establish our own ESG and sustainable 
investing criteria (recognising the subjectivity 
inherent in such an approach and the 
variables involved). It is also used to promote 
consistency across asset classes and business 
lines where relevant, and should not be relied 
on externally to assess the sustainability 
characteristics of any given product. There 
is no single global standard definition of, or 
measurement criteria for, ESG and sustainable 
investing or the impact of ESG and sustainable 
investing products.

We seek to take an active stewardship role to 
help drive positive change in the companies 
on our priority list in which we invest on behalf 
of our customers. The priority list, which is 
defined in our Global Stewardship Plan, can be 
found at: www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/
en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsible-
investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/
policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.

Helping customers to 
understand ESG in their 
investments

We have launched new metrics to 
help our Global Private Banking and 
Wealth customers understand the 
ESG performance of their investments. 
In selected markets in 2023, we also 
introduced a sustainability preference 
questionnaire to help identify and 
understand our customers’ sustainable 
investing objectives and ambitions. By 
improving clarity on ESG performance, 
which traditional financial metrics fail to 
capture, we aim to provide customers 
with meaningful insights to enable 
them to make informed investment 
decisions. Examples of these metrics, 
available on digital platforms in selected 
markets, are: 

 – ‘ESG rating and score’, which 

measures a company’s resilience to 
material long-term, industry ESG risks 
and opportunities, with data provided 
by MSCI.

 – ‘Carbon intensity’, which measures 
a company’s carbon emissions per 
million of revenue, with data provided 
by S&P Trucost. 

In addition, we have also introduced 
‘HSBC ESG and sustainable investing 
classifications’, which help customers 
to understand and identify ESG and 
sustainable investing products in their 
investment portfolio according to 
HSBC’s definition.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

51

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Sustainable finance and investment continued  TCFD

Unlocking climate solutions 
and innovation
We recognise the need to find new solutions 
and increase the pace of change for the world 
to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of being 
net zero by 2050. 

We are working with a range of partners 
to accelerate investment in sustainable 
infrastructure, natural resources and climate 
technology to help reduce emissions and 
address climate change.

Sustainable infrastructure
Addressing climate change requires the 
rapid development of a new generation of 
sustainable infrastructure.

HSBC continues to support the FAST-Infra 
Initiative, which we helped conceive, working 
with the IFC, OECD, the World Bank’s Global 
Infrastructure Facility and the Climate Policy 
Initiative, under the auspices of the One 
Planet Lab. In 2023, the initiative, which aims 
to mobilise large-scale financing to develop 
sustainable infrastructure, invited pilot 
photovoltaic and wind power projects around 
the world to apply for the provisional FAST-
Infra label. The label is awarded to projects 
that meet specific sustainability criteria. HSBC 
is supporting the introduction and widespread 
adoption of the labelling system as a standard 
for sustainable infrastructure assets globally.

Label applicants included a solar photovoltaic 
project submitted by Pentagreen Capital, 
our sustainable infrastructure debt financing 
partnership with Singapore-based investment 
firm Temasek. The project sponsor was 
Citicore Solar Energy Corporation, a subsidiary 
of the Philippines-focused renewable energy 
developer and operator Citicore Renewable 
Energy Corporation. Pentagreen acted as 
lead arranger of a $100m green loan facility 
and committed an initial $30m to help 
fund Citicore’s development of six solar 
power projects capable of generating 490 
megawatts of electricity for the island of 
Luzon in the Philippines. The commitment 
marks Pentagreen’s first investment in 
the construction of ready-to-build clean 
energy projects.

In 2023, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
Agency of the World Bank Group issued HSBC 
Holdings a guarantee of $1.8bn in regulatory 
capital relief on mandatory reserves held by 
its subsidiary in Mexico. The benefits of the 
capital relief are expected to be deployed to 
exclusively support eligible climate finance 
projects in Mexico, including renewable 
energy, energy efficiency, clean transportation 
and sustainable agriculture.

The HSBC Alternatives business, part of HSBC 
Asset Management, continued to develop its 
energy transition infrastructure capabilities 
in Asia, targeting investments in renewable 
energy generation, storage, grids, charging 
and hydrogen infrastructure. To help support 
the transition to green energy in North Asia, 
the energy transition infrastructure strategy 
made its first investment in solar photovoltaic 
power project developer Tekoma Energy.

Natural capital as an emerging 
asset class
Climate Asset Management, a joint venture 
we launched with climate investment and 
advisory firm Pollination in 2020, continues to 
create investment opportunities for investors 
to help protect biodiversity and support the 
transition to net zero.

It offers two investment strategies that 
aim to build resilience across landscapes 
while generating returns. Its nature-based 
carbon strategy targets nature restoration 
and conservation projects in developing 
economies, prioritising community benefits 
while generating high-quality carbon 
credits. Its natural capital strategy invests in 
agriculture, forestry and environmental assets 
and aims to deliver impact at scale alongside 
long-term financial returns.

On behalf of these strategies in 2023, Climate 
Asset Management allocated more than $400m 
to projects in Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, Spain, 
Australia and Portugal.

Backing new technology  
and innovation
At the COP28 Summit in the UAE, HSBC 
pledged its support for the Energy 
Transition Accelerator Financing Platform, 
which aims to scale up the development 
of renewable energy projects in 
developing countries. Established 
in 2021 with initial support from the 
Abu Dhabi Fund for Development and 
the International Renewable Energy 
Agency, the platform brings together 
public and private institutions. HSBC 
signed alongside the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, the 
International Finance Corporation and 
the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
Agency. We will work with platform 
partners to expand the pipeline of 
investable projects in core HSBC markets, 
including in Asia and the Middle East, 
bringing financing solutions that support 
the transition to net zero. 

We also became a founding member 
of the Global Climate Finance Centre, a 
newly launched UAE-based think tank 
created to connect public and private 
finance to help accelerate the transition 
to net zero.

HSBC Alternatives made direct 
investments in assets that help to 
promote the transition to a net zero 
climate. The venture capital strategy 
invests across four themes: power 
transformation, transport electrification, 
supply chain sustainability and climate 
risk mitigation. The strategy raised 
additional funds from institutional and 
private wealth clients over the course 
of 2023. As of 31 December 2023, the 
strategy had deployed capital into eight 
start-up companies. These included 
US-based Electric Era, which provides 
electric vehicle fast-charging technology, 
and Israel-based SeeTree, which has 
developed a software platform that tracks 
the health and productivity of trees. 

52

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Financed emissions  

TCFD

We announced our ambition to become a net 
zero bank in October 2020, including an aim 
to align our financed emissions to net zero 
by 2050 or sooner. We have published initial 
financed emissions targets for 2030, and plan to 
review them in five-year increments thereafter.

Our analysis of financed emissions comprises 
‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and 
‘facilitated emissions’, which we distinguish 
where necessary in our reporting. Our on-
balance sheet financed emissions include 
emissions related to on-balance sheet 
lending, such as project finance and direct 
lending. Our facilitated emissions include 
emissions related to financing we help clients 
to raise through capital markets activities. Our 
analysis covers financing from Global Banking 
and Markets, and Commercial Banking.

Financed emissions link the financing we 
provide to our customers and their activities 
in the real economy, and provide an indication 
of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. 

They form part of our scope 3 emissions, 
which include emissions associated with the 
use of a company’s products and services.

In 2021, we started measuring financed 
emissions for oil and gas, and power and 
utilities. Following the December 2023 release 
of the PCAF Global GHG Accounting Standard 
for capital markets, we now include facilitated 
emissions for these sectors, in recognition of 
our role as service provider when customers 
issue debt and equity to investors. For target 
setting we now track the combined progress 
for on-balance sheet financed and facilitated 
emissions. 

In 2022, we disclosed the on-balance sheet 
financed emissions targets for the following 
additional sectors: cement; iron, steel and 
aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We also 
set a target, and now measure, on-balance 
sheet financed emissions for the thermal coal 
mining sector. As part of our financial reporting, 
we present the progress for these sectors 

against the financed emissions baselines that 
we now measure ourselves against.

Following a reduction in our exposure to the 
shipping sector after the strategic sale of part 
of our European shipping portfolio in 2023, 
and work undertaken to assess the materiality 
of our remaining portfolio from a financed 
emissions perspective, we have concluded 
that the remaining exposure as of year-end 
2023 is not material enough to warrant setting 
a stand-alone target. This aligns with NZBA 
guidelines on sector inclusion for target setting.

We have announced a number of planned 
business disposals in recent years, and we will 
continue to consider how these may impact 
future disclosures, including recalculations.

For all sectors other than oil and gas and 
thermal coal mining, we have set emissions 
intensity targets. These targets are linked to 
real world production and help us to deploy 
capital towards decarbonisation solutions.

Our approach to financed emissions

In our approach to assessing our financed 
emissions, our key methodological decisions 
were shaped in line with industry practices 
and standards. We recognise these are 
still developing.

Coverage of our analysis
For each sector, our analysis focuses on the 
parts of the value chain where we believe the 
majority of emissions are produced to help 
reduce double counting of emissions. By 
estimating emissions and setting targets for 
customers that directly account for, or indirectly 
influence, the majority of emissions in each 

industry, we can focus our engagement and 
resources where we believe the potential for 
change is highest. For each sector, our reported 
emissions now typically include all the major 
greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, 
methane and nitrous oxide, among others. 
These are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent, 
in line with NZBA guidelines.

To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed 
emissions, we use drawn balances as at 31 
December in the year of analysis related to 
wholesale credit and lending, which include 
business loans and project finance as the 

value of finance provided to customers. We 
excluded products that were short term by 
design, and typically less than 12 months 
in duration, consistent with guidance from 
the PCAF, to reduce volatility. For facilitated 
emissions we considered all capital market 
transactions in scope for the year of analysis. 
These included debt and equity capital 
markets, and syndicated loans. 

 For further details of our financed emissions 
methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see our 
Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures 
Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-

centre.

The chart below shows the scope of our financed emissions analysis of the seven sectors, including upstream, midstream and downstream 
activities within each sector. The allocation of companies to different parts of the value chain is highly dependent on expert judgement and data 
available on company revenue streams. As data quality improves, this will be further refined.

Sector

Scope of emissions Value chain in scope

Oil and gas

1, 2 and 3

Upstream 
(e.g. extraction)

Midstream
(e.g. transport)

Downstream
(e.g. fuel use)

Integrated/ 
diversiﬁed

Power and utilities

1 and 2

Cement

Iron, steel and 
aluminium

Aviation

1 and 2

1 and 2

Upstream  
(e.g. generation)

Midstream
(e.g. transmission 
and distribution)

Upstream (e.g. raw  
materials, extraction) 

Midstream (e.g clinker 
and cement manufacturing)

Upstream (e.g. raw  
materials, extraction)

Midstream
(e.g. ore to steel)

Downstream

(e.g. retail)

Downstream
(e.g. construction) 

Downstream
(e.g. construction)

1 for airlines,  
3 for aircraft lessors

Upstream
(e.g. parts manufacturers) 

Midstream 
(e.g. aircraft manufacturing)

Downstream
(e.g. airlines and air lessors)

Automotive

1, 2 and 3

Thermal coal mining

1, 2 and 3

Key:  Included in analysis

Upstream
(e.g. suppliers)

Upstream  
(e.g. extraction)

Midstream 
(e.g. motor vehicle 
manufacture)

Midstream

(e.g. processing)

Downstream
(e.g. retail)

Downstream

(e.g. retail)

Coverage of greenhouse 
gases (’GHGs’)

All GHGs

All GHGs

All GHGs

All GHGs

All GHGs

All GHGs

All GHGs

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

53

ESG review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG review | Environmental 

Financed emissions continued

Agriculture 
For the agriculture sector, due to ongoing 
data availability and quality challenges, and 
lack of developed methodologies, we are not 
in a position to report our financed emissions 
or set a target at this time. We aim to build 
data availability and continue to work with 
partners and industry bodies to develop data 
and methodologies across a wider section of 
the agriculture value chain – such as farm-
related and downstream emissions, including 
from the food and beverage sector – while 
assessing the make-up of our portfolio.

Residential real estate 
For residential real estate, where our 
customers are consumers not corporates, 
our approach needs to consider financial 
inclusivity, and our ability to provide customers 
access to suitable mortgages in addition to 
decarbonisation aims. We expect to measure 
and report our residential real estate financed 
emissions in future disclosures. We continue 
to consider our approach to setting an 
appropriate target to measure our contribution 
to helping the sector transition.

Commercial real estate 
For commercial real estate, we continue to 
work towards outlining a baseline and a 2030 
financed emissions ambition or ambition 
range, starting with our major markets and 
where sufficient data is available to track 
decarbonisation progress. We expect to 
review our approach and coverage periodically 
in line with evolving data, methodologies, 
scenarios and real-world progress. 
Methodologies for embedded carbon 
need to be developed given the materiality 
of financing new property development 
within our portfolio, from a financed 
emissions perspective.

Investing in battery 
health and monitoring 
solutions 

The global push towards electrification 
is accelerating the demand for 
systems powered by safe, reliable and 
sustainable batteries. 

In August 2023, HSBC Asset 
Management, as part of its climate 
tech venture capital strategy, helped a 
Germany-based analytics software start-
up secure $7.8m (€7.2m) of investment 
in its battery monitoring platform, 
with HSBC Asset Management’s fund 
providing $4.1m (€3.8m).

ACCURE Battery Intelligence uses AI, 
field data and modelling to forecast and 
manage the health and performance 
of batteries, and predict failures, fires 
and other incidents. With their software 
already supporting 3.5 gigawatt-hours 
of storage, the fundraising will help 
expand and develop the platform 
across energy, electric vehicle, transit, 
marine, insurance and other industries 
worldwide.

Setting our targets 
Our target-setting approach to date, for 
on-balance sheet financed emissions and 
facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a 
single net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE 
2021) to underpin both energy supply-related 
sectors (oil and gas, power and utilities, 
and thermal coal mining) and our published 
targets for demand-side sectors in transport 
and heavy industry. 

The impact of our capital markets activities 
is now reflected in our combined financed 
emissions targets for the oil and gas, and 
power and utilities sectors. Our facilitated 
emissions, included in our combined metrics, 
are weighted at 33%, in accordance with 
the PCAF standard. This approach dampens 
volatility, apportions responsibility between 
underwriters and asset owners, and allows 
for flexibility in deploying on and off-balance 
sheet financing in line with clients’ needs. 
To further reduce the inherent volatility in 
facilitated emissions, we apply a three-year 
moving average across transactions for our 
target metric, building up from 2019 data. This 
means that transactions facilitated in 2028 
and 2029 will still have an impact on the 2030 
progress number and will need to be taken 
into consideration as we manage progress 
towards our target. We aim to achieve our 
target in 2030 notwithstanding the application 
of a three-year average.  

Our approach for financed emissions 
accounting does not rely on purchasing 
offsets to achieve any financed emissions 
targets we set.

An evolving approach
We believe methodologies for calculating 
financed emissions and setting targets should 
be transparent and comparable, and should 
provide science-based insights that focus 
engagement efforts, inform capital allocation 
and support the development of solutions that 
are both timely and impactful. We continue to 
engage with regulators, standard setters and 
industry bodies to help shape our approach to 
measuring financed emissions and managing 
portfolio alignment to net zero. We also work 
with data providers and our clients to help us 
gather data from the real economy to improve 
our analysis. 

Scenarios used in our analysis are modelled 
on assumptions of the available carbon 
budget and actions that need to be taken to 
limit the long-term increase in average global 
temperatures to 1.5°C with limited overshoot. 
We expect that the scenarios we use will 
be updated periodically. We plan to refine 
our own analysis of financed emissions as 
industry guidance on scenarios, data and 
methodologies more broadly evolve in the 
years ahead.

54

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Financed emissions continued

Data and methodology limitations

Our financed emissions estimates and 
methodological choices are shaped by 
the availability of data for the sectors 
we analyse. 

 – We are members of the PCAF, which 
defines and develops greenhouse gas 
accounting standards for financial 
institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting 
and Reporting Standards for Financed 
Emissions and for Facilitated Emissions 
provide detailed methodological guidance 
to measure and disclose financed and 
facilitated emissions. 

 – We have found that data quality scores 

vary across the different sectors and years 
of our analysis, although not significantly. 
While we expect our data quality scores 
to improve over time, as companies 
continue to expand their disclosures to 
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder 
expectations, there may be fluctuations 
within sectors year on year, and/or 
differences in the data quality scores 
between sectors due to changes in data 
availability.

 – The majority of our clients do not yet 
report the full scope of greenhouse 
gas emissions included in our analysis, 
in particular scope 3 emissions. In the 
absence of client-reported emissions, we 
estimated emissions using proxies based 
on company production and revenue 
figures. Although we sought to minimise 
the use of non-company-specific data, we 
applied industry averages in our analysis 
where company-specific data was 
unavailable through our vendor datasets. 
As data improves, estimates will be 
replaced with reported figures.

 – Third-party datasets that feed into our 
analysis may have up to a two-year lag 
in reported emissions figures, and we 
are working with data providers to help 
reduce this. Mapping external datasets to 
our internal client entities is challenging 
due to complex company ownership 
structures. 

 – The methodology and data used to 

assess financed emissions and set targets 
are new and evolving, and we expect 
industry guidance, market practice, 
and regulations to continue to change. 
We plan to refine our analysis using 
appropriate data sources and current 
methodologies available for the sectors 
we analyse. 

 – We remain conscious that the attribution 
factor used in the financed emissions 
calculation is sensitive to changes in 
drawn amounts or market fluctuations, 
and we plan to be transparent around 
drivers for change to portfolio financed 
emissions where possible. 

 – To calculate sector-level baselines and 
annual updates, our portfolio-level 
emissions intensity was previously 
weighted by the ratio of our financing 
in relation to the value of the financed 
company. We believe this introduced 
volatility. We have now calculated sector 
level emissions intensity metrics using 
a portfolio-weighted approach. Due to 
data limitations, we are unable to obtain 
production data for all of our clients. We 
therefore calculate an emissions intensity 
figure using the 75th percentile to meet 
this data gap.

 – The classification of our clients into 

sectors is performed with inputs from 
subject matter experts, and will also 
continue to evolve with improvements 
to data and our sector classification 
approach. Our internal data on customer 
groups used to source financial exposure 
and emissions data is based on credit and 
relationship management attributes and 
is not always aligned to the data needed 
to analyse emissions across sector value 
chains. As a consequence, this can result 
in an inconsistent basis in our financed 
emissions calculations. As the sub-sector, 
and therefore the value chain classification 
is based on judgement, this may be 
revised as better data becomes available. 
Emissions are calculated at a counterparty 
group level and each client is mapped to 
a single sector. Companies with multiple 
activities such as conglomerates, with 
near to equal business activity split across 
multiple sectors, are excluded as these 
can have different activities covered by 
multiple sector targets. Once we define a 
methodology for conglomerates these may 
be covered according to their activity split. 

 – The operating environment for climate 

analysis and portfolio alignment is 
maturing. We continue to work to improve 
our data management processes, and 
are implementing steering mechanisms 
to align our provision of finance with 
the goals and timelines of the Paris 
Agreement. 

 For further details of our financed emissions 
methodology, see our Financed Emissions  
and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. 

Tackling operational emissions in industry

We are supporting one of the largest producers of textile raw materials in Indonesia to 
reduce the greenhouse gas emissions in its operations. PT. Indo-Rama Synthetics Tbk, which 
specialises in the integrated production of spun yarn and polyester, wanted to expand its 
operations and meet its customer demand in a sustainable way.

To help PT. Indo-Rama Synthetics Tbk invest in reducing energy consumption, we provided 
a $20m green loan in September 2023 so that it can install energy efficient machinery and 
technology in the expansion of its yarn spinning factory.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

55

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Financed emissions continued
Our approach to financed emissions recalculations

The PCAF recommends that financial 
institutions should, in line with the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 
3) Accounting and Reporting Standard 
requirement, establish a recalculation policy. 
To adhere to this recommendation, we have 
defined the circumstances under which we 
consider a recalculation of baseline and/or 
progress against financed emissions target 
metrics is necessary to help ensure the 
consistency, comparability and relevance of 
the reported greenhouse gas emissions data

over time. Our recalculation policy covers 
revisions of metrics linked to the targets due 
to changes in financed emissions accounting, 
such as changes to methodology, errors, 
and improvements to data. We expect our 
recalculation policy to evolve with further 
industry guidance. 

to the target. Enhancements to internal 
or external data, such as changes to the 
classification of the population to a different 
business activity type or more, or improved 
quality data reported by clients, would not 
constitute a change to the financed emissions 
estimation methodology or an error.

The table below outlines the action we take 
when key areas of change, individually or in 
aggregate, breach our defined significance 
thresholds for the baseline year metric linked 

Key reasons for change

What we expect to disclose

Changes to the financed 
emissions methodology such as 
changes to design choices

 – The reasons why applying the new metrics provides reliable and more relevant information

 – The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the future

 – The nature of the change(s) and errors in financed emissions accounting impacting the baseline progress 

metric and all prior year progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable 

Errors such as a failure to carry 
out our methodology or errors in 
internal financial data

 – The aggregate amount of any adjustments impacting the baseline progress metric and all prior year 

progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable

 – The change in financed emissions accounting baseline progress metric and all prior year progress metrics 

disclosed as far as is practicable

In 2023, we improved our methodology 
for calculating financed emissions using 
more granular product identification to 
isolate exposure in scope, more consistent 
emission factors for estimates, and a revised 
aggregation method for emissions intensity. 
Previously some reported on-balance sheet 
numbers included non-lending exposures for 
market products in error. The more granular 
product identification will help ensure these 
are not included in future. 

To reflect these enhancements we have set 
out the recalculated metrics for the oil and 
gas, and power and utilities sectors in the 
table below. For other sectors, changes were 
not material enough to warrant a recalculation.

The oil and gas baseline for on-balance sheet 
financed emissions is now 28.4 million tonnes 
of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’) for 
2019 versus 33.0 Mt CO2e reported in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2022. Of this 
change, 62% (2.9 Mt CO2e) was related to 
the inclusion of non-lending products in error 

and the remaining 38% (1.8 Mt CO2e) was 
due to the enhanced product mapping and 
streamlined approach for emissions estimates.

The power and utilities baseline for on-balance 
sheet financed emissions is now 537.5 tonnes 
of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt 
hour (‘tCO2e/GWh’) for 2019 versus 589.9 
tCO2e/GWh reported in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2022. This change reflects the 
implementation of the revised aggregation 
method and enhanced product mapping.

Revisions

Sector

Oil and gas

Reporting metrics

On-balance sheet financed – Mt CO2e

Facilitated (100% weighting) – Mt CO2e

Power and utilities

On-balance sheet financed – tCO2e/GWh

Facilitated (100% weighting) – tCO2e/GWh

Previously reported

Recalculated metrics

Percentage change

2019

33.0

29.5

589.9

360.0

2020

30.1

N/A

509.6

N/A

2019

28.4

43.2

537.5

420.7

2020

25.0

N/A

511.1

N/A

2019

(14)%

47%

(9)%

17%

2020

(17)%

N/A

—%

N/A

56

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Environmental 

Financed emissions continued
Targets and progress

We have set out in the table below our 
combined on-balance sheet financed and 
facilitated emissions targets for the oil and 
gas, and power and utilities sectors. These 
show the revised baselines. 

numbers for the relevant year to track 
progress to target. We set out the annual 
figures before the application of the three-year 
average in the facilitated emissions table  
on page 61.

For facilitated emissions, we track progress 
to target using a three-year average 
moving window (average of 2020, 2021 
and 2022 for the 2022 progress number) 
and figures weighted at 33%. This means 
that transactions facilitated in 2028 and 
2029 will still have an impact on the 2030 
progress number and will need to be taken 
into consideration as we manage progress 
towards our target. We aim to achieve our 
target in 2030 notwithstanding the application 
of a three-year average. 

The facilitated emissions values total  
17.5 Mt CO2e in 2021 and 14.4 Mt CO2e  
in 2022 for the oil and gas sector,  
and 398.3 tCO2e/GWh for 2021 and  
377.6 tCO2e/GWh in 2022 for the power 
and utilities sector. These values are then 
combined with the on-balance sheet  

We have also set out our defined targets for 
the on-balance sheet financed emissions of 
the following sectors: cement; iron, steel and 
aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal 
coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2021 
and 2022 and progress achieved in 2022 
versus baseline for each sector. 

We have implemented a revised approach 
to calculate the sector-level intensity metric 
in 2023, which has been applied for the 
recalculated power and utilities baseline 
metric, and for 2021 and 2022 actual data 
for all intensity-based sectors. Emissions 
intensity is a weighted average according to 
the portfolio weight of each investment, as a 
proportion of the total portfolio value. 

The progress figures show the trend in 
financed emissions before targets were set. 

Targets were set for oil and gas, and power 
and utilities in February 2022, for thermal coal 
mining in December 2022, and for the other 
sectors in February 2023. On the following 
pages, we provide more granular details of our 
financed emissions within these sectors. 

When assessing the changes from 2019 to 
2022, it is important to emphasise the long-
term commitment that is needed to meet 
our 2030 interim targets, and how changes 
to exposure and market fluctuations impact 
yearly updates. Movement from one year to 
the next may not reflect future trends for the 
financed emissions of our portfolio. In the 
hard-to-abate sectors, where decarbonisation 
progress is expected to be slower, we are 
taking steps to engage with clients on their 
transition plans.

As we are at the beginning of our journey to 
track and measure progress, we believe it 
would be premature to infer future trends from 
the 2019 to 2022 progress at this stage.

Sector1

Baseline

2021

2022

2022 % 
change vs. 
baseline

2030 target

Unit2

Target scenario

Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33% with three-year moving average

Oil and gas 

Power and utilities

42.6 in 2019

513.4 in 2019

On-balance sheet financed emissions

Cement

Iron, steel and aluminium

Aviation

Automotive

Thermal coal mining

0.64 in 2019

1.8 in 2019

84.0 in 2019

191.5 in 2019

4.0 in 2020

37.9

405.1

0.70

2.4

85.9

215.7

N/A

31.9

396.8

0.71

2.5

86.5

216.6

N/A

(25)%

(23)%

10%

38%

3%

13%

N/A

(34)%

138.0

Mt CO2e

IEA NZE 2021

tCO2e/GWh

IEA NZE 2021

0.46

tCO2e/t cement

IEA NZE 2021

1.05 (1.43)3

tCO2e/t metal

IEA NZE 2021

63.04

66.0

(70)%5

tCO2e/million rpk

IEA NZE 2021

tCO2e/million vkm

IEA NZE 2021

Mt CO2e

IEA NZE 2021

1  Our absolute and intensity emission metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. For oil and 

gas; and power and utilities, the baseline, 2021, 2022 and target type figures represent revised combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For 
iron, steel and aluminium; cement; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, 2021, 2022 and target type figures represent on-balance sheet 
financed emissions (no revisions applied). 

2  For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’); for the power and utilities sector, intensity is 

measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCO2e/GWh’); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent per tonne of cement (‘tCO2e/t cement’); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne 
of metal (‘tCO2e/t metal’); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCO2e/
million rpk’); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres (‘tCO2e/million vkm’); and for the 
thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’).

3  While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology 

Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.

4  Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre (‘rpk‘), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to 

revenue tonne kilometre (rtk) using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The 
conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger in the previous disclosure to align with industry practice.

5  The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than the 

total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the absolute financed emissions reduction thermal coal mining sector target.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

57

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Financed emissions continued

We plan to report financed emissions and 
progress against our targets annually and to 
be transparent in our disclosures about the 
methodologies applied and any challenges or 
dependencies. However, financed emissions 
figures may not be reconcilable or comparable 
year on year in future, and baselines and 
targets may require recalibration as data, 
methodologies and reference scenarios 
develop.

Consistent with PCAF guidance on financed 
emissions accounting, we only consider 
the outstanding drawn financing amount 

given this has a direct link to real economy 
emissions. 

A number of clients have material undrawn 
balances that, if drawn, could significantly 
increase the financed emissions related to 
those clients. We expect to assess how to 
manage these exposures on a forward-looking 
basis as we progress towards our 2030 
targets. In addition, for the intensity-based 
sectors, the emissions intensity is sensitive 
to material clients and changes to drawn 
balances year on year can therefore influence 
the trend.

We are developing portfolio modelling 
capabilities that integrate risk, profitability and 
financed emissions to inform decision making 
and determine how to best steer our portfolios 
to meet our financed emissions targets and 
commercial and strategic ambitions. As part of 
this we are testing and developing an analytics 
capability that will provide an up-to-date view 
of our position relative to our 2030 targets 
and an indication of the financed emissions 
impact of a transaction to consider alongside 
risk-return metrics.

Oil and gas
For the oil and gas sector, our analysis 
included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, 
including carbon dioxide and methane, for 
upstream and integrated companies. We 
revised our baseline for 2019 and progress 
figures to reflect combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions and our 
revised approach.

We have set a target to reduce absolute 
on-balance sheet financed emissions and 
facilitated emissions for our oil and gas 
portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to a 2019 
baseline. This is consistent with a global 
1.5°C-aligned pathway as defined by the IEA 
NZE 2021 scenario. This target is unchanged 
with the inclusion of facilitated emissions. 
We plan to update our target following 
the periodic release of new 1.5°C-aligned 
scenarios in the years ahead to reflect shifts in 
the real economy.

Our core approach as we progress towards 
our portfolio decarbonisation targets is to 
engage with major oil and gas customers 
to understand their transition plans and to 
help support and accelerate those efforts. 
This is in line with the Group’s energy policy, 
which supports the phasing down of fossil 
fuel sources with the highest emission 
intensity as well as financing restrictions for 
projects relating to new oil and gas fields, 
and infrastructure.

In 2022, absolute combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions decreased 
by 25% to 31.9 Mt CO2e relative to the 2019 
baseline, and by 16% from 2021 to 2022. This 
decline was achieved through a risk-weighted 
assets reduction strategy and aided by market 
conditions, with stronger oil and gas cash flows 
and higher interest rates resulting in reduced 
demand for bank debt and capital markets 
financing. Market dynamics will continue to 
create volatility in future years as we make 
progress towards our financed emissions target. 

Power and utilities
For the power and utilities sector, our analysis 
included scope 1 and 2 emissions for upstream 
power generation companies. Although 
scope 1 emissions are most material for the 
sector, most companies report scope 1 and 2 
emissions together making it challenging to 
split out the data. We revised our baseline for 
2019 and progress figures to reflect combined 
on-balance sheet financed and facilitated 
emissions and our revised approach.

We have set a target to reduce the financed 
emissions intensity of our on-balance sheet 
and facilitated power and utilities portfolio 
to 138 tCO2e/GWh by 2030. This target is 
unchanged with the inclusion of facilitated 
emissions. We have chosen an intensity-
based target as electricity demand is 
expected to more than double by 2050 due 
to both population growth and electrification 
required to decarbonise mobility, buildings, 
and industry. We have focused on power 
generation companies because they control 
sector output. By engaging with them, we 
believe we can help drive the most material 
emissions impact in the real economy. 

Our target is consistent with a global 
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA 
NZE 2021 scenario. We plan to refresh our 
target following the periodic release of new 
1.5°C-aligned scenarios in the years ahead.

In 2022, our combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions intensity 
decreased by 23% to 396.8 tCO2e/GWh 
relative to the 2019 baseline. This reduction 
was driven by an increase in financing of 
renewable energy projects and companies, 
and a decrease in financing of high emissions 
intensity clients. Over the period from 2022 
to 2021 the fall in sector portfolio financed 
emissions was a more modest 2%.

Over the reported period, the average 
emissions intensity of clients for whom we 
helped raise funds in the capital markets 
was lower than for clients financed directly 
on our balance sheet. This means the 
combined on-balance sheet financed and 
facilitated emissions intensity from 2019 to 
2022 was lower than for on-balance sheet 
financing alone. 

58

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Oil and gas 
Mt CO2e 

2022 progress 
from baseline
(25)%

e
2
O
C
t

M

45

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

2019 2020 2021 2022

2030

Power and utilities 
tCO2e/GWh

2022 progress 
from baseline
(23)%

/

h
W
G
e
2
O
C
t

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

2019 2020 2021 2022

2030

Key:

HSBC sector target
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) pathway

 
Environmental 

Financed emissions continued

Cement
For the cement sector, our analysis included 
scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream 
companies with clinker and cement 
manufacturing facilities.

Our 2022 emissions intensity was 10% higher 
than the 2019 baseline due to higher drawn 
balances for emissions intensive clients, but at 
0.71 tCO2e/t cement in 2022, it was marginally 
up by 1% from 2021.

In line with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, 
we target an on-balance sheet financed 
emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement 
(‘tCO2e/t cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our 
baseline. While some emissions reductions 
can be achieved through energy efficiency, 
we believe that to significantly reduce 
fuel and process emissions from cement 
manufacturing, and to meet our targets, 
large-scale investments are required in new 
technologies, including clinker substitution, 
alternative fuel use such as bioenergy, and 
carbon capture use and storage.

Our cement portfolio is relatively concentrated 
in customer numbers, and even where 
customers have set science-based targets 
there is still a risk of pledges not turning 
into the necessary emissions reductions 
if technologies do not scale in time. It will 
be important, therefore, to regularly review 
progress on technology scaling across the 
industry over the years ahead to 2030. For 
cement and the other intensity-based sectors 
we plan to integrate net zero considerations 
into our transaction processes and controls 
and we expect this to help guide our activities 
towards progressive alignment of the portfolio 
with our 2030 targets.

Iron, steel and aluminium
We covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream 
iron, steel and aluminium production in our 
analysis. Due to the low significance of the 
aluminium sector’s financed emissions within 
our portfolio, we combined them with our iron 
and steel financed emissions. In the event that 
aluminium becomes a more material part of 
our portfolio in the future, we may consider 
creating a separate target for aluminium 
production given the varied decarbonisation 
pathway for this metal. 

For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we 
target an on-balance sheet financed emissions 
intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent per tonne of metal (‘tCO2e/t metal’) 
by 2030, using the IEA NZE 2021 scenario as 
our core scenario and 2019 as our baseline. 

Due to the challenges of decarbonising this 
hard-to-abate sector, we also outline an 
alternative scenario from the Mission Possible 
Partnership (‘MPP’). 

The emissions intensity in 2022 rose by 38% 
to 2.5 tCO2e/t metal against our 2019 baseline 
and by 4% versus 2021. This was due to 
increased financing to the aluminium sector, 
which has a higher carbon intensity than that 
of steel.

We aim to actively manage our portfolio to 
achieve our 2030 financed emissions target 
for our iron, steel and aluminium portfolio, 
taking into account the actions our customers 
are taking to achieve emissions reductions.

Aviation
In the aviation sector, we included passenger 
airlines’ scope 1 and aircraft lessors‘ scope 
3 downstream emissions. We excluded 
military and dedicated cargo flights as the 
emissions intensity of such cargo flights is 
different to that of passenger airlines. This 
approach is in line with industry practice to 
ensure consistency of financed emissions 
measurement and target setting. 

Aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we 
target an on-balance sheet financed emissions 
intensity of 63.0 tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent per million revenue passenger 
kilometres (‘tCO2e/million rpk’) by 2030, using 
2019 as our baseline. To reach these intensity 
levels and help meet our targets, we believe 
the sector needs significant policy support, 
investments in alternative fuels, such as 
sustainable aviation fuel, and new aircraft to 
reduce emissions. 

The industry is also adopting the unit of 
revenue tonne kilometre (‘rtk’) to take into 
account the transport of cargo for airlines in 
scope of the target. We will consider this as 
part of our methodology enhancement.

At 86.5 tCO2e/million rpk in 2022, the 
emissions intensity increased by 3% versus 
the 2019 baseline and was marginally up by 
1% from 2021. In 2020 there was a peak in 
emissions intensity due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, as planes carried fewer 
passengers. 

We plan to engage with our major customers 
on their transition plans, as well as integrate 
financed emissions implications into 
transaction and portfolio management for  
the sector. 

Cement 
tCO2e/t cement

2022 progress 
from baseline
10%

t
n
e
m
e
c

t
/

e
2
O
C
t

0.7

0.6

0.5

0.4

0.3

0.2

0.1

0

2019 2020 2021 2022

2030

Iron, steel and aluminium 
tCO2e/t metal

2022 progress 
from baseline
38%

l

a
t
e
m

t
/

e
2
O
C
t

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

0

2019 2020 2021 2022

2030

Aviation 
tCO2e/million rpk

2022 progress 
from baseline
3%

k
p
r

n
o

i
l
l
i

/

m
e
2
O
C
t

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

Key:

2019 2020 2021 2022

2030

HSBC sector target
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) pathway

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

59

ESG review 
 
 
ESG review | Environmental 

Financed emissions continued

aligned pathway, modified to match the share 
of new in-year vehicle sales for light-duty 
vehicles. Decarbonisation of the automotive 
sector, and therefore our ability to meet our 
targets, needs large-scale investments in new 
electric vehicle and battery manufacturing 
plants, widespread charging infrastructure, 
and government policies to support electric 
vehicles.

Our 2022 emissions intensity rose by 13% 
to 216.6 tCO2e/million vkm against our 2019 
baseline and stayed level with 2021. This 
increase, after an 8% reduction in 2020 
versus 2019, was caused by a shift in the 
portfolio towards companies producing 
more emissions-intensive vehicles. This can 
be the case for manufacturers that produce 
more sports utility vehicles or fewer electric 
vehicles. 

When calculating our financed emissions from 
thermal coal mining, we focused on thermal 
coal extraction and processing companies, 
and diversified mining companies. We aim to 
measure and focus on our customers with the 
most material thermal coal-related emissions 
in order to help drive a meaningful impact in 
the real economy.

Automotive
For the automotive sector, we looked at scope 
1, 2 and 3 emissions from the midstream 
manufacturing of vehicles, and tank-to-wheel 
exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty vehicles. 
We excluded heavy-duty vehicles from our 
analysis as the target pathway derived from 
the IEA excludes them, as they have a different 
decarbonisation pathway relative to light-duty 
vehicles. This approach is in line with industry 
practice to ensure consistency of financed 
emissions measurement and target setting. 
We will consider including heavy-duty vehicle 
manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle 
production at a later stage of our analysis, as 
data and methodologies develop. 

We target an on-balance sheet financed 
emissions intensity of 66.0 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per million vehicle 
kilometres (‘tCO2e/million vkm’) by 2030 
using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with 
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, which is a 1.5C° 

Thermal coal mining
For the thermal coal mining sector, our 
analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions in upstream companies, including 
those involved in extraction. The majority 
of our financed emissions relate to scope 3 
emissions associated with coal mining. 

We set an absolute on-balance sheet 
reduction target of 70% for 2030, from an 
absolute 2020 baseline measure of 4.0 Mt 
CO2e. We used 2020 as a baseline to align 
with the baseline used for our drawn balance 
exposure targets in the thermal coal phase-
out policy. The financed emissions target is 
aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario. 

Automotive 
tCO2e/million vkm

2022 progress 
from baseline
13%

m
k
v

n
o

i
l
l
i

m

/

e
2
O
C
t

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

2019 2020 2021 2022

2030

Thermal coal mining
Mt CO2e

2022 progress 
from baseline
N/A

10

8

6

4

2

0

e
2
O
C
t

M

Key:

2019

2020

2030

HSBC sector target
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) pathway

60

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
Environmental 

Financed emissions continued

On-balance sheet financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2021 and 2022 data. For thermal coal 
mining, disclosures commenced in 2020 to align with thermal coal exposure reporting metrics. The PCAF data quality score has not improved for 
2022 due to limited availability of actual reported emissions from our customers.

Sector

Oil and gas

Power and utilities

Cement

Iron, steel and aluminium

Aviation

Automotive

Thermal coal mining

Year

2021

2022

2021

2022

2021

2022

2021

2022

2021

2022

2021

2022

2020

On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2

PCAF data quality score3,†

Scope 1–2 (Mt CO2e)† Scope 3 (Mt CO2e)† Emissions intensity4

Scope 1 and 2

Scope 3

2.1

1.3

8.1

7.6

2.2

4.5

2.0

2.7

2.7

2.6

0.07

0.12

0.17

18.4

16.2

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.16

0.15

3.6

5.4

3.8

N/A

N/A

407.0

401.7

0.70

0.71

2.4

2.5

85.9

86.5

215.7

216.6

N/A

2.8

3.2

2.9

3.3

2.8

2.9

3.0

3.0

3.0

3.3

2.8

2.7

3.0

2.9

3.2

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

3.3

2.4

2.9

2.9

3.0

Facilitated emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions from 2019 to 2022 for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. 

Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 43.2 Mt CO2e in 2019 to 15.2 Mt CO2e in 2022. For 
the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions fell from 8.5 Mt CO2e in 2019 to 3.8 Mt CO2e in 2022. For all 100%-weighted 
facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack. The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2019 was $22.6bn, 
representing 5.5% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2019. In 2020, it was $26.0bn, representing 6.2% of capital markets activity at 31 
December 2020. In 2021, it was $18.1bn, representing 4.1% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2021. In 2022, it was $10.4bn representing 
3.2% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2022.

Sector

Oil and gas

Power and utilities

Facilitated emissions – ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting)

PCAF data quality score3,†

Scope 1–2 (Mt CO2e)†

Scope 3 (Mt CO2e)†

Emissions intensity4

Scope 1 and 2

Scope 3

1.6

2.7

0.90

0.36

2.8

2.1

1.5

1.2

12.7

24.0

10.5

4.7

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

420.7

410.1

364.1

358.7

2.3

2.0

2.9

3.3

2.5

2.5

2.9

2.9

2.7

2.1

3.1

3.3

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Year5

2019

2020

2021

2022

2019

2020

2021

2022

1  The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was $0.37bn in 2020; for all other sectors it was $7.0bn in 2021 and $8.5bn in 2022.
2  The total loans and advances analysed in 2020 for the thermal coal mining sector were $2.89bn, representing 0.28% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 
December 2020. For all other sectors in 2021, they were $24.1bn representing 2.3% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and in 2022, 
they were $23.6bn representing 2.6% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2022. The total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of 
the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.

3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 Emissions intensity under the new aggregation method.
5  Due to timing differences the approach for calculating 2021-2022 facilitated emissions has been enhanced compared to that of 2019-2020. Enhancements are 

mainly data and process-related for the later years to include more consistent and higher quality data sources and are therefore applied prospectively in line with 
our recalculation policy. Small methodology changes were applied as well but these do not materially change our 2019-2020 numbers. 

†  Data is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal 

Coal Exposures Methodology and PWC’s limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

61

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Financed emissions continued
Integrating net zero into transaction and portfolio 
decision making 

In 2023, we began to embed net zero factors 
alongside standard risk-return and other 
considerations when evaluating specific 
transactions starting with oil and gas, power 
and utilities, and thermal coal mining sectors. 

Once completed, these assessments can 
be used to support business decisions in 
relation to our financed emissions portfolio 
management and alignment, and our climate 
risk management efforts.

Our processes and controls will continue to 
evolve as we look at net zero considerations 
for sectors, customers and deals with higher 
climate impact and risk. These considerations 
include: adherence with our sustainability risk 
policies; climate-related credit risk; customer 
transition plan assessment outcomes (where 
relevant); reputational risk considerations; and 
financed and, where applicable, facilitated 
emissions implications (where transactions are 
in scope of our financed emissions disclosures 
and 2030 targets). We have dedicated 
governance, with escalation pathways for 
deals deemed high risk, including in terms 
of financed emissions implications and 
reputation risk.

We have been testing and developing an 
analytics capability that, where relevant, 
begins to provide front-line business teams 
and management with insight on the up-to-
date on-balance sheet financed emissions and 
facilitated emissions position of a sector, the 
impact of a transaction where material, and 
implications relative to pathways in line with 
our 2030 targets.

We continued our efforts to design and 
implement a differentiated approach to 
understand and assess the transition plans 
and risks of our corporate customers, 
including state-owned enterprises. These 
assessments help us to identify opportunities, 
manage climate risks and define areas to drive 
strategic engagement with each corporate 
customer. 

In 2023, we completed assessments for most 
customers in scope of our thermal coal phase-
out policy. We also completed assessments 
for customers that make the most material 
contribution to our financed emissions in the 
oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. 

Reducing landfill waste 
and emissions in  
the Philippines

We are supporting a company that 
is seeking to tackle the problem of 
overflowing landfills, which will help 
reduce methane emissions and create 
potential new jobs in the Philippines.

In June 2023, we provided a subsidiary 
of Prime Infrastructure Capital, a 
sustainable infrastructure firm with 
services that span energy, water 
distribution and waste management, 
with a $24.5m green loan. The loan 
was provided to finance its acquisition 
and expansion of a waste management 
facility in Cebu, Philippines. 

The company has increased the facility’s 
capacity to treat and recycle domestic 
and industrial solid waste, and is 
developing its capabilities to convert 
organic and agricultural feedstock waste 
into sustainable, refuse-derived fuel. 

The funding is expected to help to divert 
waste away from landfill, which will 
reduce methane emissions generated 
by decomposing organic waste.

Reducing emissions in our assets under management 

In July 2021, our asset management 
business, HSBC Asset Management, 
signed up to the Net Zero Asset Managers 
initiative, which encourages investment 
firms to commit to managing assets in 
line with achieving net zero emissions by 
2050 or sooner. HSBC Asset Management 
continues to work towards its ambition of 
reducing scope 1 and 2 financed emissions 
intensity by 58% by 2030 for 38% of its total 
assets under management. These listed 
equity and corporate fixed income assets 

amounted to $193.9bn at 31 December 
2019. We use 2019 as the baseline year for 
our calculations. Implementation of the net 
zero targets remains subject to consultation 
with stakeholders including investors, fund 
boards and regulators.

In 2023, HSBC Asset Management 
worked to develop solutions for clients to 
address climate ambitions while investing. 
Further data science expertise will be 
added to support sustainability through 

the creation of a Sustainable Investment 
Solutions Lab. HSBC Asset Management 
reported an update through the Principles 
for Responsible Investment annual 
submission, as required under its Net 
Zero Asset Managers commitment. As 
part of its thermal coal policy, it fulfilled a 
commitment to initiate engagement with 
all listed issuers held in active fundamental 
portfolios with more than 10% revenue 
exposure to thermal coal.

62

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Environmental 

Embedding net zero into the way we operate

Net zero in our own operations TCFD

Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is 
to achieve net zero carbon emissions in our 
operations and supply chain by 2030. 

Reduce, replace and remove
We have three elements to our strategy: 
reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first 
focus on reducing carbon emissions from 
consumption, and then replacing remaining 
emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line 
with the Paris Agreement. 

We plan to remove the remaining emissions 
that cannot be reduced or replaced by 
procuring, in accordance with prevailing 
regulatory requirements, high-quality offsets 
at a later stage. We are working on our carbon 
credits strategy by engaging with a range of 
market participants.

Our energy consumption
In October 2020, we announced our ambition 
to reduce our energy consumption by 50% 
by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and in 2023 
we achieved 26.3%. We continue to work 
to do this by optimising the use of our real 
estate portfolio, and carrying out a strategic 
reduction in our office space and data 
centres. We are using new technology and 
emerging products to make our spaces more 
energy efficient.

As part of our ambition to achieve 100% 
renewable electricity across our operations by 
2030, we continue to look for opportunities 
to procure green electricity in each of our 
markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable 
power purchase agreement (’PPA’) went live in 
Sorbie, Scotland. A key challenge remains the 
limited opportunity to pursue PPAs or green 
tariffs in key markets due to regulations.

Business travel
Our ambition is to halve travel emissions by 
2030, compared with pre-pandemic levels. In 
2023, our travel emissions remained below 
50% of our 2019 baseline, despite the lifting 
of international travel restrictions. We are 

closely managing the gradual resumption of 
travel through internal reporting and review 
of emissions, internal carbon budgets and 
the introduction of emissions information at 
the point of booking. With hybrid working 
embedded across the organisation, the use 
of virtual working practices has reduced the 
need for our colleagues to travel to meet with 
other colleagues and customers.

We continue to focus on reducing the 
environmental impact from the vehicles we 
use in our global markets, and accelerate the 
use of electric vehicles. In 2023, we reduced 
the company car fleet size by 9% compared 
with 2022. We are now aiming to ensure that 
all new vehicles ordered are fully electric or 
hybrid vehicles where possible. 

Engaging with our supply chain 
Our supply chain is critical to achieving our net 
zero ambitions, and we are partnering with our 
suppliers on this journey. Since 2020, we have 
been encouraging our largest suppliers to 
make their own carbon commitments, and to 
disclose their emissions via the CDP (formerly 
the Carbon Disclosure Project) supply chain 
programme. In 2023, suppliers representing 
70.6% of total supplier spend completed the 
CDP questionnaire, compared with 63.5% 
in 2022.

We will continue to engage with our supply 
chain through CDP, and through direct 
discussions with our suppliers on how they 
can further support our transition to net zero.

In 2023, we launched our supplier net zero 
guides, providing further details to support 
suppliers in understanding our net zero 
ambitions, as set out in our supplier code 
of conduct. We are developing internal 
decarbonisation plans for the highest-emitting 
procurement categories (IT hardware, real 
estate, data centre and servers, and telecom 
services), to be included in category strategies 
and to support future supplier selection.

Focus on natural resources
Alongside our net zero operations ambition, 
our aim is to be a responsible consumer 
of natural resources. Through design, 
construction and operational standards, 
we strive to ensure that, wherever possible, 
our premises do not adversely affect the 
environment or natural resources. We have 
identified specific focus areas including 
waste, paper and sustainable diets, and 
are exploring key opportunities to reduce 
our wider environmental impact over the 
coming decade. 

Our presence in environmentally 
sensitive areas
As a global organisation, our branches, 
offices and data centres may be located in 
areas of high or very high water stress and/
or protected areas of biodiversity, as we 
support our customers and communities in 
these locations.

Approximately 55% of our global offices, 
branches and data centres are located in 
areas identified as being subject to high and 
very high water stress, accounting for 50% 
of our annual water consumption. These are 
predominantly urban or city centre locations 
with large, concentrated populations. Our 
industry is a low user of potable water, and we 
have implemented measures to further reduce 
water consumption through the installation 
of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero 
flush sanitary fittings.

In addition, 0.9% of our global office, branch 
and data centre portfolio lies in protected 
areas of biodiversity. We strive through 
our design, construction and operational 
standards to ensure that, where possible, 
our premises do not adversely affect 
the environment or natural resources in 
these areas.

Our environmental and sustainability 
management policies

Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary 
across geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported 
by Corporate Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, 
seeking to ensure that HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on 
the environment. Detailed design considerations documented in our Global Engineering 
Standards aim to reduce or avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land 
and raw materials. Suppliers are required to adhere to strict environmental management 
principles and reduce their impact on the environment in which they operate.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

63

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Net zero in our own operations continued

Emissions from our energy and travel
We report our emissions following the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which incorporates 
the scope 2 market-based emissions 
methodology. We report greenhouse gas 
emissions resulting from the energy used in 
our buildings and employees’ business travel. 
Due to the nature of our primary business, 
carbon dioxide is the main type of greenhouse 
gas applicable to our operations. While the 
amount is immaterial, our current reporting 
also incorporates methane and nitrous oxide 
for completeness. Our environmental data for 
our own operations is based on a 12-month 
period to 30 September.

In 2023, we reduced emissions from our 
energy consumption and travel to 293,333 
tonnes CO2e, which represents a 57.3% 
reduction compared with our 2019 baseline. 
This was mainly attributed to:

 – travel volumes remaining low compared  

with pre-pandemic levels;

 – an increase in our consumption of 
renewable electricity to 58.4%; and

 – the reduction of energy consumption as  
a result of strategic footprint reductions 
and the implementation of over 450 energy 
conservation measures, which amounted  
to an estimated energy avoidance in  
excess of 12 million kWh.

Emissions from business travel increased 
compared with 2022, due to the easing of 
pandemic-related travel restrictions which 
resulted in a return to travel. A decrease in 
scope 1 emissions was partly attributed to a 
correction in the classification of road-based 
business travel in the UK and India from scope 
1 to scope 3.

In 2023, we collected data on energy use 
and business travel for our operations in 34 
countries and territories, which accounted 
for approximately 96.0% of our full-time 
employees (‘FTEs’). To estimate the emissions 
of our operations in entities where we have 
operational control and a small presence, we 
scale up the emissions data from 96.0% to 
100%. We then apply emission uplift rates 
to reflect uncertainty concerning the quality 
and coverage of emission measurement and 
estimation. This is consistent with both the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s 
Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty 
Management in National Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories and our internal analysis of data 
coverage and quality. 

Emissions from our supply chain
Our calculation methodology uses supplier 
emissions data where we have it from 
suppliers, through CDP. Where we do not 
have actual emissions data, we use industry 

Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e

Scope 11

Scope 2 (market-based)1

Scope 3

2023

2022

2019 
baseline

16,918

19,329

22,066

167,174

223,334

392,270

1,090,280 1,052,264

1,139,260

Category 1: Purchased goods and services1,2

859,256

865,747

829,635

Category 2: Capital goods1,2

Category 6: Business travel1 

Total

Included energy UK 

121,783

144,232

37,617

109,241

42,285

272,008

1,274,372 1,294,927 1,553,596

5,909

9,264

10,432

1  Our data is now presented on an absolute value basis and not rounded values. Data in 2023 is subject to an 

independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with International Standard on Assurance engagements 
3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting 
Guidance 2023 and third-party limited assurance report at www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/
esg-reporting-and-policies. In respect of data in 2019 and 2022, see our relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
2  Supply chain emissions calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry averages. 

A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 5 is low, based on the quality of 
emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC supplier spend and is in line with HSBC’s 
financed emissions reporting methodology. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.

 For further details of our methodologies, our PwC limited assurance reports and relevant environment key 
facts, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.

Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes 
CO2e per FTE

Energy consumption in kWh in 000s 

Scope 1, 2 and 
3 (Category 6)
Scope 1, 2 and 
3 (Category 1, 
2 and 6)

2023

2022

2019 
baseline

1.3

1.3

2.9

5.8

5.9

6.6

Total

UK only

2023

2022

2019 
baseline

772,736 797,264 913,556

209,939 222,322 281,271

average carbon intensities and spend data 
to determine their contribution to our supply 
chain emissions. As more of our suppliers 
report their emissions, we should be able to 
include more accurate data and fewer industry 
averages in the calculation. We have applied 
a data quality score to the sources of data we 
used to determine counterparty emissions. For 
further details, see our GHG (Greenhouse Gas) 
Reporting Guidance at www.hsbc.com/esg.

averages remain significantly elevated. Due 
to volatility in industry average data, we 
will undertake a review of our data sources 
and methodology during 2024. As supplier 
emissions reporting matures, we will be able 
to include more actual data and fewer industry 
averages in the methodology. Our initial supply 
chain emission figures may require updating 
as data availability changes over time and 
methodologies and climate science evolve.

 For further details of our methodologies and 
relevant environmental key facts, see the ESG 
Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.

In 2022, we disclosed our supply chain 
emissions for the first time, using supplier 
emissions data and industry averages where 
actual data was not available. This approach 
is heavily dependent on external data 
sources to calculate estimates of our supply 
chain emissions.

In 2023, emissions from our supply chain 
reduced by 3% compared with 2022. This is 
due to a reduction in spend and an increase 
in the availability of actual emissions data 
from our suppliers. Emissions have increased 
by 13% compared with 2019, as industry 

64

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Environmental 

Managing climate risk  TCFD

Climate risk relates to the financial and non-
financial impacts that may arise as a result of 
climate change and the move to a net zero 
economy. We manage climate risk across all 
our businesses and are incorporating climate 
considerations within our traditional risk  
types in line with our Group-wide risk 
management framework. 

Our material exposure to climate risk relates 
to wholesale and retail client financing activity 
within our banking portfolio. We are also 
exposed to climate risk in relation to asset 
ownership by our insurance business and 
employee pension plans. Our clients are 
exposed to climate-related investment risk in 
our asset management business. 

In the table below, we set out our duties to our 
stakeholders in our four most material roles. 

 For further details of our approach to climate risk, 
see ‘ESG risk’ on page 141 and ‘Climate risk’ on 
page 221.

Banking 
We manage the climate risk in our 
banking portfolios through our risk 
appetite and policies for financial 
and non-financial risks. 

Employee pensions
Our pension plans manage climate 
risk in line with their fiduciary 
duties towards members and local 
regulatory requirements.

Asset management 
Climate risk management is a 
key feature of our investment 
decision making and portfolio 
management approach.

Insurance
We consider climate risk in our 
portfolio of assets.

Climate risk

This helps enable us to identify 
opportunities to support our 
customers, while continuing to 
meet stakeholder expectations.

We monitor climate risk exposure 
internally for our largest plans 
based on asset sector allocation 
and carbon emissions data 
where available. 

We also engage with 
companies on topics related to 
climate change.

We have established an evolving 
ESG programme to meet changing 
external expectations and 
customer demands. 

Customers

Employees

Customers

Investors

Employees

Customers

Communities

Customers

Investors

Employees

Investors
Communities

Suppliers

Investors
Customers

Regulators and 
Employees
governments

Customers

Regulators and 
governments

Communities

Communities
Employees

Employees

Suppliers

Regulators and 
governments

Regulators and 
Investors
governments

Investors

Customers

Suppliers

Employees

Customers
Communities
Suppliers

Communities

Customers

Investors

Employees

Regulators and 
governments

Regulators and 
Employees
governments

Customers

Communities

Investors

Suppliers

Suppliers

Investors

Employees

Regulators and 
governments

Communities

Customers

Investors
Communities

Suppliers

Regulators and 
Employees
governments

Regulators and 
Communities
governments

Suppliers

Regulators and 

Investors

Suppliers

governments

Communities

Suppliers

Regulators and 

governments

Suppliers

Banking
Our banking business is well positioned 
to support our customers managing their 
own climate risk through financing. For our 
wholesale customers, we use our transition 
engagement questionnaire to understand 
clients’ climate strategies and risks. We 
have set out a suite of policies to guide our 
management of climate risk. We continue 
to develop our climate risk appetite and 
metrics to help manage climate exposures in 
our wholesale and retail portfolios. We also 
develop and use climate scenario analysis 
to gain insights on the long-term effects 
of transition and physical risks across our 
wholesale and retail banking portfolios (for 
further details, see page 225). 

faced by companies are considered when 
making investment decisions and to assess 
ESG risks and opportunities that could impact 
investment performance. 

HSBC Asset Management engages with 
investee companies on a priority list as defined 
in its Global Stewardship Plan, and votes at 
company general meetings, including on the 
topic of climate change. It also works with 
collaborative engagement initiatives such as 
Climate Action 100+ and Nature Action 100. 

 For further details of the HSBC Global Asset 
Management (UK) Limited’s annual TCFD 
Report, see https://www.assetmanagement.
hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/uk/
common/tcfd-report-2022.pdf.

Asset management
HSBC Asset Management recognises that 
climate risk may manifest as transition and 
physical risks over the short, medium and 
long term. The impact of climate-related risk 
will vary depending on characteristics such 
as asset class, sector, business model and 
geography. Where applicable and relevant, 
HSBC Asset Management incorporates 
climate-related indicators, such as carbon 
intensity and management of carbon 
emissions, into investment decisions as well as 
insights from its climate-related engagement.

Work continues on the integration of ESG 
and climate analysis into HSBC Asset 
Management’s actively managed product 
offerings to help ensure the climate risks 

Employee pensions 
The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme, our largest plan with $36bn assets 
under management, aims to achieve net zero 
greenhouse gas emissions across its defined 
benefit and defined contribution assets by 
2050. To help achieve this, it is targeting an 
interim emissions reduction of 50% by 2030, 
from 2019 levels, for its equity and corporate 
bond mandates. This commitment was made 
in the context of wider efforts to manage the 
impact of climate change on the Scheme’s 
investments and the consequent impact on 
the financial interests of members. 

The Scheme, which has reported emission 
reductions for its listed equity and corporate 
bond mandate portfolios between 2019 

and 2022 through its annual TCFD Report, 
will continue to report against the 2030 
targets and aims to widen the coverage of its 
assessment and reporting over time. In 2023, 
its asset managers were formally notified of 
the Trustee’s ESG risk mitigation priorities and 
encouraged to develop commensurate risk 
mitigation strategies. The manager monitoring 
and selection processes now explicitly 
include assessment of these strategies where 
financially material. 

 For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK) 
Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and 
climate action plan, see http://futurefocus.staff.
hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/information-centre/
other-information.

Insurance 
In 2023, our Insurance business updated its 
sustainability procedures to align with the 
Group’s updated energy and thermal coal-
phase out policies. We also delivered ESG 
product marketing guidelines with insurance 
examples and training.

In response to various ESG regulatory 
initiatives and developments, HSBC’s 
insurance manufacturing entities in the EU, 
which are in Malta and France, have continued 
to implement key disclosure-related regulatory 
requirements, including pre-contractual 
reporting, client periodic reporting and 
sustainable investment impact statements. 
Related requirements for the UK are expected 
to be introduced in 2024.  

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

65

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Sustainability risk policies  TCFD

Our sustainability risk policies help to set 
out our appetite for financing and advisory 
activities in certain sectors. Our policies are 
important mechanisms for delivering our 
net zero ambitions, as well as for managing 
sustainability risks.

Our policies
Our sustainability risk policies comprise 
our core net zero-aligned policies – thermal 
coal phase-out and energy – and our 
broader sustainability risk policies covering: 
agricultural commodities, chemicals, forestry, 
mining and metals, and World Heritage Sites 
and Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also 
apply the Equator Principles when financing 
relevant projects. 

Our sustainability risk policies focus on 
mitigating the negative impacts of specific 
sectors on people and the environment. 
Our net zero policies, including energy and 
thermal coal phase-out, also support our 
ambition to transition to net zero. Engaging 
with customers on their transition plans is a 
key aspect of our net zero policy approach. 
These policies aim to provide clear signals 
to our customers on how our appetite and 
expectations for different activities are 
changing, as well as how we will consider 
their plans for the future.

We continue to review policy implementation 
as we apply our policies in practice, and our 
operationalisation of such policies continues 
to be enhanced. We take a risk-based 
approach when identifying transactions and 
clients to which our energy and thermal coal 
phase-out policies apply, and when reporting 
on relevant exposures, adopting approaches 
proportionate to risk and materiality. This 
helps to focus our efforts on areas where we 
believe we can help drive meaningful change, 
while taking into account experience from 
policy implementation over time. 

We regularly review our policies, incorporating 
feedback and building on experience from 
policy implementation over time. 

Where we identify activities that could 
cause material negative impacts, we expect 
customers to demonstrate that they are 
identifying and mitigating risks responsibly, 
and we will look to take required actions as 
outlined in our policies, which may include 
applying financing restrictions or enhanced 
due diligence. 

 For further details of how we manage 
sustainability risk, as well as our full policies,  
see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/sustainability-risk.

Governance and implementation
Our Group Risk and Compliance function 
has specialists who review and support 
implementation of our sustainability risk 
policies. Our relationship managers are the 
primary point of contact for many of our 
business customers and are responsible 
for managing customers’ adherence to 
the sustainability risk policies. They are 
supported by sustainability risk managers 
across the Group who have local or regional 
responsibility for advising on, and overseeing, 
the management of risks as outlined in the 
policies. Where considered appropriate, policy 
matters are escalated to relevant internal 
governance committees.

Oversight of the development and 
implementation of policies is the responsibility 
of relevant governance committees comprising 
senior members of the Group Risk and 
Compliance function and global businesses.

Biodiversity and natural  
capital-related policies
Our sustainability risk policies impose 
restrictions on certain financing activities 
that may have material negative impacts on 
nature. While a number of our sustainability 
risk policies have such restrictions, our 
forestry and agricultural commodities policies 
focus specifically on a key nature-related 
impact: deforestation. These policies require 
customers involved with major deforestation-
risk commodities to operate in accordance 
with sustainable business principles. We 
also require palm oil customers to obtain 
certification under the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil, and commit to ‘No 
Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation’ 
(see ‘Our respect for human rights’ on  
page 89). 

Our energy policy
Our energy policy covers the broader energy 
system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil 
fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables 
and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and waste-
to-energy sectors. 

The policy seeks to balance three objectives: 
driving down global greenhouse gas 
emissions; enabling an orderly transition 
that builds resilience in the long term; and 
supporting a just and affordable transition, 
recognising the local realities in all the 
communities we serve.

The energy policy was first published in 
December 2022 and updated in January 2024. 
We review the policy annually to help ensure 
that it remains aligned with our net zero by 
2050 ambition and strategic objectives. 

 For further details of our oil and gas, and power 
and utilities financed emissions targets, see the 
‘Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed 
emissions on page 57.
 For further details of our energy policy, see 
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/sustainability-risk.

66

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Considering materiality criteria helps us to 
focus our efforts on areas where we believe 
we can help drive meaningful change, while 
taking into account experience from policy 
implementation over time. 

Applying our revised basis of preparation, 
our thermal coal financing drawn balance 
exposure was approximately $1bn† as at  
31 December 2020. We continue to work on 
our 2021 and 2022 numbers based on our 
revised basis of preparation and expect to 
report on these in future disclosures.

 For further details of our approach to financed 
emissions, see ‘Our Approach to financed 
emissions’ on page 53.

†  Data is subject to independent limited assurance 

by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE 3410. 
For further details, see our Financed Emissions 
and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and 
PwC’s limited assurance report, which are 
available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. 

Sustainability risk policies continued

Our thermal coal phase-out policy
As set out in the thermal coal phase-out 
policy, we are committed to phasing out the 
financing of thermal coal-fired power and 
thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets 
by 2030, and globally by 2040. 

Our policy aims to support thermal coal 
phase-out aligned to science-based 
timeframes, recognising the different pace 
between advanced and emerging economies. 
In turn our policy supports progress towards 
our financed emissions targets for the power 
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors.

The policy was first published in December 
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most 
recent update in January 2024, to help ensure 
that it remains aligned with our commitments 
and takes into consideration relevant changes 
in external factors.

 For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see www.
hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermal-coal-
phase-out-policy.pdf.
 For further details of our thermal coal phase-out 
policy January 2024 update, see page 71 of our 
Net Zero Transition Plan 2024, which is available 
at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-
strategy/our-net-zero-transition-plan.

Thermal coal financing exposures
We intend to reduce thermal coal financing 
drawn balance exposure from a 2020 baseline 
by at least 25% by 2025 and aim to reduce it 
by 50% by 2030.

In our Annual Report and Accounts 2022 we 
acknowledged that our processes, systems, 
controls and governance were not yet designed 
to fully identify and disclose thermal coal 
exposures and that we planned to reassess the 
reliability of our data and review our basis of 
preparation to help ensure that we are reporting 
all relevant thermal coal exposures aligned to 
our thermal coal phase-out policy.

We have now revised the basis of preparation 
for our thermal coal exposures. Aligned with 
our thermal coal phase-out policy, we applied 
a risk-based approach to identify clients and 
report on relevant exposures. This includes 
the use of globally recognised third-party 
data sources to screen clients and applies 
materiality considerations to product type, 
customer type and exposure type, which 
informs inclusion and exclusion requirements. 

Specifically, for product types, short-term 
lending exposures are excluded from our 
thermal coal financing exposures reporting in 
line with our financed emissions methodology. 
For customer types, exclusions are applied for 
certain customer types such as sovereigns 
and individuals. For exposure types, a 
threshold of $15m for drawn balances is 
applied for thermal coal financing exposures 
reporting. For the avoidance of doubt, the 
$15m threshold applies only to exposure 
reporting analysis and does not apply to  
the application of the thermal coal  
phase-out policy. 

 For further details of our Financed Emissions and 
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.

Asset Management policy

HSBC Asset Management published its own 
policy on thermal coal in September 2022, 
and its own energy policy in November 
2023. As an asset manager, it is subject to 
separate regulatory and legal obligations to 
deliver customers’ investment interests and 
deliver fair outcomes.

Under its thermal coal policy, HSBC Asset 
Management will not hold listed securities 
of issuers with more than de minimis 
revenue exposure to thermal coal in its 
actively managed funds beyond 2030 for EU 
and OECD markets, and globally by 2040. 
The policy also includes enhanced due 
diligence on the transition plans of investee 
companies with thermal coal exposure. 
Companies held in investment portfolios 
that do not develop credible plans to 

transition away from thermal coal could face 
voting sanctions and ultimately a divestment 
of holdings.

Under its energy policy, HSBC Asset 
Management will engage with – and 
assess the transition plans of – oil and gas, 
and power and utilities companies held in 
its portfolios. For its active fundamental 
sustainable named funds, it will exclude 
listed issuers whose overall operations are 
substantially in unconventional oil and gas, 
subject to data availability, and with the level 
and scope of exclusions to be set out in fund 
prospectuses. In its alternatives business, it 
will not undertake new direct investments 
in projects associated with the energy-
related activities identified as excluded 
from new finance or advisory services 

under the Group energy policy. HSBC Asset 
Management’s policy work will continue to 
support the Group’s sustainability objectives 
and the commitment made under the Net 
Zero Asset Managers initiative to support 
investing aligned with net zero by 2050. 
We continue on the journey of policy 
implementation, including engaging with 
the companies in which we invest, and 
improving the data we rely on to monitor  
the policies.

 For further details of the energy policy, see 
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.lu/-/media/files/
attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
 For further details of the thermal coal policy, 
see www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/
media/files/attachments/common/coal-policy-
en.pdf.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

67

ESG reviewESG review | Environmental 

Partnering for systemic change

Supporting systemic change to deliver net zero

We recognise that collective action is critical 
to achieve net zero. We seek to collaborate 
with a range of partners to develop a 
supportive environment for achieving net zero 
and mobilising finance for climate action and 
nature-based solutions. Our partnerships vary 
in scope and form depending on the sector 
and geography, as well as our presence in 
local markets. We act independently and 
voluntarily in our decision making, based on 
our own business interests, priorities and 
objectives, and in accordance with the laws 
and regulations of the markets in which we 
operate.

Working with the public sector
We engage with governments and public 
bodies to support the implementation of 
policies and regulations, including promoting 
good practice to develop globally consistent 
approaches to nature and climate-related 
financial regulation. In 2023, this included:

 – working with the UK Net Zero Council, a 

cross-government business partnership, to 
help address market barriers to delivering 
net zero, including high start-up costs for 
renewable energy projects, regulatory 
challenges and uncertainty around policy 
frameworks; and

 – continuing to engage with Just Energy 
Transition Partnerships contributing to 
Indonesia’s comprehensive investment 
and policy plan and Vietnam’s resource 
mobilisation plan, which provide roadmaps 
for minimising the negative impact on local 
communities of phasing out fossil fuels and 
how banks can support the transition.

Working with industry
We participate in cross-industry alliances and 
initiatives to stimulate industry engagement in 
nature and climate-related issues, and improve 
consistency in global financial standards, 
guidance and frameworks to accelerate 
implementation. In 2023, these included:

 – We are supporting the widespread adoption 

of the GFANZ net zero transition plan 
framework, as a member of its Principals 
Group. We also jointly led a working group 

to develop guidance for financial institutions 
on financing the managed phase-out of 
coal-fired power plants in Asia-Pacific.

 – As Chair of the Sustainable Markets 
Initiative’s (‘SMI’) Financial Services 
Taskforce, we have been actively involved in 
the publication of industry guidance to help 
encourage investment in critical ecosystems 
and sustainable agricultural practices. 
These include sponsorship of a report by 
Pollination on financing coastal nature-
based solutions, as well as contributing 
to the Mangrove Breakthrough initiative’s 
financial roadmap and the SMI Agribusiness 
Task Force’s blended finance framework for 
regenerative farming.

 – As a member of the Taskforce on Nature-
related Financial Disclosures (‘TNFD’), we 
have piloted the TNFD beta framework 
to better understand our exposure to 
nature-related risks, including on subsets 
of customers. We are currently focused 
on assessing and preparing for mandatory 
nature-related disclosure requirements, 
and we continue to engage with TNFD and 
explore ways it can help us and our clients 
to strengthen nature-related reporting.

In 2023, we also supported financial product 
development to help mobilise the allocation  
of capital towards halting and reversing 
nature loss:

 – We worked with the ICMA to help develop 

global guidance for issuers launching 
blue bonds – debt instruments that raise 
capital to finance sustainable marine and 
ocean-based projects – including eligibility 
criteria, standards for evaluating the impact 
of projects, and the steps needed to build 
the integrity of the blue economy and 
mobilise investment.

 – We partnered with Earth Security to explore 

the barriers, opportunities and design options 
for creating a ‘mangrove bond’ in Queensland, 
Australia to help generate funding to 
enhance mangrove ecosystems. This led to 
the publication of a practical blueprint for 
investors, banks, corporates and governments 
to develop new sustainable fixed income and 
investment product opportunities.

Working with civil society and  
non-governmental organisations
As part of our global philanthropy, we have 
partnered with a range of organisations to 
support the acceleration of climate action and 
investments in nature.

Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership 
initiative with the World Resources Institute, 
WWF and over 50 local partners, continues to 
support the scaling up of nature-based solutions 
and the transition of the energy sector in Asia. 
This includes engaging with local enterprises 
across Asia to make climate commitments 
and take corporate action. Under the Asia 
Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, we are 
working closely with smallholders and traders 
to transition to more sustainable practices and 
reduce nature-related losses. 

We have also established several new 
partnerships focused on transitioning industry, 
decarbonising global trade and catalysing the 
new economy. These include:

 – a three-year partnership with the Apparel 

Impact Institute to mobilise blended finance 
for projects to reduce supply chain emissions 
in the global fashion industry;

 – a founding membership of the Capacity-

building Alliance for Sustainable Investment, 
a global platform providing local capacity 
building services and technical assistance 
to support growth of transition financing 
in emerging markets and developing 
economies; and

 – a two-year partnership with Repower, 
a global non-profit initiative analysing 
the technical and commercial feasibility 
of various options for repowering and 
repurposing coal-fired power plants to 
accelerate the transition to clean energy.

Unlocking the potential of Chinese ecosystems

We have been working with the SEE Foundation in China on a multi-stakeholder pilot project 
to enhance the climate resilience and biodiversity of forests, inland wetlands, and mangroves 
in several selected local provinces. The project aims to restore and promote sustainable 
management of key ecosystems and improve ecosystem services such as carbon sinks, 
as a model for other areas in China and around the world. Its efforts to reduce emissions, 
and generate jobs through the support of sustainable local enterprises, has also unlocked 
government and public funding for expansion and gained recognition from the World Bank 
and the Chinese government.

68

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Environmental 

Our approach to climate reporting  TCFD

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) 

The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises where additional information can be found. 

We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under both the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and Sections 414CA and 
414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended 
Disclosures, including its annexes and supplemental guidance, save for certain items, which we summarise below and in the additional information 
section on page 440. 

Recommendation

Response

Governance

Disclosure 
location

a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))

Process, frequency 
and training 

 – The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the 

approach, execution and associated reporting. It considered ESG at eight meetings during the year.

Sub-committee accountability, 
processes and frequency 

 – Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek 

out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area.

 – The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) considered ESG and climate reporting matters at eight meetings during 

2023. Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG 
Committee, provided close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid 
rising stakeholder expectations.

 – The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) received reports on climate risk management, energy and thermal coal 
phase-out policies, while maintaining oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust 
climate risk management capabilities. It considered ESG risk at five meetings in 2023.

 – The diagram on page 88 provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, including how the Board’s 
strategy on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout the organisation. It identifies examples of 
forums that manage both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their responsibilities and the 
responsible chair. 

Examples of the Board and 
relevant Board committees 
taking climate into account

 – The Board considered whether to establish a Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but instead decided 
that the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group’s climate ambition and ESG strategy was 
to retain governance at Board level.

 – In 2023, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and 

detailed updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan, deep dives on the sustainability 
execution programme, reviews of net zero-aligned policies and climate-aligned financing initiatives. 

 Pages 88 
and 256

 Page 88 

 Page 267

 Pages 275 
and 278 

 Page 88

 Page 254 

Page 254

b)  Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 

2A (a))

Who manages climate-related 
risks and opportunities

 – The ESG Committee supports the development and delivery of our ESG strategy, key policies and material 

commitments by providing oversight, coordination and management of ESG commitments and initiatives. It 
is co-chaired by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.

How management reports to 
the Board

Processes used to 
inform management

 – In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance with the establishment of a new Sustainability Execution 

Committee, which focuses on defining and measuring the success of our climate ambition, and developing 
commercial opportunities that support it through the sustainability execution programme. 

 – The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager responsible for the management of 
climate risk under the UK Senior Managers Regime, which involves holding overall accountability for the 
Group’s climate risk programme.

 – The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy to the 
Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Group by 
recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee, an executive forum comprising 
members of senior management that include chief executive officers of the global businesses, regional chief 
executive officers and functional heads. 

 – The Group Executive Committee further enhanced its governance model of ESG matters with the 

introduction of a new Sustainability Execution Committee and supporting forums. These support senior 
management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the oversight of the 
sustainability execution programme.

 – The Group Risk Management Meeting oversees the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including 

updates relating to the Group’s climate risk profile and risk appetite, top and emerging climate risks, and key 
climate initiatives.

 – The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum oversees global risk activities relating to environmental risk 

management, including the transition and physical risks from climate change. Equivalent forums have been 
established at regional level, where appropriate.

 Page 222

 Page 88 

 Page 222

 Page 250 

Page 254

 Page 88 

 Page 88

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

69

ESG review 
 
 
ESG review | Environmental 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued

Recommendation

Response

Strategy

Disclosure 
location

a)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term (Companies Act 

2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (d))

Processes used to 
determine material risks  
and opportunities

 – To support the requirements for assessing the impacts of climate change, we continue to develop a set 
of capabilities to execute climate stress testing and scenario analysis. These are used to improve our 
understanding of our risk exposures for risk management and business decision making. 

 – We also develop and use climate scenario analysis to gain insights on the long-term effects of transition and 

physical risks across our wholesale and retail banking portfolios.

 – Our sustainable finance and investment ambition aims to help promote green, sustainable and socially-

focused business and sustainable investment products and solutions.

Relevant short-, medium-, and 
long-term time horizons

 – We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in our operations and 

our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed emissions to net zero by 2050. 

 – In 2023, we continued to provide sustainable financing and investment to our customers in line with our 

ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn by 2030. 

 – Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods, comprising: short term, which is up to 
2025; medium term, which is between 2026 and 2035; and long term, which is between 2036 and 2050. 
These time periods are aligned to the Climate Action 100+ framework v1.2.

Transition or physical 
climate-related  
issues identified 

 – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating 
between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our sustainable finance data 
dictionary includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.

 – For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending 

portfolio to six high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition 
risk sectors was $112bn. Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers through 
a transition engagement questionnaire (formerly the transition and physical risk questionnaire) to gather 
information and assess the alignment of our wholesale customers’ business models to net zero and their 
exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to create a climate risk 
score for our key wholesale customers.

 – We measure the impacts of climate and weather events to our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, 
current and scenario modelled forecast data. In 2023, there were 27 major storms that had a minor impact on 
five premises with no impact on the availability of our buildings. 

Risks and opportunities by 
sector and/or geography

 – For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending 
portfolio to six high transition risk sectors. These are automotive, chemicals, construction and building 
materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.

Concentrations of credit 
exposure to carbon-related 
assets (supplemental guidance 
for banks)

Climate-related risks (transition 
and physical) in lending and 
other financial intermediary 
business activities 
(supplemental guidance  
for banks)

 – Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified 
and assessed locally, and potential exposure is monitored through quarterly metrics. We have also set risk 
appetite metrics for physical risk in our largest mortgage markets, the UK and Hong Kong, as well as those 
with local regulatory requirements, including Singapore.

 – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating 

between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For a detailed breakdown of our 
sustainable finance progress, see the ESG Data Pack.

 – We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio. For details, see the 

ESG Data Pack.

 – The UK is our largest mortgage market, which at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage 

portfolio. We estimate that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding and 3.5% is 
at high risk. This is based on approximately 94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as 
at September 2023.

 – Our material exposure to climate risk relates to wholesale and retail client financing activity within our banking 

portfolio.

 – We are also exposed to climate risk in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business and employee 

pension plans.

 – HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate risk may manifest as transition and physical risks over 

the short, medium and long term. The impact of climate-related risk will vary depending on characteristics 
such as asset class, sector, business model and geography. Where applicable and relevant, HSBC Asset 
Management incorporates climate-related indicators, such as carbon intensity and management of carbon 
emissions, into investment decisions as well as insights from its climate-related engagement. 

 Page 37

Page 65 

Page 50

Page 42 

Page 44 

Page 141

Page 50 

Page 223

Page 229

Page 223

Page 224

Page 50

Page 223 

Page 224

Page 65 

Page 65 

Page 65

 – In climate scenario analysis on page 227, we show the relative size of exposures at default in 2023 and the 

increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario compared with a counterfactual scenario by 2035 (expressed 
as a multiple).

Page 227

70

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Environmental 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued

Recommendation

Response

Disclosure 
location

b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning (Companies 

Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (e))

Impact on strategy, business, 
and financial planning

 – Our net zero ambition represents one of our four strategic pillars. We aim to achieve net zero in our financed 

emissions by 2050, and in our own operations and supply chain by 2030. 

 – Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under 
a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet 
our growing regulatory requirements. Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario 
analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We therefore expect this view to change over 
time.

Page 44

 Page 225

 – We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive 
understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities to support our strategic planning and actions.

Page 225

Impact on products 
and services 

Impact on supply chain  
and/or value chain

Impact on adaptation and 
mitigation activities

 – We have used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy and financial planning. In 

2023, we continued to incorporate certain aspects of sustainable finance and financed emissions within our 
financial planning process. 

 – We do not fully disclose impacts from climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance 

including on revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative scenario analysis, detailed climate risk 
exposures for all sectors and geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional challenges in 
relation to data limitations, although nascent work is ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations 
to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are 
implemented.

 – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating 

between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.

 – We will continue to engage with our supply chain through CDP, and through direct discussions with our 

suppliers on how they can further support our transition to net zero.

 – We recognise that collective action is critical to achieve net zero. We seek to collaborate with a range of 
partners to develop a supportive environment for achieving net zero and mobilising finance for climate 
action and nature-based solutions. Our partnerships vary in scope and form depending on the sector and 
geography, as well as our presence in local markets.

 – HSBC Asset Management engages with investee companies on a priority list as defined in its Global 
Stewardship Plan, and votes at company general meetings, including on the topic of climate change.

 – In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against a 
2019 baseline. As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations by 2030, 
we continue to look for opportunities to procure green electricity in each of our markets. In 2023, our fourth 
UK renewable PPA went live in Sorbie, Scotland. A key challenge remains the limited opportunity to pursue 
PPAs or green tariffs in key markets due to regulations. 

 – We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and global engineering standards and will 

continue to assess historical claims data to help ensure our building selection and design standards address 
the potential impacts of climate change. 

Impact on operations

 – We have three elements to our strategy: reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first focus on reducing 

carbon emissions from consumption, and then replacing remaining emissions with low-carbon alternatives 
in line with the Paris Agreement. We plan to remove the remaining emissions that cannot be reduced or 
replaced by procuring, in accordance with prevailing regulatory requirements, high-quality offsets at a later 
stage.

 – We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact on our owned or leased premises. Our scenario 
stress test, conducted in 2023, analysed how eight climate change-related hazards could impact 1,000 of 
our critical and important buildings. These hazards were coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds, 
wildfires, riverine flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, and surface water flooding.

Impact on investment in 
research and development

 – Throughout 2023, we published regular ESG and sustainability-related market insights and updates such 
as #WhyESGMatters and Learning about ESG to help clients better understand the implications for their 
investments.

Impact on acquisitions 
or divestments 

Impact on access to capital 

Transition plan to a  
low-carbon economy

 – We recognise the need to find new solutions and increase the pace of change for the world to achieve the 
Paris Agreement goal of being net zero by 2050. We are working with a range of partners to accelerate 
investment in sustainable infrastructure, natural resources and climate technology to help reduce emissions 
and address climate change.

 – We have updated our merger and acquisition process to consider potential climate and sustainability-related 

targets, net zero transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to HSBC.

 – We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. 
Our access to capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In 
addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our 
stated net zero ambitions, we could face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating ability and 
potentially our access to capital markets. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term 
as more data becomes available. To manage these risks we have integrated climate risk into our existing risk 
taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk management framework through the policies and controls for 
the existing risks where appropriate.

 – We published our Group-wide net zero transition plan in January 2024. In this plan, we provided an overview 
of our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking to help meet our ambitions. We want to be clear 
about our approach, the change underway today and what we plan to do in the future. We also want to 
be transparent about where there are still unresolved issues and uncertainties. We are still developing our 
disclosures, including considerations of possible additional data in relation to our financial plans, budgets, 
and related financial approach for the implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. amount 
of capital and other expenditures supporting our decarbonisation strategy).  The UK Transition Plan Taskforce 
published its final transition plan disclosure framework in October 2023. We will continue to evolve our 
transition plan disclosures to take into account new and evolving regulatory developments.

Page 222 

Page 440

Page 50

Page 63 

Page 68 

Page 65

Page 63

Page 229

Page 63 

Page 229

Page 51

Page 52

Page 222

Page 440

Page 440

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

71

ESG review 
 
ESG review | Environmental 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued

Recommendation

Response

Disclosure 
location

c)  Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower 

scenario (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (f))

Embedding climate into 
scenario analysis

 – Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under 
a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet 
our growing regulatory requirements.

 – In our 2023 climate scenario analysis exercises, we explored five scenarios that were created to examine the 

potential impacts from climate change for the Group and its entities.

Key drivers of performance 
and how these have been 
taken into account

 – Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential climate pathways may affect and impact 
the resilience of our customers and our portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses. Under the Current 
Commitments scenario, we expect lower levels of losses relating to transition risks, although we would 
expect an increase in the effects of climate-related physical risks over the longer term. 

Scenarios used and  
how they factored in 
government policies

 – Scenario analysis results have been used to support the Group’s ICAAP. This is an internal assessment of  
the capital the Group needs to hold to meet the risks identified on a current and projected basis, including 
climate risk.

 – In addition, scenario analysis informs our risk appetite statement metrics. As an example, it supports the 

calibration of physical risk metrics for our retail mortgage portfolios and it is used to consider climate impact 
in our IFRS 9 assessment.

 – Our scenarios are: the Net Zero scenario, the Current Commitments scenario, the Delayed Transition Risk 

scenario, the Downside Physical Risk scenario and the Near Term scenario.

 – Our scenarios reflect different levels of physical and transition risks over a variety of time periods. The 

scenario assumptions include varying levels of governmental climate policy changes, macroeconomic factors 
and technological developments. However, these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are 
still unproven, such as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation and shipping.

How our strategies may 
change and adapt

 – The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and limitations of the analysis lead to outcomes that 

are indicative of climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct forecast. 

 – Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario analysis techniques will help us shape our 

approach further. We therefore expect this view to change over time.

 – Climate scenario analysis plays a crucial role helping us to identify and understand the impact of climate-

related risks and potential opportunities as we navigate the transition to net zero.

 – Our target-setting approach to date, for on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions, has 
been to utilise a single net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE 2021) to underpin both energy supply-related 
sectors (oil and gas, power and utilities, and thermal coal mining) and our published targets for demand-side 
sectors in transport and heavy industry.

 – We recognise that the so-called ‘hard-to-abate’ sectors, such as cement, iron, steel and aluminium, and 

aviation have a large dependence on nascent technologies and the presence (or not) of enabling policies and 
regulations. We may consider tracking progress relative to 1.5°C-aligned ambition ranges for these sectors in 
the future, which could include industry-specific scenarios alongside the IEA NZE scenario. 

 – We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional 
challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. In 2023, we have disclosed 
the impairment impacts for our wholesale, retail and commercial real estate portfolios in different climate 
scenarios. In addition, we have disclosed losses on our retail mortgage book under three scenarios and 
flood depths for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we have disclosed potential implications on our 
expected credit losses for 11 sectors under two scenarios. We have also disclosed a heat map showing how 
we expect the risks to evolve over time.

 Page 225

 Page 225

 Page 227 

 Page 229

 Page 229

Page 225

Page 225

 Page 225 

Page 225 

Page 229

Page 53

Page 48

Page 440

Risk management

a)  Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))

Process

 – We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, 

and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time. 

 – We updated our climate risk management approach to incorporate net zero alignment risk and developed 

guidance on how climate risk should be managed for non-financial risk types.  While we have made progress 
in enhancing our climate risk framework, further work remains. This includes the need to develop additional 
metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-related risks, and to incorporate these tools within decision 
making. 

 – In 2023, we enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis exercise by focusing our efforts on generating more 
granular insights for key sectors and regions to support core decision-making processes, and to respond to our 
regulatory requirements. In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly, both physical risks and transition risks.

 – We continue to review policy implementation as we apply our policies in practice, and our operationalisation 
of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach when identifying transactions 
and clients to which our energy and thermal coal phase-out policies apply, and when reporting on relevant 
exposures, adopting approaches proportionate to risk and materiality.  

Integration into policies  
and procedures

 – We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our 

organisation, and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature  
over time.

Consider climate-related risks 
in traditional banking industry 
risk categories (supplementary 
guidance for banks)

 – We provide further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk 

types, including wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, treasury risk, traded risk, reputational risk, regulatory 
compliance risk, resilience risk, model risk, and financial reporting risk. 

 Page 222 

 Page 222

 Page 225

Page 66

Page 222

 Page 223 

72

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
Environmental 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued

Recommendation

Response

Disclosure 
location

b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))

Process and how we 
make decisions

 – The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our climate 

risk profile and progress of our climate risk programme.

 – The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum (formerly the Climate Risk Oversight Forum) oversees risk activities 
relating to climate and sustainability risk management, including the transition and physical risks from climate 
change. Equivalent forums have been established at a regional level.

Page 222

Page 222 

c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk 

management framework (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (c))

How we have aligned and 
integrated our approach

 – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of 

defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. 

 – We are developing our climate risk capabilities across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, portfolios and 

counterparties with the highest impacts.

 – In 2023, we updated our climate risk materiality assessment, to understand how climate risk may impact 

across HSBC’s risk taxonomy.

 – In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk reporting and scenario 

analysis.

 – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of 

defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. 

 – Through our climate risk programme, we continued to embed climate considerations throughout the 

organisation, including through risk policy updates and the completion of our annual climate risk materiality 
assessment. We also developed risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced our 
internal climate scenario analysis. 

 – We continue to make progress in enhancing our climate risk capabilities, and recognise it is a long-term 

Page 221

iterative process. This includes updating our approach to reflect how the risks associated with climate change 
continue to evolve in the real world, and maturing how we embed climate risk factors into strategic planning, 
transactions and decision making across our businesses.

Page 221 

Page 221 

Page 221 

Page 221

Page 221

Page 139

How we take into account 
interconnections between 
entities and functions

Metrics and targets

a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management 

process (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))

Metrics used to assess the 
impact of climate-related risks 
on our loan portfolio

 – We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six  

high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors 
was $112bn.

 – The UK is our largest mortgage market, which at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage 

portfolio. We estimate that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding, and 3.5% 
is at high risk. This is based on approximately 94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as 
at September 2023.

 – In 2023, we further developed our risk metrics to monitor our performance against our net zero targets for 

both financed emissions and own operations.

Metrics used to assess 
progress against opportunities

 – We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable 
finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary. For a detailed breakdown of our 
sustainable finance progress, see the ESG Data Pack.

 – We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other 
business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue from products and services 
designed for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning 
time horizons. In relation to sustainable finance revenue and assets we are disclosing certain elements. We 
expect the data and system limitations related to financial planning and performance, and climate-related 
opportunities metrics to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and 
technology solutions are implemented. We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term. 

Page 223

Page 224 

Page 222

 Page 18 

 Page 440

Board or senior 
management incentives

 – To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive and long-
term incentive scorecards of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Executives.

 Page 16

Internal carbon price

 – We do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges. 

Metrics used to assess the 
impact of climate risk on 
lending and financial 
intermediary business 
(supplemental guidance  
for banks)

But we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further 
enhance this disclosure in the medium term.

 – As part of our 2023 internal climate scenario analysis, we completed a detailed climate risk assessment for 
the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China and Australia, which together represent 75% of the balances in our 
global retail mortgage portfolio. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal losses to 
materialise when considering the Current Commitments scenario.

 – In insights from climate scenario analysis on page 227, we showed the relative size of exposures at default in 
2023 and the increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario compared with a counterfactual scenario by 
2035 (expressed as a multiple).

 – We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical (chronic) and 

transitions (policy and legal, technology and market) risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and 
other financial intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or 
trading positions, each broken down by industry, geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming 
to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to provide these disclosures in future years. We 
disclose the exposure to six high transition risk wholesale sectors and the flood risk exposure and Energy 
Performance Certificate breakdown for the UK portfolio. 

 Page 440

Page 228

Page 227

Page 440

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

73

ESG review 
ESG review | Environmental 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued

Recommendation

Response

b)  Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks (Companies Act 2006 –  

Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))

Our own operations

 – We report greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the energy used in our buildings and employees’ 

Greenhouse gas emissions  
for lending and financial 
intermediary business 
(supplemental guidance  
for banks)

business travel. In 2023, we also continue to disclose our scope 3 (category 1 and category 2) supply chain 
emissions. Our initial supply chain emission figures may require updating as data availability changes over 
time and methodologies and climate science evolve.

 – Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated 

emissions’. Our on-balance sheet financed emissions include emissions related to on-balance sheet lending, 
such as project finance and direct lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions related to financing we 
help clients to raise through capital markets activities. 

 – Work continues on the integration of ESG and climate analysis into HSBC Asset Management’s actively 

managed product offerings to help ensure the climate risks faced by companies are considered when making 
investment decisions and to assess ESG risks and opportunities that could impact investment performance.

Disclosure 
location

 Page 64

 Page 53 

Page 65

 – We currently disclose four out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions including business 

Page 440

travel, supply chain and financed emissions. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance sheet 
financed emissions for a number of sectors as detailed on page 18. We also publish facilitated emissions for 
the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. Future disclosures on financed emissions and related risks are 
reliant on our customers publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related 
risks. We recognise the need to provide early transparency on climate disclosures but balance this with the 
recognition that existing data and reporting processes require significant enhancements.

c)  Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets 

(Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (g))

Details of targets set and 
whether they are absolute or 
intensity based

 – We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable 

finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary. 

 – We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in our operations and 

our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed emissions to net zero by 2050.

 – For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with the Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (‘NZBA‘) guidelines by setting 2030 targets. While the NZBA defines 2030 as intermediate, we use 
different time horizons for climate risk management. For climate, we define short term as time periods up 
to 2025; medium term is between 2026 and 2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. These time 
periods align to the Climate Action 100+ disclosure framework. In 2023, we disclosed interim 2030 targets for 
financed emissions for a number of sectors as we outline on page 18.

 – We do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to capital deployment, since 2015, we 
have issued more than $2bn of our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital invested 
into a variety of green projects, including: green buildings, renewable energy and clean transportation 
projects. In 2023, we further progressed our internal review and enhancement of the green bond framework, 
with further refinement including internal and external review to be undertaken in 2024. This will be subject 
to continuous review and monitoring to ensure that they remain up to date and reflect updated standards, 
taxonomies and best practices. Any such developments in standards, taxonomies and best practices over 
time could result in revisions in our reporting going forward and lead to differences year-on-year as compared 
to prior years. See the HSBC Green Bond Report for further information.

 – We do not currently disclose internal carbon pricing target due to transitional challenges such as developing 
the appropriate systems and processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario 
analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes 
available.

 – We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. This is due to transitional 

challenges including data limitations of physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and 
manage physical risk. In 2023 we introduced internally a global ‘soft trigger’ monitoring and review process 
for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets are 
actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. We also consider physical and transition 
risk as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance our disclosures as 
our data, quantitative scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets evolve, and technology solutions 
are implemented in the medium term.

 – We have described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities 

and performance against targets. However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not 
consider water usage to be a material target for our business and, therefore, we have not included a target in 
this year’s disclosure. 

Other key performance 
indicators used

 – In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 

baseline, and in 2023 we achieved 26.3%. 

 – As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations by 2030, we continue to look 
for opportunities to procure green electricity in each of our markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable PPA went 
live in Sorbie, Scotland. 

Page 18 

Page 42 

Page 17 

Page 440 

Page 440

Page 440

Page 440

Page 63 

Page 63

74

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Social 

Social
Building inclusion and resilience

We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for 
our customers, colleagues and communities by connecting 
across our international networks to help build a more inclusive 
and resilient society.

At a glance

Inclusion is key to opening up a world of 
opportunity. It involves a commitment to 
identifying and addressing barriers that may 
stop people from accessing opportunities 
because of who they are or where they  
are from.

Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. 
We aim to help people build the capabilities 
they need to achieve their goals and to deal 
with the challenges they face, so we are 
focused on delivering products, services 
and education that support our colleagues, 
customers and communities.

Colleagues
We believe that an inclusive, healthy and 
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group 
succeed. We are focused on recruiting and 
retaining diverse talent by offering fair pay 
and career progression so we can ensure our 
colleagues – and particularly our leadership 
– are representative of the communities we 
serve. We do this by setting meaningful goals 
and tracking and monitoring our progress. In 
2023, we continued to make progress against 
all of our goals, although the progress we are 

making with women in senior leadership roles 
has not been as fast paced as we would like.

Employee well-being is essential. We offer 
all colleagues a wide range of resources 
that help support their mental, physical and 
financial well-being so they can thrive in and 
out of work. We are working to ensure that 
our offices, branches and digital spaces are 
accessible and safe for all.

We also help our colleagues build resilience 
by ensuring that they are equipped with the 
skills and knowledge they need to progress 
their careers during a period of significant 
economic transformation.

Customers
We are committed to helping our customers 
access the financial services they need. They 
should not find it more difficult to access 
finance because of their gender, their ethnicity, 
their sexual orientation, their neurodiversity 
or their disability. Our ambition is to create a 
welcoming, inclusive and accessible banking 
experience for all our customers.

We build resilience by creating products and 
services that simplify the banking experience, 
so customers can manage and grow their 
wealth more easily. We also help protect 
what people value most – their health, 
families, homes and belongings. We also 
build resilience by providing education so 
customers can understand how to manage 
their finances more effectively. 

Communities
We are developing an updated global 
philanthropy strategy that allows us to work 
alongside the communities we operate within, 
and which aligns with our ESG areas of focus 
– ‘transition to net zero’ and ‘building inclusion 
and resilience’.

We believe that fostering inclusion and 
building resilience helps us to create long-term 
value and growth. By removing unnecessary 
barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable 
organisation, we can attract and retain the 
best talent, support a wider customer base 
to achieve their goals and stimulate growth in 
our communities. This is how we open up a 
world of opportunity for our colleagues, our 
customers and our communities.

In this section

Promoting diversity 
and fostering 
inclusion

Our approach to diversity 
and inclusion

We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive 
environment that reflects our customers and communities.

Creating a diverse 
environment

Fostering an 
inclusive culture

Building a healthy 
workplace

Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group 

Executive Committee and the Board.

 Page 76

 Page 77

 Page 78

 Page 79

Being a great place to work We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, 

 Page 81

retaining and motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our 
customers across countries and territories.

Developing skills, 
careers and 
opportunities

Building customer 
inclusion and 
resilience

Learning and skills 
development

We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where colleagues can 
develop skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.

Energising our colleagues 
for growth 

We are committed to offering colleagues the chance to develop 
their skills while building pipelines of talented colleagues to 
support the achievement of our strategic priorities.

Our approach to customer 
inclusion and resilience 

We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers 
people can face in accessing financial services.

Engaging with our 
communities

Building a more  
inclusive and resilient world

We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a 
difference to the community and support sustainable growth.

 Page 83

 Page 84

 Page 85

 Page 86

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

75

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Promoting diversity and fostering inclusion 

Our approach to diversity and inclusion

Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of 
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an 
organisation, and is the foundation of our 
diversity and inclusion strategy. Inclusion is an 
enabler for our ‘energise’ strategic pillar, and 
is embedded in the values of our organisation. 
By valuing difference and seeking different 

perspectives, we can more accurately reflect 
the societies we serve, creating better 
outcomes for customers and colleagues.  

Our data-driven strategy enables us to set 
aspirational goals to track and monitor our 
progress. We remain focused on specific 

Group-wide priorities for which we hold senior 
executives accountable. Some executives 
also have local priorities, which ensures 
our diversity and inclusion agenda remains 
locally relevant. 

How we hold ourselves to account

  We set meaningful goals 
Our executive Directors and Group 
Executives are accountable for progressing 
our agenda through a series of diversity and 
inclusion aspirational goals that align to three 
public commitments that we have made. In 
2023, we continued to make progress against 
our three goals by:

 – achieving a 34.1% representation of 

women in senior leadership roles, with  
a goal of achieving 35% by 2025;

 – attaining a 3.0% representation of Black 
heritage colleagues in senior leadership  
in the UK and US combined, against a  
goal to achieve 3.4% by 2025; and

 – increasing our Inclusion index as measured 
in our Snapshot survey, to 78% against a 
2023 target of 75%.

We report and track progress
Measuring our performance ensures we 
consistently and accurately monitor the progress 
made against our aspirational goals. Our data-
backed approach tracks this through: 

We benchmark our performance
External disclosures and benchmarks allow 
us to measure the progress that we are 
making and identify opportunities for future 
prioritisation. In 2023, we: 

 – an inclusion dashboard, which monitors 

 – scored 87.2% in the Bloomberg  

progress against goals with trend data on 
hiring, promotion and exit ratios, is reported  
to the Group Executive Committee on a 
quarterly basis; and

 – semi-annual review meetings where our  
Head of Inclusion meets each Group  
Executive to review data, their progress 
against their aspirational goals, and to  
support further progress. 

Gender-Equality Index measuring our 
gender-related data, transparency  
and performance;

 – maintained our Stonewall Gold standard 

and rank as a top global LGBTQ+ inclusion 
employer; and

 – ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK 
Social Mobility Index in our first year of 
entering a submission. 

A data-driven approach to inclusion
We are evolving our data-driven approach by enabling more of our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points. This data has 
enabled us to set locally relevant priorities and identify areas of our organisation where we need to focus our attention. We invite colleagues 
to self-identify on a broad range of data points where we can, although given the international nature of our business, there are some 
jurisdictions where we are unable to invite colleagues to share their diversity data with us. We have enabled 91% of our colleagues to disclose 
their ethnic background, with 62% of colleagues choosing to do so, where this is legally permissible.

Our approach goes beyond ethnic heritage and considers broader representation within the workplace. We have enabled 90% of the 
workforce to share whether they have a disability, 71% of our workforce to share their sexual orientation, and all UK-based colleagues to 
share their socio-economic background.

Our approach to Asian heritage representation

Our roots as an organisation trace back over 150 years to Hong Kong, where HSBC opened 
its doors to serve clients with international needs. Asia remains a strategic focus for us today. 

To better reflect the communities we serve, we have a focus on increasing representation 
across our global workforce, including Asian heritage representation. Defining Asian heritage 
can be complex due to the vast range of ethnicities and identities across the region. In 
2023, 37.8% of our senior leaders were able to self-identify as being from an Asian heritage 
background. To deliver our international strategy it is vital that we are both representative 
of our local communities, and able to mobilise leaders with global perspective and diverse 
heritage backgrounds across our international network.

76

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Social

Creating a diverse environment

Women in senior leadership
Since achieving our ambition of having 30% 
of senior leadership positions held by women 
in 2020, we set a new goal to reach 35% by 
2025. We remain on track, with 34.1% of 
senior leadership roles held by women at the 
end of 2023, excluding our Canada business, 
which is planned for sale in 2024. Progress in 
the past year has not been as fast paced as 
we would like. A total of 37.7% of all external 
appointments into senior positions were 
female, compared with 35.7% in 2022, and 
women represented 39.6% of all promotions 
into senior leadership roles in 2023. 

Development programmes, including our 
Accelerating Female Leaders initiative, have 
helped to increase the visibility, sponsorship 
and network of our high performing, senior 
women. Since the start of the programme in 
2017, 24% of participants have been promoted 
and 2% have taken a lateral move to develop 
their careers. We have also retained over 79% 
of colleagues who completed the programme.

In our 2023 Accelerating into Leadership 
programme, which prepares high potential, 
mid-level colleagues for leadership roles, 43% 
of participants were women. More than 5,200 
women also participated in our Coaching 
Circles programme, which matches senior 
leaders with a small group of colleagues 
to provide advice and support on the 
development of leadership skills and network 
building. 

Our succession planning for key leadership 
roles includes an assessment of the diversity 
of our succession plans. We are improving 
the gender diversity of those roles critical to 
our organisation and the successors to those 
roles. In 2023, 40% of the succession pool for 
these roles were women, compared with 36% 
in 2022.

Black colleagues in senior leadership
We remain on track to double the number of 
Black colleagues in senior leadership roles 
globally by 2025, having increased the number 
of Black senior leaders by 62% since 2020.

In 2022, we set a new Group-wide ethnicity 
strategy, which is overseen by a senior 
working group and led by our Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer. The aim of 
the strategy is to ensure we accurately 
reflect the communities we serve and the 
societies in which we operate. We continue 
to identify challenges colleagues from 
diverse backgrounds face in achieving their 
aspirations at HSBC.

We have continued to focus on the 
development of Black heritage colleagues 
through the delivery of dedicated development 
programmes. Using data analytics, we have 
identified that in the UK, Black heritage female 
colleagues are less likely to hold positions 
as people managers. To address this, we 
introduced the Solaris programme to provide 
coaching and development for our UK-based 
Black heritage female colleagues. Forty 
women have successfully completed the 
programme and 29% have been promoted. 

We also partnered with Vivida, a virtual 
reality firm, to launch an immersive learning 
programme designed to bring to life the 
experiences of Black heritage and ethnic 
minority colleagues, highlighting the 
pressures, barriers and biases faced by these 
communities. The programme has been 
completed by 11,900 colleagues, and was 
nominated for awards at the 2023 European 
Diversity Awards and as finalists at The 2024 
Learning Awards.

In 2023 EmpowHER was launched, a 
programme created by Black heritage 
women for Black heritage women at mid-
management levels across the UK business. 

The programme encourages participants to 
support each other with the tools and shared 
experiences to structure their careers, expand 
their network and seek job opportunities. It 
also helps to create improved visibility of talent 
to senior leadership. 

Gender diversity statistics 
Gender diversity data

Holdings 
Board

Group 
Executives 

Combined 
Group 
Executives and 
direct reports1

Subsidiary 
directors2

Senior 
leadership3

Middle
management3

Junior
management3

All employees

53%

47%

79%

21%

66%

34%

65%

35%

66%

34%

62%

38%

51%

49%

48%

52%

Male 

Female

1  Combined Group Executives and direct reports 

includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct 
reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31 
December 2023.

2  Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies 

that are included in the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements, excluding corporate directors. 

3  In our leadership structure, we classify senior 

leadership as those at career band 3 and above; 
middle management as those at global career 
band 4; and junior management as those at global 
career bands 5 and 6.

Representation and pay gaps
We publish this data annually to ensure 
both transparency and a maintained focus 
on addressing representation gaps within 
the organisation. Our gender and ethnicity 
pay gap reporting shows the difference in 
average pay between two groups of people 
(regardless of roles or seniority). We have 
reported our UK gender representation and 
pay gap data since 2017 in line with reporting 
regulations, and have voluntarily extended 
this to include the US, mainland China, Hong 
Kong, India, Mexico, Singapore and the UAE, 
alongside ethnicity data for the UK and US. 
In 2023, we also included gender pay gap 
data for Argentina and Malaysia, covering 

approximately 80% of our workforce 
(excluding our Canada business held for 
sale. In 2023, our mean aggregate UK-wide 
gender pay gap was 43.2%, compared 
with 45.2% in 2022, and the ethnicity pay 
gap was 4.5%, compared with 0.4% in 
2022. Our UK gender pay gap is driven by 
several factors including the shape of our 
workforce, where there are more men than 
women in senior higher-paid roles, and more 
women than men in junior roles. While we 
are confident in our approach to pay equity, 
until women and ethnic minority colleagues 
are proportionately represented across all 
areas and levels of the organisation we will 
continue to see gaps in average pay. We 

are committed to paying colleagues fairly 
regardless of their gender or ethnicity and 
have processes to ensure that remuneration 
is free from bias. We review our pay practices 
and undertake a pay equity review annually, 
including a regular independent third-party 
review of equal pay in major markets. If 
pay differences are identified that are not 
due to objective, tangible reasons such as 
performance, skills or experience, we make 
adjustments. 

 For further details on our representation data, 
pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/
diversitycommitments and the ESG Data Pack 
at www.hsbc.com/esg.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

77

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Fostering an inclusive culture

Our inclusion strategy seeks to make HSBC 
an organisation in which every colleague can 
feel like they belong, and are empowered 
to contribute their perspectives and ideas. 
Our strategy sits above a range of diversity 
and inclusion strands from gender, ethnicity 
and faith to disability and socio-economic 
background – we want to ensure that 
all colleagues are able to realise their 
full potential.

We use the Inclusion index in our annual 
Snapshot survey to measure the extent 
to which our colleagues feel a sense of 
belonging and psychological safety within 
the organisation, alongside their perception 
of fairness and trust. In 2023, we achieved 
a score of 78%, which is three percentage 
points ahead of our annual aspirational goal, 
and two percentage points ahead of the 
financial services industry benchmark. 

Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us 
to measure engagement levels of specific 
colleague groups in greater detail, in 
particular different diversity strands, to better 
understand the experiences of our colleagues 
globally. We found that scores from 
colleagues who identify as male and female 
were broadly in line with the overall Group-
wide result, at 79% and 77% respectively. 
From an ethnicity perspective, our Black 
heritage colleagues were four percentage 
points below the Group-wide average, while 
our Asian heritage colleagues’ results were on 
a par with the overall score, at 78%. 

Our employee resource groups 
Our employee resource groups (‘ERGs’) 
foster an inclusive culture and contribute 
significantly to the experience of tens of 
thousands of colleagues. They operate 
globally and are led by colleagues with a 
range of shared values, identities, interests 
and goals, including disability, LGBTQ+, 
ethnicity, faith and gender. 

Each of our non-executive Directors and most 
Group Executives are aligned with one of our 
global ERGs, ensuring there is a direct link 
between senior leadership and our colleagues. 
The non-executive Director dedicated to 
workforce engagement is closely aligned to 
our diversity and inclusion strategy and has 
attended events such as our 2023 Global 
ERG Summit.

the UK Business Disability Forum’s roundtable 
and conference. We have enhanced the 
support we provide to colleagues through our 
workplace adjustment programme partnering 
with Microlink, extending the availability of 
this service to almost 37,790 colleagues in our 
global service centres and technology centres 
in India. 

In 2023, our ERGs led numerous initiatives 
and events, including the Ability network 
hosting a global summit aimed at driving 
cultural change to build confidence for 
colleagues with a disability. Our Nurture 
ERG, which supports working parents and 
carers, launched the #LeaveLoudly Campaign 
globally. Its aim is to drive engagement by 
counteracting ‘presenteeism’, acknowledging 
that everyone has multifaceted lives, and to 
show that leaders across HSBC support a 
healthy work-life balance.

Looking to the future on disability
Enhancing the experience of our employees, 
particularly those with disabilities, is a vital 
part of our commitment to build an inclusive 
organisation. A key initiative has been a 
targeted career development programme to 
empower colleagues with confidence to drive 
their careers forward. 

Recognising the pivotal role of line managers, 
we have introduced a learning plan through 
our Degreed platform to help managers 
support team members with physical, 
sensory, long-term, and mental health 
conditions, as well as those who identify as 
neurodiverse. Our Ability ERG has hosted 
support sessions globally, where colleagues 
shared their experiences and raised 
awareness for disability inclusion, and the 
support provided by HSBC. 

In collaboration with PurpleSpace, the 
disability network and professional 
development hub, we sponsored and 
published a Leadership Model resource for 
employee groups. In 2023, we also sponsored 

UK socio-economic diversity
We believe that no-one should be limited 
by their socio-economic background and 
are committed to driving socio-economic 
inclusion within our workforce. 

In 2022, we began exploring the impact socio-
economic background has on our colleagues, 
working with them, and internal and external 
stakeholders to develop our understanding on 
socio-economic diversity.

In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index 
for the first time and gained recognition as a 
top 75 employer. Our Strive ERG, sponsored 
by the Group Chief Human Resources Officer, 
now has over 1,000 members. We have 
continued to be an active member of Progress 
Together, focused on helping members 
progress and retain a socio-economically 
diverse workforce, including taking part in 
the largest financial services study of socio-
economic diversity.

We launched a career development 
programme through the Strive ERG, enabling 
colleagues from different backgrounds to lead 
with impact and build career confidence. 

We continue to improve the socio-economic 
diversity data we collect by running 
campaigns encouraging our colleagues and 
job applicants to share their socio-economic 
background. In 2023, we extended our 
socio-economic focus to Asia, with an initial 
data collection pilot in Singapore through 
our employee engagement survey. We also 
launched a new learning plan, available for all 
employees to better understand what socio-
economic diversity is and why it matters.

Supporting colleagues experiencing menopause

Many of our female colleagues will experience menopause symptoms during their career. We 
do not want menopause to be a silent struggle and we have put in place the right support so 
it does not need to be. In 2023, we launched a new global framework centred around three 
principles of: creating awareness; removing barriers; and being adaptable. These form the 
basis of our menopause toolkit, which is available to all colleagues, and includes guidance on 
how to access menopause support and guidance for line managers on how to best support 
those in need.

We recognise that there is much more we can do to support those who are experiencing 
menopause and those who are supporting others experiencing it. Senior sponsorship is 
helping to raise awareness and our first step is to provide access to dedicated resources 
on menopause. 

78

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Social

Building a healthy workplace

Listening to our colleagues 

Listening to our colleagues is an essential 
part of building a healthy workplace at HSBC. 
We capture employee feedback in a variety 
of ways to understand how our colleagues 
feel about HSBC and to help us improve the 
employee experience.

How we listen
Our annual Snapshot survey runs every 
September and gives all HSBC employees 
the opportunity to share their experiences of 
working at the organisation. Our 2023 survey 
achieved a record response rate of 85%, 
up from 78% in 2022, with nearly 180,000 
colleagues choosing to share their views. 

The results of Snapshot are discussed at all 
levels. Our record participation has enabled 
us to put more data directly in the hands of 
our people managers, with more than 11,000 
teams able to access their results, while 
maintaining the confidentiality of individual 
employees’ responses. Managers are 
supported by a guided action planning tool to 
help them understand and interpret insights 
relevant to their team, while directing them 
towards support resources for them and their 
teams to explore. Results are also shared with 
executive leadership teams across the Group, 
with detailed reporting provided to our Group 
People Committee and the Board.

We complement the Snapshot survey 
with our annual Performance and Reward 
survey, which runs every March. Open to 
all employees, it captures feedback on our 
annual performance and pay review cycle, 
providing valuable insight into how well 
we are meeting our colleagues’ needs and 
expectations on compensation, development 
and professional growth.

We also run targeted listening activities for 
employees at key moments in their careers, 
capturing detailed feedback from new joiners, 
internal movers and voluntary leavers.

Employee conduct and harassment
We expect all our employees to treat each 
other with respect and dignity, and we do not 
tolerate or condone harassment or bullying 
in any form. We continually strive to improve 
awareness and education around such 
behaviours, and strengthen our understanding 
and response to these issues across all levels 
of the organisation. In 2023, our overall 
Snapshot Speak up index improved slightly to 
76%, up one percentage point from 2022. 

We encourage our colleagues to speak 
up about poor behaviour or things that 
do not seem right, and we have included 
bullying, harassment, discrimination and 
retaliation in our 2023 Global Mandatory 
Training curriculum. Our Snapshot survey 
revealed an increase in colleagues able to 
state their opinion without fear of negative 
consequences, with 72% of colleagues feeling 
able to do so, up from 70% in 2022.

In 2023, we launched our global code of 
conduct which is supported by our global anti-
bullying and harassment code. This continues 
to help us to maintain high standards of 
conduct across the Group.

We have mandatory procedures, both 
globally and locally, for handling and 
investigating employee concerns, which 
include those for bullying and harassment. 
Cases are continually monitored from our 
speak-up channels, and data is reported to 
management committees to ensure there is 
visibility at leadership level.

In 2023, we had a total of 834 concerns raised 
relating to bullying, harassment, discrimination 
and retaliation. Where the concerns were 
substantiated following an investigation, 
appropriate action was taken, which included 
termination of services, where appropriate. 
In 2023, 38% of concerns raised were either 
partly or fully substantiated and 24 colleagues 
were dismissed in relation to bullying, 
harassment, discrimination or retaliation.

We are committed to addressing this type 
of behaviour and will continue to take action 
where we find that an employee has breached 
our values and high standards of conduct. 

Employee engagement: 

77%

Employee engagement score 
(2022: 74%)

81%

Of colleagues who feel confident  
about this company’s future 
(2022: 77%)

85%

Of colleagues who completed our  
annual Snapshot survey
(2022: 78%)

Promoting mental health awareness

A poll posted by a senior leader on our intranet revealed that 94% of colleagues said they 
trust leadership more when they open up about their own mental health.

To build on this sentiment, we celebrated World Mental Health Day by running a global 
awareness campaign ‘The Big Mental Health Conversation’ in October 2023. We encouraged 
leaders to post questions on our intranet to gather feedback from colleagues on their 
experiences and how we can improve mental health support. We surveyed our colleagues 
during the campaign and half said they were very satisfied with the mental health support 
HSBC offers. Supporting the mental health of our colleagues continues to be a priority, 
including ensuring that we continue to signpost how colleagues can access available 
support. Throughout 2023, we also held over 200 virtual events, featuring internal and 
external experts providing advice on mental health and topics related to well-being. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

79

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Listening to our colleagues continued

Employee engagement
We use eight Snapshot indices to measure key areas of focus and compare against peer institutions. The table below sets out how we performed.

Index

Score1

vs 
20222

HSBC vs 

benchmark3 Questions that make up the index

Employee 
engagement

77%  +3

 +7

Employee 
focus

76%  +4

 +4

Strategy

78%  +3

 +5 

I am proud to say I work for this company.
Right now, I feel motivated by this organisation to do the best job I can.4
I would recommend this company as a great place to work.
I generally look forward to my work day.
My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment.
My work is challenging and interesting.
I have a clear understanding of this company’s strategic objectives.
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
I feel confident about this company’s future.

Change 
leadership

76%

0

+4

Speak up

76% +1

Trust

78% +1

0

0

Career

71% +3

+6

Inclusion

78% +2

+2

Leaders in my area set a positive example.
My line manager does a good job of communicating reasons behind important changes that are made.
Senior leaders in my area communicate openly and honestly about changes to the business.
I believe my views are genuinely listened to when I share my opinion.5
I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong.
I can state my opinion without the fear of negative consequences.6
I trust my direct manager.
I trust senior leadership in my area.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I believe that we have fair processes for moving/promoting people into new roles.
My line manager actively supports my career development.
I feel a genuine sense of belonging to my team.
I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I feel able to be myself at work.
I trust my direct manager.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
I can state my opinion without the fear of negative consequences.6

1 Each index comprises constituent questions, with the average of these questions forming the index score.
2  We revised the questions that comprise some of our indices to ensure the reliability of external benchmark data. New questions were trialled in 2022 so 

comparisons are all reported on a like-for-like basis; as such, historical comparison figures differ slightly from those reported last year.

3  We benchmark Snapshot results against a peer group of global financial services institutions, provided by our research partner, Ipsos Karian and Box. Scores for 
each question are calculated as the percentage of employees who agree to each statement. For further details of the constituent questions and past results, see 
the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. 

4 Previously: I feel valued at this company.
5 Previously: My company is genuine in its commitment to encourage colleagues to speak up. 
6 Previously: Where I work, people can state their opinion without fear of negative consequences. 
For further details of well-being, see page 82, and for further details of inclusion, see page 76. 

What employees told us
Seven of our eight Snapshot indices improved 
in 2023, while our change leadership index 
remained static. Our headline measure 
of employee engagement captures how 
employees feel about HSBC: whether they 
are proud to say they work here, whether they 
would recommend working at HSBC, and 
how motivated they feel to do their best work. 
Employee engagement increased by three 
percentage points compared with 2022, and 
seven percentage points above the external 
financial services benchmark. Our employee 
focus index, which measures how employees 
feel about their day-to-day work, increased 
by four percentage points to put HSBC four 
points ahead of the industry benchmark.

Analysis of the key drivers of our engagement 
scores showed that engaged colleagues are 
more likely to feel positive about their career, 
our strategy and our leadership. Our free 
text responses also showed that training and 
progression opportunities was the most cited 
reason for recommending HSBC, followed by 
our approach to flexible and hybrid working 
and the strength of our management.

Negative comments continued to focus 
around pay and benefits but were mentioned 
less than in 2022. For further details of our 
approach to being a great place to work, 
including pay transparency, see  
page 81.

Our Snapshot survey showed that 67% of 
employees plan to stay at HSBC for five or 
more years, a two percentage point increase 
since 2022. This aligned with a drop in 
voluntary turnover in 2023 to 9.3%, compared 
with 14.1% in 2022, and reflects trends in 
the wider employment market. Results from 
our listening channels continued to show 
that career opportunities and competitive 
reward packages remain the two key drivers 
behind our ability to attract and retain 
talented colleagues.

We are committed to building on our 
high levels of engagement and feedback 
throughout 2024.

80

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Social

Being a great place to work

To deliver our purpose, ambition and strategy 
we need the best people, performing at their 
best. Creating a great workplace helps us 
attract, retain and motivate our colleagues so 
they can deliver for our customers.

Underpinning this is our reward strategy, 
which we updated in 2022 to create an 
environment where the best people want to 
work. Our workforce proposition is rooted in 
our purpose and values, and the principles of 
rewarding colleagues responsibly, recognising 
colleagues’ success and supporting our 
colleagues to grow. 

Rewarding colleagues responsibly 
We believe in rewarding our colleagues 
responsibly, which means ensuring that our 
pay and benefits provide financial security 
for all. Our annual Performance and Reward 
survey measures several factors, including 
how colleagues feel about our reward 
proposition. In 2023, seven key performance 
indicators related to our year-end review 
improved by four or more percentage points, 
including a nine percentage point increase in 
colleagues who feel they are paid fairly for the 
work they do.

As part of our commitment to rewarding 
colleagues responsibly, we went beyond 
compliance in assessing statutory minimum 
wages, to ensure that all colleagues are paid at 
least a living wage.

A living wage should be sufficient to cover an 
adequate standard of living considering the 
cost of goods and services in each country 
and territory in which we operate. In 2023, 
we worked with the Fair Wage Network, 
which provided an independent source of 
wage levels. As a result, HSBC achieved 
accreditation as a global living wage employer 
in 2024. We will continue to review our pay 
levels to ensure that no colleague falls below a 
living wage level.

 For further details of our approach to colleague 
remuneration, see page 290.

Recognising colleagues’ success 
We are committed to recognising the 
achievements of our colleagues’ success. 
Variable pay, which forms part of total 
compensation alongside fixed pay, allows us 
to recognise the performance and behaviours 
of our colleagues.

We have continued to enhance our ‘At Our 
Best’ platform that allows colleagues to 
recognise each other’s contributions, by 
providing mobile access to encourage real-
time acts of appreciation. In 2023, colleagues 
made more than 1.4 million At Our Best 
recognitions, an increase of 13% from 2022.

At the beginning of each year, we ask 
colleagues to set goals with support from 
their line managers to ensure they are aligned 
with the overall Group strategy and business 
priorities. As a result, 87% of colleagues said 
they have a clear understanding of what is 
expected of them throughout the year.

We expect our people managers to hold 
regular performance and development 
conversations to review progress, incorporate 
feedback and discuss well-being. In 2023, 
our Snapshot survey revealed that 81% of 
colleagues said they had regular performance 
conversations with their manager, while 63% 
had them at least once a month, up from 57% 
in 2022. These conversations also provide an 
opportunity for colleagues to regularly revisit 
any goals set to maintain the right level of 
challenge in their day-to-day work. 

At year-end, employees are rated on both 
performance and behaviour. In our Pay and 
Benefits survey, 72% of colleagues said their 
year-end performance assessment fairly 
reflected their performance and 83% agreed 
that rating decisions were determined in an 
unbiased way, regardless of any protected 
characteristics or work patterns. In our 
Snapshot survey, 81% of employees said they 
receive feedback that helps them improve 
their performance, compared with 74% in 
2022, and 81% feel motivated to do the best 
job they can, up from 78% last year.

Managers are encouraged to recognise 
colleagues’ service anniversaries every 
five years up to 40 years of service. This 
also includes the presentation of a special 
commemorative HSBC medallion. The 
At Our Best platform supports the global 
service recognition programme, which in 
2023 helped to celebrate more than 30,000 
service anniversaries. 

Share plans are another way to empower 
colleagues to participate in the Group’s 
success and to have a share in the rewards. 
In 2023, we expanded our global share plan 
to include the Philippines, making it available 
to 91% of colleagues globally. Our 2020 three-
year Sharesave plan, in which 42% of UK 
employees took part, matured in November 
2023. The share price at maturity represented 
more than double the option price, providing 
employees with significant share price growth. 
We ran information webinars, attended by 
more than 11,000 colleagues, and offered 
support resources to help our colleagues 
understand tax considerations and the choices 
available to them at maturity.

Supporting our colleagues to grow
To help our colleagues to grow personally and 
professionally, we are committed to providing 
flexibility and choice around how, when and 
where they work, supporting their well-being, 
and helping them develop skills. The sections 
on the next page detail the ways in which we 
support our colleagues. For further details of 
our approach to skills and career development, 
see page 83. 

Increasing social connection in the office

Since the Covid-19 pandemic and the return of colleagues to the office, we identified the 
need for changes to improve team cohesion and a sense of belonging among our colleagues 
in Hong Kong. To help address, this we created a new type of work and social space at the 
HSBC Centre office in Kowloon, Hong Kong.

‘The Hub’ is a flexible informal space that can be adapted to accommodate a range of 
different group activities and number of people, from large social events to smaller team 
training sessions. It is also designed to be a multi-level and interconnected space, with 
a central social meeting point to enhance the sense of community, improve levels of 
engagement and encourage greater social connection between colleagues.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

81

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Being a great place to work continued 

Social well-being and flexible working
In 2023, we focused on embedding hybrid 
working across the Group and helping 
colleagues strike the right balance of office 
and remote working.

Our colleagues continue to embrace hybrid 
working, with 78% now splitting their time 
between home and the workplace, compared 
with 58% in 2022. To support managers 
and colleagues to continue to find the right 
balance between individual flexibility and 
social connection, we have refreshed our 
training to equip managers with skills to 
lead flexible teams. In 2023, hybrid workers 
spent approximately 47% of their time in the 
workplace, compared with 36% in 2022. 

We know that getting the balance right has a 
positive effect on our colleagues. Colleagues 
who spend around 40% of their time in the 
workplace reported the highest positive 
sentiment across key employee indices, 
including engagement, trust and inclusion.

We track and measure responses from 
our Snapshot survey to ensure our broader 
approach to flexibility works for our customers 
and teams. A total of 81% of colleagues said 
they feel a genuine sense of belonging to their 
team, a two percentage point increase from 
2022. A new question in the survey also found 
that 87% of new joiners feel they receive the 
right level of face-to-face support in order 
to succeed.

In the same survey, 76% of colleagues said 
they are able to integrate their work and 
personal life positively, a slight increase 
compared with 75% in 2022. To help the work-
life balance of our colleagues, in Australia, 
we have introduced 20-weeks paid, gender-
neutral parental leave for when a child joins 
their family. Longer periods of paid parental 
leave have also been introduced in Mexico, 
Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. 

Mental well-being
Supporting the mental health of our 
colleagues remains a top priority. Cost-of-
living pressures and global crises continue 
to increase mental health challenges in 
many countries and territories. Our Snapshot 
survey revealed a slight decrease in mental 
well-being, with 83% of colleagues rating 
their mental health as positive, compared 
with 84% in 2022. However, it also found that 
74% of colleagues feel comfortable talking to 
their manager about their mental health, and 
77% said they know how to access mental 
health support at work. Both increased one 
percentage point compared with 2022. 

We have continued to make the meditation 
app Headspace and counselling services 
available to all colleagues globally. 

More than 200,000 colleagues took part in 
mental health awareness training as part 
of global mandatory training. Our voluntary 
mental health education modules have been 
completed by 31,000 employees, with people 
managers making up 74% of the completions. 
Our network of mindfulness champions, who 
are specially trained colleagues who volunteer 
to run mindfulness sessions, community 
events and courses for the benefit of fellow 
colleagues, has almost 200 members with 
representation in 22 countries and territories. 
In 2023, we held 1,400 mindfulness sessions, 
a 26% increase compared with 2022, and 
these were attended by 25,000 colleagues.

Physical well-being
The Snapshot survey also revealed an increase 
in physical well-being, with 74% of colleagues 
rating their physical health as positive, 
compared with 71% in 2022.

In February 2023, our Pay and Benefits 
survey showed that 69% of colleagues highly 
valued the health benefits we offer, and 34% 
of colleagues wanted more support with 
physical activity and exercise. In response, we 
launched a platform called Virgin Pulse, which 
incentivises colleagues to set and track health 
goals, and to take part in active challenges. 
Since launching globally in November 2023, 
more than 5,700 colleagues have downloaded 
the app and more than 30 activity challenges 
have been run.

We have continued to provide access 
to private medical insurance as well as 
telemedicine healthcare services in the 
majority of our countries and territories, 
covering 98% of permanent employees. In 
certain countries and territories, we also 
provide on-site medical centres that the 
majority of colleagues can access.

Financial well-being
We recognise that financial challenges remain 
a concern for colleagues, caused by increases 
in the cost of living globally. Our Snapshot 
survey revealed a slight increase in financial 
well-being, with 61% of colleagues reporting 
positively, compared with 60% in 2022. Just 
over half (56%) of colleagues said they have 
at least three months of essential outgoings 
saved, the same as in 2022.

In 2023, we ran campaigns in all regions 
to raise awareness of financial education 
and tools, and more than 1,000 colleagues 
attended our seminars on psychology 
and spending habits. We continue to offer 

82

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Prioritising benefits that 
matter most to 
colleagues

For a second year our Pay and Benefits 
survey showed that 59% of colleagues 
feel their benefits meet their needs 
and those of their family ‘well’. To 
improve sentiment, we have focused 
on enhancing benefits in areas that 
colleagues tell us are most important 
including health, saving for the future 
and time off. 

Cancer checks were made available to 
all UK colleagues, as early detection 
can result in higher survival rates. In 
the US, we have enhanced our fertility, 
adoption and surrogacy benefits to 
support colleagues starting a family. We 
also expanded our gender dysphoria 
benefits for LGBTQ+ colleagues in  
the UK.

Carer leave of five paid working days 
has also been introduced in the UAE, 
Egypt, Algeria, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, 
Türkiye, Saudi Arabia and Mexico.

To help employees plan for their 
retirement, we became the first 
international bank to launch a defined 
contribution pension plan in Vietnam. 
We also implemented a new defined 
contribution plan in Guernsey and 
enhanced our retirement savings plan 
in Egypt, to support employees to 
plan for retirement with the benefit of 
employer contributions.

retirement or longer-term savings plans to 
95% of permanent employees, and our life 
insurance cover is available to 99.9% of 
colleagues to help provide financial security 
for their families.

Awards 

CCLA Global 100 Mental Health 
Benchmark 
–  Ranked number 1 global employer for 

the second consecutive year

Social

Developing skills, careers and opportunities 

Learning and skills development 

We have continued to deliver targeted 
skills programmes, including our Vision 
27 programme that aims to ensure we are 
attracting, developing and retaining critical 
technology talent. We have also expanded 
our Accelerating Wealth Programme, which 
prioritises hiring for transferable skills rather 
than experience. For further details of how we 
are achieving our wealth goals in Asia,  
see page 84.

Building skills with Talent Marketplace 
Our people capability teams partner with 
businesses and functions to identify the key 
skills we need now and in the future. We also 
continue to support colleagues to develop 
new skills that achieve their career aspirations.

We have helped colleagues identify 
opportunities to enhance their skills through 
our Talent Marketplace. More than 38,000 
colleagues have created a profile on the 
platform to help identify their existing skills 
and those they would like to develop. In 2023, 
it matched colleagues to a number of projects 
and networking opportunities unlocking over 
123,000 hours of skills development.

Projects centred around Cloud computing, 
data analytics, software development 
and project management have created 
opportunities for colleagues to work on in-
demand skills. 

Training at HSBC 
In 2023, we continued to enable colleagues to 
learn via a range of channels including digital 
and on-the-job learning. This is reflected 
in a reduction in overall learning hours as 
colleagues access different learning channels. 

5.3 million 

Training hours by our colleagues in 2023. 
(2022: 6.3 million)

23.9 hours

Training hours per FTE in 2023. 
(2022: 28.8 hours)

Identifying and retaining 
future talent

The need for talent is greater than ever. 
In 2023, a further 9,000 managers 
completed our compulsory inclusive 
hiring training, promoting cognitive 
awareness of bias. Our targeted talent 
programmes and enterprise-wide 
solutions are designed to support 
employees transitioning to more 
complex roles, and provide wider career 
opportunities and career growth.

Our recruitment programmes are a 
key enabler of achieving our broader 
diversity goals (see page 76). In 2023, 
we welcomed more than 720 graduates 
and 651 interns to the organisation. 
The graduate intake represented 
48 nationalities, over 25 ethnic 
backgrounds, and 51% were women. 
In 2023, we continued to broaden our 
emerging talent programmes beyond 
traditional graduate and internship 
programmes, developing early access 
schemes for those in school and first 
year of university, as well as expanding 
our apprenticeship scheme (see 
page 84).

We continually refresh all our talent 
programmes to ensure they remain 
aligned to HSBC’s strategic priorities. 
Our key programmes include:

 – Accelerating Female Leaders, 
which has been re-designed in 
partnership with Cranfield School 
of Management. This programme 
supports female colleagues with 
learning materials, coaching and 
senior sponsorship to help them 
prepare for leadership roles; and

 – Accelerating into Leadership, which 
aims to improve role mobility and 
retention, and supports colleagues 
identified as having the capacity, 
interest and drive to succeed in more 
complex roles.

We aim to build a dynamic environment 
where our colleagues can develop skills and 
undertake experiences that help them fulfil 
their potential. Our approach helps us meet 
our key strategic priorities and support our 
colleagues to achieve their career goals.

Our learning and skills platforms 
We continue to evolve the opportunities to 
learn and develop at HSBC. We use a range 
of skill development platforms, learning 
courses and resources to help colleagues 
take ownership of their development and 
career, including:

 – HSBC University, our home for learning 
and skills accessed online and through a 
network of training centres, where learning 
is organised through technical academies 
on topics of strategic importance;

 – Degreed, our learning experience platform 

that provides access to internal and 
external learning content and courses, 
where colleagues can share, collaborate 
and learn with individuals and in groups via 
learning pathways;

 – Talent Marketplace, our online platform that 

uses artificial intelligence (‘AI’) to match 
colleagues interested in developing specific 
skills or career goals with opportunities that 
exist throughout our global network; and

 – Careers at HSBC, which enables all 

employees to set alerts and search for 
internal career opportunities.

Our learning fundamentals 
We expect all colleagues, regardless of their 
contract type, to complete global mandatory 
training each year. This training plays a 
critical role in shaping our culture, ensuring 
a focus on the issues that are fundamental 
to our work, such as sustainability, financial 
crime risk and our intolerance of bullying and 
harassment. New joiners attend our Global 
Discovery programme, which is designed to 
build their knowledge of the organisation and 
engage with our purpose, values and strategy. 

As the risks and opportunities our business 
faces change, our global academies adapt 
to offer general and targeted development. 
Our Risk Academy provides learning for 
every employee in traditional areas of risk 
management such as financial crime risk, 
and also offers more specific development 
for those in senior leadership, high-risk roles 
and learning for colleagues on emerging 
issues such as ESG risk, terrorist financing, 
proliferation financing and sanctions. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

83

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Energising our colleagues for growth

We aspire to offer colleagues the opportunity 
to develop their skills while ensuring we build 
a pipeline of talent to support our strategic 
priorities. It is vital that we demonstrate 
the right leadership and create the right 
environment to energise our colleagues 
for growth. 

Skilling the transition to net zero 
The Sustainability Academy was launched in 
2022 to support our net zero ambitions. As 
the academy has evolved we have shifted the 
focus from knowledge building to capability 
building across key colleague groups who are 
supporting customers on their transition to net 
zero. In 2023, we applied four main activities 
to support this effort:

 – supplying on-demand learning modules 
based on role, region and client-base for 
colleagues who support customers with 
core transition activities;

 – creating advanced workshops across 
our global businesses and functions 
to build colleagues’ knowledge and 
develop practical skills to achieve 
business outcomes; 

 – encouraging external certifications and 

qualifications, where required, to deepen 
colleagues’ expertise; and

 – designing a 16-week sustainability 

leadership programme, in partnership 
with Imperial College London, which 
combines education on core sustainability 
concepts with change management, 
purpose and leadership principles. In 
2023, the programme was completed by 
more than 170 senior leaders. Additional 
net zero learning opportunities were also 
provided to the Board and 100 of our most 
senior leaders. 

We need to build strong leadership and 
develop our colleagues’ capabilities to 
navigate the transition to net zero and achieve 
our climate goals. In 2023, we worked with our 
internal experts from the Sustainability Centre 
of Excellence to provide more advanced skills 
training in key transition areas such as energy 
transition, climate technology and financed 
emissions, alongside other core sustainability 
topics such as biodiversity.

In 2023, our technology colleagues completed 
more than 800,000 hours of learning and 
gained over 950 certifications in software 
development, cyber, AI, data processes, Cloud 
computing and app development, among 
others. Our new Principle Engineer and 
Principle Architecture accelerator programmes 
have equipped colleagues with advanced 
technical knowledge and skills, enhancing 
their ability to innovate in their roles.  

Supporting our Asia wealth strategy 
Our ambition is to become the preferred 
international financial partner for clients, and 
the expansion of our wealth management 
services particularly in Asia, sits at the heart of 
this ambition. 

To help achieve this, we have continued to 
expand our Accelerating Wealth Programme, 
which offers a skills-based development plan 
for colleagues who are looking to pursue a 
career as a relationship manager in wealth 
management. The programme enables HSBC 
to develop talent from within and hire talented 
people with different career backgrounds from 
outside the business. In 2023, we extended 
the programme to external applicants in Hong 
Kong and to internal applicants in mainland 
China, India and Singapore. We will continue 
to add new countries and territories in 2024 to 
provide a sustainable hiring channel for front-
line roles.

Technology transformation
We are committed to delivering better 
customer outcomes through digital 
transformation. Our technology transformation 
skills programme aims to ensure we attract, 
develop and retain the skilled talent we need 
to execute our strategy.

Leadership development
We continue to strengthen the training and 
development opportunities we offer our 
leaders at all levels of the Group, to ensure 
they are equipped with the clarity, alignment 
and capability with our goals to drive the 
performance of our organisation. In 2023, 
we significantly increased investment in the 
development of our leadership population. 

For senior leaders, our Executive and 
Managing Director Leadership Programmes 
helped bring our purpose and strategy to 
life through innovative flagship courses, 
masterclasses and strategy briefing sessions. 

We recognise the importance of people 
managers in shaping the experience of our 
colleagues. In 2023, we re-designed our 
People Management Excellence programme 
to better support managers at all levels. The 
face-to-face and virtual training includes 
a focus on the role and expectations of 
managers, how to design and organise 
work, and how to nurture a productive team 
environment. In 2023, over 3,800 colleagues 
attended this programme.

Supporting UK emerging talent

We continue to extend our emerging talent programmes beyond traditional graduate and 
internship schemes to support our socio-economic diversity ambitions (see page 78). In 2023, 
we awarded more than 100 apprenticeships to external and internal applicants. Our degree 
apprenticeship programmes provided an alternative to the traditional university route for 47 
individuals, and we launched a disability apprenticeship programme for our Marketing function. 
We have also offered over 460 structured work placements to secondary school students and 
continued to support the #merkybook financial literacy programme for young people. 

HSBC has funded 30 University of Cambridge scholarships for Black and socially 
disadvantaged students through our Stormzy partnership, and will invest a further £2m 
to achieve 60 scholarships by 2026 to support underrepresented groups. In 2023, Black 
heritage representation in our graduate and summer internship programmes was 10% of job 
applicants and 11% of new hires.

84

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Social

Building customer inclusion and resilience 

Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience

We believe that financial services, when 
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality 
and help more people access opportunities. 
We are playing an active role in opening 
up a world of opportunity for individuals by 
supporting their financial well-being, and 
removing the different barriers that people can 
face in accessing financial services.

Access to products and services
We provide innovative solutions to help 
improve customer access to products and 
services. HSBC UK and HSBC Hong Kong 
provide no-cost accounts for customers 
who do not qualify for a standard account 
or who might need additional support due 
to social or financial vulnerability. In 2023, 
HSBC Egypt ran a campaign that allowed 
new customers to open bank accounts 
with no minimum balance required and no 
account opening fees. In the UK, we continue 
to make our branches more accessible by 
providing ‘safe spaces’ for domestic abuse 
victims, where they can seek specialist 
support and advice. In 2023, we also launched 
a specialist training programme to raise 
awareness among our colleagues of modern 
slavery and human trafficking. This has been 
completed by more than 5,300 UK colleagues. 
In addition, our strategic partnership with 
housing and homelessness charity Shelter 
UK aims to support those in crisis and build 
financial resilience solutions to help prevent 
homelessness in the future.

Making banking accessible
Number of no-cost accounts held for 
customers who do not qualify for a standard 
account or who might need additional 
support due to social or ﬁnancial vulnerability.

2023

2022

2021

718,306

716,957

692,655

Supporting financial knowledge 
and education 
We continue to invest in financial education 
content and features across different 
channels to help customers, colleagues 
and communities be confident users of 
financial services. 

Since 2020, we received over 6.6 million 
unique visitors to our global digital financial 
education content. We continue to help 
customers expand their financial capabilities 
through our personal financial management 
tools. In 2023, HSBC UK launched new 
capabilities on our app enabling customers 
to manage their budgets, see their spending 

insights and view financial fitness content. 
This new tab on the app has attracted over 
4.5 million unique visitors. We also added 
investment pots and goals to help motivate 
customers to save for the future.

In 2022, we launched our ‘Well+’ reward 
programme on the HSBC HK Mobile Banking 
app to help customers improve the health 
of their body, money and mind. Reward 
points are earned by completing a series 
of simple activities, such as building their 
financial knowledge. In 2023, we added new 
capabilities, such as bonus badges, and more 
than 212,000 customers have engaged with 
Well+ in Hong Kong since launch.

To help customers understand complex 
products and make informed decisions, 
HSBC Life UK launched a series of quick 
video guides to explain the key benefits, 
exclusions and underwriting process of critical 
illness cover.

To support Hong Kong customers with special 
educational needs, we launched simple 
step-by-step guides, which were shared with 
our partners, to explain how to access basic 
banking services. 

We also support programmes that help 
expand the financial knowledge of children 
and young people to ensure future resilience. 
HSBC Egypt partnered with Injaz Al-Arab, 
a member of JA Worldwide, to deliver its 
‘building a financially capable generation’ 
programme to students in seven schools 
in Cairo. In Mexico, we created a podcast, 
targeted at developing the financial 
capabilities of young people with each  
episode covering a specific theme, to  
enhance their basic financial knowledge.

We continued to build on our financial literacy 
programmes for young people in the UK, with 
the launch of the first financial capability skills 
module for the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award. 

Creating an inclusive banking experience
We aim to ensure that our banking products 
and services are designed to be accessible for 
customers experiencing either temporary or 
permanent challenging circumstances, such 
as disability, impairment or a major life event.

A simplified version of the HSBC HK Mobile 
Banking app aims to continue to enhance 
digital inclusion for all, including seniors. The 
app is the first of its kind among Hong Kong 
banks and has attracted more than 477,000 
unique users since launch.

We are committed to improving accessibility 
experiences across our digital channels and 
continuously review our browser-based 
websites in 23 markets, and our mobile 
banking services in 18 markets, against the 
WCAG 2.0 AA standards. We also share 
our digital accessibility expertise with 
partners, companies and colleagues. More 
than 10,000 people and 66 companies have 
taken advantage of our specialised training 
programmes. To further share our best 
practice externally, HSBC sponsored and 
hosted AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro event in 
our Group head office in London. Our work 
on digital accessibility was recognised with 
11 awards in 2023.

Support for customers extends beyond our 
digital channels and we recognise that not all 
disabilities are visible or immediately obvious 
to others. We have expanded our commitment 
to the Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard 
Scheme, rolling it out across the UK, Hong 
Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia. The 
lanyard indicates that an individual may need 
a little more help, support or time. HSBC UK is 
also making use of virtual reality tools, such as 
EBOX (Empathy Box), to give colleagues the 
opportunity to experience vulnerability from 
the perspective of the customer. 

In 2023, HSBC UK was awarded the 
UK Construction Industry Council’s 
Inclusive Environments Recognition at 
the Organisational Level certification. This 
recognises the strong organisation and design 
processes HSBC has put in place to support 
accessible and inclusive design.

Supporting women
HSBC UAE and HSBC Singapore have 
collaborated with digital financial education 
provider Sophia, to create a programme 
designed specifically to help female customers 
build their financial knowledge. It covers a 
range of topics, including budgeting, ways to 
invest and investment strategies. 

In Mexico, our Mujeres Al Mundo programme 
continues to support women as customers 
through products, services, education and 
networking. In 2023, we also supported 
female-owned businesses through our $1bn 
Female Entrepreneur Fund, alongside hosting 
bespoke Pitch Day events for a number of 
female entrepreneurs seeking investment.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

85

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Engaging with our communities 

Building a more inclusive and resilient world

We have a long-standing commitment to 
support the communities in which we operate. 
We aim to empower people and communities 
to develop the skills and knowledge needed to 
thrive in the future. 

Through the global reach of our charitable 
partnerships we bring together diverse people, 
ideas and perspectives that help us open up 
opportunities and build a more inclusive world.

Building community and future skills
We work with charity partners to initiate 
programmes that help people and 
communities respond to opportunities and 
challenges as global economies transition 
towards a low-carbon future. In 2023, 
these included:

 – launching a three-year partnership with 

the British Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, 
Indonesia and Vietnam, and extending The 
Prince’s Trust programmes in Australia, 
Canada, India and Malaysia, to help young, 
marginalised people develop the skills they 
need to thrive in the green economy;

 – partnering with the Guangdong Lvya Rural 
Women Development Foundation in China 
to help equip women in remote mountain 
areas with sustainable farming skills; and

 – partnering with the Ghabbour Foundation 
in Egypt to help provide technicians with 
specialist skills training to work in the 
electric vehicle market.

We also work with our charity partners around 
the world to strengthen the resilience of 
disadvantaged communities:

 – In Hong Kong, we announced a three-year 
partnership with Food Angel to increase its 
capacity to provide meals to underprivileged 
elderly groups.

 – In the US, we expanded our workforce 
development programme with Feeding 
America to support communities to 
find meaningful employment, especially 
mothers and Black, Indigenous People of 
Colour women.

 – In the UK, we announced a three-year 

partnership with Shelter to help develop the 
homeless charity’s training, guidance, tools 
and support within local communities to 
help build financial resilience. 

 – In France, we continued our work with 

Article 1 to help young people from deprived 
communities succeed in higher education 
through mentoring programmes. 

 – We supported disaster relief agency 

response to humanitarian needs, including 
those in Israel, Libya, Morocco, the 
Palestinian territories, Türkiye, and the 
Hawaiian island of Maui. 

Community engagement 
and volunteering
We offer paid volunteering days, and 
encourage our people to offer their time, 
skills and knowledge to causes within their 
communities. In 2023, our colleagues gave 
over 181,800 hours to community activities 
during work hours.

Awards 

 – National CSR Fund 2023 UAE – 

Platinum Impact Seal

 – Charitable giving by HSBC in China 

received recognition from the China 
Philanthropy Times

Charitable giving in 2023 (%)

Social, including Future Skills: 26%
Environment, including the Climate 
Solutions Partnership: 37%
Local priorities: 24%
Disaster relief and other giving: 13%

Total cash giving towards  
charitable programmes

$107.3m

Hours volunteered during work time

>181,800

People projected to be reached through 
our Future Skills programme

1.25m

Advancing financing and digital literacy

Over the past five years, HSBC worked with three microfinance networks to advance 
financial and digital literacy of women from unbanked and underbanked communities in 
India. The programme has engaged with more than 550,000 women to build awareness 
and understanding of digital payment platforms, and enhance their ability to access banking 
services, such as savings, credit and insurance, as well as government welfare schemes. By 
the end of 2023, 56,000 women had undertaken loan repayments worth $521,000 via digital 
channels. Insights from the initiative will be shared with financial institutions and the National 
Payment Corporation of India, set up by the banking regulator to oversee retail payments and 
settlement systems in India, to increase unbanked households’ access to financial services 
and products.

86

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Governance

Governance
Acting responsibly

We remain committed to high standards of governance.  
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our  
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.

At a glance

Our relationship
We act on our responsibility to run our 
business in a way that upholds high standards 
of corporate governance. 

Customer experience is at the heart of how 
we operate. It is imperative that we treat 
our customers well, that we listen, and that 
we act to resolve complaints quickly and 
fairly. We measure customer satisfaction 
through net promoter scores across each 
of our global businesses, listen carefully to 

customer feedback so we know where we 
need to improve, and take steps to do this. Our 
customer satisfaction performance improved 
in many markets in which we operate, 
although we still have work to do to improve 
our rank position against competitors.

We are committed to working with our 
regulators to manage the safety of the 
financial system, adhering to the spirit and the 
letter of the rules and regulations governing 
our industry. 

We strive to meet our responsibilities to 
society, including through being transparent 
in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek 
to ensure we respect global standards on 
human rights in our workplace and our supply 
chains, and continually work to improve our 
compliance management capabilities.

 For further details of our corporate  
governance, see our corporate governance 
report on page 238.

In this section

Setting high 
standards of 
governance 

Human rights

Customer 
experience

How ESG is governed

We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue 
to develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and 
stakeholder expectations.

Our respect for  
human rights

We have continued to raise awareness and develop our 
understanding of our salient human rights issues.

Customer satisfaction

While we are ranked in the top three banks against our competitors in 
58% of our key markets across WPB and CMB, we still have work to 
do to improve our rank position against competitors

How we listen

We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and 
manage complaints.

Integrity, conduct 
and fairness

Safeguarding the
financial system

We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce 
its impact on our organisation, customers and communities that  
we serve.

Whistleblowing

Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our 
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.

A responsible  
approach to tax

We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which  
we operate.

Conduct: Our product 
responsibilities

Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on 
the impact we have on our customers and the geographies in which 
we operate.

Our approach with
our suppliers

We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance 
standards and we assess them to identify any financial  
stability concerns.

Safeguarding data

Data privacy

We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold and 
process, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the markets 
in which we operate.

Cybersecurity

We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, 
detect and mitigate cyber threats.

 Page 88

 Page 89

 Page 91

 Page 92

 Page 94

 Page 94

 Page 95

 Page 96

 Page 96

 Page 97

 Page 98

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

87

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Setting high standards of governance  TCFD

How ESG is governed 

The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG 
strategy, overseeing executive management 
in developing the approach, execution and 
associated reporting. Progress against our 
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board 
discussion and review of key topics such 
as updates on customer experience and 
employee sentiment. The Board is regularly 
provided with specific updates on ESG 
matters, including the financed emissions 
sector targets, human rights and employee 
well-being. Board members receive ESG-
related training as part of their induction 
and ongoing development, and seek out 
further opportunities to build their skills and 
experience in this area. For further details of 
Board members’ ESG skills and experience, 
see page 239. For further details of their 
induction and training in 2023, see page 253. 

Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG 
matters, the governance activities are 
managed through a combination of specialist 
governance infrastructure and regular 
meetings and committees, where appropriate. 
These include the Group Disclosure and 
Controls Committee and Group Audit 
Committee, which provide oversight for the 
scope and content of ESG disclosures, and 
the Group People Committee, which provides 
oversight support for the Group’s approach to 
performance management. For some areas, 
such as climate where our approach is more 
advanced, dedicated governance activities 
exist to support the wide range of activities, 
including climate risk management in the 
Environmental Risk Oversight Forum.

The Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRA-
regulated businesses are the senior managers 
responsible for climate financial risks under 
the UK Senior Managers Regime. Climate risks 
are considered in the Group Risk Management 
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, 
with scheduled updates provided, as well as 
detailed reviews of material matters, such as 
climate-related stress testing exercises.

The diagram on the right provides an 
illustration of our ESG governance process, 
including how the Board’s strategy on climate 
is cascaded and implemented throughout 
the organisation. It identifies examples of 
forums that manage both climate-related 
opportunities and risks, along with their 
responsibilities and the responsible chair. 
The structure of the process is similar for 
the escalation of problems, with issues 
either resolved in a given forum or raised 
to the appropriate level of governance with 
appropriate scope and authority.

In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance 
with the establishment of a new Sustainability 
Execution Committee, which focuses on 

defining and measuring the success of our 
climate ambition, and developing commercial 
opportunities that support it through the 
sustainability execution programme. 

We expect that our approach to ESG 
governance is likely to continue to develop, 
in line with our evolving approach to ESG 
matters and stakeholder expectations. 

How HSBC’s climate 
strategy is cascaded

Opportunities

Risks

Board level governance

Group Executive Committee

Group Audit Committee

Group Risk Committee

Management level governance

ESG Committee
Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, 
material commitments and external 
disclosure. Oversees and monitors 
progress against ESG strategy, policies, 
plans, targets, commitments and 
execution processes. Reports to the 
Board of progress on the commitments, 
deliverables and targets under the 
sustainability execution programme.

Co-Chairs: Group Chief Financial Officer, 
and Group Chief Sustainability Officer

Group Risk Management Meeting
Oversees the enterprise-wide 
management of all risks, including 
updates relating to the Group’s climate 
risk proﬁle and risk appetite, top and 
emerging climate risks, and key 
climate initiatives.

Chair: Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer

Supporting governance

Sustainability Execution Committee
Has oversight of environmental strategy, 
including commercial execution and 
operationalisation through the 
sustainability execution programme. 
This included ﬁnanced and facilitated 
emissions targets and commitments, 
implementation and execution of 
transition plans, and delivery of $750bn 
to $1tn sustainable ﬁnance and 
investment by 2030.

Chair: Group Head of Commercial 
Banking, and Group Chief 
Sustainability Officer

Environmental Risk Oversight Forum
Oversees risk activities relating to 
climate and sustainability risk 
management, including the transition 
and physical risks from climate 
change. Equivalent forums have been 
established at a regional level, where 
appropriate.

Chair: Senior adviser, ESG Risk

Regional, global business and global functions

Examples of ESG-related management governance
The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.

Digital Business Services 
Executive Committee
Oversees the global delivery 
of ESG activities within our 
own operations, services 
and technology elements of 
our strategy.

Group Reputational 
Risk Committee
Provides recommendations 
and advice on signiﬁcant 
reputational risk matters 
with impact across 
the Group.

Chair: Group Chief 
Operating Officer

Chair: Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer

Human Rights 
Steering Committee
Oversees the Group’s 
evolving approach to 
human rights and provides 
enhanced governance.

Chair: Group Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer

88

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance

Human rights

Our respect for human rights

As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we 
recognise the role of business in respecting 
human rights. Our approach is guided by 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on 
Responsible Business Conduct.

Our salient human rights issues
We continue to raise awareness and develop 
our understanding of our salient human rights 
issues. These are the human rights at risk of 
the most severe negative impact through our 
business activities and relationships.

An extensive review of our salient human 
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified 
five human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s 
business globally, and five types of activity 
through which such risks might arise. These 
are represented in the adjacent table.

In 2023, building on this assessment, we 
provided practical guidance and training, 
where relevant, to our colleagues across the 
Group on how to identify and manage human 
rights risk.

We are now focusing on translating this into 
risk management enhancements in two key 
areas of activity. These are the services we 
provide to business customers and the goods 
and services we buy from third parties. 

Managing risks to human rights
In 2023, we continued the process of adapting 
our risk management procedures to reflect 
what we learned from our work on salient 
human rights issues and related guidance.

We continued to embed and build on 
the Sustainable Procurement Mandatory 
Procedure, which sets out the minimum 
sustainability requirements for procurement 
activity. This included enhanced procedures 
for human rights risk identification through 
the introduction of a human rights residual 
risk questionnaire for suppliers as part of our 
global onboarding assessment process, and 
human rights supplier audit pilots in our Asia-
Pacific and Latin America regions to assess 
the potential need for further supplier audits in 
the future.

New approaches to identifying and managing 
human rights risk in respect of our business 
customers have also been piloted. These 
included screening for indicators of potential 
negative impacts on people, including media 
monitoring and other relevant third-party data.

Our salient human rights issues
Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.

Inherent human rights risks

Employer

Buyer

HSBC activities

Provider of products and 
services

Personal 
customers

Business 
customers

Investor1 

Right to 
decent 
work

Freedom from  
forced labour

Just and favourable 
conditions of work

Right to health and  
safety at work

Right to equality and freedom  
from discrimination

Right to privacy

Cultural and land rights

Right to dignity and justice

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

1 Investor includes our activities in HSBC Asset Management.

Through our membership of international 
certification schemes such as the Forestry 
Stewardship Council, the Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator 
Principles, we support standards aimed at 
respecting human rights. 

Our sustainability risk policies are reviewed 
periodically to ensure they reflect our priorities.

 For further details, see our sustainability risk 
policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/managing-risk/
sustainability-risk.

Financial crime controls 
The risk of us causing, contributing or being 
linked to adverse human rights impacts is 
also mitigated by our financial crime risk 
framework, which includes our global policies 
and associated controls. 

 For further details of how we fight financial 
crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/ 
fighting-financial-crime.

We continued to develop our in-house 
capability on human rights with the launch 
of further online resources for all staff and 
bespoke human rights training for colleagues 
in key roles, including those managing 
relationships with suppliers, and those  
with responsibility for overseeing risk 
management processes. 

The actions we are taking to address 
these salient human rights issues are 
consistent with our values and will help us 
to meet our commitments on diversity and 
inclusion, and those we have made under 
the UN Global Compact and WEF metrics 
on risk for incidents of child, forced or 
compulsory labour.

 For further details of the actions taken to respect 
the right to decent work, see our 2023 Annual 
Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at 
www.hsbc.com/modernslaveryact.
 For further details of the actions taken to respect 
the right to equality and freedom from 
discrimination, see ’Our approach to diversity 
and inclusion’ on page 76.

Sustainability risk policies
Some of our business customers operate 
in sectors where the risk of adverse human 
rights impact is high. Our sustainability risk 
policies for agricultural commodities, energy, 
forestry, mining and metals consider human 
rights issues such as forced labour, harmful or 
exploitative child labour and land rights. They 
also consider the rights of indigenous peoples 
such as ‘free prior and informed consent’, 
workers’ rights, and the health and safety 
of communities.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

89

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Our respect for human rights continued

Driving change
We continued to participate in industry 
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, 
which is an informal group that seeks to 
promote understanding of the UNGPs within 
the sector, and the UN Global Compact 
Human Rights Working Group.

HSBC has been a member of the Mekong 
Club since 2016. We are a participant of its 
monthly financial services working group, and 
we use its informative typological toolkits, 
infographics, and other multimedia resources 
covering current and emerging issues. Our 
Compliance teams regularly collaborate and 
engage with the Mekong Club in designing 
Group-wide knowledge sharing and 
training sessions.

Investments
Since 2022, HSBC Asset Management has 
published an annual Global Stewardship 
Plan outlining its approach to engagement, 
prioritisation of investee companies, objective-
setting and escalation procedures. The plan 
also highlights its thematic priorities including 
human rights.

HSBC Asset Management recognises 
collaborative engagement as a tool to promote 
change. It participates in investor-led joint 
engagement initiatives where it believes 
these can have a positive influence. It is a 
signatory to the Principles for Responsible 
Investment Advance initiative to promote 
active stewardship on human rights and social 
issues. It has also actively contributed to other 
sector-specific initiatives, including engaging 
with technology firms on digital rights and 
responsible AI, and working with ESG data 
providers to promote higher quality human 
rights data set. 

HSBC Asset Management has also 
incorporated human rights and modern 
slavery considerations into its Global 
Voting Guidelines. This helps to identify 
non-compliance with UN Global Compact 
principles, as well as a company’s 
competency in human rights management 
and disclosures. Where a company falls below 
expectations, HSBC Asset Management may 
vote against the re-election of the board chair 
or relevant board director.

As a signatory to the Net Zero Asset 
Management Initiative, HSBC Asset 
Management is taking steps to reduce the 
carbon exposure of its portfolios and engage 
with issuers on their climate strategies. It 
also recognises the impact that the climate 
transition can have on workers, communities, 
consumers and other stakeholders, and has 
published its perspectives on a just transition.

 For the Global Stewardship Plan, see  
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/
attachments/uk/policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
 For further details of the Net Zero Asset 
Management Initiative, see www.
assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/institutional-
investor/about-us/road-to-net-zero/a-transition- 
for-everyone.

Supporting those impacted and those 
potentially at risk
We continued to expand our Survivor Bank 
programme, which has now supported over 
3,000 survivors of modern slavery and human 
trafficking in the UK, and is a model for 
making financial services more accessible to 
vulnerable communities worldwide. 

We built on this experience in developing 
access to banking services for customers 
with no fixed abode in the UK and in Hong 
Kong, providing over 5,700 accounts under 
these programmes.

 For further details of our work to support 
vulnerable communities, see page 86.

Effectiveness
The table below includes some indicative 
metrics we use to measure year-on-year 
continual improvement to our human 
rights processes. 

 For further diversity and inclusion metrics, see 
page 76 in this ESG review, as well as Section 4 
of the 2023 Annual Statement under the UK 
Modern Slavery Act, which is available at www.
hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/modern-slavery-act.

Monitoring effectiveness

Metric

Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of 
conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 
Global Procurement function 

Employees who have received training on human rights

Votes by HSBC Asset Management against management for reasons 
including human rights1 

2023

2022

95% 

93%

8,176

213

520

87

1  The figure represents the number of resolutions at investee company shareholder meetings (including 

AGMs) where votes were cast against management for reasons related to human rights.

Working for a just transition 

Just Energy Transition Partnerships are becoming increasingly popular bringing key stakeholders 
together to enable a clean, fair energy transition in emerging economies that rely heavily on coal. 
Essentially, they are multilateral financial agreements aimed at accelerating the phase-out of fossil 
fuels, in a way that addresses the social consequences of doing so. 

  For further details on HSBC’s role in Just Energy Transition Partnerships with Indonesia and Vietnam, see 
www.hsbc.com/news-and-views/views/hsbc-views/jetps-powering-a-faster-energy-transition.
  Read more on Just Energy Transition Partnerships on page 68 of this ESG Review. 

90

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Governance

Customer experience

We remain committed to improving 
customers’ experiences. In 2023, we gathered 
feedback from over one million customers 
across our three global businesses to help us 
understand our strengths and the areas we 
need to focus on. We were ranked among 
the top three banks against our competitors 
in 58% of our six key markets across WPB 
and CMB1. This was lower than in 2022 when 
we were ranked among the top three banks 
against our competitors in 66% of our key 
markets. 

Customer satisfaction

Listening to drive improvement
We have continued to embed our feedback 
system so we can better listen, learn and 
act on our customers’ feedback. We use 
the net promoter score (‘NPS’) to provide a 
consistent measure of our performance. NPS 
is measured by subtracting the percentage 
of ‘detractors’ from the percentage of 
‘promoters’. ‘Detractors’ are customers who 
provide a score of 0 to 6, and ‘promoters’ are 
customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to 
the question: ‘On a scale on 0 to 10, how likely 
is it that you would recommend HSBC to a 
friend or colleague’. 

We run studies that allow us to benchmark 
ourselves against other banks. We try to make 
it as easy as possible for customers to give us 
feedback, accelerating our use of digital real-
time surveys to capture insight. By sharing this 
and other feedback with our front-line teams, 
and allowing them to respond directly to 
customers, we are improving how we address 
issues and realise opportunities. 

In 2023, we launched the CMB Customer 
Impact Forum, a dedicated global forum 
set up to provide oversight of our business 
and corporate customers’ experiences and 
promote continuous improvement. This, 
alongside our WPB ‘Customer in the room’ 
programme launched in 2022, helps ensure 
we use feedback in all aspects of how we 
run our business and prioritise initiatives that 
matter most to our customers. 

How we fared
In WPB, our NPS increased in four of our 
six key markets, which were Hong Kong, 
Mexico, India and Singapore. Our NPS in 
the UK declined slightly, largely among our 
mass affluent customers. In Hong Kong, we 
remained first overall against our competitors, 
driven by our mass affluent customers. 
In India we ranked in first place, driven by 
increased digitalisation. We introduced digital 
self-service solutions for updating customer 
details and downloading key documents, 
and digitised our onboarding process. We 
were also a top three bank in mainland China, 
based on 2022 data (see footnote 3 in the 
adjacent table).

In our private bank, our global NPS increased 
to 42 points, compared with 25 points in 2022. 
This was largely due to increased customer 
satisfaction in Asia, with improved scores in 
Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and mainland 
China. This was driven by relationship 
manager engagement and enhancements to 
our digital services.

In CMB, we were ranked among the top three 
banks against our competitors in four of our 
six key markets. We ranked first in Hong Kong 
and as a top three bank in mainland China, 
Singapore and Mexico. In India and the UK, 
we were ranked outside the top three. Our 
NPS rank improved in the UK, driven by our 
business banking customers and our top three 
ranking among UK corporate customers. Our 
NPS declined slightly among our mid-market 
enterprise customers.

In GBM, we had one of the highest NPS 
scores in the market against our competitors, 
including the quality of our digital trade 
finance platforms and for satisfaction with our 
digital capabilities.

Number of markets in top three 
or improving rank1,2

WPB3

CMB

2023

3 out of 6

5 out of 6

1  The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong, 
Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore. 
Rank positions are provided using data gathered 
through third-party research agencies.
2  We benchmark our NPS against our key 

competitors to create a rank position in each 
market. This table is based is on the number of 
markets where we are in the top three or have 
improved rank from the previous year.

3  Our WPB NPS ranking in mainland China is based 
on 2022 results. Due to data integrity challenges, 
we are unable to produce a 2023 ranking. The next 
mainland China results will be in 2024.

Acting on feedback 

We have continued to focus on developing 
our products and services, and enhancing 
our digital capabilities to improve 
customer experience. 

In WPB, we redesigned our international 
products and services to make it quicker 
and easier to bank internationally. This 
involved the launch of six products and 
services across 10 international markets. 
International customers can open an 
international account digitally pre-departure, 
gain access to a credit card in their new 
market, and make use of cross-border 
payment solutions with 24/7 global support 
to manage their international needs.

In CMB, we introduced a new credit 
application system, the Digital Credit Portal, in 
15 markets. It uses internal and external data 
combined with automation to streamline 
credit journeys. In Hong Kong, the portal 
also integrates with a credit decision engine 
to automate credit decisions for qualifying 
customers, reducing the assessment time 
on loan approvals from days to as little 
as a few minutes. Our digital onboarding 
tool, SmartServe, has been implemented 
in 21 markets to support international 
and domestic account opening. We have 
onboarded 89% of eligible customers 
through the digital platform, with 72% of 
customers rating this experience as ‘easy’.

In GBM, we continued to execute our 
strategy and refine the client coverage 
model. In 2023, we accelerated our 
‘originate-to-distribute’ model, providing 
clients with an effective capital efficiency 
strategy. We have refinanced our in-country 
and cross-border coverage model in 
mainland China and refreshed our growth 
plans in India based on client feedback. We 
also launched growth initiatives against 
our Asia-MENAT corridor to better service 
our clients.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

91

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

How we listen

To improve how we serve our customers, we 
must be open to feedback and acknowledge 
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt 
at pace to provide support for customers 
facing new challenges, new ways of working 
and those that require enhanced care needs.

We aim to be open and consistent in how 
we track, record and manage complaints, 
although as we serve a wide range of 
customers – from personal banking and 
wealth customers to large corporates, 
institutions and governments – we tailor our 
approach in each of our global businesses. As 
the table on the right demonstrates, we have 
a consistent set of principles that enable us 
to remain customer-focused throughout the 
complaints process. 

 For further details of complaints volumes  
by geography, see our ESG Data Pack at  
www.hsbc.com/esg.

How we handle complaints

Our principles

Our actions

Making it easy 
for customers  
to complain

Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them. 
We provide a point of contact along with clear information on next 
steps and timescales. 

Acknowledging 
complaints

All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise 
empathy to acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are 
escalated if they cannot be resolved at first point of contact. 

Keeping the 
customer up  
to date

Ensuring fair 
resolution

We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout 
the complaint resolution process through their preferred channel.

We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and 
ensure the right outcome for our customers. 

Providing 
available rights

We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal 
process if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint. 

Undertaking root 
cause analysis

Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and 
address any systemic issues and to inform process improvements. 

Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’)

In 2023, we received approximately 1.2 million 
complaints from customers. The ratio of 
complaints per 1,000 customers per month 
in our large markets remained stable at 
around 2.3.

In the UK, complaints fell 19%. In 2023, we 
applied the new UK Consumer Duty rules 
to our complaint handling processes and 
invested in root cause analysis to ensure good 
outcomes and avoid instances of foreseeable 
harm. We will continue to focus on enhancing 
our processes and on training complaint 
handlers to improve the customer experience 
and reduce our complaint volumes further.

The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was 
primarily driven by improvements in our digital 
capabilities to make it easier for customers to 
connect with us. Regular reviews, analysis of 
customer feedback and greater collaboration 
across business lines to address emerging 
customer pain points also contributed to the 
fall in complaints.

In response to an increase in credit and debit 
card fraud attacks in Mexico during the first 
quarter of 2023, we focused on strengthening 
our monitoring and fraud detection capabilities 
to help protect our customers. In October, 
we also released the new Visa Account 
Attack Intelligence tool to mitigate foreign 
e-commerce attacks on customer debit cards. 
As a result of these efforts, average monthly 
complaints in Mexico for the last nine months 
of the year decreased by 20.5% compared 
with the first quarter.

In our private bank, we received 507 
complaints, an increase of 176 compared with 
2022. This was largely due to growth in our 
customer base since establishing new private 
banking operations in the UAE and Mexico, 
along with an increase in complaints in the 
US. This led to an increase in administration 
and service issues, a high proportion of 
which were attributable to delays and errors 
in processing client instructions. Overall, 
the private bank resolved 465 complaints. 
Complaint data for the new private banking 
operation in India was reported within the 
WPB figures, pending system development to 
separately report the complaint figures.

WPB complaint volumes1
(per 1,000 customers per month)

Total2

UK3

Hong Kong3

Mexico3

2023

2022

2.3

2.3

1.1

1.4

0.9

1.0

5.2

5.1

1  A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction 
about WPB’s activities, products or services 
where a response or resolution is explicitly or 
implicitly expected.

2  Markets included: Hong Kong, mainland China, 

France, the UK, UAE, Mexico, Canada and the US. 

3  The UK, Mexico and Hong Kong make up 86% of 

total complaints.

Acting on feedback 

In 2023, we continued to develop and embed tools and capabilities across our business to deliver improved experiences for our customers 
around the world. Through our measurement of customer experience, we identify opportunities for improvement, develop agile customer 
experience plans and track and measure our progress. As a result of standardising our approach to customer experience globally, we have 
strengthened our capability to listen, understand and act on what our customers are telling us on a regular basis.

92

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Governance

How we listen continued
Commercial Banking (‘CMB’)

In 2023, we received 45,899 customer and 
client complaints, a decrease of 27% from 
2022. Of the overall volumes, 33,777 came 
from HSBC UK and 7,354 from Asia-Pacific. 

The most common complaint related to 
servicing and transactions, with the largest 
volume of complaints globally coming 
from business banking customers, which 
represented 87% of our total complaints.

We attribute the overall decrease in our 
complaint volumes to enhanced training of 
our front-line colleagues to ensure they can 
identify the differences between a complaint, 
query and feedback. We also focused on 
addressing the root causes of the complaint 
trends, as well on improvements to our 
systems, processes and advice to our clients.

We resolved 47,812 complaints globally 
in 2023. The average resolution time for 
complaints was 24 days, which was just above 
our global target of 20 days.

CMB complaint volumes1
(000s)

Total

UK

2023

2022

46

63

33.8

49.2

Hong Kong

6.5

8.1

Acting on feedback 

In 2023, we focused on improvements to our governance of complaints, creating regular forums in key markets to ensure that analysis of the 
root cause of issues and trends are prioritised to enhance our understanding of pain points for our customers. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, 
there has been increased efforts Group-wide to identify customers who are more exposed to harm or declare as vulnerable. In 2023, we 
focused on identifying these complaint types to ensure that we can offer adjustments and support within our processes. This new process helps 
to improve our understanding and support of clients at risk of financial or non-financial harm to ensure our banking services are accessible to all.

Global Banking and Markets (‘GBM’)

In 2023, we received 1,552 customer 
complaints in Global Banking, a decrease 
of 27% from 2022. Of the overall complaint 
volumes, 49% came from Europe and 23% 
came from the Middle East, North Africa and 
Türkiye. The most common complaint, at 38% 
of total complaints, related to servicing, which 
was in line with previous years.

In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’) 
complaints increased by 21% to 354. 
We attribute some of the increase to 
improvements in our data reporting processes 
globally. The majority of complaints were 
operational in nature and resolved in a timely 
manner. Of the overall MSS complaints, 47% 
came from Europe and 34% from Asia, our 
two largest markets. 

GBM complaint volumes1

Total

2023

2022

1,906 2,419

Global Banking2

1,552 2,127

Global Markets and 
Securities Services3

354

292

Acting on feedback 

We have continued to invest in our client feedback tool to create a more consistent and streamlined experience for colleagues across GBM 
and our wholesale businesses globally. In 2023, we introduced additional automation to improve the process of logging complaints, and 
simplified our procedures to make it easier for front-line colleagues to record feedback. We have also introduced mandatory training around 
conduct and complaints to ensure our people are acting on the feedback they receive and are consistent in how they evaluate queries 
and complaints. 

1  Globally, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service or 

service activity. Within the UK, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction – whether justified or not – about our products, services or activities which suggests 
we have caused (or might cause) financial loss, or material distress or material inconvenience.

2  Global Banking also includes Global Payments Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity and Cash Management) and complaints relating to payment 

operations, which is part of Digital Business Services.

3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

93

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Integrity, conduct and fairness

Safeguarding the financial system

We have continued our efforts to combat 
financial crime and reduce its impact on our 
organisation, customers and the communities 
that we serve. Financial crime includes 
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, 
sanctions and export control violations, 
money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing. 

We manage financial crime risk because it is 
the right thing to do to protect our customers, 
shareholders, staff, the communities in which 
we operate, as well as the integrity of the 
financial system on which we all rely. We have 
a financial crime risk management framework 
that is applicable across all global businesses 
and functions, and in all countries and 
territories in which we operate. The financial 
crime risk framework, which is overseen by 
the Board, is supported by our financial crime 
policy that is designed to enable adherence 
to applicable laws and regulations globally. 
Annual global mandatory training is provided 
to all colleagues, with additional targeted 
training tailored to certain individuals. 
We carry out regular risk assessments 
to identify where we need to respond to 
evolving financial crime threats, as well as 
to monitor and test our financial crime risk 
management programme.

We continue to invest in new technology, 
including through the deployment of a 
capability to monitor correspondent banking 
activity. We are also enhancing our fraud 

Whistleblowing

We want colleagues and stakeholders to 
have confidence in speaking up when they 
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We 
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to 
the concerns of individuals and have a zero 
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. 

Listening through  
whistleblowing channels
Our global whistleblowing channel, 
HSBC Confidential, is one of our speak-up 
channels, which allows colleagues and other 
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially 
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to 
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC 
Confidential concerns are raised through an 
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines 
and a web portal in multiple languages. We 
also provide and monitor an external email 
address for concerns about accounting, 
internal financial controls or auditing matters 
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). 
Concerns are investigated proportionately 
and independently, with action taken where 
appropriate. This can include disciplinary 
action, such as dismissal and adjustments 

monitoring capability and our trade screening 
controls, and investing in the application of 
machine learning to improve the accuracy and 
timeliness of our detection capabilities. 

These new technologies should enhance our 
ability to respond effectively to unusual activity 
and be more granular in our risk assessments. 
This helps us to protect our customers, the 
organisation and the integrity of the global 
financial system against financial crime.

Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
Our global financial crime policy requires 
that all activity must be: conducted without 
intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and 
transparent; considered to not be lavish 
nor disproportionate to the professional 
relationship; appropriately documented 
with business rationale; and authorised at 
an appropriate level of seniority. There were 
no concluded legal cases regarding bribery 
or corruption brought against HSBC or its 
employees in 2023. Our global financial crime 
policy requires that we identify and mitigate 
the risk of our customers and third parties 
committing bribery or corruption. Among 
other controls, we use customer due diligence 
and transaction monitoring to identify and 
help mitigate the risk that our customers are 
involved in bribery or corruption. We perform 
anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments 
on third parties that expose us to this risk.

The scale of our work

Each month, on average, we monitor 
over 1.35 billion transactions for signs 
of financial crime. In 2023, we filed over 
96,000 suspicious activity reports to law 
enforcement and regulatory authorities 
where we identified potential financial 
crime. We perform daily screening 
of 125 million customer records for 
sanctions exposure. In 2022, we 
reported screened customer records as 
a monthly average, although screening 
was, and continues to be, performed on 
a daily basis.

98% 

Total percentage of permanent and non-
permanent employees who received financial 
crime training, including on anti-bribery and 
corruption.

to variable pay and performance ratings, or 
operational actions including changes to 
policies and procedures.

We actively promote our full range of speak-
up channels to colleagues to help ensure 
their concerns are handled through the most 
effective route. In 2023, 4% fewer concerns 
were raised through HSBC Confidential 
compared with 2022. Of the concerns 
investigated through the HSBC Confidential 
channel in 2023, 81% related to individual 
behaviour and personal conduct, 14% to 
security and fraud risks, 4% to compliance 
risks and less than 1% to other categories.

The Group Audit Committee has oversight of 
the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, 
and the Chair of the Group Audit Committee 
acts as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion 
with responsibility for ensuring and overseeing 
the integrity, independence and effectiveness 
of the Group’s policies and procedures. 

Regulatory Compliance sets the 
whistleblowing policy and procedures, and 

provides the Group Audit Committee with 
periodic updates on their effectiveness. 
Specialist teams and investigation functions 
own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring 
in place to determine control effectiveness. 

 For further details of the role of the Group Audit 
Committee in relation to whistleblowing, see 
page 270.

HSBC Confidential concerns raised  
in 2023: 

1,746

(2022: 1,817)

Substantiation rate of concerns 
investigated through HSBC  
Confidential in 2023:

41%

(2022: 41%)

94

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Governance

A responsible approach to tax 

 – We seek to ensure that our entities 

 – We implement processes that aim to 

active in nil or low tax jurisdictions have 
clear business rationale for why they are 
based in these locations and appropriate 
transparency over their activities.

 – We seek to have open and transparent 

relationships with all tax authorities. Given 
the size and complexity of our organisation, 
which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, 
a number of areas of differing interpretation 
or disputes with tax authorities exist at 
any point in time. We cooperate with the 
relevant local tax authorities to mutually 
agree and resolve these in a timely manner.

With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are 
guided by the following principles:

 – We have made considerable investments 

to support external tax transparency 
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking 
services being used to facilitate customer 
tax evasion. Initiatives include the US 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the 
OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of 
Financial Account Information (‘Common 
Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation 
on the corporate criminal offence of failing 
to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.

ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated 
products and services are not provided to 
our customers.

Our tax contributions
The effective tax rate for the year of 19.1% 
was higher than in the previous year (2022: 
4.7%). The effective tax rate for the year was 
increased by 2.3% from the non-taxable 
impairment of the Group’s interest in BoCom, 
and reduced by 1.6% by the release of 
provisions for uncertain tax positions and by 
1.5% by the non-taxable provisional gain on 
the acquisition of SVB UK. Further details are 
provided on page 369. 

The UK bank levy charge for 2023 of $339m 
was higher than the charge of $13m in 2022, 
mainly due to adjustments arising upon filing 
prior year returns, which represented a credit 
in 2022 and a charge in 2023.

As highlighted below, in addition to paying 
$6.8bn of our own tax liabilities during 2023, 
we collected taxes of $10.8bn on behalf 
of governments around the world. A more 
detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes 
paid in 2023 is provided in the ESG Data Pack. 

We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all 
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to 
minimise the likelihood of customers using 
our products and services to evade or 
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide 
by international protocols that affect our 
organisation. Our approach to tax and 
governance processes is designed to achieve 
these goals. 

Through adoption of the Group’s risk 
management framework, we seek to ensure 
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax-
motivated transactions or products, and that 
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by 
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no 
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. 

With respect to our own taxes, we are guided 
by the following principles:

 – We are committed to applying both the 
letter and spirit of the law. This includes 
adherence to a variety of measures arising 
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit 
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ 
global minimum tax rules which will apply 
to the Group from 2024. These rules seek 
to ensure that the Group pays tax at a 
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction 
in which it operates. We have identified 12 
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax 
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually 
monitor the number of active subsidiaries 
within each jurisdiction as part of our 
ongoing entity rationalisation programme. 

Taxes paid – by type of tax

Taxes paid – by region

Taxes collected – by region

Tax on proﬁts $3,685m (2022: $2,429m)
Withholding taxes $432m (2022: $361m)
Employer taxes $1,052m (2022: $1,041m)
Bank levy $57m (2022: $314m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,298m (2022: $1,152m)
Other duties and levies $249m1 (2022: $232m)

Europe $2,945m (2022: $2,745m)
Asia-Paciﬁc $2,488m (2022: $1,894m)
Middle East, North Africa 
and Türkiye $296m (2022: $259m)
North America $389m (2022: $207m)
Latin America $655m (2022: $424m)

Europe $4,714m (2022: $4,197m)
Asia-Paciﬁc $3,226m (2022: $3,274m)
Middle East, North Africa 
and Türkiye $77m (2022: $67m)
North America $1,119m (2022: $1,129m)
Latin America $1,680m (2022: $1,493m)

1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $91m (2022: $94m)

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

95

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Conduct: Our product responsibilities

Our conduct approach guides us to do the 
right thing and to focus on the impact we have 
for our customers and the financial markets 
in which we operate. It is embedded into the 
way we design, approve, market and manage 
products and services, with a focus on five 
clear outcomes:

 – We understand our customers’ needs.

 – We provide products and services that offer 

a fair exchange of value.

 – We service customers’ ongoing needs and 

put it right if we make a mistake.

 – We act with integrity in the financial markets 

we operate in.

 – We operate resiliently and securely to avoid 

harm to customers and markets.

We train all our colleagues on our approach 
to customer and market conduct, helping 
to ensure our conduct outcomes are part of 
everything we do.

Designing products and services 
Our approach to product development is set 
out in our policies and provides a clear basis 
on which informed decisions can be made. 
Our policies require that products must be 
fit-for-purpose throughout their existence, 
meeting regulatory requirements and 
associated conduct outcomes. 

Our approach includes:

 – designing products to meet identified 

customer needs;

 – managing products through governance 
processes, helping to ensure they meet 
customers’ needs and deliver a fair 
exchange of value;

 – periodically reviewing products to help 

ensure they remain relevant and perform in 
line with expectations we have set; and

 – improving, or withdrawing from sale, 

products which do not meet our customers’ 
needs or no longer meet our high standards.

Meeting our customers’ needs 
Our policies and procedures set standards to 
ensure that we consider and meet customer 
needs. These include: 

 – enabling customers to understand the key 

features of products and services;

 – enabling customers to make informed 

decisions before purchasing a product or 
service; and

 – ensuring processes are in place for the 

provision of advice to customers. 

They help us provide the right outcomes for 
customers, including those with enhanced 
care needs. This helps us to support 
customers who are more vulnerable to 
external impacts, including the current cost of 
living crisis (see ‘Supporting our customers in 
challenging economic times’ on page 15).

Our approach with our suppliers

We maintain global standards and procedures 
for the onboarding and use of third-party 
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our 
third-party risk compliance standards and 
we assess them to identify any financial 
stability concerns. 

Sustainable procurement 
Supporting and engaging with our supply 
chain is vital to the development of our 
sustainable procurement processes. In 2023: 

 – We published net zero guides to help 
buyers and suppliers understand our 
net zero ambitions. The guides explain 
our carbon reduction requirements and 
provide practical advice for meeting these 
ambitions, as laid out in our supplier code  
of conduct.

 – We began developing decarbonisation 
plans for high-emitting procurement 
categories, including real estate services, 
telecommunications, data centres 

and servers, and computer hardware. 
Engagement with suppliers has given 
us a better understanding of their 
decarbonisation efforts and the challenges 
and opportunities of achieving net zero in 
these categories. As a result, strategies for 
these procurement categories will include 
decarbonisation plans from 2024 onwards.

 – We completed analysis to understand the 
impacts and dependencies of our supply 
chain on biodiversity. The analysis will 
inform the development of a biodiversity 
strategy for global procurement in 2024, to 
reduce supply chain biodiversity impacts. 

 – We launched the supplier diversity portal in 

the UK and US. The portal enables small and 
medium-sized enterprises or businesses, 
which are majority-owned, operated and 
controlled by historically underrepresented 
groups, to register interest in becoming 
an HSBC supplier. For further details, see 
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/working-with-suppliers. 

96

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial promotion
Our policies help to ensure that in the sale 
of products and services, we use marketing 
and product materials that support customer 
understanding and fair customer outcomes. 
This includes providing information on 
products and services that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. We also have controls in place to 
ensure our cross-border marketing complies 
with relevant regulatory requirements.

Product governance 
Our product management policy covers 
the entire lifecycle of the product. This 
helps ensure that our products meet our 
requirements before we sell them and 
allows continued risk-based oversight 
of product performance against the 
intended customer outcomes.

When we decide to withdraw a product 
from sale, we aim to consider the 
implications for our existing customers 
and agree actions to help them achieve a 
fair outcome where appropriate.

Supplier code of conduct 
Our supplier code of conduct sets out our 
ambitions, targets and commitments on the 
environment, diversity and human rights, 
and outlines the minimum standards we 
expect of our suppliers on these issues. We 
seek to formalise adherence to the code 
with clauses in our supplier contracts, which 
support the right to audit and act if a breach 
is discovered. At the end of 2023, 95% of 
approximately 10,400 contracted suppliers 
had either confirmed adherence to the 
supplier code of conduct or provided their own 
alternative that was accepted by our Global 
Procurement function. 

 For further details of the number of suppliers in 
each geographical region, see the ESG Data 
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.

Governance

Safeguarding data

Data privacy

We are committed to protecting and 
respecting the data we hold and process, in 
accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the markets in which we operate.

Our approach rests on having the right talent, 
technology, systems, controls, policies and 
processes to ensure appropriate management 
of privacy risk. Our Group-wide privacy policy 
and principles provide a consistent global 
approach to managing data privacy risk, and 
must be applied by all our global businesses 
and functions. Our privacy principles are 
available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/managing-risk/
operational-risk.

We conduct regular employee training 
and awareness sessions on data privacy 
and security issues throughout the year. 
This includes mandatory training for all our 
colleagues globally, with additional training 
sessions, where needed, to keep up to date 
with new developments in this space.

We provide transparency to our customers 
and stakeholders on how we collect, use 
and manage their personal data, and their 
associated rights. Where relevant, we work 
with third parties to help ensure adequate 
protections are provided, in line with our 
data privacy policy and as required under 
data privacy law. We offer a broad range of 
channels in the markets where we operate, 
through which customers and stakeholders 
can raise concerns about the privacy of 
their data.

Our dedicated privacy teams report to the 
highest level of management on data privacy 
risks and issues, and oversee our global data 
privacy programmes. We review data privacy 
regularly at multiple governance forums, 
including at Board level, to help ensure 
appropriate challenge and visibility for senior 
executives. Data privacy laws and regulations 
continue to evolve globally. We continually 
monitor the regulatory environment to ensure 
we respond appropriately to any changes. 

As part of our three lines of defence model, 
our Global Internal Audit function provides 
independent assurance as to whether our 
data privacy risk management approaches 
and processes are designed and operating 
effectively. In addition, we have established 
data privacy governance structures, and 
continue to embed accountability across all 
businesses and functions.

We continue to implement industry 
practices for data privacy and security. Our 
privacy teams work closely with our data 
protection officers, industry bodies and 
research institutions to drive the design, 
implementation and monitoring of privacy 
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and 
privacy risk assessments, and continue to 
develop solutions to strengthen our data 
privacy controls.

We continue to enhance our internal data 
privacy tools to improve accountability for 
data privacy. We have procedures to articulate 
the actions needed to deal with data privacy 
considerations. These include notifying 
regulators, customers or other data subjects, 
as required under applicable privacy laws 
and regulations, in the event of a reportable 
incident occurring.

Intellectual property rights practices
We have a group intellectual property risk 
policy, supported by controls and guidance, to 
manage risk relating to intellectual property. 
This is to help ensure that commercially and 
strategically valuable intellectual property 
is identified and protected appropriately, 
including by applying to register trademarks 
and patents and enforcing our intellectual 
property rights against unauthorised use 
by third parties. Our intellectual property 
framework also helps us avoid infringement 
of third-party intellectual property rights, 
supporting our consistent and effective 
management of intellectual property risk in 
line with our risk appetite.

Data Privacy Day 

In January 2023, we held a hybrid 
roundtable event for our colleagues to 
mark International Data Privacy Day. 
The event was hosted by our Global 
Head of Data Legal, and guest speakers 
included the former UK Information 
Commissioner and industry specialists 
from an external law firm, with HSBC’s 
own data privacy experts in attendance. 

The event covered privacy-related 
developments likely to have the greatest 
impact across the Group. Key themes 
included upcoming data privacy 
reforms in the UK and the implications 
for global organisations, and trends 
in enforcement of data privacy laws 
and regulations. We also reviewed the 
impact, successes and challenges of 
General Data Protection Regulation 
(‘GDPR’) implementation globally.

The ethical use of data and AI 

Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process and 
analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies offer 
significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for the 
financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help ensure 
we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical 
Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/our-conduct. 

We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into 
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

97

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Cybersecurity

The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern 
for our organisation, as it does across the 
financial sector and other industries. As 
cyber-attacks continue to evolve, failure to 
protect our operations may result in the loss 
of sensitive data, disruption for our customers 
and our business, or financial loss. This could 
have a negative impact on our customers and 
our reputation, among other risks. 

We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical 
events and changes to the cyber threat 
landscape and take proactive measures  
with the aim to reduce any impact to  
our customers. 

Prevent, detect and mitigate
We invest in business and technical controls 
to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber 
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow 
a ’defence in depth’ approach, making use 
of multiple security layers, recognising the 
complexity of our environment. Our ability 
to detect and respond to attacks through 
round-the-clock security operations centre 
capabilities is intended to help reduce the 
impact of attacks. 

We have a cyber intelligence and threat 
analysis team, which proactively collects 
and analyses internal and external cyber 
information to continuously evaluate threat 
levels for the most prevalent attack types 
and their potential outcomes. We actively 
participate in the broader cyber intelligence 
community, including by sharing technical 
expertise in investigations, alongside others in 
the financial services industry and government 
agencies around the world. 

In 2023, we further strengthened our cyber 
defences and enhanced our cybersecurity 
capabilities with the objective to help reduce 
the likelihood and impact of unauthorised 
access, security vulnerabilities being exploited, 
data leakage, third-party security exposure, 
and advanced malware. These defences build 
upon a proactive data analytical approach to 
help identify advanced targeted threats and 
malicious behaviour.

We work with our third parties, including 
suppliers, financial infrastructure bodies and 
other non-traditional third parties, in an effort 
to help reduce the threat of cyber-attacks 
impacting our business services. 

We have a third-party security risk 
management process in place to assess, 
identify and manage the risks associated with 
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other 
third-party relationships. The process includes 
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews 
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity 
programmes against our standards 
and requirements.

Policy and governance
We have a robust suite of cybersecurity 
policies, procedures and key controls 
designed to help ensure that the organisation 
is well managed, with effective oversight and 
control. This includes but is not limited to 
defined information security responsibilities 
for employees, contractors and third parties, 
as well as standard procedures for cyber 
incident identification, investigation, mitigation 
and reporting.

We operate a three lines of defence model, 
aligned to the enterprise risk management 
framework, to help ensure oversight and 
challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities 
and priorities. In the first line of defence, we 
have risk owners within global businesses and 
functions who are accountable for identifying 
and managing cyber risk. They work with 
cybersecurity control owners to apply the 
appropriate risk treatment in line with our 
risk appetite. Our controls are designed to 
be executed in line with our policies and are 
reviewed and challenged by our risk stewards 
representing the second line of defence. 
They are independently assured by the 
Global Internal Audit function, the third line of 
defence. The assessment and management of 
our cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated 
by a Global Chief Information Security Officer, 
who has extensive experience in financial 
services, security and resilience, as well as 
in strategy, governance, risk management 
and regulatory compliance. The Global Chief 
Information Security Officer is supported by 
regional and business level chief information 
security officers. In the event of incidents, the 
Global Chief Information Security Officer and 
relevant supporting officers are informed by 
our security operations team and are engaged 
in alignment with our cybersecurity incident 
response protocols. 

Key performance indicators, control 
effectiveness and other matters related to 
cybersecurity, including significant cyber 
incidents, are presented on a regular basis 
to various management risk and control 
committees including to the Board, the Group 
Risk Management Meeting and across global 
businesses, functions and regions. This is 
done to ensure ongoing awareness and 
management of our cybersecurity position.

Our cybersecurity capabilities are regularly 
assessed against the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology framework by 
independent third parties, and we proactively 
collaborate with regulators to participate in 
regular testing activities. HSBC also engages 
external independent third parties to support 
our penetration and threat-led penetration 
testing, which help to identify vulnerabilities to 
cyber threats and test security resilience. 

98

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Cyber training and awareness
We understand the important role our people 
play in protecting against cybersecurity 
threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague 
with the appropriate tools and behaviours they 
need to keep our organisation and customers’ 
data safe. We provide cybersecurity training 
and awareness to our people, ranging from 
our top executives to IT developers to front-line 
relationship managers around the world.

Over 94% of our IT developers hold at least 
one of our enhanced security certifications  
to help ensure we build secure systems  
and products.

We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month 
for all colleagues, covering topics such as 
online safety at home, social media safety, 
safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and 
response. Our dedicated cybersecurity training 
and awareness team provides a wide range 
of education and guidance to both customers 
and our colleagues about how to identify and 
prevent online fraud.

Over 99%

Employees completed mandatory 
cybersecurity training on time. 

Over 94%

IT developers hold at least one of our internal 
secure developer certifications. 

Over 90

Cybersecurity education events were 
held globally. 

Over 96%

Of survey respondents to cybersecurity 
education events said they have a better 
understanding of cybersecurity following 
these events.

Financial  
review

The financial review gives detailed reporting 
of our financial performance at Group level 
as well as across our different global 
businesses and legal entities.

100   Financial summary

111 

 Global businesses and legal entities

130 

 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures

Moving to a dynamic new London HQ

Our global headquarters is to relocate to the heart of the City  
of London, after we signed contracts to move to the new 
Panorama St Paul’s development.

When selecting our future location, we wanted a head office 
that provides flexible, dynamic and inclusive workspaces for 
colleagues and clients. We also wanted the choice of building  
to contribute to our net zero commitments through sustainable 
design, with the building constructed to high sustainability 
standards, using predominantly repurposed materials.

With our lease at our existing Canary Wharf office expiring in 
early 2027, we expect colleagues to start moving to Panorama 
St Paul’s from late 2026.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

99

Financial summary

Financial summary
Contents

100

100

101

101

102

103

106

107

Changes to presentation from 1 January 2023

Use of alternative performance measures

Critical estimates and judgements

Impact of hyperinflationary accounting

Consolidated income statement 

Income statement commentary 

Supplementary table for planned disposals

Consolidated balance sheet 

Changes to presentation from 
1 January 2023
Changes to our reporting framework

On 1 January 2023, we updated our financial reporting framework. 
We no longer report ‘adjusted’ results, which excluded the impact of 
both foreign currency translation differences and significant items. 
Instead, we compute constant currency performance by adjusting 
comparative reported results only for the effects of foreign currency 
translation differences between the relevant periods. This will enable 
users to understand the impact of foreign currency translation 
differences on the Group’s performance. We separately disclose 
‘notable items‘, which are components of our income statement that 
management would consider as outside the normal course of 
business and generally non-recurring in nature. While our primary 
segmental reporting by global business remains unchanged, effective 
from 1 January 2023, the Group changed the supplementary 
presentation of results from geographical regions to main legal 
entities to better reflect the Group’s structure.
IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’

On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. As 
required by the standard, the Group applied the requirements 
retrospectively with comparative data previously published under 
IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022 
transition date. As required by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements’ a third statement of financial position as at the transition 
date of 1 January 2022 has been disclosed (for further details, see 
page 331). Under IFRS 17 there is no present value of in-force 
business (‘PVIF’) asset recognised up front. Instead the measurement 
of the insurance contract liability takes into account fulfilment cash 
flows and a contractual service margin (‘CSM’) representing the 
unearned profit. In contrast to the Group’s previous IFRS 4 accounting 
where profits are recognised up front, under IFRS 17 they are 
deferred and systematically recognised in revenue as services are 
provided over the expected coverage period. The CSM also includes 
directly attributable costs, which had previously been expensed as 
incurred and which are now incorporated within the insurance liability 
measurement and recognised over the expected coverage period. 

In conjunction with the implementation of IFRS 17, the Group has 
made use of the option to re-designate to fair value through profit or 
loss assets that were previously held at amortised cost totalling 
$55.1bn, and eligible assets previously held at fair value through other 
comprehensive income totalling $1.1bn. The re-designation of 
amortised cost assets generated a net increase to assets of $4.9bn 
because the fair value measurement on transition was higher than the 
previous amortised cost carrying amount. 

The impact of the transition was a reduction of $1.1bn on the Group’s 
full-year 2022 reported revenue and a reduction of $0.5bn on full-year 
2022 reported profit before tax. The Group’s total equity at 1 January 
2022 reduced by $10.5bn to $196.3bn on the transition, and tangible 
equity reduced by $2.4bn to $146.9bn. For further details of our 
adoption of IFRS 17, see Note 38 ‘Effects of adoption of IFRS 17’ on 
page 422.

100

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Cost target

At our full-year 2022 results, we set a target for our ‘adjusted‘ 
operating expenses of growth for 2023 compared with 2022. Under 
our new reporting framework we no longer present ‘adjusted‘ results. 
The exception to this is for operating expenses, where our ‘target 
basis’ will adjust reported results for notable items and the period-on-
period effects of foreign currency translation differences. We also 
exclude the impact of retranslating comparative period financial 
information at the latest rates of foreign exchange in hyperinflationary 
economies, which is not within our control. We consider that this 
measure provides useful information to investors by quantifying and 
excluding the items that management considered when setting and 
assessing cost-related targets. In our target basis, we also exclude 
the costs related to the acquisition of SVB UK and related 
investments internationally, which are expected to add approximately 
1% to our cost growth compared with 2022.

Our 2022 baseline for operating expenses on this basis is $29.8bn, 
which has been retranslated at the average rates of foreign exchange 
for 2023.
Resegmentation

In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess 
which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ 
respective needs, a portfolio of our Global Banking customers within 
our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for 
reporting purposes. Comparative data have been re-presented 
accordingly. Similar smaller transfers from GBM to CMB were also 
undertaken within our entities in Australia and Indonesia, where 
comparative data have not been re-presented.

Banking NII

At our interim 2023 results, we introduced banking net interest 
income. This alternative performance measure is reconciled on 
page 104, and deducts from Group reported net interest income: the 
impact of the cost of funding reported in net interest income used to 
fund trading and fair value net assets; the impact of foreign exchange 
swaps in Markets Treasury, where an offsetting income or loss is 
recorded in trading and fair value income, and third-party net interest 
income from our insurance business. 

This resulting measure is intended to approximate the Group’s 
banking revenue that is directly impacted by changes in interest rates.
Use of alternative performance 
measures
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting Standards’), 
as detailed in the financial statements starting on page 329.

To measure our performance, we supplement our IFRS Accounting 
Standards figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards measures, 
which constitute alternative performance measures under European 
Securities and Markets Authority guidance and non-GAAP financial 
measures defined in and presented in accordance with US Securities 
and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These measures 
include those derived from our reported results that eliminate factors 
that distort year-on-year comparisons. The ‘constant currency 
performance’ measure used throughout this report is described 
below. Definitions and calculations of other alternative performance 
measures are included in our ‘Reconciliation of alternative 
performance measures’ on page 130. In addition, insurance-specific 
non-GAAP measures including ‘Insurance manufacturing value of new 
business‘, ‘Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value‘, and 
‘Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax‘ are provided on pages 116 to 
117, together with their definitions and reconciliation to GAAP 
measures. All alternative performance measures are reconciled to the 
closest reported performance measure.

 
The global business segmental results are presented on a constant 
currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as 
detailed in Note 10 ‘Segmental analysis’ on page 372.
Constant currency performance

Constant currency performance is computed by adjusting reported 
results for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, 
which distort year-on-year comparisons.

We consider constant currency performance to provide useful 
information for investors by aligning internal and external reporting, 
and reflecting how management assesses year-on-year performance.
Notable items

We separately disclose ‘notable items’, which are components of our 
income statement that management would consider as outside the 
normal course of business and generally non-recurring in nature. 

The tables on pages 112 to 113 and pages 123 to 128 detail the 
effects of notable items on each of our global business segments, 
legal entities and selected countries/territories in 2023, 2022 and 
2021.
Foreign currency translation differences

Foreign currency translation differences reflect the movements of the 
US dollar against most major currencies during 2023. 

We exclude them to derive constant currency data, allowing us to 
assess balance sheet and income statement performance on a like-
for-like basis and to better understand the underlying trends in the 
business.

Foreign currency translation differences for 2023 are computed by 
retranslating into US dollars for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates:

– the income statements for 2022 and 2021 at the average rates of 

exchange for 2023; and

– the balance sheets at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 

at the prevailing rates of exchange on 31 December 2023.

No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to 
translate foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities into the 
functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint 
ventures or associates. The constant currency data of HSBC’s 
Argentina subsidiaries have not been adjusted further for the impacts 
of hyperinflation. Since 1 June 2022, Türkiye has been deemed a 
hyperinflationary economy for accounting purposes. HSBC has an 
operating entity in Türkiye and the constant currency data have not 
been adjusted further for the impacts of hyperinflation.

When reference is made to foreign currency translation differences in 
tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional 
currencies of HSBC’s operations have been translated at the 
appropriate exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis 
described above.
Critical estimates and judgements
The results of HSBC reflect the choice of accounting policies, 
assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements. The material accounting policies, 
including the policies which include critical estimates and judgements, 
are described in Note 1.2 on the financial statements. The accounting 
policies listed below are highlighted as they involve a high degree of 
uncertainty and have a material impact on the financial statements:

– Impairment of amortised cost financial assets and financial assets 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(‘FVOCI’): The most significant judgements relate to defining what 
is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk, determining 
the lifetime and point of initial recognition of revolving facilities, 
selecting and calibrating the probability of default (‘PD’), the loss 
given default (‘LGD’) and the exposure at default (‘EAD’) models, 
as well as selecting model inputs and economic forecasts, making 
assumptions and estimates to incorporate relevant information 
about late-breaking and past events, current conditions and 
forecasts of economic conditions, and selecting applicable 

recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired loans. A 
high degree of uncertainty is involved in making estimations using 
assumptions that are highly subjective and very sensitive to the 
risk factors. See Note 1.2(i) on page 348.

– Deferred tax assets: The most significant judgements relate to 
those made in respect of recoverability, which are based on 
expected future profitability. See Note 1.2(l) on page 353.

– Valuation of financial instruments: In determining the fair value of 
financial instruments a variety of valuation techniques are used, 
some of which feature significant unobservable inputs and are 
subject to substantial uncertainty. See Note 1.2(c) on page 345.

– Impairment of investment in subsidiaries: Impairment testing, 

including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant 
judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular 
estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from 
continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of 
management assumptions. See Note 1.2(a) on page 343.

– Impairment of interests in associates: Impairment testing, 

including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant 
judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular 
estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from 
continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of 
management assumptions. The most significant judgements relate 
to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). See Note 1.2(a) on 
page 343.

– Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets: A high degree of 
uncertainty is involved in estimating the future cash flows of the 
cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) and the rates used to discount 
these cash flows. See Note 1.2(a) on page 343 and Note 1.2(n) on 
page 353.

– Provisions: Significant judgement may be required due to the high 
degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a 
present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and 
amount of any outflows that may arise. See Note 1.2(m) on 
page 353.

– Post-employment benefit plans: The calculation of the defined 
benefit pension obligation involves the determination of key 
assumptions including discount rate, inflation rate, pension 
payments and deferred pensions, pay and mortality. See 
Note 1.2(k) on page 352.

– Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale: 

Management judgement is required in determining the likelihood 
of the sale to occur, and the anticipated timing in assessing 
whether the held for sale criteria have been met. See Note 1.2(o) 
on page 354. 

Given the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity 
involved in the recognition or measurement of the items above, it is 
possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from 
the expectations on which management’s estimates are based, 
resulting in the recognition and measurement of materially different 
amounts from those estimated by management in these financial 
statements.
Impact of hyperinflationary 
accounting
We continue to treat Argentina and Türkiye as hyperinflationary 
economies for accounting purposes. The impact of applying IAS 29 
‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’ and the 
hyperinflation provisions of IAS 21 ’The Effects of Changes in Foreign 
Exchange Rates’ in the current period for our operations in both 
Argentina and Türkiye was a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax 
of $1,297m (2022: $548m), comprising a decrease in revenue, 
including loss on net monetary position, of $1,586m (2022: $541m) 
and a decrease in ECL and operating expenses of $289m 
(2022: increase of $7m). The CPI at 31 December for Argentina was 
3,576, with an increase in the year of 2,429.13 (2022: 563.92 
increase). The CPI for Türkiye was 1,859 with an increase in the year 
of 730.89 (2022: 359.94 increase). 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

101

Financial reviewFinancial summary

Consolidated income statement

Summary consolidated income statement

Net interest income 
Net fee income 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related 
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss
Net insurance premium income 
Insurance finance (expense)/income
Insurance service result
Gain on acquisition2
(Impairment)/reversal of impairment relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in 
France3
Other operating (expense)/income4
Total operating income 
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders 
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges5
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Net operating income 
Total operating expenses excluding impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Impairment of interest in associate
Profit before tax 
Tax expense 
Profit for the year 
Attributable to:
–  ordinary shareholders of the parent company
–  preference shareholders of the parent company
–  other equity holders
–  non-controlling interests
Profit for the year

Five-year financial information

Basic earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share
Dividends per ordinary share (paid in the period)6

Dividend payout ratio7
Post-tax return on average total assets
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Return on average tangible equity
Effective tax rate

2023

$m
35,796   
11,845   
16,661   

20221
$m

30,377   
11,770   
10,278   

2021

$m

26,489   
13,097   
7,744   

2020

$m

27,578   
11,874   
9,582   

2019

$m

30,462 
12,023 
10,231 

7,887   

(13,831)   

4,053   

2,081   

3,478 

—   
(7,809)   
1,078   
1,591   

—   
13,799   
809   
—   

10,870   
—   
—   
—   

10,093   
—   
—   
—   

10,636 
— 
— 
— 

150   

(2,316)   

—   

—   

— 

(1,141)   
66,058   
—   

(266)   
50,620   
—   

1,687   
63,940   
(14,388)   

1,866   
63,074   
(12,645)   

4,194 
71,024 
(14,926) 

66,058   

50,620   

49,552   

50,429   

56,098 

(3,447)   
62,611   
(32,355)   
285   
30,541   
2,807   
(3,000)   
30,348   
(5,789)   
24,559   

22,432   
—   
1,101   
1,026   
24,559   

2023

$
1.15   
1.14   
0.53   
%
 50 
 0.8   

 13.6 
 14.6 
 19.1   

(3,584)   
47,036   
(32,554)   
(147)   
14,335   
2,723   
—   
17,058   
(809)   
16,249   

14,346   
—   
1,213   
690   
16,249   

928   
50,480   
(33,887)   
(733)   
15,860   
3,046   
—   
18,906   
(4,213)   
14,693   

12,607   
7   
1,303   
776   
14,693   

(8,817)   
41,612   
(33,044)   
(1,388)   
7,180   
1,597   
—   
8,777   
(2,678)   
6,099   

3,898   
90   
1,241   
870   
6,099   

20221
$

2021

$

2020

$

0.72   
0.72   
0.27   
%
 44 
0.5   
 9.0 
 10.0 

4.7   

0.62   
0.62   
0.22   
%
 40 
0.5   
 7.1 
 8.3 
22.3   

0.19   
0.19   
—   
%
 79 
0.2   
 2.3 
 3.1 
30.5   

(2,756) 
53,342 
(34,955) 
(7,394) 
10,993 
2,354 
— 
13,347 
(4,639) 
8,708 

5,969 
90 
1,324 
1,325 
8,708 

2019

$

0.3 
0.3 
0.51 
%
 100 
0.3 
 3.6 
 8.4 
34.8 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021, 2020 and 2019 are prepared on 
an IFRS 4 basis.

2   Provisional gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3   In the fourth quarter of 2023, an impairment loss of $2.0bn was recognised relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France. This largely 
offset the $2.1bn recognised in the first quarter of 2023 on the reversal of the held for sale classification at that time. In 2023, a total net $0.1bn of 
credit was recognised in other operating income, reflecting the net asset value disposed under the final terms of sale. The $0.4bn impairment of 
goodwill recognised in the third quarter in 2022 has not been reversed.

4  Other operating (expense)/income includes a loss on net monetary positions of $1,667m (2022: $678m; 2021: $576m) as a result of applying IAS 29 

‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’ and disposal losses on capitalised markets treasury repositioning of $977m in 2023. 

5  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges also referred to as revenue. 
6 

Includes dividend paid during the period, which consisted of a second interim dividend of $0.23 per ordinary share in respect of the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 paid in April 2023 and the first, second and third interim dividends of $0.30 per ordinary share in respect of the financial year 
ending 31 December 2023.
In 2023, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts. In 2022, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for the 
loss on classification to held for sale of our retail banking business in France, items relating to the planned sale of our banking business in Canada, and 
the recognition of certain deferred tax assets. No items were adjusted for in 2021, 2020 or 2019. 

7 

Unless stated otherwise, all tables in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 are presented on a reported basis.
For a summary of our financial performance in 2023, see page 27.

For further financial performance data for each global business and legal entity, see pages 111 to 114 and 120 to 130 respectively. The global 
business segmental results are presented on a constant currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as set out in Note 10: 
Segmental analysis on page 372.

102

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income statement commentary
The following commentary compares Group financial performance for the year ended 2023 with 2022, unless otherwise stated.
Net interest income

Interest income
Interest expense 
Net interest income
Average interest-earning assets 

Gross interest yield2
Less: gross interest payable2
Net interest spread3
Net interest margin4

31 Dec

2023

$m
100,868   
(65,072)   
35,796   
2,161,746   

%
 4.67 
 (3.47) 
 1.20 
 1.66 

Year ended

31 Dec
20221
$m

31 Dec

2021

$m

52,826   
(22,449)   
30,377   
2,143,758   

36,188   
(9,699)   
26,489   
2,209,513   

Quarter ended

31 Dec

2023

$m
26,714   
(18,430)   
8,284   
2,164,324   

30 Sep

2023

$m

27,198   
(17,950)   
9,248   
2,157,370   

%
 2.46 
 (1.24) 
 1.22 
 1.42 

%
 1.64 
 (0.53) 
 1.11 
 1.20 

%
 4.90 
 (3.83) 
 1.07 
 1.52 

%
 5.00 
 (3.80) 
 1.20 
 1.70 

31 Dec
20221
$m

18,957 
(9,971) 
8,986 
2,116,018 
%
 3.55 
 (2.21) 
 1.34 
 1.68 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2  Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’). Gross interest payable is the average 

annualised interest cost as a percentage of average interest-bearing liabilities.

3  Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the 

average annualised interest rate payable on average interest-bearing funds.

4  Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA. 

Summary of interest income by type of asset

2023

Short-term funds and loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading2
Financial investments 
Other interest-earning assets 
Total interest-earning assets 

Summary of interest expense by type of liability

Deposits by banks3
Customer accounts4
Repurchase agreements – non-trading2
Debt securities in issue – non-trading
Other interest-bearing liabilities
Total interest-bearing liabilities

Average
balance

Interest
income Yield
%
 3.66   
 4.98   
 5.99   
 4.14   
 4.70   
 4.67   

$m
403,674   
957,717   
240,263   
407,363   
152,729   

$m
14,770 
47,673 
14,391 
16,858 
7,176 
  2,161,746    100,868 

2023

Average
balance

Interest
expense

$m
60,392   
  1,334,803   
146,605   
184,867   
146,216   
  1,872,883   

$m
2,401 
34,162 
10,858 
11,223 
6,428 
65,072 

Cost

%
 3.98   
 2.56   
 7.41   
 6.07   
 4.40   
 3.47   

20221

Average
balance

Interest
income

$m

$m

445,659   

5,577 
1,022,320    32,543 
4,886 
7,704 
2,116 
2,143,758    52,826 

231,058   
372,702   
72,019   

20221

Average
balance

Interest
expense

$m

$m

75,739   

770 
1,342,342    10,903 
3,085 
5,607 
2,084 
1,804,129    22,449 

118,308   
179,775   
87,965   

2021

Average
balance

Interest
income

$m

$m

450,678   

1,105 
1,060,658    26,071 
1,019 
6,729 
1,264 
2,209,513    36,188 

206,246   
438,840   
53,091   

2021

Average
balance

Interest
expense

$m

75,671   
1,362,580   
114,201   
193,137   
70,929   
1,816,518   

$m

198 
4,099 
363 
3,603 
1,436 
9,699 

Yield

%

 0.25 
 2.46 
 0.49 
 1.53 
 2.38 
 1.64 

Cost

%

 0.26 
 0.30 
 0.32 
 1.87 
 2.02 
 0.53 

Yield

%

 1.25   
 3.18   
 2.11   
 2.07   
 2.94   
 2.46   

Cost

%

 1.02   
 0.81   
 2.61   
 3.12   
 2.37   
 1.24   

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2  The average balances for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements include net amounts where the criteria for offsetting are met, resulting in a 

lower net balance reported for repurchase agreements and thus higher cost.
Including interest-bearing bank deposits only. 
Including interest-bearing customer accounts only.

3 
4 

Net interest income (‘NII’) for 2023 was $35.8bn, an increase of 
$5.4bn or 18% compared with 2022. This reflected higher average 
interest rates across major currencies compared with 2022.

Excluding the unfavourable impact of foreign currency translation 
differences, net interest income increased by $6.0bn or 20%.

NII for the fourth quarter of 2023 was $8.3bn, down 10% compared 
with the previous quarter, and down 8% compared with the fourth 
quarter of 2022. The decrease was predominantly driven by the 
impact of higher funding costs across our liabilities, which included 
the impact of deposit migration in our main legal entities in Asia and 
Europe. In addition, the fourth quarter of 2023 included an adverse 
impact of $0.2bn, relating to the first nine months of 2023, due to 
reclassifications to NII from ‘net income from financial instruments 

held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’ related to hedges in 
Canada that will not recur given the expected sale of the business.

The impact of hyperinflation in Argentina on NII in 2023 was an 
adverse movement of $0.5bn, with an associated impact on NIM of 
2bps. The impact in the fourth quarter of 2023 was an adverse 
movement of $0.5bn, with an associated impact on NIM of 9bps. This 
compared with minimal movements in the equivalent periods in 2022. 
The increase in hyperinflationary accounting impacts in 2023 was 
notably due to the impact of the devaluation of the Argentinian peso.

Net interest margin (‘NIM’) for 2023 of 1.66% was 24bps higher 
compared with 2022, as the rise in the yield on average interest-
earning assets (‘AIEA’) of 220bps was partly offset by the rise in the 
funding costs of average interest-bearing liabilities of 196bps.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

103

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial summary

The increase in NIM in 2023 included the unfavourable impact of 
foreign currency translation differences. Excluding this, NIM increased 
by 27bps.

NIM for the fourth quarter of 2023 was 1.52%, down 18bps 
compared with the previous quarter, and down 16bps compared with  
the fourth quarter of 2022. The decreases were predominantly driven 
by a rise in funding costs of average interest-bearing liabilities, which 
included the impact of customer deposit migration in our main legal 
entities in Asia and Europe, as well as the Argentina hyperinflation 
impact as noted above, partly offset by an increase in the yield on 
AIEA.

Interest income for 2023 of $100.9bn increased by $48.0bn 
compared with 2022. Interest income of $26.7bn in the fourth quarter 
of 2023 was down $0.5bn compared with the previous quarter, and 
up $7.8bn compared with the fourth quarter of 2022. The respective 
increases of $48.0bn and $7.8bn were predominantly driven by the 
impact of higher market interest rates. The decrease of $0.5bn 
compared with the previous quarter was predominantly due to 
hyperinflation in Argentina.

The change in interest income in 2023 compared with 2022 included 
an adverse impact of foreign currency translation differences of 
$1.2bn. After excluding foreign currency translation differences, 
interest income increased by $49.2bn.

Interest expense for 2023 of $65.1bn increased by $42.6bn 
compared with 2022. This reflected an increase in funding costs of 
223bps, mainly due to the impact of higher interest rates on our 
liabilities including customer deposit migration, notably in Asia and 
Europe. Within interest expense was the effect of higher funding 
costs associated with supporting our trading and fair value activities, 
as explained below in banking net interest income. 

The rise in interest expense included the favourable effects of foreign 
currency translation differences of $0.6bn. Excluding this, interest 
expense increased by $43.2bn.

Interest expense of $18.4bn in the fourth quarter of 2023 was up 
$0.5bn compared with the third quarter of 2023, and up $8.5bn 
compared with the fourth quarter of 2022. The increase was 
predominantly driven by the impact of higher market interest rates, 
and the impact of deposit migration.

Banking net interest income

Net interest income
Banking book funding costs used to generate ‘net income from financial instruments 
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’
Third-party net interest income from insurance
Banking net interest income

Year ended

Quarter ended

31 Dec

2023

$bn
35.8   

8.7   

(0.4)   
44.1   

31 Dec

2022

$bn

30.4   

2.5   

(0.4)   
32.5   

31 Dec

2023

$bn
8.3   

2.5   

(0.1)   
10.7   

30 Sep

2023

$bn

9.2   

2.4   

(0.1)   
11.5   

31 Dec

2022

$bn

9.0 

1.3 

(0.1) 
10.2 

Banking net interest income is an alternative performance measure, 
and is defined as Group reported net interest income after deducting:

– the internal cost to fund trading and fair value net assets for which 

associated revenue is reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’, also 
referred to as ‘trading and fair value income’. These funding costs 
reflect proxy overnight or term interest rates as applied by internal 
funds transfer pricing;

– the funding costs of foreign exchange swaps in Markets Treasury, 
where an offsetting income or loss is recorded in trading and fair 
value income. These instruments are used to manage foreign 
currency deployment and funding in our entities; and

– third-party net interest income in our insurance business. 

In our segmental disclosures, the funding costs of trading and fair 
value net assets are predominantly recorded in GBM in ‘net income 
from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value 
basis’. On consolidation, this funding is eliminated in Corporate 
Centre, resulting in an increase in the funding costs reported in net 
interest income with an equivalent offsetting increase in ‘net income 
from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value 
basis’ in this segment. In the second quarter of 2023 we 
implemented a consistent reporting approach across our most 
material entities that contribute to our trading and fair value net 
assets, which resulted in an increase to the first half of 2023 
associated funding costs reported through the intersegment 
elimination in Corporate Centre of approximately $0.4bn, recognised 
in the second quarter of 2023. In the consolidated Group results, the 
cost to fund these trading and fair value net assets is reported in net 
interest income.

The internally allocated funding cost of $8.7bn, which was incurred in 
2023 to generate trading and fair value income, related to trading, fair 
value and associated net asset balances predominantly in GBM. At 31 
December 2023, these stood at approximately $164bn.

Net fee income of $11.8bn was $0.1bn higher than in 2022, and 
included an adverse impact from foreign currency translation 
differences of $0.1bn. The rise in net fee income in CMB and WPB 
was partly offset by a reduction in GBM.

104

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

In CMB, net fee income increased by $0.2bn driven by higher fees 
from credit facilities, notably in Europe and the UK due to an increase 
in trade products. Fee income also grew in account services, 
reflecting greater client activity in transaction banking, mainly in Global 
Payments Solutions (‘GPS’), and in cards, as spending increased 
compared with 2022. These increases were partly offset by a 
reduction in fees from funds under management and broking 
activities.

In WPB, net fee income increased by $0.1bn. The rise was mainly 
due to higher cards income, mainly in our legal entities in Hong Kong 
and in Mexico, as customer spending increased. However, income 
from broking fell, notably in Hong Kong, due to weaker equity markets 
and muted customer sentiment. The rise in cards activity resulted in 
higher fee expenses.

In GBM, net fee income decreased by $0.2bn. This was driven by 
higher fee expense, notably in our main entities in Hong Kong, mainly 
relating to GBM products sold to customers in other global 
businesses. In Europe, fee expense grew in our private credit 
business, and we incurred higher interbank and clearing fee expense. 
There was a decrease in corporate finance fee income, reflecting 
lower client activity in Europe, and a fall in broking income due to 
lower equity turnover. Global custody income also fell. This was partly 
offset by an increase in underwriting income, from an increase in 
syndicated fees in Europe and a rise in fees in the US following 
historical lows in 2022. 

Net income from financial instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis of $16.7bn was $6.4bn higher 
compared with 2022. This reflected a rise in income, primarily relating 
to trading activities in GBM, for which the associated funding costs 
are reported in net interest income, notably in our main legal entities 
in Hong Kong and Europe. The rise also included a favourable 
movement on non-qualifying hedges of $0.5bn due to the non-
recurrence of fair value losses in 2022. These increases were partly 
offset by an adverse fair value movement on foreign exchange 
hedges related to the planned sale of our banking business in Canada.

Net income from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, measured at fair value through 
profit or loss of $7.9bn compared with a net expense of $13.8bn in 
2022. This increase reflected favourable movements on debt 

 
 
 
 
securities, due to movements in interest rates, and equities. The 
increases were notably in our portfolios in Hong Kong and France. 

This favourable movement resulted in a corresponding movement in 
insurance finance expense, which has an offsetting impact for the 
related liabilities to policyholders.

Insurance finance expense of $7.8bn compared with an income of 
$13.8bn in 2022, reflecting the impact of investment returns on 
underlying assets on the value of liabilities to policyholders, which 
moves inversely with ‘net income from assets and liabilities of 
insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair 
value through profit or loss’.

Insurance service result of $1.1bn increased by $0.3bn compared 
with 2022, primarily due to an increase in the release of the 
contractual service margin (‘CSM’). This primarily reflected a higher 
CSM balance from higher new business written and favourable 
assumption updates, primarily from updates to lapse rate 
assumptions. The increase also reflected a reduction in losses from 
onerous contracts. Under IFRS 17, the measurement of the insurance 
contract liability takes into account fulfilment cash flows and a CSM 
representing the unearned profit. In contrast to the Group’s previous 
IFRS 4 accounting where profits are recognised up front, under IFRS 
17 they are deferred and systematically recognised in revenue as 
services are provided over the life of the contract. The CSM also 
includes attributable cost, which had previously been expensed as 
incurred and which is now incorporated within the insurance liability 
measurement and recognised over the life of the contract.

Gain on acquisition of $1.6bn related to the provisional gain 
recognised in respect of the acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank UK 
Limited.

Impairment loss relating to the sale of the retail banking 
operations in France was a net impairment reversal of $0.2bn in 
2023, compared with an impairment of $2.3bn in 2022. 

In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations’, the disposal group was classified as held 
for sale on 30 September 2022, at which point the Group recognised 
the estimated impairment of $2.3bn, which included impairment of 

Operating expenses

goodwill of $0.4bn and related transaction costs. In the first quarter of 
2023, $2.1bn of this impairment loss was reversed as the sale 
became less certain. It was reinstated in the fourth quarter of 2023 as 
we reclassified these operations as held for sale and remeasured the 
disposal group at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs 
to sell, resulting in a $2.0bn impairment loss, reflecting the final terms 
of the sale. The sale completed on 1 January 2024.

Other operating expense of $1.1bn was $0.9bn higher than in 2022. 
The increase primarily related to losses in 2023 in Markets Treasury 
on asset disposals of $1.0bn relating to repositioning and risk 
management activities in our hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio in 
certain key legal entities. These actions are accretive to net interest 
income and reduce the consumption of the Group‘s financial 
resources.

The increased expense also included a loss of $0.3bn in 2023 relating 
to corrections to historical valuation estimates in our life insurance 
business, and losses related to the disposal of our New Zealand retail 
mortgage loan portfolio and the merger of HSBC Bank Oman in 2023 
with Sohar International. These were partly offset by losses in 2022 
relating to the disposal of our branch operations in Greece and the 
planned disposal of our business in Russia.

Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment 
charges (‘ECL’) were a charge of $3.4bn, a decrease of $0.1bn or 4% 
compared with 2022.  

The charge in 2023 primarily comprised stage 3 net charges, notably 
related to mainland China commercial real estate sector exposures. 
ECL charges in this sector were $1.0bn in 2023. The charge in 2023 
also reflected the impact of continued economic uncertainty, rising 
interest rates and inflationary pressures. The charge in 2022 of $3.6bn 
included charges related to mainland China commercial real estate 
exposures of $1.3bn.

For further details on the calculation of ECL, including the 
measurement uncertainties and significant judgements applied to 
such calculations, the impact of the economic scenarios and 
management judgemental adjustments, see pages 156 to 168.

Gross employee compensation and benefits
Capitalised wages and salaries 
Goodwill impairment
Property and equipment
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles
UK bank levy
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
Other operating expenses2
Reported operating expenses 
Currency translation
Constant currency operating expenses

Year ended

2023

$m
19,623 
(1,403)   
—   

4,285 
1,827 
339 
188 
7,211 
32,070 

2022¹

$m

19,288
(1,285)   

— 
4,949
1,701
13
246
7,789
32,701

—   
32,070   

(399)   
32,302   

2021

$m

19,612

(870) 
587
5,145
1,438
116
106
8,486
34,620
(2,376) 
32,244 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2   Other operating expenses includes professional fees, contractor costs, transaction taxes, marketing and travel. The decrease was driven by favourable 
currency translation differences and lower restructuring and other related costs following the completion of our cost-saving programme at the end of 
2022.

Staff numbers (full-time equivalents)1

Global businesses
Wealth and Personal Banking
Commercial Banking
Global Banking and Markets
Corporate Centre
At 31 Dec

2023

2022

2021

128,399   
45,884   
46,241   
337   
220,861   

128,764   
43,640   
46,435   
360   
219,199   

130,185 
42,969 
46,166 
377 
219,697 

1   Represents the number of full-time equivalent people with contracts of service with the Group who are being paid at the reporting date.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

105

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial summary

Operating expenses of $32.1bn were $0.6bn or 2% lower than in 
2022, including a favourable impact of $0.4bn from foreign currency 
translation differences. 

Notable items

Year ended

2023

$m

207   
—   
427   

2022

$m

1,026 
2,333 
(142) 

Tax
Tax (charge)/credit on notable items
Recognition of losses
Uncertain tax positions

Tax expense

The effective tax rate for 2023 of 19.1% was higher than the 4.7% in 
2022. The effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by 2.3 percentage 
points by the non-deductible impairment of investments in associates, 
and reduced by 1.6 percentage points by the release of provisions for 
uncertain tax positions and reduced by 1.5 percentage points by the 
non-taxable accounting gain on the acquisition of SVB UK. The 
effective tax rate for 2022 was reduced by 12.8 percentage points by 
the recognition of a deferred tax asset on historical tax losses of 
HSBC Holdings as a result of improved profit forecasts for the UK tax 
group. Excluding these items, the effective tax rates were 19.9% for 
2023 and 17.5% for 2022.
Return on average tangible equity 

In 2023, RoTE was 14.6%, compared with 10.0% in 2022. Excluding 
the impact of strategic transactions and the impairment of BoCom, 
RoTE was 15.6%.
Supplementary table for planned 
disposals
The income statements and selected balance sheet metrics for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 of our banking business in Canada and 
our retail banking operations in France are shown below.
The asset and liability balances relating to these planned disposals are 
reported on the Group balance sheet within ‘Assets held for sale’ and 
‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’, respectively, as at 
31 December 2023.

Income statement and selected balance sheet metrics of disposal 
groups held for sale

Year ended 2023

Revenue
ECL
Operating expenses
of which: costs expected to be exited
Profit before tax

Loans and advances to customers
Customer accounts
RWA3

Canada1
$bn
2.0   
—   
(1.0)   
(0.7)   
0.9   

56.1   
63.0   
31.9   

France 
retail2
$bn
0.3 
— 
(0.6) 
(0.4) 
(0.2) 

16.9 
22.3 
4.1 

1   Under the terms of the sale agreement, the pre-tax profit on sale will 
be recognised through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC 
Canada’s results into the Group’s financial statements from 30 June 
2022 until completion, and the remaining gain on sale recognised at 
completion.

2   France retail includes the transferring of the retail banking business, 

HSBC SFH and associated supporting services. For further details, see 
Note 23: Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for 
sale on page 401.

3   Includes $3.5bn in Canada in respect of operational risk RWAs, and 

$0.6bn associated with our retail banking business in France.

This was driven by lower restructuring and other related costs 
following the completion of our cost to achieve programme, which 
concluded at the end of 2022, as well as a $0.2bn reduction due to a 
reversal of historical asset impairments, and the effects of our 
continued cost discipline. There was also a favourable impact of 
$0.2bn due to the impact of hyperinflationary accounting in Argentina 
in 2023. 

These reductions were partly offset by an increase in technology 
costs, the impacts of inflation, a higher performance-related pay 
accrual and severance payments. In addition, the UK bank levy 
increased by $0.3bn, which included adjustments related to prior 
years, and we incurred a $0.2bn charge in the US relating to the FDIC 
special assessment.

The number of employees expressed in full-time equivalent staff 
(‘FTE’) at 31 December 2023 was 220,861, an increase of 1,662 
compared with 31 December 2022. The number of contractors at 
31 December 2023 was 4,676, a decrease of 1,371.

Share of profit in associates and joint ventures of $2.8bn was 
$0.1bn or 3% higher than in 2022, reflecting an increase in the share 
of profit from Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’).

Impairment of interest in associate of $3.0bn related to our 
investment in BoCom.

We maintain a 19.03% interest in BoCom. Since our investment in 
2004, BoCom has grown its business significantly to the extent that it 
has recently been designated as a global systemically important bank 
(‘GSIB’).  

For accounting purposes, the balance sheet carrying value attributed 
to BoCom represents our share of its net assets. We perform 
quarterly impairment tests incorporating a value-in-use calculation, 
recognising the gap between this carrying value and the fair value 
(based on the list share price). We have previously disclosed that the 
excess of the value-in-use calculation over its carrying value has been 
marginal in recent years, and that reasonably possible changes in 
assumptions could generate an impairment.

Recent macroeconomic, policy and industry factors resulted in a 
wider range of reasonably possible value-in-use outcomes for our 
BoCom valuation. At 31 December 2023, the Group performed an 
impairment test on the carrying value which resulted in an impairment 
of $3.0bn, as the recoverable amount as determined by a value-in-use 
calculation was lower than the carrying value. Our value-in-use 
calculation uses both historical experience and market participant 
views to estimate future cash flows, relevant discount rates and 
associated capital assumptions.   

This impairment will have no material impact on HSBC’s capital, 
capital ratios or distribution capacity, and therefore no impact on 
dividends or share buy-backs. The insignificant impact on HSBC’s 
capital and CET1 ratio is due to the compensating release of 
regulatory capital deductions to offset the impairment charge. 

We remain strategically committed to mainland China as 
demonstrated by our recent announcements to acquire Citi’s retail 
wealth management portfolio and the investments made into 
mainland China in recent years. BoCom remains a strong partner in 
China, and we remain focused on maximising the mutual value of our 
partnership. Our positive views on the medium- and long-term 
structural growth opportunities in mainland China are unchanged.  

For further details, see Note 18: Interests in associates and joint 
ventures on page 391.

Tax expense

Tax (charge)/credit
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency tax (charge)/credit

Year ended

2023

$m

(5,789)   
—   
(5,789)   

2022

$m

(809) 
160 
(649) 

106

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated balance sheet

Five-year summary consolidated balance sheet

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 
through profit or loss
Derivatives
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments
Assets held for sale
Other assets
Total assets at 31 Dec
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
Insurance contract liabilities
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Other liabilities
Total liabilities at 31 Dec
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity
Non-controlling interests
Total equity at 31 Dec
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec

2023

$m

20221
$m

2021

$m

2020

$m

2019

$m

285,868   
289,159   

327,002   
218,093   

403,018   
248,842   

304,481   
231,990   

154,099 
254,271 

110,643   

100,101   

49,804   

45,553   

43,627 

229,714   
112,902   
938,535   
252,217   
442,763   
114,134   
262,742   
3,038,677   

73,163   
1,611,647   
172,100   
73,150   
141,426   
234,772   
93,917   
120,851   
108,406   
216,635   
2,846,067   

284,159   
104,475   
923,561   
253,754   
364,726   
115,919   
257,496   
2,949,286   

66,722   
1,570,303   
127,747   
72,353   
127,321   
285,762   
78,149   
108,816   
114,597   
212,319   
2,764,089   

196,882   
83,136   
1,045,814   
241,648   
446,274   
3,411   
239,110   
2,957,939   

101,152   
1,710,574   
126,670   
84,904   
145,502   
191,064   
78,557   
112,745   
9,005   
190,989   
2,751,162   

307,726   
81,616   
1,037,987   
230,628   
490,693   
299   
253,191   
2,984,164   

82,080   
1,642,780   
111,901   
75,266   
157,439   
303,001   
95,492   
107,191   
—   
204,019   
2,779,169   

185,329   
7,281   
192,610   
3,038,677   

177,833   
7,364   
185,197   
2,949,286   

198,250   
8,527   
206,777   
2,957,939   

196,443   
8,552   
204,995   
2,984,164   

242,995 
69,203 
1,036,743 
240,862 
443,312 
123 
229,917 
2,715,152 

59,022 
1,439,115 
140,344 
83,170 
164,466 
239,497 
104,555 
97,439 
— 
194,876 
2,522,484 

183,955 
8,713 
192,668 
2,715,152 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the financial statements on page 331.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

107

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial summary

Five-year selected financial information

Called up share capital 
Capital resources2
Undated subordinated loan capital 
Preferred securities and dated subordinated loan capital3
Risk-weighted assets
Total shareholders’ equity
Less: preference shares and other equity instruments
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity
Less: goodwill and intangible assets (net of tax)
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity
Financial statistics
Loans and advances to customers as a percentage of customer accounts
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets
Net asset value per ordinary share at year-end ($)4
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at year-end ($)5
Tangible net asset value per fully diluted share at year-end ($)
Number of $0.50 ordinary shares in issue (millions) 
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding (millions)
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential ordinary 
shares (millions)

Closing foreign exchange translation rates to $:
$1: £
$1: € 

2023

$m
9,631   
171,204   
18   
36,413   
854,114   
185,329   
(17,719)   
167,610   
(11,900)   
155,710   

58.2%
6.01%

8.82   
8.19   
8.14   
19,263   
19,006   

20221
$m

10,147   
162,423   
1,967   
29,921   
839,720   
177,833   
(19,746)   
158,087   
(11,160)   
146,927   

58.8%
5.97%

8.01   
7.44   
7.39   
20,294   
19,739   

2021

$m

10,316   
177,786   
1,968   
28,568   
838,263   
198,250   
(22,414)   
175,836   
(17,643)   
158,193   

61.1%
6.62%

8.76   
7.88   
7.84   
20,632   
20,073   

2020

$m

10,347   
184,423   
1,970   
30,721   
857,520   
196,443   
(22,414)   
174,029   
(17,606)   
156,423   

63.2%
6.46%

8.62   
7.75   
7.72   
20,694   
20,184   

2019

$m

10,319 
172,150 
1,968 
33,063 
843,395 
183,955 
(22,276) 
161,679 
(17,535) 
144,144 

72.0%
6.97%
8.00 
7.13 
7.11 
20,639 
20,206 

19,135   

19,876   

20,189   

20,272   

20,280 

0.784   
0.903   

0.830   
0.937   

0.739   
0.880   

0.732   
0.816   

0.756 
0.890 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

2  Capital resources are regulatory total capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 206.
3   Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 29: Subordinated liabilities on page 406.
4   The definition of net asset value per ordinary share is total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided 

by the number of ordinary shares in issue, excluding own shares held by the company, including those purchased and held in treasury. 

5   The definition of tangible net asset value per ordinary share is total ordinary shareholders’ equity excluding goodwill, PVIF (for 2021, 2020 and 2019) 

and other intangible assets (net of deferred tax), divided by the number of basic ordinary shares in issue, excluding own shares held by the company, 
including those purchased and held in treasury. 

Combined view of customer lending and customer deposits

Loans and advances to customers
–  of which: HSBC Innovation Bank 

Limited (formerly SVB UK)

Loans and advances to customers of 
disposal groups reported in ‘Assets held 
for sale’
– banking business in Canada
– retail banking operations in France
– other
Non-current assets held for sale
Combined customer lending
Currency translation
Combined customer lending at 
constant currency
Customer accounts
–  of which: HSBC Innovation Bank 

Limited (formerly SVB UK)

Customer accounts reported in ‘Liabilities 
of disposal groups held for sale’
– banking business in Canada
– retail banking operations in France
– other
Combined customer deposits
Currency translation
Combined customer deposits at 
constant currency

2023

$m
938,535   

2022

$m

923,561 

7,955   

— 

73,285   

80,576 

56,129   
16,902   
254   
92   
1,011,912   
—   

55,197 
25,029 
350 
112 
1,004,249 
20,454 

1,011,912   

1,024,703 

1,611,647   

1,570,303 

6,019   

— 

85,950   

85,274 

63,001   
22,307   
642   
1,697,597   
—   

60,606 
22,348 
2,320 
1,655,577 
30,773 

1,697,597   

1,686,350 

108

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Balance sheet commentary compared with 
31 December 2022

At 31 December 2023, total assets of $3.0tn were $89bn or 3% 
higher on a reported basis and increased by $31bn or 1% on a 
constant currency basis.

Reported loans and advances to customers as a percentage of 
customer accounts was 58.2% compared with 58.8% at 
31 December 2022. The movement in this ratio reflected a higher 
growth in customer accounts than in lending.

Assets

Cash and balances at central banks decreased by $41bn or 13%, 
which included a $13bn favourable impact of foreign currency 
translation differences. The decrease was mainly in HSBC UK, 
reflecting a reduction in customer accounts and repurchase 
agreements, as well as an increase in the deployment of our cash 
surplus into financial investments. Cash fell in HSBC Bank plc as our 
European branches managed liquidity requirements and due to the 
completion of the sale of our retail banking operations in France. Cash 
also decreased in the UK as we deployed our commercial surplus into 
reverse repurchase agreements and financial investments.

Trading assets increased by $71bn or 33%, mainly as we captured 
increased client activity in equity and debt securities, particularly in 
Hong Kong and HSBC Bank plc. The increase in trading assets also 
reflected the use of surplus liquidity to fund trading activities given 
the subdued demand for customer lending.

Derivative assets decreased by $54bn or 19%, mainly in Europe, 
reflecting adverse revaluation movements on interest rate contracts 
due to a stabilisation and downward shift in long-term yield curve 
rates in most major markets. Foreign exchange contracts also fell, 
primarily in HSBC Bank plc, as a result of reduced volatility in foreign 
exchange rate movements in 2023. The decrease in derivative assets 
was consistent with the decrease in derivative liabilities, as the 
underlying risk is broadly matched.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans and advances to customers of $939bn increased by $15bn or 
2% on a reported basis. This included a favourable impact of foreign 
currency translation differences of $18bn. 

On a constant currency basis, loans and advances to customers fell 
by $3bn, reflecting the following movements.

In WPB, customer lending increased by $21bn, reflecting growth in 
mortgage balances, notably in our main legal entities in Hong Kong 
(up $6bn), the UK (up $5bn), Mexico (up $1bn) and Australia (up 
$1bn). There was an increase of $7.8bn in secured lending in our main 
entity in Europe following the reclassification of a portfolio of home 
loans previously classified as assets held for sale, relating to the sale 
of our retail banking operations in France. The increase also included 
growth of $3bn in credit card balances, mainly in our entities in Hong 
Kong, the UK and Mexico. These increases were partly offset by 
reductions due to business divestments in Oman and New Zealand.

In GBM, lending fell by $16bn due to a reduction in term lending, 
primarily in our main legal entities in Hong Kong, including a reduction 
in the commercial real estate sector, and in Europe, reflecting muted 
client demand. Lending also fell by $1bn due to the merger of our 
operations in Oman with Sohar International. In addition there was a 
transfer of GBM customers to CMB in Australia and Indonesia, 
resulting in a $3bn reduction.

In CMB, customer lending was $7bn lower, mainly in our main legal 
entities in Hong Kong, including in the commercial real estate sector, 
and in the US, as well as in HSBC Bank plc, reflecting weaker client 
demand in a higher interest rate environment. Lending also fell by 
$1bn due to the sale of our business in Oman. In HSBC UK, lending 
grew by $4bn, as an increase from the acquisition of SVB UK of $8bn 
partly mitigated reductions from clients repaying their facilities. The 
transfer of customers to CMB from GBM in Australia and Indonesia, 
referred to above, led to an increase of $3bn. 

Financial investments increased by $78bn or 21%, mainly in Asia 
and Europe from the purchase of debt securities, treasury and other 
eligible bills, as we redeployed our commercial surplus to benefit from 
higher yield curves and enhance our hedging activities on net interest 
income. The increase was across both debt instruments held at fair 
value through other comprehensive income and instruments held at 
amortised cost.
Assets held for sale of $114bn primarily comprised the assets 
relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France and the 
planned sale of our banking business in Canada. This balance was 
broadly stable compared with 2022, as a decrease of $8bn relating to 
the transfer to loans and advances to customers of a portfolio of 
secured home loans in France was largely offset by a transfer of cash 
into assets held for sale, related to the completion of the sale of our 
retail banking operations there.

Liabilities

Customer accounts of $1.6tn increased by $41bn or 3% on a 
reported basis. This included a favourable impact of foreign currency 
translation differences of $28bn.

On a constant currency basis, customer accounts increased by $13bn, 
reflecting the following movements.

In WPB, customer accounts grew by $12bn, reflecting higher interest-
bearing term and money market deposit balances, as interest rates 
rose, primarily in our main legal entity in Asia, notably Hong Kong (up 
$10bn, or 3%), Singapore (up $5bn, or 15%), Australia (up $3bn, or 
19%), mainland China (up $3bn, or 19%) and Taiwan up ($2bn, or 
34%). However, customer accounts fell by $14bn in HSBC UK, 
reflecting cost of living and competitive pressures. There was also a 
reduction due to the sale of our business in Oman.

In CMB, customer accounts increased by $3bn. The growth included 
an increase of $6bn related to our acquisition of SVB UK, as well as 
increases in our entities in Asia, excluding Hong Kong, and in 
continental Europe, mainly in term and money market deposits. In 
addition, a transfer of customers from GBM to CMB in Australia and 
Indonesia resulted in a rise of $4bn. These increases mitigated 

reductions in our main entities in Hong Kong and the UK and a 
reduction of $2bn due to the sale of our business in Oman.

In GBM, customer accounts were marginally lower, falling $2bn. 
Balances fell in Hong Kong and the UK, although there was growth in 
continental Europe and Singapore. Balances fell by $1bn following the 
sale of our business in Oman, and by $4bn due to the transfer of 
customers from GBM to CMB in Australia and Indonesia.

Repurchase agreements – non-trading increased by $44bn or 35%, 
notably in HSBC Bank plc, reflecting higher client demand, and in our 
main entity in Asia due to a higher requirement for short-term funding.

Derivative liabilities decreased by $51bn or 18%, which is 
consistent with the reduction in derivative assets, since the 
underlying risk is broadly matched.

Debt securities in issue increased by $16bn or 20%, due to a net 
increase in debt issuances.

Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale of $108bn primarily 
comprised the liabilities relating to the sale of our retail banking 
operations in France and the planned sale of our banking business in 
Canada.

Equity

Total shareholders’ equity, including non-controlling interests, 
increased by $7bn or 4% compared with 31 December 2022.

Shareholders’ equity was increased by profits generated of $25bn and 
net gains through other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) of $5bn. These 
increases were partly offset by the impact of dividends paid of $12bn, 
the redemption of perpetual subordinated contingent convertible 
capital securities of $4bn and the impact of our $7bn share buy-back 
activities in 2023. 

The net gains through OCI of $5bn included favourable movements of 
$3bn on financial instruments designated as hold-to-collect-and-sell, 
which are held as hedges to our exposure to interest rate 
movements. The favourable movement was a result of the fall in long-
term market yield curves in 2023. The net gain also included a 
favourable movement on cash flow hedges of $3bn and from the 
effects of hyperinflation of $2bn. These gains were partly offset by 
fair value losses on liabilities related to changes in own credit risk of 
$1bn, as well as other smaller losses. 

Financial investments

As part of our interest rate hedging strategy, we hold a portfolio of 
debt instruments, reported within financial investments, which are 
classified as hold-to-collect-and-sell. As a result, the change in value of 
these instruments is recognised through ‘debt instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income’ in equity.

At 31 December 2023, we recognised a pre-tax cumulative unrealised 
loss reserve through other comprehensive income of $3.9bn related 
to these hold-to-collect-and-sell positions. This reflected a $2.6bn pre-
tax gain in 2023, inclusive of movements on related fair value hedges. 
The gain in 2023 included a reduction in unrealised losses due to the 
disposal of securities as part of repositioning actions taken in this 
portfolio of $1.0bn. Overall, the Group is positively exposed to rising 
interest rates through net interest income, although there is an 
adverse impact on our capital base in the early stages of a rising 
interest rate environment due to the fair value of hold-to collect-and-
sell instruments.
Over time, these adverse movements will unwind as the instruments 
reach maturity, although not all will necessarily be held to maturity.

We also hold a portfolio of financial investments measured at 
amortised cost, which are classified as hold-to-collect. At 
31 December 2023, there was a cumulative unrealised loss of $1.7bn, 
although the unrealised loss is not reflected on our balance sheet. 
This included $1.0bn that related to debt instruments held to manage 
our interest rate exposure, representing a $0.8bn improvement during 
2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

109

Financial reviewFinancial summary

Risk-weighted assets

Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) totalled $854.1bn at 31 December 
2023, a $14.4bn increase since 2022, including foreign currency 
translation differences of $2.0bn. This was mainly due to:
– a $26.2bn increase in asset size, which was mostly attributed to 

WPB lending growth and a rise in operational risk RWAs, offset by 
reduced lending in CMB and GBM;

Customer accounts by country/territory

– a $6.2bn increase from acquisitions, mainly from SVB UK, partly 

offset by a disposal of our Oman business; and

– a $19.9bn decrease in RWAs due to changes in methodology and 

policy. 

Hong Kong
UK
US
Singapore
Mainland China
France1
Australia
Germany
Mexico
UAE
India
Taiwan
Malaysia
Switzerland
Egypt
Indonesia
Türkiye
Other2
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
543,504   
508,181   
99,607   
73,547   
56,006   
42,666   
32,071   
30,641   
29,423   
24,882   
24,377   
16,949   
15,983   
8,047   
5,858   
5,599   
3,510   
90,796   
1,611,647   

20221
$m

542,543 
493,028 
100,404 
61,475 
56,948 
33,726 
28,506 
28,949 
25,531 
23,331 
22,636 
15,316 
16,008 
5,167 
6,045 
5,840 
3,497 
101,353 
1,570,303 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

2  At 31 December 2023, customer accounts of $86bn (2022: $85bn) met the criteria to be classified as held for sale and are reported within ‘Liabilities 
of disposal groups held for sale’ on the balance sheet, of which $63bn (2022: $61bn) and $22bn (2022: $22bn) belongs to the planned sale of the 
banking business in Canada and sale of our retail banking operations in France, respectively. Refer to Note 23 on page 401 for further details.

Loans and advances, deposits by currency

$m

Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Total loans and advances
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Total deposits

Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Total loans and advances
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Total deposits

USD
33,231   
170,274   
203,505   
28,744   
441,967   
470,711   

34,495   
182,719   
217,214   
23,133   
430,866   
453,999   

GBP
15,632   
284,261   
299,893   
18,231   
423,725   
441,956   

12,292   
265,988   
278,280   
16,963   
422,087   
439,050   

At

31 Dec 2023

HKD
7,106   
213,079   
220,185   
2,597   
305,520   
308,117   

EUR
4,688   
68,655   
73,343   
6,997   
128,444   
135,441   

31 Dec 20222

5,188   
221,150   
226,338   
4,002   
312,052   
316,054   

6,328   
57,077   
63,405   
8,830   
112,399   
121,229   

CNY
8,772   
49,594   
58,366   
4,517   
63,535   
68,052   

7,833   
49,036   
56,869   
4,707   
63,032   
67,739   

Others1

43,473   
152,672   
196,145   
12,077   
248,456   
260,533   

Total
112,902 
938,535 
1,051,437 
73,163 
1,611,647 
1,684,810 

38,339   
147,591   
185,930   
9,087   
229,867   
238,954   

104,475 
923,561 
1,028,036 
66,722 
1,570,303 
1,637,025 

1   ‘Others’ includes items with no currency information available of $1,592m for loans to banks (2022: $1,112m), $1,904m for loans to customers (2022: 

$2,112m), $11m for deposits by banks (2022: $13m) and $8m for customer accounts (2022: $6m).

2   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

RWAs by currency

$m
RWAs1

RWAs1

At

31 Dec 2023

USD
202,697   

GBP
155,231   

HKD
135,701   

EUR
69,996   

CNY
57,907   

Others
232,582   

Total
854,114 

223,657   

143,474   

152,804   

60,843   

49,867   

209,075   

839,720 

31 Dec 2022

1   RWAs includes credit risk, market risk and operational risk RWAs.

110

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global businesses and legal entities
Contents

111
111

114

114
120
123

128

Summary
Supplementary analysis of constant currency results and notable 
items by global business
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency risk-weighted 
assets

Supplementary tables for WPB and GBM
Analysis of reported results by legal entities
Summary information – legal entities and selected countries/
territories
Analysis by country/territory

Summary
The Group Chief Executive, supported by the rest of the Group 
Executive Committee (‘GEC‘), reviews operating activity on a number 
of bases, including by global business and legal entities. Our global 
businesses – Wealth and Personal Banking, Commercial Banking, and 
Global Banking and Markets – along with Corporate Centre are our 
reportable segments under IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ and are 
presented below and in Note 10: Segmental analysis on page 372. 

On 1 January 2023, we updated our financial reporting framework and 
changed the supplementary presentation of results from geographical 
regions to main legal entities to better reflect the Group’s structure.

The results of main legal entities are presented on a reported and 
constant currency basis, including HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC 
Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC North America Holdings Inc., HSBC 
Bank Canada and Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 

The results of legal entities are presented on a reported basis on page 
120 and a constant currency basis on page 123.

Basis of preparation
The Group Chief Executive, supported by the rest of the GEC, is 
considered the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) for the 
purposes of identifying the Group’s reportable segments. Global 
business results are assessed by the CODM on the basis of constant 
currency performance. We separately disclose ‘notable items’, which are 
components of our income statement that management would consider 
as outside the normal course of business and generally non-recurring in 
nature. Constant currency performance information for 2022 and 2021 
are presented as described on page 101. As required by IFRS 8, 
reconciliations of the total constant currency global business results to 
the Group’s reported results are presented on page 373. 
Supplementary reconciliations from reported to constant currency results 
by global business are presented on pages 111 to 113 for information 
purposes.
Global business performance is also assessed using return on tangible 
equity (‘RoTE’). A reconciliation of global business RoTE to the Group’s 
RoTE is provided on page 132.
Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the presentation 
of data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and 
expense. These allocations include the costs of certain support services 
and global functions to the extent that they can be meaningfully 
attributed to global businesses and legal entities. While such allocations 
have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they necessarily 
involve a degree of subjectivity. Costs that are not allocated to global 
businesses are included in Corporate Centre.
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the 
results of inter-segment funding along with inter-company and inter-
business line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken on arm’s 
length terms. The intra-Group elimination items for the global businesses 
are presented in Corporate Centre.
HSBC Holdings incurs the liability of the UK bank levy, with the cost 
being recharged to its UK operating subsidiaries. The current year 
expense will be reflected in the fourth quarter as it is assessed on our 
balance sheet position as at 31 December.
In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which 
global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 
needs, a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America 
was transferred from Global Banking and Markets to Commercial 
Banking for reporting purposes. Comparative data have been re-
presented accordingly. Similar smaller transfers from Global Banking and 
Markets to Commercial Banking were also undertaken within our entities 
in Australia and Indonesia, where comparative data have not been re-
presented.

Supplementary analysis of constant currency results and notable items by global business

Constant currency results1

Revenue3
ECL
Operating expenses
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Profit/(loss) before tax
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Customer accounts

Wealth and
Personal
Banking

$m
27,275   
(1,058)   
(14,738)   
65   
11,544   
454,878   
804,863   

2023

Commercial
Banking2
$m
22,867   
(2,062)   
(7,524)   
(1)   
13,280   
309,422   
475,666   

Global
Banking and
Markets2
$m
16,115   
(326)   
(9,865)   
—   
5,924   
173,966   
330,522   

Corporate
Centre

$m
(199)   
(1)   
57   
(257)   
(400)   
269   
596   

Total

$m
66,058 
(3,447) 
(32,070) 
(193) 
30,348 
938,535 
1,611,647 

1 
2 

In the current period constant currency results are equal to reported as there is no currency translation.
In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 
needs, a portfolio of our customers within our markets in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data 
have been re-presented accordingly.

3   Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

111

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global businesses

Notable items

Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2,3
Fair value movements on financial instruments4
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
Restructuring and other related costs5
Impairment of interest in associate6

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

Commercial 
Banking

2023

Global 
Banking and 
Markets

Corporate 
Centre

$m

$m

$m

$m

4   
—   
(391)   

(53)   
20   
—   

1,591   
—   
(316)   

(55)   
32   
—   

—   
—   
(270)   

3   
21   
—   

(297)   
14   
—   

(216)   
63   
(3,000)   

Total

$m

1,298 
14 
(977) 

(321) 
136 
(3,000) 

1   Includes the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
2   Includes the provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3   Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the expected proceeds from the planned sale of our banking operations in Canada.
4   Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
5   Amounts relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
6   Relates to an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 391.

Reconciliation of reported results to constant currency results – global businesses (continued)

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

$m

Commercial
Banking1
$m

20221

Global 
Banking and 
Markets2
$m

Corporate
Centre

$m

Revenue3
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
ECL
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Operating expenses
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Customer accounts
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency

21,103   
(219)   
20,884   

(1,130)   
(56)   
(1,186)   

(14,415)   
167   
(14,248)   

30   
—   
30   

5,588   
(108)   
5,480   

422,309   
11,813   
434,122   

779,310   
14,000   
793,310   

16,494   
(211)   
16,283   

(1,849)   
(13)   
(1,862)   

(7,052)   
158   
(6,894)   

—   
—   
—   

7,593   
(66)   
7,527   

311,957   
4,906   
316,863   

463,928   
8,496   
472,424   

14,899   
(297)   
14,602   

(595)   
22   
(573)   

(9,383)   
45   
(9,338)   

(2)   
—   
(2)   

4,919   
(230)   
4,689   

188,940   
1,262   
190,202   

326,630   
5,673   
332,303   

Total

$m

50,620 
(749) 
49,871 

(3,584) 
(46) 
(3,630) 

(32,701) 
399 
(32,302) 

2,723 
(121) 
2,602 

17,058 
(517) 
16,541 

(1,876)   
(22)   
(1,898)   

(10)   
1   
(9)   

(1,851)   
29   
(1,822)   

2,695   
(121)   
2,574   

(1,042)   
(113)   
(1,155)   

355   
6   
361   

435   
23   
458   

923,561 
17,987 
941,548 

1,570,303 
28,192 
1,598,495 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

2    In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 

needs, a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data 
have been re-presented accordingly.

3  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

112

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notable items (continued)

Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs2
Fair value movements on financial instruments3
Restructuring and other related costs4
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
Restructuring and other related costs

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
$m

Commercial 
Banking

$m

20221

Global 
Banking and 
Markets
$m

Corporate 
Centre

$m

(2,212)   
—   
98   

(7)   
(357)   

—   
—   
(16)   

—   
(266)   

—   
—   
(184)   

—   
(252)   

(525)   
(618)   
(145)   

(11)   
(2,007)   

Total

$m

(2,737) 
(618) 
(247) 

(18) 
(2,882) 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

2   Includes losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business, of which $2.3bn (inclusive of 

$0.4bn in goodwill impairments) related to the planned sale of the retail banking operations in France.

3   Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4   Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.

Reconciliation of reported results to constant currency results – global businesses (continued)

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

Commercial
Banking

$m

$m

20211

Global 
Banking and 
Markets
$m

Corporate
Centre

$m

Revenue2
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
ECL
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Operating expenses
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Customer accounts
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency

22,117   
(1,145)   
20,972   

13,743   
(1,044)   
12,699   

14,276   
(1,190)   
13,086   

288   
(93)   
195   

397   
(58)   
339   

240   
(19)   
221   

(16,306)   
968   
(15,338)   

(7,213)   
522   
(6,691)   

(10,045)   
790   
(9,255)   

34   
2   
36   

6,133   
(268)   
5,865   

488,786   
(15,482)   
473,304   

859,029   
(24,262)   
834,767   

1   
—   
1   

6,928   
(580)   
6,348   

353,182   
(12,579)   
340,603   

511,195   
(15,703)   
495,492   

—   
—   
—   

4,471   
(419)   
4,052   

203,106   
(6,913)   
196,193   

339,698   
(17,392)   
322,306   

Total

$m

49,552 
(3,473) 
46,079 

928 
(170) 
758 

(34,620) 
2,376 
(32,244) 

3,046 
(239) 
2,807 

18,906 
(1,506) 
17,400 

(584)   
(94)   
(678)   

3   
—   
3   

(1,056)   
96   
(960)   

3,011   
(241)   
2,770   

1,374   
(239)   
1,135   

740   
(28)   
712   

652   
(30)   
622   

1,045,814 
(35,002) 
1,010,812 

1,710,574 
(57,387) 
1,653,187 

1  Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2    Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

Notable items (continued)

Notable items
Revenue
Fair value movements on financial instruments2
Restructuring and other related costs3
Operating expenses
Impairment of non-financial items
Restructuring and other related costs

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
$m

Commercial 
Banking

$m

20211

Global 
Banking and 
Markets
$m

Corporate 
Centre

$m

—   
14   

(587)   
(296)   

—   
(3)   

—   
(83)   

—   
(395)   

—   
(195)   

(221)   
77   

—   
(1,262)   

Total

$m

(221) 
(307) 

(587) 
(1,836) 

1  Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2   Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3   Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

113

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global businesses

Reconciliation of reported and constant currency risk-weighted assets

Risk-weighted assets
Reported
Constant currency

Risk-weighted assets
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency

Risk-weighted assets
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

$bn

Commercial
Banking1
$bn

At 31 Dec 2023

Global
Banking and
Markets1
$bn

Corporate 
Centre

$bn

192.9   
192.9   

354.5   
354.5   

218.5   
218.5   

88.2   
88.2   

At 31 Dec 2022

182.9   
1.7   
184.6   

342.4   
1.8   
344.2   

225.9   
(0.1)   
225.8   

At 31 Dec 2021

178.3   
(6.1)   
172.2   

340.0   
(15.9)   
324.1   

229.1   
(8.4)   
220.7   

88.5   
—   
88.5   

90.9   
(1.4)   
89.5   

Total

$bn

854.1 
854.1 

839.7 
3.4 
843.1 

838.3 
(31.8) 
806.5 

1    In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 

needs, a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data 
have been re-presented accordingly.

Supplementary tables for WPB and GBM
WPB constant currency performance by business unit

A breakdown of WPB by business unit is presented below to reflect the basis of how the revenue performance of the business units is 
assessed and managed.

WPB – summary (constant currency basis)

2023
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges2
–  net interest income
–  net fee income/(expense)
–  other income
ECL
Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax

2022
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges2
–  net interest income
–  net fee income/(expense)
–  other income
ECL
Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax

Consists of1

Total 
WPB

$m

Banking 
operations

Life
insurance

$m

$m

Global 
Private 
Banking

$m

Asset 
management

$m

27,275   

20,491   
5,355   
1,429   
(1,058)   
26,217   
(14,738)   
11,479   
65   
11,544   

20,884   

15,971   
5,307   
(394)   
(1,186)   
19,698   
(14,248)   
5,450   
30   
5,480   

22,279   

19,055   
3,213   
11   
(1,056)   
21,223   
(11,474)   
9,749   
15   
9,764   

16,383   

14,673   
3,260   
(1,550)   
(1,173)   
15,210   
(11,132)   
4,078   
13   
4,091   

1,462   

282   
151   
1,029   
4   
1,466   
(682)   
784   
50   
834   

1,354   

339   
154   
861   
(8)   
1,346   
(785)   
561   
17   
578   

2,252   

1,155   
794   
303   
(6)   
2,246   
(1,627)   
619   
—   
619   

2,016   

965   
788   
263   
(4)   
2,012   
(1,477)   
535   
—   
535   

1,282 

(1) 
1,197 
86 
— 
1,282 
(955) 
327 
— 
327 

1,131 

(6) 
1,105 
32 
(1) 
1,130 
(854) 
276 
— 
276 

114

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WPB – summary (constant currency basis) (continued)

2021
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges2
–  net interest income
–  net fee income/(expense)
–  other income
ECL
Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax

Consists of1

Total 
WPB

$m

Banking 
operations

$m

Life
insurance 
manufacturing3
$m

Global Private 
Banking

Asset 
management

$m

$m

20,972   

13,447   
5,677   
1,848   
195   
21,167   
(15,338)   
5,829   
36   
5,865   

15,527   

10,563   
4,249   
715   
204   
15,731   
(12,379)   
3,352   
19   
3,371   

2,512   

2,256   
(603)   
859   
(21)   
2,491   
(629)   
1,862   
17   
1,879   

1,777   

630   
916   
231   
13   
1,790   
(1,538)   
252   
—   
252   

1,156 

(2) 
1,115 
43 
(1) 
1,155 
(792) 
363 
— 
363 

1   Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue. 
2  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the year ended 

31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 is prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

3   We adopted IFRS 17 from 1 January 2023 and have restated 2022 financial data. Data for 2021 has not restated, and ‘Life insurance manufacturing’ is 
disclosed on the basis of preparation prevailing in 2021, which includes results from our manufacturing business only, with insurance distribution 
presented in ‘banking operations’.

Life insurance business performance

The following table provides an analysis of the performance of our life insurance business for the period. It comprises income earned by our 
insurance manufacturing operations within our WPB business, as well as income earned and costs incurred within our Wealth insurance 
distribution channels, consolidation and inter-company elimination entries. 

Results of WPB’s life insurance business unit (constant currency basis)

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Net interest income
Net fee income/(expense)
Other income
–  insurance service results
–  net investment returns (excluding net interest income)
–  other operating income
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges2
ECL
Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax

Net interest income
Net fee income/(expense)
Other income
–  insurance service results
–  net investment returns (excluding net interest income)
–  other operating income
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges2
ECL
Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax

Insurance 
manufac-
turing 
operations

$m
283   
(27)   
990   
1,127   
(119)   
(18)   
1,246   
4   
1,250   
(571)   
679   
50   
729   

Wealth 
insurance 
and other1
$m

(1)   
178   
39   
(34)   
30   
43   
216   
—   
216   
(111)   
105   
—   
105   

Year ended 31 Dec 20223
345   
(31)   
847   
861   
(176)   
162   
1,161   
(8)   
1,153   
(594)   
559   
17   
576   

(6)   
185   
14   
(18)   
(28)   
60   
193   
—   
193   
(191)   
2   
—   
2   

Life 
insurance

$m
282 
151 
1,029 
1,093 
(89) 
25 
1,462 
4 
1,466 
(682) 
784 
50 
834 

339 
154 
861 
843 
(204) 
222 
1,354 
(8) 
1,346 
(785) 
561 
17 
578 

1   ‘Wealth insurance and other’ includes fee income earned and operating expenses incurred within our Wealth distribution channels. It also includes the 
IFRS 17 consolidation entries arising from transactions between our insurance manufacturing operations and Wealth distribution channels and with 
the wider Group, as well as allocations of central costs benefiting life insurance. 

2  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
3  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly. This table presents an IFRS 17-specific analysis of results and therefore does not include 2021 comparatives.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

115

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global businesses

WPB insurance manufacturing (constant currency basis) 

The following table shows the results of our insurance manufacturing operations for our WPB business and for all global business segments in 
aggregate.

Results of insurance manufacturing operations1,2,3

Net interest income 
Net fee expense
Other income
Insurance service result
– release of contractual service margin
– risk adjustment release
– experience variance and other
– loss from onerous contracts
Net investment returns (excluding net interest income)4
– insurance finance income/(expense)
– other investment income
Net insurance premium income
Other operating income

Total operating income

2023

All global
businesses

WPB

$m
283   
(27)   
990   
1,127   
1,094   
44   
30   
(41)   
(119)   
(7,809)   
7,690   
—   
(18)   

1,246   

$m
320   
(14)   
981   
1,125   
1,094   
44   
28   
(41)   
(125)   
(7,809)   
7,684   
—   
(19)   

1,287   

2022

2021

All global
businesses

All global
businesses

WPB

$m

345   
(31)   
847   
861   
902   
45   
42   
(128)   
(176)   
13,850   
(14,026)   
—   
162   

$m

370   
(16)   
847   
866   
902   
45   
47   
(128)   
(187)   
13,853   
(14,040)   
—   
168   

WPB

$m

2,255   
(599)   
14,257   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
3,948   
—   
3,948   
10,145   
164   

$m

2,430 
(629) 
14,745 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
3,980 
— 
3,980 
10,617 
148 

1,161   

1,201   

15,913   

16,546 

Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders

Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges5

Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax of insurance business operations6
Additional information
Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin (reported 
basis)

Consolidated Group new business contractual service margin (reported basis)
Annualised new business premiums of insurance manufacturing operations

—   

—   

—   

—   

(13,366)   

(13,863) 

1,246   

4   
1,250   
(571)   
679   
50   
729   

1,686   

1,812   
3,797   

1,287   

4   
1,291   
(581)   
710   
50   
760   

1,686   

1,812   
3,797   

1,161   

(8)   
1,153   
(594)   
559   
17   
576   

1,111   

1,229   
2,354   

1,201   

(9)   
1,192   
(589)   
603   
17   
620   

1,111   

1,229   
2,354   

2,547   

(18)   
2,529   
(564)   
1,965   
17   
1,982   

—   

—   
2,777   

2,683 

(22) 
2,661 
(590) 
2,071 
17 
2,088 

— 

— 
2,830 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for 2022 have been 

restated accordingly; comparative data for 2021 are reported under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’.

2  Constant currency results are derived by adjusting for period-on-period effects of foreign currency translation differences. The impact of foreign 

currency translation differences on ‘All global businesses’ profit before tax was a $13m increase for 2022 and a $53m decrease in 2021. 

3  The results presented for insurance manufacturing operations are shown before elimination of inter-company transactions with HSBC non-insurance 

operations. The ‘All global businesses‘ result consists primarily of WPB business, as well as a small proportion of CMB business.

4  Net investment return under IFRS 17 for all global businesses for 2023 was $195m (2022: $183m), which consisted of net interest income, net 

income/(expenses) on assets held at fair value through profit or loss, and insurance finance income/(expense).

5  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
6  The effect of applying hyperinflation accounting in Argentina on insurance manufacturing operations in all global business resulted in a decrease of 

$41m in revenue in 2023 (2022: decrease of $7m, 2021: increase of $1m) and a decrease of $41m in profit before tax in 2023 (2022: decrease of $6m, 
2021: increase of $1m).

Insurance manufacturing

The following commentary, unless otherwise specified, relates to the 
‘All global businesses’ results.

Profit before tax of $0.8bn increased by $0.1bn compared with 2022. 
This primarily reflected the following: 

– Insurance service result of $1.1bn increased by $0.3bn compared 

with 2022. This was driven by an increase in the release of CSM of 
$0.2bn as a result of a higher closing CSM balance from the effect 
of new business written and favourable assumption updates 
primarily from updates to lapse rate assumptions. The improved 
insurance service result also reflected a reduction to losses from 
onerous contracts of $0.1bn, mainly in Hong Kong and Singapore, 
in part due to improved market conditions in 2023.

– Net investment return (excluding net interest income) increased by 
$0.1bn, with positive asset returns in 2023 compared with losses 
in the prior period.

– Other operating income reduced by $0.2bn compared with 2022, 
and included a $0.3bn loss from corrections to historical valuation 
estimates, partly offset by gains of $0.2bn from reinsurance 
contracts in Hong Kong.

116

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Profit before tax of $0.6bn in 2022 reduced by $1.5bn compared with 
2021, primarily reflecting the change in reporting basis from IFRS 4 
‘Insurance Contracts’ in 2021 to IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ in 
2022. Further information regarding the impact of transition is 
provided in Note 38 ‘Effects of adoption of IFRS 17’ on page 422.

Annualised new business premiums (‘ANP’) is used to assess new 
insurance premiums generated by the business. It is calculated as 
100% of annualised first year regular premiums and 10% of single 
premiums, before reinsurance ceded. ANP in 2023 increased by 61% 
compared with 2022, primarily from strong new business sales in 
Hong Kong and a shift in product mix from single to multi-premium 
products.

Insurance manufacturing value of new business

Insurance manufacturing value of new business is a non-GAAP 
alternative performance measure that provides information about 
value generation from new business sold during the period. Since 
transitioning to IFRS 17, insurance manufacturing value of new 
business is a metric used internally to measure the long-term 
profitability of new business sold, and its disclosure supports the 
consistent communication of this performance measure, albeit on a 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
new calculation basis. Insurance manufacturing value of new 
business is calculated as the sum of the IFRS 17 new business CSM 
and loss component adjusted for: 

necessitates changes to the underlying economic scenario models 
used in the valuation of policyholder guarantees to reflect this 
basis.

– a full attribution of expenses incurred within our insurance 
manufacturing operations. IFRS 17 considers only directly 
attributable expenses within the new business CSM 
measurement; and

– long-term asset spreads expected to be generated over the 

contract term. Under IFRS 17, new business CSM is in contrast 
calculated on a market consistent risk neutral basis. This also 

Insurance manufacturing value of new business

There were no other adjustments made, with demographic and 
expense assumptions remaining unchanged, except for inclusion of 
future non-attributable expenses as described above. The IFRS 17 risk 
adjustment remained unchanged, with no additional allowances made 
for market risks. Insurance manufacturing value of new business was 
measured before tax and after inclusion of the impact of reinsurance. 

Insurance manufacturing operations new business CSM and loss component1
Inclusion of incremental expenses not attributable to the contractual service margin
Long-term asset spreads
Insurance manufacturing value of new business

2023

$m
1,678   
(342)   
238   
1,574   

2022

$m

1,095 
(285) 
362 
1,172 

1 Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin was $1,686m (2022: $1,111m) and the loss component was $8m (2022: $16m).

Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax

Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax is a non-GAAP alternative 
performance measure that provides information about our insurance 
manufacturing operations’ net asset value plus the future earnings 
from in-force business. At 31 December 2023, insurance equity plus 
CSM net of tax was $16,583m (31 December 2022: $14,646m). 

At 31 December 2023, insurance equity plus CSM net of tax was 
calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of $7,731m 
plus CSM of $10,786m less tax of $1,934m. At 31 December 2022, it 
was calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of 
$7,236m plus CSM of $9,058m less tax of $1,648m.

Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value

Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value is a non-GAAP 
alternative performance measure that provides information about the 
value of the insurance manufacturing operations and is defined as 
total shareholders’ equity plus the present value of projected future 
profits. It is not comparable with peer embedded value disclosure as 
there is no single industry standard basis of calculation. 

Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value

The present value of projected future profits is calculated as the CSM 
net of tax adjusted for:

– a full attribution of expenses incurred within our insurance 

manufacturing operations, net of tax. IFRS 17 considers only 
directly attributable expenses within the CSM measurement; and

– long-term asset spreads expected to be generated over the 
contract term, net of tax. Under IFRS 17, CSM is in contrast 
calculated on a market consistent risk neutral basis. This also 
necessitates changes to the underlying economic scenario models 
used in the valuation of policyholder guarantees to reflect this 
basis.

There are no other adjustments made, with demographic and 
expense assumptions remaining unchanged, except for inclusion of 
future non-attributable expenses as described above. The IFRS 17 risk 
adjustment remained unchanged, with no additional allowances made 
for market risks. Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value was 
measured after tax and after inclusion of the impact of reinsurance.

Total shareholders’ equity and contractual service margin net of tax
Inclusion of incremental expenses not attributable to the contractual service margin, net of tax
Long-term asset spreads, net of tax
Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value

WPB: Wealth balances

At 31 Dec 2023

At 31 Dec 2022

$m
16,583   
(582)   
2,368   
18,369   

$m

14,646 
(559) 
2,369 
16,456 

The following table shows the wealth balances, which include invested assets and wealth deposits. Invested assets comprise customer assets 
either managed by our Asset Management business or by external third-party investment managers, as well as self-directed investments by our 
customers. 

WPB – reported wealth balances1

Global Private Banking invested assets
–  managed by Global Asset Management
–  external managers, direct securities and other
Retail invested assets
–  managed by Global Asset Management
–  external managers, direct securities and other
Asset Management third-party distribution
Reported invested assets1
Wealth deposits (Premier, Jade and Global Private Banking)2
Total reported wealth balances

2023

$bn
363   
61   
302   
383   
178   
205   
445   
1,191   
536   
1,727   

2022

$bn
312 
57 
255 
363 
198 
165 
340 
1,015 
503 
1,518 

1 

Invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role 
as investment manager. At 31 December 2023, $32bn of invested assets were classified as held for sale and are not included in the table above.

2  Premier, Jade and Global Private Banking deposits, which include Prestige deposits in Hang Seng Bank, form part of the total WPB customer accounts 
balance of $805bn (2022: $779bn) on page 111. At 31 December 2023, $42bn of wealth deposits were classified as held for sale and are not included 
in the table above. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

117

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global businesses

Asset Management: funds under management

The following table shows the funds under management of our Asset Management business. Funds under management represents assets 
managed, either actively or passively, on behalf of our customers. Funds under management are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, 
except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as investment manager. 

Asset Management – reported funds under management1

Opening balance
Net new invested assets
Net market movements
Foreign exchange and others
Closing balance

Asset Management – reported funds under management by legal entities

HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities2
Closing balance

2023

$bn
595   
54   
23   
12   
684   

2023

$bn
162   
198   
71   
15   
238   
684   

2022

$bn

630 
45 
(36) 
(44) 
595 

2022

$bn

134 
184 
60 
8 
209 
595 

1    Funds under management are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent 

in our role as investment manager.

2  Funds under management of $177bn in 2023 and $143bn in 2022 relating to our Asset Management entity in the UK are reported under ‘other trading 

entities’ in the table above. 

At 31 December 2023, Asset Management funds under management 
amounted to $684bn, an increase of $89bn or 15%. The increase 
reflected net new invested assets of $54bn and a positive impact 
from market performances and foreign exchange translation. Net new 

Global Private Banking: client balances

invested assets were notably from additions in money market and 
exchange traded funds, as well as passive and private equity 
products.

Global Private Banking client balances comprises invested assets and deposits, which are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their 
respective year-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately. 

Global Private Banking – reported client balances1

Opening balance
Net new invested assets
Increase/(decrease) in deposits
Net market movements
Foreign exchange and others
Closing balance

Global Private Banking – reported client balances by legal entities

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
Closing balance

2023

$bn
383   
17   
9   
19   
19   
447   

2023

$bn

32   
54   
209   
64   
3   
85   
447   

2022

$bn

423 
18 
(1) 
(53) 
(4) 
383 

2022

$bn

28 
58 
174 
56 
— 
67 
383 

1  Client balances are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role 

as investment manager. Customer deposits included in these client balances are on balance sheet. 

118

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail invested assets

The following table shows the invested assets of our retail 
customers. These comprise customer assets either managed by our 
Asset Management business or by external third-party investment 
managers as well as self-directed investments by our customers. 

Retail invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, 
except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than 
agent in our role as investment manager.

Retail invested assets

Opening balance
Net new invested assets1
Net market movements
Foreign exchange and others
Closing balance

Retail invested assets by legal entities

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
Closing balance

2023

$bn
363   
26   
7   
(13)   
383   

2023

$bn

29   
31   
292   
3   
14   
9   
5   
383   

2022

$bn

434 
26 
(47) 
(50) 
363 

2022

$bn

27 
27 
284 
2 
12 
7 
4 
363 

1 

‘Retail net new invested assets’ covers nine markets, comprising Hong Kong including Hang Seng Bank (Hong Kong), mainland China, Malaysia, 
Singapore, HSBC UK, UAE, US, Canada and Mexico. The net new invested assets relating to all other geographies is reported in ‘foreign exchange 
and others’.

WPB invested assets 

Net new invested assets represents the net customer inflows from 
retail invested assets, Asset Management third-party distribution and 
Global Private Banking invested assets. It excludes all customer 
deposits. The net new invested assets in the table below is non-

additive from the tables above, as net new invested assets managed 
by Asset Management that are generated by retail clients or Global 
Private Banking will be recorded in both businesses.

WPB: Invested assets

Opening balance
Net new invested assets
Net market movements
Foreign exchange and others
Closing balance

WPB: Net new invested assets by legal entities

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited

HSBC Bank Middle East Limited

HSBC North America Holdings Inc.

HSBC Bank Canada
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
Total

2023

$bn
1,015   
84   
43   
49   
1,191   

2022

$bn

1,119 
80 
(118) 
(66) 
1,015 

2023

$bn

2022

$bn

1   
3   
47   

1   

7   

—   
5   
20   
84   

2 
6 
59 

— 

8 

(1) 
1 
5 
80 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

119

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global businesses

GBM: Securities Services and Issuer Services

Assets held in custody

Assets under administration

Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of securities and other 
financial assets on behalf of clients. Assets held in custody are not 
reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed 
that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as 
investment manager. At 31 December 2023, we held $9.7tn of assets 
as custodian, an increase of 6% compared with 31 December 2022. 
The balance comprised $8.8tn of assets in Securities Services, which 
were recorded at market value, and $0.9tn of assets in Issuer 
Services, recorded at book value.

Our assets under administration business includes the provision of 
bond and loan administration services, transfer agency services and 
the valuation of portfolios of securities and other financial assets on 
behalf of clients and complements the custody business. At 
31 December 2023, the value of assets held under administration by 
the Group amounted to $4.9tn, which was 9% higher than at 
31 December 2022. The balance comprised $2.9tn of assets in 
Securities Services, which were recorded at market value, and $2.0tn 
of assets in Issuer Services, recorded at book value.

The increase was mainly in Securities Services balances. This was 
driven by net asset inflows in Europe and Asia, favourable market 
movements in Asia, North America and Latin America, and a positive 
impact of currency translation differences in Europe.

The increase was mainly driven by Securities Services balances due 
to net asset inflows in Europe and Asia together with a favourable 
impact of currency translation differences, market movements and 
onboarding of new clients in Europe. Issuer Services balances also 
rose driven by new issuances, notably in the US and the UK, as well 
as a favourable impact of currency translation differences in the UK. 

Analysis of reported results by legal entities

HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data

2023

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC 
UK Bank 
plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A. de 
C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations

$m
9,684   
1,597   

$m
2,674   
1,527   

$m
16,705   
4,859   

$m
1,551   
475   

$m

$m

$m

$m

1,712    1,275   
559   
1,237   

2,148    3,765   
581    1,225   

$m
(3,718)   
(215)   

Total

$m
35,796 
11,845 

516   

4,220   

9,507   

397   

729   

110   

437    1,054   

(309)   

16,661 

—   

1,438   

—   
—   
1,608   

(1,460)   
154   
736   

6,258   

(6,237)   
838   
(31)   

—   

—   
—   
2   

—   

—   
—   
185   

—   

—   
—   
22   

39   

(44)   
87   
65   

323   

(166)   
9   
(1,481)   

(171)   

98   
(10)   
(506)   

7,887 

(7,809) 
1,078 
600 

13,405   

9,289   

31,899   

2,425   

3,863    1,966   

3,313    4,729   

(4,831)   

66,058 

(523)   

(212)   

(1,641)   

(90)   

(94)   

(46)   

(696)   

(279)   

134   

(3,447) 

12,882   

9,077   

30,258   

2,335   

3,769    1,920   

2,617    4,450   

(4,697)   

62,611 

(4,602)   

(6,483)   

(13,379)   

(1,095)   

(3,473)   

(1,049)   

(1,823)   

(2,631)   

2,180   

(32,355) 

(10)   

97   

(16)   

(1)   

8,270   

2,691   

16,863   

1,239   

222   

518   

—   

871   

(3)   

(4)   

—   

285 

791    1,815   

(2,517)   

30,541 

—   

(52)   

(696)   

—   

—   

—   

14   

544   

(3)   

(193) 

8,270   
%
27.2
34.4
$m

2,639   
%
8.7
68.7
$m

16,167   

%
53.3
42.0
$m

1,239   
%
4.1
45.2
$m

518   
%
1.7
84.2
$m

871   
%
2.9
53.4
$m

805    2,359   

%
2.6
55.1
$m

%
7.8
55.7
$m

(2,520)   
%
(8.3)
45.1
$m

30,348 
%
100.0
48.5
$m

  270,208    95,750   

455,315    20,072   

54,829   

—   

26,410    15,951   

—    938,535 

  423,029    896,682   
  339,611    274,733   
  129,211    131,468   

1,333,911    50,612    252,339    90,731   
99,607   
—   
72,248    31,890   

801,430    31,341   
396,677    24,294   

47,309    59,051   
29,423    35,326   
32,639    59,574   

(114,987)    3,038,677 
176    1,611,647 
6,704    854,114 

Net interest income
Net fee income
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
Net income from assets and 
liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit 
and loss

Insurance finance income/(expense)
Insurance service result
Other income/(expense)1
Net operating income before 
change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment 
charges2
Change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment charges  
Net operating income 
Total operating expenses excluding 
impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets

Operating profit/(loss)
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment3
Profit/(loss) before tax

Share of HSBC’s profit before tax
Cost efficiency ratio 
Balance sheet data
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
Total assets 
Customer accounts
Risk-weighted assets4,5

120

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued)

20226

The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A. de 
C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

$m

$m

7,615   
1,536   

2,357   
1,601   

$m

14,031   
4,924   

$m

903   
458   

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

1,922    1,251   
598   
1,223   

1,796    2,244   
455    1,127   

(1,742)   
(152)   

30,377 
11,770 

Total

$m

Net interest income
Net fee income
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
Net income from assets and 
liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit 
and loss

Insurance finance income/(expense)
Insurance service result
Other income/(expense)1
Net operating income before change 
in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges2
Change in expected credit losses 
and other credit
impairment charges
Net operating income 
Total operating expenses excluding 
impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
Operating profit/(loss)
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment
Profit/(loss) before tax

Share of HSBC’s profit before tax
Cost efficiency ratio 
Balance sheet data
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
Total assets 
Customer accounts
Risk-weighted assets4,5

472   

3,564   

5,270   

360   

485   

76   

351   

639   

(939)   

10,278 

—   

(1,761)   

(12,117)   

—   
—   
148   

1,431   
149   
(1,920)   

12,407   
636   
491   

—   

—   
—   
22   

—   

—   
—   
533   

—   

—   
—   
29   

(9)   

3   
50   
67   

66   

(32)   
(20)   
(521)   

(10)   

(13,831) 

(10)   
(6)   
(1,431)   

13,799 
809 
(2,582) 

9,771   

5,421   

25,642   

1,743   

4,163    1,954   

2,713    3,503   

(4,290)   

50,620 

(563)   

(292)   

(2,090)   

21   

(20)   

(84)   

(507)   

(61)   

12   

(3,584) 

9,208   

5,129   

23,552   

1,764   

4,143    1,870   

2,206    3,442   

(4,278)   

47,036 

(4,667)   

(6,497)   

(13,011)   

(1,033)   

(3,429)   

(1,017)   

(1,631)   

(2,359)   

1,090   

(32,554) 

(54)   

11   

(42)   

(3)   

(9)   

(21)   

(5)   

(2)   

(22)   

(147) 

4,487   

(1,357)   

10,499   

728   

705   

832   

570    1,081   

(3,210)   

14,335 

—   

(38)   

2,400   

—   

—   

—   

13   

351   

(3)   

2,723 

4,487   
%
26.3
48.3
$m

(1,395)   
%
(8.2)
119.6
$m

12,899   
%
75.6
50.9
$m

728   
%
4.3
59.4
$m

705   
%
4.1
82.6
$m

832   
%
4.9
53.1
$m

583    1,432   

%
3.4
60.3
$m

%
8.4
67.4
$m

(3,213)   
%
(18.8)
24.9
$m

17,058 
%
100.0
64.6
$m

  245,921    86,964   

473,985    19,762   

54,159   

—   

20,446    22,325   

(1)    923,561 

  412,522    863,308   
  336,086    253,075   
  110,919    127,017   

1,297,806    48,086    239,117    94,604   
—   
72,446    31,876   

784,236    29,893    100,404   
406,985    22,490   

39,939    67,345   
25,531    41,078   
26,744    60,289   

(113,441)    2,949,286 
—    1,570,303 
8,144    839,720 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

121

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entities

HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued)

2021

The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A. de 
C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

$m

$m

6,397   
1,484   

2,411   
1,945   

$m

12,623   
5,828   

$m

633   
445   

$m

1,809   
1,426   

$m

978   
634   

$m

$m

$m

1,542    1,586   
406    1,044   

(1,490)   
(115)   

26,489 
13,097 

Total

$m

Net interest income
Net fee income
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
Net income/(expense) from assets 
and liabilities of insurance 
businesses, including related 
derivatives, measured at fair value 
through profit and loss

Insurance finance income/(expense)
Insurance service result
Other income/(expense)
Net operating income before loan 
impairment (charges)/recoveries and 
other credit risk provisions2
Change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment 
(charges)/recoveries
Net operating income 
Total operating expenses excluding 
impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
Operating profit/(loss)
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment
Profit/(loss) before tax

Share of HSBC’s profit before tax
Cost efficiency ratio 
Balance sheet data
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
Total assets 
Customer accounts
Risk-weighted assets4,5

437   

2,382   

3,649   

275   

226   

89   

272   

474   

(60)   

7,744 

—   

1,670   

—   
—   
278   

—   
—   
16   

2,340   

—   
—   
(1,446)   

—   

—   
—   
55   

—   

—   
—   
595   

—   

—   
—   
67   

4   

44   

(5)   

4,053 

—   
—   
136   

—   
—   
(152)   

—   
—   
(1,380)   

— 
— 
(1,831) 

8,596   

8,424   

22,994   

1,408   

4,056    1,768   

2,360    2,996   

(3,050)   

49,552 

1,362   

239   

(840)   

142   

205   

37   

(224)   

2   

5   

928 

9,958   

8,663   

22,154   

1,550   

4,261    1,805   

2,136    2,998   

(3,045)   

50,480 

(5,147)   

(7,448)   

(12,975)   

(955)   

(3,678)   

(1,036)   

(1,558)   

(2,060)   

970   

(33,887) 

(25)   

(63)   

(24)   

(3)   

(5)   

(8)   

(7)   

(6)   

(592)   

(733) 

4,786   

1,152   

9,155   

592   

578   

761   

571   

932   

(2,667)   

15,860 

—   

263   

2,486   

—   

—   

—   

17   

280   

—   

3,046 

4,786   
%
 25.3 
 60.2 
$m

1,415   
%
 7.5 
 89.2 
$m

11,641   

%
 61.6 
 56.5 
$m

592   
%
 3.1 
 68.0 
$m

578   
%
 3.1 
 90.8 
$m

761   
%
 4.0 
 59.0 
$m

588    1,212   

%

 3.1 
 66.3 
$m

%

 6.4 
 69.0 
$m

(2,667)   
%

 (14.1) 
 12.4 
$m

18,906 
%
 100.0 
 69.9 
$m

  264,624    122,954   

492,523    18,623   

52,678    54,226   

18,043    22,142   

1    1,045,814 

  468,362    807,541   
  381,482    270,975   
  113,501    136,038   

1,259,270    46,773    261,335    94,570   
792,099    26,802    111,921    58,071   
77,775    30,198   
393,742    22,855   

35,525    66,425   
23,583    45,643   
24,578    56,112   

(81,862)    2,957,939 
(2)    1,710,574 
9,072    838,263 

1  Other income/(expense) in this context comprises gain on acquisitions, impairment gain/(loss) relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in 

France, and other operating income/(expense).

2   Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
3   Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
4  Risk-weighted assets are non-additive across the principal entities due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
5  Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
6   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

122

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary information – legal entities and selected countries/territories

Legal entity reported and constant currency results¹

2023

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corpo-
ration 
Limited

HSBC 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.

$m
9,289   
(212)   
(6,386)   

$m
31,899   
(1,641)   
(13,395)   

$m
2,425   
(90)   
(1,096)   

$m

$m

3,863    1,966   
(46)   
(1,049)   

(94)   
(3,251)   

$m
3,313   
(696)   
(1,826)   

Other 
trading 
entities2
$m
4,729   
(279)   
(2,635)   

HSBC 
UK 
Bank plc

$m

  13,405   
(523)   
(4,612)   

Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations

Total

$m
66,058 
(3,447) 
(32,070) 

$m
(4,831)   
134   
2,180   

Revenue3
ECL
Operating expenses
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures

Profit/(loss) before tax
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Customer accounts

8,270   

2,639   
  270,208    95,750   
  339,611    274,733   

16,167   

1,239   
455,315    20,072   
801,430    31,341   

518   
54,829   
99,607   

—   

(52)   

(696)   

—   

—   

—   

871   
—   
—   

14   

544   

(3)   

(193) 

805   

2,359   
26,410    15,951   
29,423    35,326   

(2,520)   

30,348 
—     938,535 
176   1,611,647 

In the current period, constant currency results are equal to reported, as there is no currency translation.

1 
2  Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi 

Awwal Bank) which do not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit 
before tax of $1,286m. Supplementary analysis is provided on page 130 to provide a fuller picture of the MENAT regional performance.

3  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

Legal entity results: notable items

2023

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corpo-
ration 
Limited

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations

HSBC 
UK Bank 
plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related 
costs1,2,3
Fair value movements on financial 
instruments4
Restructuring and other related costs
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury 
repositioning
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related 
costs
Restructuring and other related costs5
Impairment of interest in associate6

1,591   

(14)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(279)    1,298 

—   

—   

—   

361   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

14   

(361)   

14 

— 

(145)   

(94)   

(473)   

(20)   

(246)   

—   

—   

—   

1   

(977) 

(45)   

(111)   

20   
—   

30   
—   

—   

10   
(3,000)   

—   

2   
—   

(11)   

(115)   

10   
—   

—   
—   

—   

6   
—   

—   

2   
—   

(39)   

(321) 

56   
136 
—    (3,000) 

1   Includes the impacts of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
2   Includes the provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3   Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the expected proceeds from the planned sale of our banking operations in Canada.
4   Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
5   Balances relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
6   Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.

Selected countries/territories results1

Revenue3
ECL
Operating expenses
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Customer accounts

Hong
Kong

$m
20,611   
(1,529)   
(8,244)   
30   
10,868   
279,551   
543,504   

2023
Mainland
China

$m
3,923   
(93)   
(2,713)   
(746)   
371   
44,275   
56,006   

UK2
$m
19,092   
(594)   
(12,485)   
(53)   
5,960   
309,262   
508,181   

US

Mexico

$m
3,796   
(94)   
(3,251)   
—   
451   
54,829   
99,607   

$m
3,313 
(696) 
(1,826) 
14 
805 
26,410 
29,423 

In the current period, constant currency results are equal to reported, as there is no currency translation.

1 
2   UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) and HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank).
3  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

123

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entities

Selected countries/territories results: notable items

Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2,3,4
Fair value movements on financial instruments5
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
Restructuring and other related costs6
Impairment of interest in associate7

Hong
Kong

$m

—   
—   
(473)   

(1)   
9   
—   

2023

Mainland
China

$m

—   
—   
—   

(5)   
4   
(3,000)   

UK1
$m

1,272   
14   
(239)   

(71)   
75   
—   

US

$m

Mexico

$m

—   
—   
(246)   

(11)   
10   
—   

— 
— 
— 

— 
6 
— 

1  UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) and HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank).
2   Includes the provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3   Includes the impairment gain relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
4   Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the expected proceeds from the planned sale of our banking operations in Canada.
5   Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
6   Balances relates to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
7   Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.

 Legal entity reported and constant currency results (continued)

20221

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corpo-
ration 
Limited

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations

$m

Other 
trading 
entities2
$m

Total

$m

9,771   
125   
9,896   

5,421   
(11)   
5,410   

25,642   
(278)   
25,364   

1,743   
3   
1,746   

4,163   
—   
4,163   

1,954   
(67)   
1,887   

2,713   
370   
3,083   

3,503   
(789)   
2,714   

(4,290)   
(102)   
(4,392)   

50,620 
(749) 
49,871 

(563)   
(43)   
(606)   

(292)   
14   
(278)   

(2,090)   
6   
(2,084)   

21   
—   
21   

(20)   
—   
(20)   

(84)   
2   
(82)   

(507)   
(67)   
(574)   

(61)   
41   
(20)   

12   
1   
13   

(3,584) 
(46) 
(3,630) 

(4,721)   
(45)   
(4,766)   

(6,486)   
(81)   
(6,567)   

(13,053)   
134   
(12,919)   

(1,036)   
(1)   
(1,037)   

(3,438)   
—   
(3,438)   

(1,038)   
37   
(1,001)   

(1,636)   
(221)   
(1,857)   

(2,361)   
500   
(1,861)   

1,068   
76   
1,144   

(32,701) 
399 
(32,302) 

—   
—   
—   

(38)   
1   
(37)   

2,400   
(123)   
2,277   

4,487   
37   
4,524   

(1,395)   
(77)   
(1,472)   

12,899   
(261)   
12,638   

—   
—   
—   

728   
2   
730   

—   
—   
—   

705   
—   
705   

  245,921   
14,412   
  260,333   

86,964    473,985   
(2,105)   
90,973    471,880   

4,009   

19,762   
22   
19,784   

54,159   
—   
54,159   

  336,086    253,075    784,236   
(2,671)   
  355,783    265,475    781,565   

19,697   

12,400   

29,893    100,404   
—   
29,928    100,404   

35   

—   
—   
—   

832   
(28)   
804   

—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   

13   
1   
14   

583   
83   
666   

351   
—   
351   

1,432   
(248)   
1,184   

(3)   
—   
(3)   

2,723 
(121) 
2,602 

(3,213)   
(25)   
(3,238)   

17,058 
(517) 
16,541 

20,446   
3,044   
23,490   

22,325   
(1,396)   
20,929   

25,531   
3,802   
29,333   

41,078   
(5,072)   
36,006   

(1)    923,561 
1   
17,987 
—    941,548 

—    1,570,303 
28,192 
1   
1    1,598,495 

Revenue3
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
ECL
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Operating expenses
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Share of profit/(loss) in 
associates and joint ventures
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Loans and advances to 
customers (net)
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Customer accounts
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. 

2   Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi 

Awwal Bank) which do not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit 
before tax of $997m and constant currency profit before tax of $840m. Supplementary analysis is provided on page 130 to provide a fuller picture of 
the MENAT regional performance.

3  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

124

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entity results: notable items (continued)

20221

The 
Hongkong 
and
Shanghai
Banking
Corporation
Limited

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, S.A.
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and 
related costs2
Fair value movements on 
financial instruments3
Restructuring and other 
related costs4
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and 
related costs
Restructuring and other 
related costs

—   

(2,242)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1   

(278)   

46   

(13)   

98   

1   

(17)   

—   

—   

—   

(495)   

(2,737) 

(618)   

(618) 

(85)   

(247) 

—   

(18)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(18) 

(521)   

(656)   

(741)   

(64)   

(421)   

(87)   

(115)   

(150)   

(127)   

(2,882) 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 

2 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.
Includes losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business, of which $2.3bn (inclusive of 
$0.4bn in goodwill impairments) relates to the planned sale of the retail banking operations in France.

3  Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4  Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.

Selected countries/territories results (continued)

Revenue3
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
ECL
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Operating expenses
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Profit before tax
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Customer accounts
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency

UK2
$m

17,268   
223   
17,491   

(712)   
(36)   
(748)   

(13,232)   
(140)   
(13,372)   

(41)   
1   
(40)   

3,283   
48   
3,331   

286,032   
16,763   
302,795   

493,028   
28,895   
521,923   

Hong
Kong

$m

15,712   
8   
15,720   

(1,683)   
(2)   
(1,685)   

(7,935)   
(1)   
(7,936)   

5   
—   
5   

6,099   
5   
6,104   

294,580   
(626)   
293,954   

542,543   
(1,153)   
541,390   

20221
Mainland
China

$m

US

$m

Mexico

$m

4,104   
(212)   
3,892   

(326)   
16   
(310)   

(2,757)   
139   
(2,618)   

2,386   
(122)   
2,264   

3,407   
(179)   
3,228   

50,481   
(1,476)   
49,005   

56,948   
(1,664)   
55,284   

4,107   
—   
4,107   

(20)   
—   
(20)   

(3,438)   
—   
(3,438)   

—   
—   
—   

649   
—   
649   

54,159   
—   
54,159   

100,404   
—   
100,404   

2,713 
370 
3,083 

(507) 
(67) 
(574) 

(1,636) 
(221) 
(1,857) 

12 
2 
14 

582 
84 
666 

20,446 
3,044 
23,490 

25,531 
3,802 
29,333 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

2  UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) and HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank).
3  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

125

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entities

Selected countries/territories results: notable items (continued)

Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
Fair value movements on financial instruments3
Restructuring and other related costs4
Operating expenses
Restructuring and other related costs

20221
Mainland
China

$m

—   
—   
71   

Hong
Kong

$m

—   
—   
(124)   

UK2
$m

(60)   
(617)   
407   

US

$m

—   
—   
99   

Mexico

$m

— 
— 
(17) 

(1,741)   

(393)   

(70)   

(424)   

(115) 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

2  UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) and HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank).
3  Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4  Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with RWA reduction commitments.

 Legal entity reported and constant currency results (continued)

20211

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corpo-
ration 
Limited

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations

$m

Other 
trading 
entities1
$m

Total

$m

Revenue2
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
ECL
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Operating expenses
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Share of profit/(loss) in 
associates and joint ventures
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Loans and advances to 
customers (net)
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Customer accounts
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency

8,596   
(824)   
7,772   

1,362   
(128)   
1,234   

8,424   
(737)   
7,687   

22,994   
(841)   
22,153   

1,408   
1   
1,409   

4,056   
—   
4,056   

1,768   
(127)   
1,641   

2,360   
344   
2,704   

2,996   
(871)   
2,125   

(3,050)   
(418)   
(3,468)   

49,552 
(3,473) 
46,079 

239   
(25)   
214   

(840)   
24   
(816)   

(5,172)   
499   
(4,673)   

(7,511)   
677   
(6,834)   

(12,999)   
471   
(12,528)   

—   
—   
—   

263   
(27)   
236   

2,486   
(214)   
2,272   

4,786   
(453)   
4,333   

1,415   
(112)   
1,303   

11,641   
(560)   
11,081   

  264,624    122,954    492,523   
(13,319)   
  249,344    118,453    479,204   

(15,280)   

(4,501)   

  381,482    270,975    792,099   
(16,539)   
  359,454    258,575    775,560   

(22,028)   

(12,400)   

142   
—   
142   

(958)   
(1)   
(959)   

—   
—   
—   

592   
—   
592   

205   
—   
205   

37   
(3)   
34   

(224)   
(36)   
(260)   

2   
(3)   
(1)   

5   
1   
6   

928 
(170) 
758 

(3,683)   
1   
(3,682)   

(1,044)   
75   
(969)   

(1,565)   
(250)   
(1,815)   

(2,066)   
582   
(1,484)   

378   
322   
700   

(34,620) 
2,376 
(32,244) 

—   
—   
—   

578   
1   
579   

—   
—   
—   

761   
(55)   
706   

17   
3   
20   

588   
61   
649   

280   
—   
280   

1,212   
(292)   
920   

—   
(1)   
(1)   

3,046 
(239) 
2,807 

(2,667)   
(96)   
(2,763)   

18,906 
(1,506) 
17,400 

18,623   
22   
18,645   

52,678   
—   
52,678   

54,226   
(2,183)   
52,043   

18,043   
3,749   
21,792   

22,142   
(3,491)   
18,651   

26,802    111,921   
—   
26,821    111,921   

19   

58,071   
(2,338)   
55,733   

23,583   
4,900   
28,483   

45,643   
(9,003)   
36,640   

1    1,045,814 
1   
(35,002) 
2    1,010,812 

(2)    1,710,574 
2   
(57,387) 
—    1,653,187 

1  Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2   Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

126

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entity results: notable items (continued)

20211

The 
Hongkong 
and
Shanghai
Banking
Corporation
Limited

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, S.A.
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Revenue
Fair value movements on 
financial instruments2
Restructuring and other 
related costs3
Operating expenses
Impairment of non-financial 
items
Restructuring and other 
related costs

—   

—   

—   

—   

4   

(280)   

1   

1   

—   

(6)   

—   

—   

—   

(221)   

(221) 

2   

(15)   

2   

(16)   

(307) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(1)   

(586)   

(587) 

(356)   

(473)   

(406)   

(31)   

(355)   

(68)   

(59)   

(78)   

(10)   

(1,836) 

1  Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2  Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3  Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.

Selected countries/territories results (continued)

Revenue3
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
ECL
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Operating expenses
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Profit before tax
Reported
Currency translation
Constant currency
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency
Customer accounts
Reported 
Currency translation
Constant currency

UK2
$m

16,415   
(1,571)   
14,844   

1,645   
(154)   
1,491   

(14,808)   
1,212   
(13,596)   

267   
(27)   
240   

3,519   
(540)   
2,979   

306,464   
(17,696)   
288,768   

535,797   
(30,939)   
504,858   

Hong
Kong

$m

14,463   
(101)   
14,362   

(608)   
3   
(605)   

(7,955)   
51   
(7,904)   

16   
—   
16   

5,916   
(47)   
5,869   

311,947   
(553)   
311,394   

549,429   
(974)   
548,455   

20211
Mainland
China

$m

US

$m

Mexico

$m

3,734   
(340)   
3,394   

(89)   
11   
(78)   

(2,773)   
255   
(2,518)   

2,461   
(213)   
2,248   

3,333   
(287)   
3,046   

54,239   
(5,689)   
48,550   

59,266   
(6,217)   
53,049   

4,006   
(1)   
4,005   

205   
—   
205   

(3,683)   
1   
(3,682)   

—   
—   
—   

528   
—   
528   

52,678   
—   
52,678   

111,921   
—   
111,921   

2,341 
343 
2,684 

(224) 
(36) 
(260) 

(1,565) 
(250) 
(1,815) 

17 
3 
20 

569 
60 
629 

18,043 
3,749 
21,792 

23,583 
4,900 
28,483 

1  Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2  UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) and HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank).
3  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

127

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entities

Selected countries/territories results: notable items (continued)

Revenue
Fair value movements on financial instruments3
Restructuring and other related costs4
Operating expenses
Restructuring and other related costs

20211
Mainland
China

$m

Hong
Kong

$m

—   
(54)   

—   
41   

UK2
$m

(221)   
227   

US

$m

—   
(9)   

(1,121)   

(225)   

(32)   

(355)   

Mexico

$m

— 
(15) 

(59) 

1  Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2  UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) and HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank).
3  Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4  Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with RWA reduction commitments.

Analysis by country/territory

Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses

UK1
–  of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: Holdings and other
France
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
Saudi Arabia2
US
Canada
Mexico
Other3
Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Wealth and
Personal
Banking

Commercial 
Banking

2023

Global 
Banking and 
Markets

Corporate
Centre

$m
2,415   
2,754   
396   
(735)   
(35)   
44   
25   
6,808   
177   
56   
23   
(90)   
111   
233   
99   
141   
387   
—   
225   
293   
317   
315   
11,544   

$m
4,437   
5,282   
295   
(1,140)   
235   
144   
29   
2,970   
319   
398   
124   
339   
158   
436   
72   
98   
212   
—   
513   
561   
504   
1,731   
13,280   

$m
(692)   
144   
121   
(957)   
128   
128   
—   
1,394   
85   
774   
68   
662   
219   
444   
198   
303   
377   
118   
111   
120   
15   
1,472   
5,924   

$m
(200)   
90   
177   
(467)   
10   
4   
5   
(304)   
(15)   
289   
(7)   
(540)   
(21)   
(31)   
(7)   
(11)   
(83)   
539   
(398)   
(96)   
(31)   
497   
(400)   

Total

$m
5,960 
8,270 
989 
(3,299) 
338 
320 
59 
10,868 
566 
1,517 
208 
371 
467 
1,082 
362 
531 
893 
657 
451 
878 
805 
4,015 
30,348 

1   UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo 

Group’).

2   Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
3   Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $571m.

128

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses (continued)

UK2
–  of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: Holdings and other
France3
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
Saudi Arabia4
US
Canada
Mexico
Other5
Year ended 31 Dec 2022

Wealth and
Personal
Banking

Commercial
 Banking

20221

Global
Banking
and Markets

Corporate
Centre

$m

1,764   
2,112   
294   
(642)   
(2,248)   
17   
25   
4,435   
147   
45   
4   
(100)   
110   
218   
36   
101   
128   
30   
209   
243   
241   
183   
5,588   

$m

2,094   
2,662   
315   
(883)   
210   
8   
17   
1,278   
180   
304   
71   
303   
89   
255   
43   
76   
107   
—   
557   
548   
414   
1,039   
7,593   

$m

(534)   
143   
141   
(818)   
81   
133   
13   
955   
157   
622   
100   
526   
219   
351   
137   
194   
320   
94   
270   
140   
39   
1,102   
4,919   

$m

(41)   
(430)   
(473)   
862   
(231)   
(147)   
(30)   
(568)   
(36)   
306   
(8)   
2,678   
(36)   
(77)   
(17)   
(4)   
(86)   
345   
(387)   
(89)   
(112)   
(2,502)   
(1,042)   

Total

$m

3,283 
4,487 
277 
(1,481) 
(2,188) 
11 
25 
6,100 
448 
1,277 
167 
3,407 
382 
747 
199 
367 
469 
469 
649 
842 
582 
(178) 
17,058 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for financial year 

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

2    UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo 

Group’).

3   Includes the impact of goodwill impairment of $425m as a result of the reclassification of our retail banking operations in France to held for sale. At 31 

December 2022, HSBC’s cash-generating units were based on geographical regions, sub-divided by global businesses.

4   Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank. 
5  Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $1,850m.

Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses (continued)

UK1
–  of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring fenced bank)
–  of which: Holdings and other
France
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
Saudi Arabia2
US
Canada
Mexico
Other3
Year ended 31 Dec 2021

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

Commercial
 Banking

2021

Global
Banking
and Markets

Corporate
Centre

$m

1,511   
2,047   
176   
(712)   
236   
17   
46   
4,076   
146   
20   
14   
(95)   
37   
145   
14   
79   
91   
17   
(131)   
141   
305   
(536)   
6,133   

$m

2,475   
2,929   
259   
(713)   
163   
82   
10   
1,303   
132   
265   
12   
288   
(23)   
107   
16   
42   
3   
—   
472   
544   
88   
698   
6,677   

$m

(487)   
127   
220   
(834)   
(97)   
155   
—   
920   
131   
593   
111   
586   
145   
231   
106   
163   
342   
65   
524   
145   
222   
867   
4,722   

$m

20   
(318)   
(17)   
355   
(133)   
67   
(12)   
(383)   
(26)   
232   
(8)   
2,554   
(20)   
(13)   
(5)   
(2)   
(61)   
274   
(337)   
(62)   
(46)   
(665)   
1,374   

Total

$m

3,519 
4,785 
638 
(1,904) 
169 
321 
44 
5,916 
383 
1,110 
129 
3,333 
139 
470 
131 
282 
375 
356 
528 
768 
569 
364 
18,906 

1  UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo 

Group’).

2   Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
3   Includes the impact of goodwill impairment of $587m. At 31 December 2021, HSBC’s cash-generating units were based on geographical regions, sub-

divided by global businesses.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

129

Financial review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal entities

Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye supplementary information

The following tables show the results of our Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye business operations on a regional basis (including results of 
all the legal entities operating in the region and our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank). They also show the profit before tax of each of 
the global businesses.

Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye regional performance

Revenue1
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Operating expenses
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Profit before tax
Loans and advances to customers (net)2
Customer accounts2

2023

$m
3,688   
(133)   
(1,592)   
538   
2,501   
22,766   
40,708   

2022

$m

2,936 
8 
(1,586) 
342 
1,700 
26,475 
43,933 

1  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 

In the second quarter of 2023, loans and advances to customers of $2,975m were classified as ‘Assets held for sale’, and customer accounts of 
$4,878m were classified as ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ in respect of the planned merger of our business in Oman. The merger was 
subsequently completed in August 2023.

Profit before tax by global business

Wealth and Personal Banking
Commercial Banking
Global Banking and Markets
Corporate Centre
Total

2023
$m
612   
400   
1,104   
385   
2,501   

2022

$m

313 
290 
861 
236 
1,700 

Reconciliation of alternative performance measures

Contents

130

131

132

133

133

133

133

134

Use of alternative performance measures

Alternative performance measure definitions
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity and return on 
average tangible equity

Net asset value and tangible net asset value per ordinary share
Post-tax return and average total shareholders’ equity on average 
total assets

Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % 
of average gross loans and advances to customers

Target basis operating expenses

Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and 
related impacts

134 Multi-jurisdictional client revenue

Use of alternative performance 
measures
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting 
Standards as detailed in our financial statements starting on page 329.

As described on page 100, we use a combination of reported and 
alternative performance measures, including those derived from our 
reported results that eliminate factors that distort year-on-year 
comparisons. These are considered alternative performance 
measures (non-GAAP financial measures). 

The following information details the adjustments made to the 
reported results and the calculation of other alternative performance 
measures. All alternative performance measures are reconciled to the 
closest reported performance measure.

On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. As 
required by the standard, the Group applied the requirements 
retrospectively with comparative data previously published under 
IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022 
transition date.

In addition to the alternative performance measures set out in this 
section, further alternative performance measures in relation to the 
Group’s insurance manufacturing operations are set out on pages 116 
to 117.

130

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alternative performance measure definitions

Alternative performance 
measure

Return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity (‘RoE’)

Return on average tangible equity 
(‘RoTE‘)

Definition

Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders

Average ordinary shareholders’ equity

Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets

Average ordinary shareholders’ equity adjusted for goodwill and intangibles

Return on average tangible equity 
(‘RoTE‘) excluding strategic 
transactions and impairment of 
BoCom

Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, 
the impact of strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom1
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity adjusted for goodwill and 
intangibles, the impact of strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom1

Net asset value per ordinary share

Tangible net asset value per ordinary 
share

Post-tax return on average total 
assets

Average total shareholders’ equity on 
average total assets

Expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as 
% of average gross loans and 
advances to customers

Expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as 
% of average gross loans and 
advances to customers, including held 
for sale

Target basis operating expenses

Total ordinary shareholders’ equity2
Basic number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares

Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity3
Basic number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares

Profit after tax

Average total assets 

Average total shareholders’ equity

Average total assets

Annualised constant currency ECL4

Constant currency average gross loans and advances to customers4

Annualised constant currency ECL4

Constant currency average gross loans and advances to customers, 
including held for sale4

Reported operating expenses excluding notable items, foreign exchange 
translation and other excluded items5

Basic earnings per share excluding 
material notable items and related 
impacts

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding material notable items 
and related impacts6
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held

Multi-jurisdictional client revenue

Total client revenue we generate from clients that hold a relationship with 
us that generates revenue in more than one market

1  Excluding the impacts of the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of 

SVB UK and the impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.

2    Total ordinary shareholders’ equity is total shareholders‘ equity less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities.
3  Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity is total ordinary shareholders’ equity excluding goodwill and other intangible assets (net of deferred tax).
4  The constant currency numbers are derived by adjusting reported ECL and average loans and advances to customers for the effects of foreign 

5 

currency translation differences.
Includes impact of re-translating comparative period financial information at the latest rates of foreign exchange in hyperinflationary economies, which 
we consider to be outside of our control, and the incremental costs associated with our acquisition of SVB UK and related international investments.

6  Excluding the impacts of material M&A transactions, the 2022 deferred tax adjustment in HSBC Holdings and the impairment loss of $3.0bn 

recognised in 2023 in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

131

Financial reviewReconciliation of alternative performance measures

Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity, return on average tangible equity and return on average tangible equity excluding strategic 
transactions and impairment of BoCom

Profit
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (net of tax)
Decrease/(increase) in PVIF (net of tax)1
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding goodwill, other
intangible assets impairment and PVIF
Impact of strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom2,3,4
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding goodwill, other intangible assets impairment, 
strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom
Equity
Average total shareholders’ equity
Effect of average preference shares and other equity instruments
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Effect of goodwill, other intangibles and PVIF (net of deferred tax)
Average tangible equity
Average impact of strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom
Average tangible equity excluding strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom

Ratio
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Return on average tangible equity
Return on average tangible equity excluding strategic transactions and impairment of BoCom

2023

$m

22,432 
43 
— 

22,475 

1,275 

2022¹

$m

14,346 
535 
— 

14,881 

1,886 

23,750 

16,767 

184,029 
(18,794) 
165,235 
(11,480) 
153,755 
(1,277) 
152,478 
%

 13.6 
 14.6 
15.6

180,263 
(21,202) 
159,061 
(10,786) 
148,275 
748 
149,023 
%

 9.0 
 10.0 
11.3

2021

$m

12,607 
608 
(58) 

13,157 

N/A

N/A

199,295 
(22,814) 
176,481 
(17,705) 
158,776 
N/A
N/A
%

 7.1 
 8.3 
N/A

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

2   Includes the impacts of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
3   Includes the provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
4   Includes the impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 394.

From 2024, we intend to revise the adjustments made to return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) to exclude all notable items, improving 
alignment with the treatment of notable items in our other income statement disclosures. On this basis, we continue to target a RoTE in the 
mid-teens for 2024. If this basis had been adopted for 2023, our RoTE excluding notable items would have been 16.2%.

The following table details the adjustments made to reported results by global business:

Return on average tangible equity by global business

Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit after tax
Less attributable to: preference shareholders, other equity holders, non-controlling 
interests

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company
Other adjustments
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
Average tangible shareholders’ equity
Return on average tangible equity (%)

Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit after tax
Less attributable to: preference shareholders, other equity holders, non-controlling 
interests
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company
Other adjustments
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
Average tangible shareholders’ equity 
Return on average tangible equity (%)

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Wealth and
Personal
Banking

Commercial
Banking

Global
Banking and
Markets

Corporate
Centre

$m
11,544 
(2,141) 
9,403 

(828) 

8,575 
(221) 
8,354 
29,352 
 28.5 

5,588 
(1,150) 
4,438 

$m
13,280 
(2,945) 
10,335 

$m
5,924 
(1,165) 
4,759 

(485) 

(588) 

9,850 
364 
10,214 
43,687 
 23.4 

4,171 
168 
4,339 
38,036 
 11.4 

Year ended 31 Dec 2022

7,593 
(1,796) 
5,797 

4,919 
(761) 
4,158 

(688) 

(344) 

(510) 

3,750 
432 
4,182 
30,290 
 13.8 

5,453 
328 
5,781 
42,271 
 13.7 

3,648 
255 
3,903 
39,935 
 9.8 

$m
(400) 
462 
62 

(226) 

(164) 
(268) 
(432) 
42,680 
 (1.0) 

(1,042) 
2,898 
1,856 

(362) 

1,494 
(499) 
995 
35,780 
 2.8 

Total

$m
30,348 
(5,789) 
24,559 

(2,127) 

22,432 
43 
22,475 
153,755 
 14.6 

17,058 
(809) 
16,249 

(1,903) 

14,346 
515 
14,861 
148,276 
 10.0 

132

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Net asset value and tangible net asset value per ordinary share

Total shareholders’ equity
Preference shares and other equity instruments 
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity
Goodwill, PVIF and intangible assets (net of deferred tax)
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding

Value per share
Net asset value per ordinary share
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share

2023
$m
185,329 
(17,719) 
167,610 
(11,900) 
155,710 
19,006 
$

2022¹
$m
177,833 
(19,746) 
158,087 
(11,160) 
146,927 
19,739 
$

2021
$m
198,250 
(22,414) 
175,836 
(17,643) 
158,193 
20,073 
$

8.82 
8.19 

8.01 
7.44 

8.76 
7.88 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

Post-tax return and average total shareholders’ equity on average total assets

Profit after tax
Average total shareholders’ equity
Average total assets

Ratio
Post-tax return on average total assets
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets

2023
$m
24,559 
184,029 
3,059,887 

2022¹
$m
16,249 
180,263 
3,017,495 

2021
$m
14,693 
199,295 
3,012,437 

%
 0.8 
 6.01 

%
 0.5 
 5.97 

%
 0.5 
 6.62 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to customers and expected credit
losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale

Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’)
Currency translation
Constant currency
Average gross loans and advances to customers
Currency translation
Constant currency
Average gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale
Currency translation
Constant currency

Ratio
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to 
customers
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to 
customers, including held for sale

2023
$m
(3,447) 
— 
(3,447) 
955,585 
11,629 
967,214 
1,020,992 
12,688 
1,033,680 

%

 0.36 

 0.33 

2022¹
$m
(3,584) 
(46) 
(3,630) 
1,014,148 
6,701 
1,020,849 
1,035,678 
7,837 
1,043,515 

%

 0.36 

 0.35 

2021
$m
928 
(170) 
758 
1,057,412 
(43,098) 
1,014,314 
1,058,947 
(43,098) 
1,015,849 

%

 (0.07) 

 (0.07) 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

Target basis operating expenses 

Target basis operating expenses is computed by excluding the impact 
of notable items and foreign exchange translation impacts from 
reported results. We also exclude the impact of retranslating 
comparative period financial information at the latest rates of foreign 
exchange in hyperinflationary economies, which we consider to be 
outside of our control. Our target basis also excludes the impact of 

the acquisition of SVB UK and related investments internationally, 
which added approximately 1% to our cost growth in 2023 compared 
with 2022. We consider this measure to provide useful information to 
investors by quantifying and excluding the notable items that 
management considered when setting and assessing cost-related 
targets.

Target basis operating expenses

Reported operating expenses
Notable items
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
Impairment of non-financial items
Restructuring and other related costs1
Excluding the impact of SVB UK and related international investments
Currency translation2
Excluding the impact of retranslating prior year costs of hyperinflationary economies at a constant currency foreign exchange rate

2023
$m
32,070 
(185) 
(321) 
— 
136 
(271) 

2022
$m
32,701 
(2,900) 
(18) 
— 
(2,882) 
— 

(430) 
440 

Target basis operating expenses

31,614 

29,811 

1  Amounts in 2023 relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
2   Currency translation on reported operating expenses, excluding currency translation on notable items.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

133

Financial reviewReconciliation of alternative performance measures

Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts

Material notable items are a subset of notable items. Material notable 
items are components of our income statement that management 
would consider as outside the normal course of business and 
generally non-recurring in nature, which are excluded from our 
dividend payout ratio calculation and our earnings per share measure, 
along with related impacts. Categorisation as a material notable item 
is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction with the 
financial impact on the Group’s income statement.

Related impacts include those items that do not qualify for 
designation as notable items but whose adjustment is considered by 
management to be appropriate for the purposes of determining the 
basis for our dividend payout ratio calculation. 

In 2023, material notable items comprised the impacts of the sale of 
our retail banking operations in France, the planned sale of our 

banking business in Canada, the acquisition of SVB UK and the 
impairment of BoCom. The impairment of BoCom is included within 
material notables given that the impairment relates to the accounting 
assessment of the future value-in-use. The impairment has no 
material impact on our distribution capacity, dividends or share buy-
backs. Related items comprised HSBC Bank Canada‘s financial results 
from the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date onwards, as a 
component of the gain on sale will be recognised through the 
consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s results in the Group‘s results, 
with the remainder recognised at completion.

Commencing in 2024, we will establish a dividend payout ratio on a 
‘target basis’. We will disclose at each quarter the adjustments that 
we will designate as material notable items and related impacts.

Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts

Profit attributable to shareholders of company
Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of company
Impairment of interest in associate2
Provisional gain on acquisition of SVB UK
Impairment loss relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France (net of tax)
Impact of the planned sale of our banking business in Canada3
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of company excluding material notable items and related impacts

Number of shares
Weighted average basic number of ordinary shares (millions)
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts
Basic earnings per share  
Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)
Dividend payout ratio (%) (dividend per ordinary share divided by basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts)

20231
$m
              23,533 
 (1,101) 
 22,432 
 3,000 
 (1,549) 
 108 
 (311) 
 23,680 

              19,478 
 1.22 
 1.15 
 0.61 
50% 

1 

In 2023, earnings per share (‘EPS’) was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts. 2022 comparatives have not been provided due to the 
change our reporting framework and restatement due to the adoption of the IFRS 17. See our Annual Report and Accounts 2022 for details of the 
impacts of adjustments to our EPS in 2022.

2  Represents an impairment loss of $3bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 392.
3   Represents the earnings recognised by the banking business in Canada, net of gains and losses on foreign exchange hedges held at Group level, that 

will reduce the gain on sale recognised by the Group on completion.

Multi-jurisdictional revenue

Multi-jurisdictional revenue is a financial metric we use to assess our 
ability to drive value from our international network.

In our wholesale businesses, we identify a client as multi-jurisdictional 
if they hold a relationship with us that generates revenue in any 
market outside of where the primary relationship is managed. A client 
is defined as a mastergroup (HSBC’s own client groupings) that 
includes both the parent and, where relevant, any subsidiaries.

Multi-jurisdictional client revenue is a component of wholesale client 
revenue and represents the total client revenue we generate from 

multi-jurisdictional clients. Wholesale client revenue is derived by 
excluding from CMB and GBM reported revenue the revenue we 
generate from client facilitation in fixed income and equities, the 2023 
provisional gain on the acquisition of SVB UK, as well as other non-
client revenue. 

In WPB, we identify a customer as multi-jurisdictional if they bank 
with us in more than one of our 11 key markets. It is derived by 
excluding from WPB reported revenue the revenue from Canada and 
our retail business in France, as well as other non-customer income.

Wholesale multi-jurisdictional client revenue

WPB multi-jurisdictional customer revenue

CMB and GBM revenue
Allocated revenue and other1
Client facilitation in Fixed Income and Equities
Provisional gain on acquisition of SVB UK
Wholesale client revenue
– clients banked in multiple jurisdictions (‘multi-jurisdictional’)
– domestic only clients

2023

$bn
39.0 
0.9 
(4.8) 
(1.6) 
33.5 
20.4 
13.1 

WPB revenue
Allocated revenue and other1
France retail and Canada
WPB customer revenue
– international customer revenue

of which: customers banked in multiple jurisdictions (‘multi-
jurisdictional’)

of which: non-resident and resident foreigner

– domestic only clients

2023

$bn

27.3 
(0.5) 
(1.4) 
25.4 
10.2 

5.3 

4.9 
15.2 

1  including allocations of Market Treasury revenue, HSBC Holdings 

interest expense and hyperinflationary accounting adjustments, and 
interest earned on capital held in the global businesses.

134

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk  
review

Our risk review outlines our approach to 
risk management, how we identify and 
monitor top and emerging risks, and  
the actions we take to mitigate them. In 
addition, it explains our material banking 
risks, including how we manage capital.

136  Our approach to risk

136  Our risk appetite

136  Risk management

139  Key developments in 2023

140  Top and emerging risks

140  Externally driven

143 

Internally driven

145  Our material banking risks

147  Credit risk 

203  Treasury risk

218  Market risk 

221  Climate risk

230  Resilience risk 

231  Regulatory compliance risk

231  Financial crime risk

232  Model risk

233 

Insurance manufacturing operations risk

Our partnership with Google to 
fight financial crime

Google Cloud in 2023 officially launched an anti-money 
laundering artificial intelligence capability, which HSBC 
co-developed, that has the potential to transform how  
financial crime is tackled across the industry.

We first implemented the solution, known at HSBC as the 
Dynamic Risk Assessment, in the UK in 2021 and have since 
deployed it in six markets, covering 80% of our customers.

As a result of the tool, we can now identify more financial  
crime risk, twice as fast and with greater accuracy.

We are also continuing to work with Google Cloud on other  
use cases for artificial intelligence.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

135

Risk review

Our approach to risk

Our risk appetite
We recognise the importance of a strong culture, which refers to our 
shared attitudes, beliefs, values and standards that shape behaviours 
including those related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk 
management. All our people are responsible for the management of 
risk, with ultimate supervisory oversight residing with the Board. Our 
risk appetite defines the level and types of risk that we are willing to 
take, while informing the financial planning process and guiding 
strategic decision making.

The following principles guide the Group’s overarching appetite for 
risk and determine how our businesses and risks are managed.
Financial position
– We aim to maintain a strong capital position, defined by regulatory 

and internal capital ratios. 

– We carry out liquidity and funding management for each operating 

entity on a stand-alone basis.

Operating model
– We seek to generate returns in line with our risk appetite and 

strong risk management capability.

– We aim to deliver sustainable and diversified earnings and 

consistent returns for shareholders.

Business practice
– We have no appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing 

detriment to consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit 
of regulatory requirements.

– We have no appetite for inappropriate market conduct by any 

member of staff or by any Group business.

– We are committed to managing the climate risks that have an 
impact on our financial position and delivering on our net zero 
ambition. 

– We consider and, where appropriate, mitigate reputational risk that 

may arise from our business activities and decisions.

– We monitor non-financial risk exposure against risk appetite, 
including exposure related to inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems, or events that impact our 
customers or can lead to sub-optimal returns to shareholders, 
censure, or reputational damage.

Enterprise-wide application
Our risk appetite encapsulates the consideration of financial and non-
financial risks. We define financial risk as the risk of a financial loss as 
a result of business activities. We actively take these types of risks to 
maximise shareholder value and profits. Non-financial risk is the risk 
to achieving our strategy or objectives as the result of failed internal 
processes, people and systems, or from external events. 

Our risk appetite is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative 
terms and applied at the global business and regional levels, and to 
material operating entities. Every three years, the Group Risk and 
Compliance function commissions an external independent firm to 
review the Group’s approach to risk appetite and to help ensure that it 
remains in line with market best practice and regulatory expectations. 
This review was last carried out in 2021 and confirmed the Group’s 
risk appetite statement (‘RAS’) remains aligned to best practices, 
regulatory expectations and strategic goals. Our risk appetite 
continues to evolve and expand its scope as part of our regular review 
process.

The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite regularly to 
make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk appetite is 
considered, developed and enhanced through: 

– an alignment with our strategy, purpose, values and customer 

needs;

136

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

– trends highlighted in other Group risk reports;

– communication with risk stewards on the developing risk 

landscape;

– strength of our capital, liquidity and balance sheet;

– compliance with applicable laws and regulations;

– effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate 
risk, informed by risk ratings from risk control assessments;

– functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to 

manage risk; and

– the level of available staff with the required competencies to 

manage risks. 

We formally articulate our risk appetite through our RAS. Setting out 
our risk appetite helps ensure that we agree a suitable level of risk for 
our strategy. In this way, risk appetite informs our financial planning 
process and helps senior management to allocate capital to business 
activities, services and products.

The RAS is applied to the development of business line strategies, 
strategic and business planning, and remuneration. At a Group level, 
performance against the RAS is reported to the Group Risk 
Management Meeting alongside key risk indicators to support 
targeted insight and discussion on breaches of risk appetite and any 
associated mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to be 
promptly identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted 
remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.

Each global business, region and material operating entity is required 
to have its own RAS, which is monitored to help ensure it remains 
aligned with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS and business activity is 
guided and underpinned by qualitative principles and/or quantitative 
metrics.

Risk management
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to help 
protect our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the 
communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support 
our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported 
through our three lines of defence model described on page 138.

The implementation of our business strategy remains a key focus. As 
we implement change initiatives, we actively manage the execution 
risks. We also perform periodic risk assessments, including against 
strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for our continued 
safe operation.

We aim to use a comprehensive risk management approach across 
the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our culture 
and values. This is outlined in our risk management framework, 
including the key principles and practices that we employ in managing 
material risks, both financial and non-financial. The framework fosters 
continuous monitoring, promotes risk awareness and encourages a 
sound operational and strategic decision-making and escalation 
process. It also supports a consistent approach to identifying, 
assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in 
our activities, with clear accountabilities. We actively review and 
enhance our risk management framework and our approach to 
managing risk, through our activities with regard to: people and 
capabilities; governance; reporting and management information; 
credit risk management models; and data. 

Group Risk and Compliance is independent from the global 
businesses, including our sales and trading functions. It provides 
challenge, oversight and appropriate balance in risk/return decisions. 

Our risk management framework

The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of the risk management framework, including governance, structure, risk 
management tools and our culture, which together help align employee behaviour with risk appetite.

Key components of our risk management framework

HSBC values and risk culture

Non-executive risk governance

Risk governance

Executive risk governance

Roles and 
responsibilities

Three lines of defence model

Processes and tools

Risk appetite

Enterprise-wide risk management tools

Active risk management: identification/assessment, 
monitoring, management and reporting 

Policies and procedures

Internal controls

Control activities

Systems and infrastructure

Risk governance 

The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance 
targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk 
Committee (see page 254).

Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the 
enterprise-wide management of all risks, including key policies and 
frameworks for the management of risk within the Group (see pages 
138 and 145). 

Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for 
risk management. An independent Group Risk and Compliance 
function helps ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions 
(see page 138).

The Group has processes in place to identify, assess, monitor, manage 
and report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.

Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the 
controls required to manage our risks. 

Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum 
standards and processes for managing operational risks and internal 
controls.

The Group has systems and processes that support the identification, 
capture and exchange of information to support risk management 
activities.

The Board has ultimate supervisory responsibility for the effective 
management of risk and approves our risk appetite. 

The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by members 
of the Group Risk Management Meeting, holds executive 
accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and 
management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of the risk 
management framework.

The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible for 
the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group 
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk 
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions 
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational 
risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to ensure a consistent 
risk management approach across the regions, global businesses and 

global functions. Further details can be found under the ‘Reputational 
risk’ section of www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/managing-risk. 

Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior 
managers with individual accountability for decision making. All our 
people have a role to play in risk management. These roles are 
defined using the three lines of defence model, which takes into 
account our business and functional structures, including regulatory 
compliance and financial crime, as described in the following 
commentary, ‘Our responsibilities’.

We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help ensure 
there is appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which 
facilitates reporting and escalation to the Group Risk Management 
Meeting. This structure is summarised in the following table.

Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance

Authority

Membership

Responsibilities include:

Group Risk Management 
Meeting 

Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer
Group Chief Legal Officer
Group Chief Executive
Group Chief Financial Officer
Group Head of Financial Crime and 
Group Money Laundering Reporting 
Officer
All other Group Executive Committee 
members

– Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-

delegated risk management authority

– Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management 

framework

– Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk 

impacts and taking appropriate action

– Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action 
– Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and 

conduct

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

137

Risk reviewRisk review

Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance (continued)

Authority

Membership

Responsibilities include:

Group Risk and 
Compliance Executive 
Committee

Global business/regional 
risk management 
meetings

Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer
Chief risk and compliance officers of 
HSBC’s global businesses
Regional chief risk and compliance 
officers and chief risk officers
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance 
sub-functions 

Global business/regional chief risk and 
compliance officers and chief risk 
officers
Global business/regional chief 
executive officers
Global business/regional chief financial 
officers
Global business/regional heads 
of global functions

– Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic 
direction for the Group Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and 
providing oversight

– Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk 

and compliance across the Group

– Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-

delegated risk management authority

– Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment
– Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
– Monitoring all categories of risk and overseeing appropriate mitigating actions
– Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls

The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 252.

Treasury risks are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Group Risk Committee. Global Treasury actively manages these 
risks, supported by the Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen by Treasury Risk 
Management and the Group Risk Management Meeting. Further details on treasury risk management are set out on page 203.

Our responsibilities

All our people are responsible for identifying and managing risk within 
the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the three lines of 
defence model, which takes into account our business and functional 
structures as described below.

Three lines of defence

To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an 
activity-based three lines of defence model. This model delineates 
management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk 
management and the control environment.

The model underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying 
responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as enabling 
effective coordination of risk and control activities. The three lines of 
defence are summarised below:

– The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible 

for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them in line with 
risk appetite, and ensuring that the right controls and assessments 
are in place to mitigate them.

– The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence on 
effective risk management, and provides advice, guidance and 
assurance of the first line of defence to ensure it is managing risk 
effectively. 

– The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, 
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk 
management approach and processes are designed and operating 
effectively.

Group Risk and Compliance function

Our Group Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the 
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes 
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying and 
managing forward-looking risk. Group Risk and Compliance is made 
up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. Forming part of 
the second line of defence, the Group Risk and Compliance function 
is independent from the global businesses, including sales and trading 
functions. It provides challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in 
risk/return decisions.

Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk, 
including regulatory compliance and financial crime, lies with our 
people. They are required to manage the risks of the business and 
operational activities for which they are responsible. We maintain 
adequate oversight of our risks through our various specialist risk 
stewards and the collective accountability held by our chief risk and 
compliance officers. 

138

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our 
approach to the management of risk, as set out in our risk 
management framework. Our ongoing focus is on helping to ensure 
more effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and 
management of financial and non-financial risks. This is overseen by 
the Enterprise Risk Management function, headed by the Global Head 
of Enterprise Risk Management.

Stress testing and recovery planning

Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity 
strength through a rigorous examination of our resilience to external 
shocks, and forms part of our risk management and capital and 
liquidity planning. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress 
tests, we conduct our own internal stress tests in order to understand 
the nature and level of material risks, quantify the impact of such risks 
and develop plausible mitigating actions. The outcome of a stress test 
provides management with key insights into the impact of severely 
adverse events on the Group and provides an indication of resilience 
to regulators on the Group’s financial stability.  

Internal stress tests

Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios that 
explore risks identified by management. They include potential 
adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical, climate and operational risk 
events, as well as other potential events that are specific to HSBC. 

The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our 
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite. Stress testing 
analysis helps management understand the nature and extent of 
vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this information, 
management decides whether risks can or should be mitigated 
through management actions or, if they were to crystallise, be 
absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn informs decisions 
about preferred capital and liquidity levels and allocations.

During 2023, we completed a Group-wide internal stress test 
alongside testing of the Group’s strategy, otherwise known as the 
corporate plan, to test and inform our strategy and assumptions. The 
stress scenario explored the potential impact of interest rate shocks 
and a deep recession. Under this scenario, inflation re-intensifies as 
accentuated geopolitical tensions lead to severe global supply chain 
disruptions and a rise in energy prices.

In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major 
subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario 
analysis specific to its region. They also participate, as required, in the 
regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which 
they operate, such as stress tests required by the Bank of England 

(‘BoE’) in the UK, the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in the US, and 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) in Hong Kong. Global 
functions and businesses also perform bespoke stress testing to 
inform their assessment of risks to potential scenarios.

We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and, 
where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential 
extreme conditions that would make our business model non-viable. 
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and vulnerabilities 
we might face, and helps inform early warning triggers, management 
actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks.

Recovery and resolution plans 

Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework 
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability. The Group recovery plan, 
together with stress testing, help us understand the likely outcomes 
of adverse business or economic conditions and in the identification 
of appropriate risk mitigating actions. The Group is committed to 
further developing its recovery and resolution capabilities, including in 
relation to the Resolvability Assessment Framework. 

Ibor transition

Interbank offered rates (‘Ibors’) were previously used extensively to 
set interest rates on different types of financial transactions and for 
valuation purposes, risk measurement and performance 
benchmarking.

The publication of sterling, Swiss franc, euro, Japanese yen and US 
dollar Libor interest rate benchmarks, as well as the Euro Overnight 
Index Average (‘Eonia’) and other local interbank interest rates 
globally, has ceased following regulatory announcements and industry 
initiatives. To support any remaining contracts referencing sterling and 
US dollar Libor benchmarks, the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’) has compelled the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited to 
publish the three-month sterling Libor setting using an alternative 
‘synthetic’ methodology until 31 March 2024, and the one-month, 
three-month and six-month US dollar Libor settings until 
30 September 2024. We continue to support our customers in the 
transition of the limited number of outstanding contracts relying on 
‘synthetic’ Libor benchmarks in line with these dates.

There are approximately 90 of these contracts remaining, which are 
predominantly syndicated lending contracts, where Commercial 
Banking and Global Banking customers have required additional time 
to enable refinancing or restructuring, with transition expected to be 
completed prior to 30 September 2024. Additionally, there are a small 
number of Group-issued MREL and capital securities and client retail 
mortgages that are contingent on demised Ibors after the end of their 
fixed interest rate periods. HSBC remains committed to seeking to 
remediate and/or mitigate relevant risks relating to Ibor-demise, as 
appropriate, for these contracts. HSBC expects to be able to 
remediate and/or mitigate these risks by the relevant interest rate 
calculation dates, which may occur post-cessation of the relevant 
Ibor. All other contracts referencing benchmarks that are no longer 
published have been transitioned in line with client and investor 
discussions. 

Although we continue to track the transition of remaining contracts to 
alternative interest rate benchmarks, overall, our regulatory 
compliance, conduct and legal risks have materially diminished. We 
will continue to monitor until all contracts are fully transitioned.
Key developments in 2023
In 2023, we actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic and 
geopolitical uncertainties, as well as other key risks described in this 
section. In addition, we sought to enhance our risk management in 
the following areas:

– We enhanced our model risk frameworks and controls as we seek 

to manage the increasing numbers of climate risk, artificial 
intelligence (‘AI’) and machine learning models being embedded in 
business processes. Focus is also on generative AI due to the 
pace of technological changes and regulatory and wider interest in 
adoption and usage.

– We implemented two revised risk appetite frameworks to better 

manage and strengthen our controls with respect to concentration 
risks. These relate to concentration risks arising from exposures to 
countries and territories, and to single customer groups. 

– We enhanced our processes, framework and capabilities to seek 
to improve the control and oversight of our material third parties, 
and to help maintain our operational resilience and meet new and 
evolving regulatory requirements. 

– We continued to make progress with our comprehensive 

regulatory reporting programme in seeking to strengthen our 
global processes, improve consistency and enhance controls 
across regulatory reports.

– Through our climate risk programme, we continued to embed 
climate considerations throughout the organisation, including 
through risk policy updates and the completion of our annual 
climate risk materiality assessment. We also developed risk 
metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced 
our internal climate scenario analysis.

– We deployed industry-leading technology and advanced analytics 
capabilities into new markets to improve our ability to identify 
suspicious activities and prevent financial crime. 

– We continued to develop and enhance our electronic 

communication policies and standards to help ensure that we act 
on the most substantive issues. A Group-wide approach to 
providing corporate device access is being implemented to meet 
regulatory expectations. 

– We are embedding our suite of regulatory management systems 
following the Group-wide roll-out of regulatory horizon scanning 
capabilities, and enhanced regulation mapping tooling.

– We continued to stabilise our net interest income, despite the 

fluctuations in interest rate expectations, driven by central bank 
rate increases and a reassessment of the trajectory of inflation in 
major economies.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

139

Risk reviewRisk review

Top and emerging risks 

We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-looking 
view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our 
strategy or operations over the medium to long term.

We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, as 
well as review the themes identified across our regions and global 
businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation. We 
update our top and emerging risks as necessary.

Our current top and emerging risks are as follows.
Externally driven
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks

HSBC faces elevated geopolitical risks, with the Russia-Ukraine war 
continuing to have global economic and political implications, and the 
Israel-Hamas war increasing tensions in the Middle East, leading to 
recent attacks on shipping in the Red Sea and countermeasures, 
which have begun to disrupt supply chains. HSBC is monitoring and 
assessing the impacts of these wars.  

The Russia-Ukraine war has continued to elevate geopolitical 
instability, which could have continued ramifications for the Group and 
its customers. HSBC continues to monitor and respond to financial 
sanctions and trade restrictions that have been adopted in response. 
These sanctions and trade restrictions are complex, novel and 
evolving. In particular, the US, the UK and the EU, as well as other 
countries, have imposed significant sanctions and trade restrictions 
against Russia. Such sanctions and restrictions target certain Russian 
government officials, politically exposed persons, business people, 
Russian oil imports, energy products, financial institutions and other 
major Russian companies and sanctions evasion networks. These 
countries have also enacted more generally applicable investment, 
export, and import bans and restrictions. In December 2023, the US 
established a new secondary sanctions regime, providing itself broad 
discretion to impose severe sanctions on non-US banks that are 
knowingly or even unknowingly engaged in certain transactions or 
services involving Russia’s military-industrial base. This creates 
challenges associated with the detection or prevention of third-party 
activities beyond HSBC’s control. The imposition of such sanctions 
against any non-US HSBC entity could result in significant adverse 
commercial, operational, and reputational consequences for HSBC, 
including the restriction or termination of the non-US HSBC entity’s 
ability to access the US financial system and the freezing of the 
entity’s assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. In response to such 
sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as asset flight, Russia has 
implemented certain countermeasures, including the expropriation of 
foreign assets. 

Our business in Russia principally serves multinational corporate 
clients headquartered in other countries, is not accepting new 
business or customers and is consequently on a declining trend. 
Following a strategic review, HSBC Europe BV (a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc) has entered into an agreement to sell its 
wholly-owned subsidiary HSBC Bank (RR) (Limited Liability Company), 
subject to regulatory and governmental approvals. The planned sale of 
our business in Russia became less certain and remains subject to 
regulatory approval.

The US-China relationship remains complex. To date, the US, the UK, 
the EU and other countries have imposed various sanctions and trade 
restrictions on Chinese persons and companies, and the countries’ 
respective approaches to strategic competition with China continue to 
develop. Although sanctions and trade restrictions are difficult to 
predict, increases in diplomatic tensions between China and the US 
and other countries could result in further sanctions and trade 
restrictions that could negatively impact the Group, its customers and 
the markets in which the Group operates. For example, there is a 
continued risk of additional sanctions and trade restrictions being 
imposed by the US and other governments in relation to human 
rights, technology, and other issues, and this could create a more 
complex operating environment for the Group and its customers. 

140

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

China, in turn, imposed a number of its own sanctions and trade 
restrictions that target, or provide authority to target, foreign 
individuals and companies as well as certain goods such as rare earth 
minerals and metals, and technology and services. These, as well as 
certain law enforcement measures, have been imposed against 
certain countries, Western consulting and data intelligence firms, 
defence companies and public officials associated with the 
implementation of foreign sanctions against China.

Further sanctions, counter-sanctions and trade restrictions may 
adversely affect the Group, its customers and the markets in which 
the Group operates, by creating regulatory, reputational and market 
risks.

Economic and financial risks also remain significant, and we continue 
to monitor our risk profile closely in the context of uncertainty over 
global macroeconomic policies.

A fall in global energy and food prices from the highs of 2022 
facilitated a process of disinflation across key economies during 2023. 
To date, the Israel-Hamas war has not materially disrupted energy 
supply, and non-OPEC producers, including the US, increased output 
in the fourth quarter of 2023. Similarly, geopolitical developments in 
the Middle East have not to date led to a sustained increase in energy 
prices, but disruption and further price volatility continue to be a risk. 
The escalation or a broadening of either the Russia-Ukraine war or the 
Israel-Hamas war could aggravate supply chain disruptions and drive 
inflation higher and may pose challenges for our customers and our 
business.

Following the reduction in global inflation rates, central banks in most 
developed markets are expected to have concluded monetary policy 
tightening in the second half of 2023. A further fall in inflation is 
expected to enable reductions in interest rates throughout 2024, 
although forecasts still assume that they remain materially higher than 
in recent years. Higher financing costs will raise interest payment 
burdens for many counterparties.

Fiscal deficits are also expected to remain large in both developed and 
emerging markets, as public spending on items including social 
welfare, defence and climate transition initiatives is expected to 
remain high. In many countries, the fiscal response to the Covid-19 
pandemic has also left a very high public debt burden. Against a 
backdrop of slower economic growth and high interest rates, a rise in 
borrowing costs could increase the financial strains on highly indebted 
sovereigns. 

Political changes may also have implications for policy. Many 
countries are expected to hold elections in 2024. This may result in 
continuity in some markets, but significant political and policy change 
in others. Political change could bring uncertainty to the political and 
legal frameworks in markets where the Group operates.

Sector-specific risks are also closely monitored. Mainland China 
commercial real estate conditions remain distressed as offshore 
financing conditions and buyer demand remain subdued. Signs of a 
material or sustained recovery are yet to emerge, with market data 
still reflecting reduced investment and weak sentiment. The Chinese 
government is expected to expand fiscal and monetary support to the 
economy to boost growth and lending in 2024, including specific 
measures to support developers and stimulate housing demand. 
However, the risk of a slow and protracted recovery remains 
significant. The business and financial performance of corporates 
operating in this market has been weak, and refinancing risks are 
likely to continue in 2024. State-owned enterprises continue to 
outperform privately-owned enterprises in general, with above market 
average sales performance, market share gains and greater access to 
funding. The challenges in this sector could create further pressure on 
our customers. We continue to closely monitor and take actions to 
proactively risk manage our portfolio.

Macroeconomic, financial and geopolitical risks have all impacted our 
macroeconomic risk scenarios. Our Central scenario, which has the 
highest probability weighting in our IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ 
calculations of ECL, assumes that GDP growth rates in our main 
markets will slow down in 2024, followed by a moderate recovery in 

2025. It is anticipated that inflation will converge towards central 
banks’ target rates by early 2025. Similarly, interest rates are 
expected to decline but remain materially higher than in recent years. 
We also consider scenarios where commodity prices are materially 
higher, inflation and interest rates rise and a global recession follows, 
although we assign these scenarios a lower probability of occurring.

Forecasts remain uncertain, and changing economic conditions and 
the materialisation of key risks could reduce the accuracy of the 
Central scenario forecast. In particular, forecasts in recent years have 
been sensitive to commodity price changes, changing supply chain 
conditions, monetary policy adjustments and inflation expectations. 
Uncertainty remains with respect to the relationship between the 
economic factors and historical loss experience, which has required 
adjustments to modelled ECL in cases where we determined that the 
model was unable to capture the material underlying risks. 

Despite these risks, forecast stability and reduced forecast dispersion 
in our main markets ensured that the Central scenario for impairment  
was assigned the same likelihood of occurrence across our key 
markets.

For further details of our Central and other scenarios, see 
‘Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ 
on page 156.

Global tensions over trade, technology and ideology are manifesting 
themselves in divergent regulatory standards and compliance 
regimes, presenting long-term strategic challenges for multinational 
businesses. 

As the geopolitical landscape evolves, compliance by multinational 
corporations with their legal or regulatory obligations in one 
jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or policy objectives of 
that jurisdiction over another, creating additional compliance, 
reputational and political risks for the Group. We maintain dialogue 
with our regulators in various jurisdictions on the impact of legal and 
regulatory obligations on our business and customers.

The financial impact on the Group of geopolitical risks in Asia is 
heightened due to the region’s relatively high contribution to the 
Group’s profitability, particularly in Hong Kong.

While it is the Group’s policy to comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations of all jurisdictions in which it operates, geopolitical 
tensions, and potential ambiguities in the Group’s compliance 
obligations, will continue to present challenges and risks for the 
Group and could have a material adverse impact on the Group‘s 
business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, 
strategy and reputation, as well as on the Group’s customers.

Mitigating actions 

– We closely monitor geopolitical and economic developments in 

key markets and sectors, and undertake scenario analysis where 
appropriate. This helps us to take actions to manage our portfolios 
where necessary, including through enhanced monitoring, 
amending our risk appetite and/or reducing limits and exposures. 

– We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify 

sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management 
actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk 
appetite where necessary. 

– We regularly review key portfolios – including our commercial real 

estate portfolio – to help ensure that individual customer or 
portfolio risks are understood and that our ability to manage the 
level of facilities offered through any downturn is appropriate.

– We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions 
through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and 
controls, which are subject to ongoing testing, auditing and 
enhancements.

– We have taken steps, where necessary, to enhance physical 
security in geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from 
terrorism and military conflicts.

Technology and cybersecurity risk

Like other organisations, we operate in an extensive and complex 
technology landscape. We need to remain resilient in order to support 
customers, our colleagues and financial markets globally. Risks arise 
where, for example, technology is not understood, maintained or 
developed appropriately. We also continue to operate in an 
increasingly complex cyber threat environment globally. These threats 
include potential unauthorised access to customer accounts and 
attacks on systems, whether ours or our third-party suppliers’. These 
threats require ongoing investment in business and technical controls 
to defend against them.

Mitigating actions

– We continue to upgrade many of our IT systems and are 

transforming how software solutions are developed, delivered, 
maintained and tested as part of our investment in the Group’s 
operational resilience capabilities to seek to meet the expectations 
of our customers and regulators and to help prevent disruptions to 
our services.

– Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team continually 

evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent cyber-attack types 
and their potential outcomes (see page 98), and we continue to 
seek to strengthen our controls to help reduce the likelihood and 
impact of advanced malware, data leakage, exposure through third 
parties and security vulnerabilities.

– We continue to seek to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, 

including Cloud security, identity and access management, metrics 
and data analytics, and third-party security reviews and to invest in 
mitigating the potential threats of emerging technologies.

– We regularly report and review cyber risk and control 

effectiveness at executive level across global businesses, 
functions and regions, as well as at non-executive Board level to 
help ensure there is appropriate visibility and governance of the 
risk and its mitigating actions.

– We participate globally in industry bodies and working groups to 
collaborate on tactics employed by cyber-crime groups and to 
work together to seek to prevent, detect and defend against 
cyber-attacks on financial organisations globally.

– We respond to attempts to compromise our cybersecurity in 

accordance with our cybersecurity framework, which adheres to 
applicable laws, rules and regulations. To date, none of these 
attacks have had a material impact on our business or operations.

Environmental, social and governance 
(’ESG’) risk

We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with 
ESG-related matters. Our current areas of focus include climate risk, 
nature-related risks and human rights risks. These can impact us both 
directly and indirectly through our business activities and 
relationships. For details of how we govern ESG, see page 88.

Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods, 
comprising: short term, which is up to 2025; medium term, which is 
between 2026 and 2035; and long term, which is between 2036 and 
2050. These time periods are aligned to the Climate Action 100+ 
framework v1.2.

We may face credit losses if our customers’ business models fail to 
align to a net zero economy or if our customers face disruption to 
their operations or deterioration to their assets as a result of extreme 
weather.

We may face trading losses if climate change results in changes to 
macroeconomic and financial variables that negatively impact our 
trading book exposures.

We may face impacts from physical risk on our own operations and 
premises, owing to the increase in frequency and severity of weather 
events and chronic shifts in weather patterns, which could affect our 
ability to conduct our day-to-day operations.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

141

Risk reviewRisk review

We may face increased reputational, legal, and regulatory compliance 
risks if we fail to make sufficient progress towards our net zero 
ambition, and ESG-related targets, commitments and ambitions, if we 
fail to meet evolving regulatory expectations and requirements on the 
management of climate risk and broader ESG risks, or if we 
knowingly or unknowingly make inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or 
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our stakeholders.

Requirements, policy objectives, expectations or views may vary by 
jurisdiction and stakeholder in relation to ESG-related matters. We 
may be subject to potentially conflicting approaches to ESG matters in 
certain jurisdictions, which may impact our ability to conduct certain 
business within those jurisdictions or result in additional regulatory 
compliance, reputational, political or litigation risks. These risks may 
also arise from divergence in the implementation of ESG, climate 
policy and financial regulation in the many regions in which we 
operate, including initiatives to apply and enforce policy and regulation 
with extraterritorial effect.

We may face financial reporting risk in relation to our climate-related 
and broader ESG disclosures, as any data, methodologies, scenarios 
and reporting standards we have used may evolve over time in line 
with market practice, regulation or developments in science. We may 
also face the risk of making reporting errors due to issues relating to 
the availability, accuracy and verifiability of data, and system, process 
and control challenges. Any changes and reporting errors could result 
in revisions to our internal frameworks and reported data and could 
mean that reported figures are not reconcilable or comparable year on 
year. We may also have to re-evaluate our progress towards our 
climate-related targets in the future. 

– In 2023, we conducted pilot exercises to assess nature risk 

exposures, focusing on our continental Europe portfolios in line 
with regulatory expectations.

– In 2023, we provided practical guidance and training, where 

relevant, to our colleagues across the Group on how to identify 
and manage human rights risk. For further details, see page 89. 

– We have expanded the scope of financial reporting risk to explicitly 

include oversight over accuracy and completeness of climate-
related and broader ESG disclosures. In 2023, we updated the risk 
appetite statement to reference our ESG and climate-related 
disclosures. We also updated our internal controls to incorporate 
requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in climate-
related and broader ESG disclosures. To support this, we have 
developed a framework to guide control implementation over 
climate-related and broader ESG disclosures, which includes areas 
such as process and data governance, and risk assessment. 

– We continue to engage with our customers, investors and 

regulators proactively on the management of climate-related and 
broader ESG risks. We also engage with initiatives, including the 
Climate Financial Risk Forum, Equator Principles, Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures and CDP (formerly the 
Carbon Disclosure Project) to help drive best practice for climate 
risk management.

For further details of our approach to climate risk management, see 
‘Climate risk’ on page 221.

For further details of ESG risk management, see ‘Financial crime risk‘ 
on page 231 and ‘Regulatory compliance risk’ on page 231.

We may face model risk, as the uncertain and evolving impacts of 
climate change and data and methodology limitations present 
challenges to creating reliable and accurate model outputs.

Our ESG review can be found on page 42.
Financial crime risk 

We may face climate and broader ESG-related litigation and regulatory 
enforcement risks, either directly if stakeholders think that we are not 
adequately managing climate and broader ESG-related risks, or 
indirectly if our clients and customers are themselves the subject of 
litigation, potentially resulting in the revaluation of client assets.

We may also be exposed to nature-related risks beyond climate 
change. These risks arise when the provision of ecosystem services, 
such as water availability, air quality and soil quality, is compromised 
by human activity. Nature risk can manifest through macroeconomic, 
market, credit, reputational, legal and regulatory risks, for both HSBC 
and our customers. 

Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human rights, 
and to modern slavery in particular, are increasing. Businesses are 
expected to be transparent about their efforts to identify and respond 
to the risk of negative human rights impacts arising from their 
business activities and relationships. 

Mitigating actions

– A dedicated Environmental Risk Oversight Forum is responsible 

for shaping and overseeing our approach and providing support in 
managing climate and sustainability risk. For further details of the 
Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 88.

– Our climate risk programme continues to support the development 
of our climate risk management capabilities across four key pillars: 
governance and risk appetite, risk management, stress testing and 
scenario analysis, and disclosures. We continue to enhance our 
approach and mitigation of the risk of greenwashing. 

– In January 2024, we updated our energy policy covering the 

broader energy system including upstream oil and gas, oil and gas 
power generation, coal, hydrogen, renewables and hydropower, 
nuclear, biomass and energy from waste. We also updated our 
thermal coal phase-out policy, which aims to drive thermal coal 
phase-out aligned to science-based timeframes. We take a risk-
based approach in the way that we identify transactions and 
clients to which our energy and thermal coal phase-out policies 
apply, and report on relevant exposures, adopting approaches 
proportionate to risk and materiality. For further details of our 
sustainability risk policies, see page 67.

142

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory scrutiny 
regarding their ability to detect and prevent financial crime. In 2023, 
these risks were exacerbated by rising geopolitical tensions and 
ongoing macroeconomic factors. These challenging developments 
require managing conflicting laws and approaches to legal and 
regulatory regimes, and implementing increasingly complex and less 
predictable sanctions and trade restrictions. 

Amid high levels of inflation and increasing cost of living pressures, 
we face increasing regulatory expectations with respect to managing 
internal and external fraud and protecting vulnerable customers. In 
addition, the accessibility and increasing sophistication of generative 
AI brings financial crime risks. While there is potential for the 
technology to support financial crime detection, there is also a risk 
that criminals use generative AI to perpetrate fraud, particularly 
scams.

The digitisation of financial services continues to have an impact on 
the payments ecosystem, with an increasing number of new market 
entrants and payment mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the 
same level of regulatory scrutiny or regulations as banks. 
Developments around digital assets and currencies have continued at 
pace, with an increasing regulatory and enforcement focus on the 
financial crimes linked to these types of assets.

Expectations continue to increase with respect to the intersection of 
ESG issues and financial crime, as our organisation, customers and 
suppliers transition to net zero. These are particularly focused on 
potential ‘greenwashing’, human rights issues and environmental 
crimes. In addition, climate change itself could heighten risks linked to 
vulnerable migrant populations in countries where financial crime is 
already more prevalent.

We also continue to face increasing challenges presented by national 
data privacy requirements, which may affect our ability to manage 
financial crime risks across markets. 

Mitigating actions  

– We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions 
through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and 
controls, which are subject to ongoing testing, auditing and 
enhancements.

– We continue to develop our fraud controls and invest in 

capabilities to fight financial crime through the application of 

advanced analytics and AI, while monitoring technological 
developments and engaging with third parties.

– We are looking at the impact of a rapidly changing payments 

ecosystem, as well as risks associated with direct and indirect 
exposure to digital assets and currencies, in an effort to maintain 
appropriate financial crime controls.

– We regularly review our existing policies and control framework so 
that developments relating to ESG are considered and the financial 
crime risks are mitigated to the extent possible.

– We engage with regulators, policymakers and relevant 

international bodies, seeking to address data privacy challenges 
through international standards, guidance and legislation.
Digitalisation and technological advances 
risk 

Developments in technology and changes to regulations are enabling 
new entrants to the industry, particularly with respect to payments. 
This challenges us to continue innovating to address evolving 
customer requirements, drive efficiency and adapt our products to 
attract and retain customers. As a result, we may need to increase 
our investment in our business to adapt or develop products and 
services to respond to our customers’ evolving needs. We also need 
to ensure that new digital capabilities do not weaken our resilience or 
wider risk management capabilities.

New technologies such as generative AI, large language models 
blockchain and quantum computing offer both business opportunities 
and potential risks for HSBC. As with the use of all technologies, we 
aim to maximise their potential while seeking to ensure a robust 
control environment is in place to help manage the inherent risks, 
such as the impact on encryption algorithms.

Mitigating actions:

– We continue to monitor this emerging risk and advances in 
technology, as well as changes in customer behaviours, to 
understand how these may impact our business. 

– We assess new technologies to help develop appropriate controls 

and maintain resilience.

– We closely monitor and assess financial crime risk and the impact 

on payment transparency and architecture.

Evolving regulatory environment risk

We aim to keep abreast of the emerging regulatory compliance and 
conduct risk agenda. Current focus areas include but are not limited 
to: ESG agenda developments, including in particular managing the 
risk of ‘greenwashing’; ensuring good customer outcomes, including 
addressing customer vulnerabilities due to cost of living pressures; 
enhancements to regulatory reporting controls; and employee 
compliance, including the use of e-communication channels.

The competitive landscape in which the Group operates may be 
impacted by future regulatory changes and government intervention.

Mitigating actions

– We monitor regulatory developments to understand the evolving 
regulatory landscape, and seek to respond with changes in a 
timely manner.

– We engage with governments and regulators, and respond to 

consultations with a view to help shape regulations that can be 
implemented effectively.

– We hold regular meetings with relevant authorities to discuss 
strategic contingency plans, including those arising from 
geopolitical issues.  

– Our purpose-led conduct approach aligns to our purpose and 

values, in particular the value ‘we take responsibility’.

Internally driven
Data risk
We use multiple systems and growing quantities of data to support 
our customers. Risk arises if data is incorrect, unavailable, misused, or 
unprotected. Along with other banks and financial institutions, we 
need to meet external regulatory obligations and laws that cover data, 
such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s 239 
guidelines and the General Data Protection Regulation.

Mitigating actions 

– Through our global data management framework, we monitor the 

quality, availability and security of data that supports our 
customers and internal processes. We work towards resolving any 
identified data issues in a timely manner.

– We continue to make improvements to our data policies and to our 
control framework – which includes trusted sources, data flows 
and data quality – in order to enhance the end-to-end management 
of data risk.

– We have established a global data management utility and 

continue to simplify and unify data management activities across 
the Group.

– We seek to protect customer data through our data privacy 

framework, which establishes practices, design principles and 
guidelines that enable us to demonstrate compliance with data 
privacy laws and regulations.

– We continue to modernise our data and analytics infrastructure 
through investments in Cloud technology, data visualisation, 
machine learning and AI.

– We continue to educate our employees on data risk and data 
management. We have delivered regular mandatory training 
globally on how to protect and manage data appropriately.
Risks arising from the receipt of services 
from third parties

We use third parties to provide a range of goods and services. It is 
critical that we ensure we have appropriate risk management policies, 
processes and practices over the selection, governance and oversight 
of third parties and their supply chain, particularly for key activities 
that could affect our operational resilience. Any deficiency in the 
management of risks associated with our third parties could affect our 
ability to support our customers and meet regulatory expectations.

Mitigating actions

– We continue to monitor the effectiveness of the controls operated 
by our third-party providers and request third-party control reports, 
where required.    

– We continue to enhance the effective management of our intra-

Group arrangements using the same control standards as we have 
for external third-party arrangements.

– We have strengthened the way third-party risk is overseen and 
managed across all non-financial risks, and have enhanced our 
processes, framework and reporting capabilities to help improve 
the visibility of risk and enable more robust management of our 
material third parties by our global businesses, functions and 
regions.

– We are implementing the changes required by new regulations as 

set by our regulators.

Model risk 
Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes 
reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-financial 
contexts, as well as in a range of business applications such as 
customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction 
monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. 
Assessing model performance is a continuous undertaking. Models 
can need redevelopment as market conditions change. Significant 
increases in global inflation and interest rates have impacted the 
reliability and accuracy of both credit and market risk models.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

143

Risk reviewRisk review

We continued to prioritise the redevelopment of internal ratings-based 
(‘IRB’) and internal model methods (‘IMM’) models, in relation to 
counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair and Basel III 
programmes, with a key focus on enhancing the quality of data used 
as model inputs. Some models have been approved and a number are 
pending approval decisions from the UK’s Prudential Regulation 
Authority (‘PRA’) and other key regulators. Some IMM and internal 
model approach (‘IMA’) models have been approved for use, and 
feedback has been received for some IRB models. Climate risk 
modelling is a key focus for the Group as HSBC’s commitment to 
ESG has become a key part of the Group’s strategy. Focus is also on 
AI and machine learning where the pace of technological advances is 
driving significant changes in modelling techniques.

Model risk remains a key area of focus given the regulatory scrutiny in 
this area, with local regulatory exams taking place in many 
jurisdictions and the PRA’s publication of supervisory statement 1/23 
(SS1/23) which provided revised principles on how model risk should 
be managed, as well as further developments in policy expected from 
other regulators.

Mitigating actions

– We have continued to embed the enhanced monitoring, review 

and challenge of expected credit loss model performance through 
our Model Risk Management function as part of a broader 
quarterly process to determine loss levels. The Model Risk 
Management team aims to provide effective review and challenge 
of any future redevelopment of these models.

– A programme of work is in progress to address the requirements 

of the new PRA guidance for managing model risk.

– Model Risk Governance committees at the Group, business and 
functional levels continue to provide oversight of model risk.

– A full review of the Group’s model landscape is being undertaken 
across the organisation to ensure models are being deployed in 
line with global business strategy.

– Model Risk Management works closely with businesses to ensure 

that IRB/IMM/IMA models in development meet risk 
management, pricing and capital management needs. Global 
Internal Audit provides assurance over the risk management 
framework for models.

– Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk 

governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The 
teams test whether controls implemented by model users comply 
with model risk policy and if model risk standards are adequate.

– Models using AI or generative AI techniques are validated and 
monitored to help ensure that risks that are determined by the 
algorithms have adequate oversight and review. A framework to 
manage the range of risks that are generated by these advanced 
techniques, and to recognise the multidisciplinary nature of these 
risks, is being developed.

Change execution risk

The needs of our customers are evolving faster than ever, particularly 
with regard to technological advancements and the global transition to 
a low-carbon economy. The resulting scale, complexity and pace of 
strategic and regulatory change have elevated the level of risk for 
executing such changes safely and efficiently.

Mitigating actions

– Change execution risk is part of our risk taxonomy and control 
library so that it is defined, assessed, managed, reported and 
overseen in the same way as our other material risks.

– Our change framework provides colleagues across all levels of the 
Group who deliver on strategic and organisational initiatives with a 
common and consistent understanding of their role in achieving 
value and outcomes.

– The Change Prioritisation and Oversight Committee oversees the 
prioritisation, strategic alignment and management of execution 
risk for all strategic change portfolios and initiatives.

Risks associated with workforce capability, 
capacity and environmental factors with 
potential impact on growth
Our global businesses and functions in all of our markets are exposed 
to risks associated with workforce capacity challenges, including 
challenges to retain, develop and attract high-performing employees 
in key labour markets, and compliance with employment laws and 
regulations. Failure to manage these risks may have an impact on the 
delivery of our strategic objectives. It could also result in poor 
customer outcomes or a breach of employment laws and regulations, 
which may lead to regulatory sanctions or legal claims.

Mitigating actions

– We seek to promote a diverse and inclusive workforce and provide 
health and well-being support. We continue to build our speak-up 
culture through active campaigns.

– We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, with 
each business and function putting in place plans to help ensure 
they have effective workforce forecasting to meet business 
demands. 

– We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational 
restructuring, helping to ensure we manage redundancies 
sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage our 
people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with an 
empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole 
proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.

– Our Future Skills curriculum helps provides skills that will help to 
enable employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.

– We develop succession plans for key management roles, with 

oversight from the Group Executive Committee.

144

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Our material banking risks

The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables:

Description of risks – banking operations

Risks

Arising from

Measurement, monitoring and management of risk

Credit risk (see page 147)

Credit risk is the risk of financial 
loss if a customer or counterparty 
fails to meet an obligation under a 
contract. 

Credit risk arises principally from direct 
lending, trade finance and leasing 
business, but also from other products 
such as guarantees and derivatives.

Credit risk is:
– measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or 

counterparty fails to make repayments; 

– monitored using various internal risk management measures and 

within limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated 
authorities; and

– managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear 
and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers; and 
by setting limits and appetite across geographical markets, portfolios 
or sectors.

Treasury risk (see page 203)

Treasury risk is the risk of having 
insufficient capital, liquidity or 
funding resources to meet 
financial obligations and satisfy 
regulatory requirements, including 
the risk of adverse impact on 
earnings or capital due to 
structural and transactional foreign 
exchange exposures and changes 
in market interest rates, together 
with pension and insurance risk.

Market risk (see page 218)

Market risk is the risk of an 
adverse financial impact on trading 
activities arising from changes in 
market parameters such as 
interest rates, foreign exchange 
rates, asset prices, volatilities, 
correlations and credit spreads.

Climate risk (see page 221)

Climate risk relates to the financial 
and non-financial impacts that may 
arise as a result of climate change 
and the move to a net zero 
economy.

Treasury risk arises from changes to the 
respective resources and risk profiles 
driven by customer behaviour, 
management decisions or the external 
environment.

Treasury risk is: 
– measured through risk appetite and more granular limits, set to 

provide an early warning of increasing risk, minimum ratios of relevant 
regulatory metrics, and metrics to monitor the key risk drivers 
impacting treasury resources;

– monitored and projected against appetites and by using operating 

plans based on strategic objectives together with stress and scenario 
testing; and 

– managed through control of resources in conjunction with risk profiles, 

strategic objectives and cash flows.

Market risk arises from both trading 
portfolios and non-trading portfolios. 
Market risk for non-trading portfolios is 
discussed in the Treasury risk section 
on page 215.
Market risk exposures arising from our 
insurance operations are discussed on 
page 235.

Market risk is:
– measured using sensitivities, value at risk and stress testing, giving a 
detailed picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market 
movements and scenarios, as well as tail risks over specified time 
horizons;

– monitored using value at risk, stress testing and other measures; and
– managed using risk limits approved by the Group Risk Management 

Meeting and the risk management meetings in various global 
businesses. 

Climate risk is:
– measured using risk metrics and stress testing;
– monitored against risk appetite statements; and
– managed through adherence to risk appetite thresholds, through 
specific policies, and through enhancements to processes and 
development of tools including the development of product market 
controls to manage the risk of greenwashing and the development of 
portfolio steering capabilities to manage our net zero targets.

Climate risk can materialise through: 
– physical risk, which arises from the 
increased frequency and severity of 
weather events;
transition risk, which arises from the 
process of moving to a low-carbon 
economy; 

–

– net zero alignment risk, which arises 
from failing to meet our net zero 
commitments or to meet external 
expectations related to net zero 
because of inadequate ambition and/
or plans, poor execution, or inability 
to adapt to changes in the external 
environment; and 
the risk of greenwashing, which 
arises from the act of knowingly or 
unknowingly making inaccurate, 
unclear, misleading or 
unsubstantiated claims regarding 
sustainability to stakeholders.

–

Resilience risk (see page 230)
Resilience risk is the risk of 
sustained and significant business 
disruption from execution, 
delivery, physical security or safety 
events, causing the inability to 
provide critical services to our 
customers, affiliates, and 
counterparties.

Resilience risk arises from failures or 
inadequacies in processes, people, 
systems or external events.

Resilience risk is: 
– measured using a range of metrics with defined maximum acceptable 

impact tolerances, and against our agreed risk appetite;

– monitored through oversight of enterprise processes, risks, controls 

and strategic change programmes; and

– managed by continual monitoring and thematic reviews.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

145

Risk reviewRisk review

Description of risks – banking operations (continued)

Risks

Arising from

Measurement, monitoring and management of risk

Regulatory compliance risk (see page 231)

Regulatory compliance risk is the 
risk associated with breaching our 
duty to clients and other 
counterparties, inappropriate 
market conduct (including 
unauthorised trading) and 
breaching related financial services 
regulatory standards.

Regulatory compliance risk arises from 
the failure to observe relevant laws, 
codes, rules and regulations and can 
manifest itself in poor market or 
customer outcomes and lead to fines, 
penalties and reputational damage to 
our business. 

Financial crime risk (see page 231)

Financial crime risk arises from day-to-
day banking operations involving 
customers, third parties and employees. 

Financial crime risk is the risk that 
HSBC’s products and services will 
be exploited for criminal activity. 
This includes fraud, bribery and 
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions 
and export control violations, 
money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation 
financing.

Model risk (see page 232)

Model risk is the risk of the 
potential for adverse 
consequences from model errors 
or the inappropriate use of 
modelled outputs to inform 
business decisions. 

Regulatory compliance risk is:
– measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident 

assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement and 
assessment of our regulatory compliance teams;

– monitored against the first line of defence risk and control 

assessments, the results of the monitoring and control assurance 
activities of the second line of defence functions, and the results of 
internal and external audits and regulatory inspections; and

– managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and 
procedures, training employees in them and monitoring activity to 
help ensure their observance. Proactive risk control and/or 
remediation work is undertaken where required.

Financial crime risk is: 
– measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident 
assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement of, and 
assessment by, our compliance teams;

– monitored against the first line of defence risk and control 

assessments, the results of the monitoring and control assurance 
activities of the second line of defence functions, and the results of 
internal and external audits and regulatory inspections; and

– managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and 
procedures, training employees in them and monitoring activity to 
help ensure their observance. Proactive risk control and/or 
remediation work is undertaken where required.

– monitored against model risk appetite statements, insight from the 
independent validations completed by the model risk management 
team, feedback from internal and external audits, and regulatory 
reviews; and

– managed by creating and communicating appropriate policies, 

procedures and guidance, training colleagues in their application, and 
supervising their adoption to ensure operational effectiveness.

the same risks as our banking operations, and these are covered by 
the Group’s risk management processes. However, there are specific 
risks inherent to the insurance operations as noted below.

Model risk arises in both financial and 
non-financial contexts whenever 
business decision making includes 
reliance on models. 

Model risk is:
– measured by reference to model performance tracking and the output 
of detailed technical reviews, with key metrics including model review 
statuses and findings;  

Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are regulated separately 
from our banking operations. Risks in our insurance entities are 
managed using methodologies and processes that are subject to 
Group oversight. Our insurance operations are also subject to many of 

Description of risks – insurance manufacturing operations

Risks

Arising from

Measurement, monitoring and management of risk

Financial risk (see page 235)

For insurance entities, financial risk 
includes the risk of not being able 
to effectively match liabilities 
arising under insurance contracts 
with appropriate investments and 
that the expected sharing of 
financial performance with 
policyholders under certain 
contracts is not possible.

Insurance risk (see page 237)

Insurance risk is the risk that, over 
time, the cost of insurance policies 
written, including claims and 
benefits, may exceed the total 
amount of premiums and 
investment income received.

Exposure to financial risk arises from: 
– market risk affecting the fair values of 
financial assets or their future cash 
flows;

– credit risk; and
– liquidity risk of entities being unable 

to make payments to policyholders as 
they fall due.

Financial risk is:
– measured for credit risk, in terms of economic capital and the amount 

that could be lost if a counterparty fails to make repayments; for 
market risk, in terms of economic capital, internal metrics and 
fluctuations in key financial variables; and for liquidity risk, in terms of 
internal metrics including stressed operational cash flow projections;

– monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated 

authorities; and

– managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear 
and consistent policies, principles and guidance. This includes using 
product design, asset liability matching and bonus rates. 

The cost of claims and benefits can be 
influenced by many factors, including 
mortality and morbidity experience, as 
well as lapse and surrender rates.

Insurance risk is:
– measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and economic capital 

allocated to insurance underwriting risk;

– monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated 

authorities; and

– managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear 
and consistent policies, principles and guidance. This includes using 
product design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling 
procedures.

146

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Credit risk 

Contents

147

147

149

149

153

154

Overview

Credit risk management

Credit risk in 2023

Summary of credit risk

Stage 2 decomposition

Assets held for sale

Credit exposure 

155
156 Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL 

estimates

168

Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and 
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers 
including loan commitments and financial guarantees

Credit quality
172
176 Wholesale lending
190

Personal lending

198

202

Supplementary information

HSBC Holdings 

Overview
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty 
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises 
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but 
also from other products such as guarantees and derivatives. 
Credit risk management
Key developments in 2023

There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the 
management of credit risk in 2023. We continued to apply the 
requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the Credit Risk 
sub-function. For our wholesale portfolios, we introduced new 
policies for the management of country risk, subordinated debt 
assessments, and a revised risk appetite framework. Implementation 
of these changes did not have a material impact on our wholesale 
portfolios. 

We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic 
uncertainties, including interest rates, inflation, fiscal and monetary 
policy, broader geopolitical uncertainties and conflicts.

For further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 140.
Governance and structure

We have established Group-wide credit risk management and related 
IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of economic 
developments in key markets on specific customers, customer 
segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we take 
mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or limits and 
tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms 
under which we provide credit facilities within the context of 
individual customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local 
regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market 
position.

Credit Risk sub-function

(Audited)

Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group 
Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate them. The 
Credit Risk sub-function in Group Risk and Compliance is responsible 
for the key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which 
include formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks, 
guiding the Group’s appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking 
independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and 
monitoring performance and management of portfolios.

The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:

– to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending, 

and robust risk policies and control frameworks; 

– to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, 

implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under 
actual and scenario conditions; and

– to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their 

costs and their mitigation.

Key risk management processes

IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process

The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling and data; 
implementation; and governance.

Modelling, data and forward economic guidance

We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in various 
geographies, which are subject to internal model risk governance 
including independent review of significant model developments.

We have a centralised process for generating unbiased and 
independent global economic scenarios. Scenarios are subject to a 
process of review and challenge by a dedicated central team and 
individually for each region. Each quarter, the scenarios and probability 
weights are reviewed and checked for consistency with the economic 
conjuncture and current economic and financial risks. These are 
subject to final review and approval by senior management in a 
Forward Economic Guidance Global Business Impairment Committee.

Implementation

A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit losses 
calculation using data, which is subject to a number of validation 
checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, finance and risk 
systems. Where possible, these checks and processes are performed 
in a globally consistent and centralised manner.

Governance

Regional management review forums are established in key sites and 
regions in order to review and approve the impairment results. 
Regional management review forums have representatives from 
Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are 
reported up to the relevant global business impairment committee for 
final approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of 
the committee are the Wholesale Global Chief Corporate Credit 
Officer and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for Wealth and 
Personal Banking Risk, as well as the relevant global business’s Chief 
Financial Officer and the Global Financial Controller.

Concentration of exposure

(Audited)

Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or 
exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such 
counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same 
geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to 
meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in 
economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls 
and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our 
portfolios across industries, countries and global businesses. These 
include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, 
and stress testing.

Credit quality of financial instruments

(Audited)

Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach 
under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support the 
calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The 
five credit quality classifications encompass a range of granular 
internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail 
customers, and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to 
debt securities.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

147

Risk reviewRisk review

For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external 
ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications based upon 
the mapping of related customer risk rating (‘CRR’) to external credit 
rating.

Wholesale lending

The CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 
23-grade scale of obligor probability of default (‘PD’). All corporate 
customers are rated using the 10- or 23-grade scale, depending on 
the degree of sophistication of the Basel approach adopted for the 
exposure.

Credit quality classification

Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by 
reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by the 
average of issuer-weighted historical default rates. This mapping 
between internal and external ratings is indicative and may vary over 
time.

Retail lending

Retail lending credit quality is based on a 12-month point-in-time 
probability-weighted PD.

Sovereign debt 
securities
and bills

Other debt 
securities
and bills

Wholesale lending
and derivatives

Retail lending

External credit 
rating

External credit 
rating

Internal credit 
rating

12-month 
Basel 
probability of 
default %

Internal credit 
rating

12 month 
probability- 
weighted PD %

BBB and above
BBB- to BB
BB- to B and 
unrated
B- to C
Default

A- and above
BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to B and 
unrated
B- to C
Default

CRR 1 to CRR 2
CRR 3

0–0.169
0.170–0.740

Band 1 and 2
Band 3

0.000–0.500
0.501–1.500

CRR 4 to CRR 5

0.741–4.914

Band 4 and 5

1.501–20.000

CRR 6 to CRR 8
CRR 9 to CRR 10

4.915–99.999
100

Band 6
Band 7

20.001–99.999
100

Quality classification1,2
Strong
Good

Satisfactory

Sub-standard
Credit impaired

1  Customer risk rating (‘CRR’).
2  12-month point-in-time probability-weighted probability of default (‘PD’).

Quality classification definitions

– ‘Strong’ exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or low levels of 

expected loss.

– ‘Good’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
– ‘Satisfactory’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average-to-fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default 

risk.

– ‘Sub-standard’ exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
– ‘Credit-impaired’ exposures have been assessed as described on Note 1.2(i) on the financial statements.

Forborne loans and advances

(Audited)

Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards an obligor that 
is experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting its 
financial commitments.

We continue to class loans as forborne when we modify the 
contractual payment terms due to having significant concerns about 
the borrowers’ ability to meet contractual payments when they were 
due. Our definition of forborne captures non-payment-related 
concessions, such as covenant waivers.

For details of our policy on forbearance, see Note 1.2(i) in the financial 
statements.

Credit quality of forborne loans

For wholesale lending, where payment-related forbearance measures 
result in a diminished financial obligation, or if there are other 
indicators of impairment, the loan will be classified as credit impaired 
if it is not already so classified. All facilities with a customer, including 
loans that have not been modified, are considered credit impaired 
following the identification of a payment-related forborne loan. For 
retail lending, where a material payment-related concession has been 
granted, the loan will be classified as credit impaired. In isolation, non-
payment forbearance measures may not result in the loan being 
classified as credit impaired unless combined with other indicators of 
credit impairment. These are classed as performing forborne loans for 
both wholesale and retail lending.

Wholesale and retail lending forborne loans are classified as credit 
impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant 
reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, observed 
over a minimum one-year period, and there are no other indicators of 
impairment. Any forborne loans not considered credit impaired will 

148

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

remain forborne for a minimum of two years from the date that credit 
impairment no longer applies. For wholesale and retail lending, any 
forbearance measures granted on a loan already classed as forborne 
results in the customer being classed as credit impaired. 

Forborne loans and recognition of expected credit losses

(Audited)

Forborne loans expected credit loss assessments reflect the higher 
rates of losses typically experienced with these types of loans such 
that they are in stage 2 and stage 3. The higher rates are more 
pronounced in unsecured retail lending requiring further 
segmentation. For wholesale lending, forborne loans are typically 
assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the 
impairment assessments. The individual impairment assessment 
takes into account the higher risk of the future non-payment inherent 
in forborne loans.

Impairment assessment

(Audited)

For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and 
financial investments, see Note 1.2(i) on the financial statements.

Write-off of loans and advances

(Audited)

Under IFRS 9, write-off should occur when there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovering further cash flows from the financial asset.

This principle does not prohibit early write-off, which is defined in 
local policies to ensure effectiveness in the management of 
customers in the collections process.

Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally 
written off at between 150 and 210 days past due. The standard 

period runs until the end of the month in which the account becomes 
180 days contractually delinquent. However, in exceptional 
circumstances, to avoid unfair customer outcomes, deliver customer 
duty or meet regulatory expectations, the period may be extended 
further. 

For secured facilities, write-off should occur upon repossession of 
collateral, receipt of proceeds via settlement, or determination that 
recovery of the collateral will not be pursued. Where these assets are 
maintained on the balance sheet beyond 60 months of consecutive 
delinquency-driven default, the prospect of recovery is reassessed. 

Recovery activity, on both secured and unsecured assets, may 
continue after write-off.

Any unsecured exposures that are not written off at 180 days past 
due, and any secured exposures that are in ‘default’ status for 60 
months or greater but are not written off, are subject to additional 
monitoring via the appropriate governance forums.

Credit risk in 2023
At 31 December 2023, gross loans and advances to customers and 
banks of $1,063bn increased by $23.1bn, compared with 
31 December 2022. This included favourable foreign exchange 
movements of $17.7bn. 

Excluding foreign exchange movements, the underlying increase of 
$5.4bn was driven by a $21.1bn rise in personal loans and advances 
to customers and a $8.9bn rise in loans and advances to banks. These 
were partly offset by a $24.6bn decrease in wholesale loans and 
advances to customers.

The underlying increase in personal loans and advances to customers 
was mainly driven by an increase in France (up $7.8bn) due to the 
retention of a portfolio of home loans and other loans previously 
classified as assets held for sale. It also comprised increases in the 
UK (up $6.6bn), in Hong Kong (up $5.8bn), in Mexico (up $2.3bn) and 
in Australia (up $1.4bn) driven by mortgage growth. These were partly 
offset by a decrease of $1.2bn due to the merger of our business in 
Oman and a decrease of $1.0bn due to the disposal of our retail 
mortgage loan portfolio in New Zealand.

The underlying increase in loans and advances to banks was driven by 
central bank balances and money market lending growth in Singapore 
(up $6.5bn), Hong Kong (up $5.1bn) and the UK (up $2.8bn). These 
were partly offset by decreases in mainland China (down $2.6bn), 
Malaysia (down $1.6bn) and Switzerland (down $1.4bn).

The underlying decrease in wholesale loans and advances to 
customers was driven by a $31.5bn reduction in corporate and 
commercial balances, of which $13.7bn in stage 1 and $16.8bn in 
stage 2. The decrease was observed mainly in Hong Kong (down 
$18.6bn), in the UK (down $5.4bn) and in mainland China (down 
$2.2bn), driven by repayments and deleveraging, as well as de-risking 
measures on mainland China commercial real estate exposures. It 
also comprised a decrease in Oman (down $2.1bn) due to the merger 
of our operations in the country. This was partly offset by an increase 
in balances with non-bank financial institutions (up $6.8bn) mainly in 
stage 1 in HSBC UK (up $5.2bn) due to the acquisition of SVB UK.

At 31 December 2023, the allowance for ECL of $12.0bn decreased 
by $0.6bn compared with 31 December 2022, including adverse 
foreign exchange movements of $0.2bn. The $12.0bn allowance 
comprised $11.5bn in respect of assets held at amortised cost, 
$0.4bn in respect of loan commitments and financial guarantees, and 
$0.1bn in respect of debt instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’).

Excluding foreign exchange movements, the allowance for ECL in 
relation to loans and advances to customers decreased by $0.6bn 
from 31 December 2022. This was attributable to:

– a $0.5bn decrease in wholesale loans and advances to customers 

driven by stages 1 and 2; and

– a $0.1bn decrease in personal loans and advances to customers 

driven by stages 1 and 2.

Stage 3 balances and allowances for ECL at 31 December 2023 
remained broadly stable compared with 31 December 2022, as write-
offs and repayments offset new and additional allowances.

In wholesale lending, mainland China’s commercial real estate sector 
continued to deteriorate in 2023, resulting in new and additional stage 
3 charges during the year.

The ECL charge for 2023 was $3.4bn, inclusive of recoveries. This 
was driven by net stage 3 charges, including $1.0bn in the mainland 
China commercial real estate sector, as well as the impact of 
continued economic uncertainty in other markets, rising interest rates 
and inflationary pressures.

The ECL charge comprised: $2.3bn in respect of wholesale lending, of 
which the stage 3 charge was $2.2bn; $1.0bn in respect of personal 
lending, of which $0.7bn were in stage 3; and $0.1bn in respect of 
debt instruments measured at FVOCI.

Income statement movements are analysed further on page 103.

While credit risk arises across most of our balance sheet, ECL have 
typically been recognised on loans and advances to customers and 
banks, in addition to securitisation exposures and other structured 
products. As a result, our disclosures focus primarily on these two 
areas. For further details of:

– maximum exposure to credit risk, see page 155;
– measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL 

estimates, see page 156;

– reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and 
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers 
including loan commitments and financial guarantees, see 
page 168;

– credit quality, see page 172;
– total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and 

customers by stage distribution, see page 177;

– wholesale lending collateral, see page 187;
– total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at 

amortised cost by stage distribution, see page 191; and

– personal lending collateral, see page 197.

Summary of credit risk
We have adopted the recommendations of the Taskforce on 
Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses (’DECL’) to provide 
disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders better 
understand the risks we manage.

The DECL Taskforce, which was jointly established by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, Financial Reporting Council and the Prudential 
Regulation Authority, was created to help guide ECL disclosure 
practice and to encourage consistency and comparability across 
financial institutions.

The following sections of this report include new and redesigned 
disclosures addressing the taskforce’s recommendations from its 
third report, which was published in September 2022. For further 
details of:

– stage 2 decomposition for loans and advances to banks and 

personal lending products, see page 153;

– residual average life for personal and wholesale lending by 

product, see page 153;

– alignment of management judgemental adjustments to the DECL 
definition with additional qualitative and quantitative granularity, 
see page 163;

– reconciliation of management judgemental adjustments to 

reported ECL, see page 163; 

– enhanced wholesale ECL sensitivity to future economic 

conditions, see page 165; 

– enhanced retail ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions, see 

page 166; 

– reconciliation from reported exposure and ECL to sensitised 

exposure and weighted ECL, see page 168;

– reconciliation of changes in gross carrying amount and allowances 
for loans and advances to banks and customers, see page 171;

– reconciliation of changes in nominal amount and allowances for 
loan commitments and financial guarantees, see page 171; 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

149

Risk reviewRisk review

– wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loan and 
other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees, see 
page 182; 

– Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loan 
and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees, 
see page 197. 

– first lien residential mortgages – reconciliation of changes in gross 
carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees, 
see page 194; 

– credit cards – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal 
amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers 
including loan commitments and financial guarantees, see 
page 195;  

– other personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross 

carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees, 
see page 195;   

– enhanced personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band 

for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost, see 
page 196; and

Comparative information for the prior period has not been presented 
in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 for the majority of the new 
disclosures as we recognised and prioritised the importance of 
increasing the comparability of our external disclosures within the 
timeline recommended by the DECL Taskforce. While prior period 
information can be valuable in certain contexts, at 31 December 2023 
we believed the prospective expansion of the level of disclosures 
outweighed the benefits of presenting data from prior years. 
Comparative information is expected to be disclosed from the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2024.

The following disclosure presents the gross carrying/nominal amount 
of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in 
IFRS 9 are applied and the associated allowance for ECL.

Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied

(Audited)

31 Dec 2023

 At 31 Dec 2022

Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
–  cash and balances at central banks
–  items in the course of collection from other banks
–  Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
–  reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
–  financial investments 
–  assets held for sale2
–  prepayments, accrued income and other assets3
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet
Loans and other credit-related commitments
Financial guarantees
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet4

Gross carrying/
nominal amount

$m
949,609   
112,917   
960,271   
285,868   
6,342   
42,024   
252,217   
148,346   
103,186   
122,288   
2,022,797   
661,015   
17,009   
678,024   
2,700,821   

Allowance for
ECL1
$m
(11,074)   
(15)   
(422)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(20)   
(324)   
(78)   
(11,511)   
(367)   
(39)   
(406)   
(11,917)   

Gross carrying/
nominal amount

Allowance for 
ECL1
$m

(11,447) 
(69) 
(493) 
(3) 
— 
— 
— 
(20) 
(415) 
(55) 
(12,009) 
(386) 
(52) 
(438) 
(12,447) 

$m

935,008   
104,544   
954,934   
327,005   
7,297   
43,787   
253,754   
109,086   
102,556   
111,449   
1,994,486   
618,788   
18,783   
637,571   
2,632,057   

Debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(‘FVOCI’)

Memorandum 
allowance for 
ECL5
$m

Fair value

$m

Memorandum 
allowance for 
ECL5
$m

Fair value

$m

302,348   

(97)   

265,147   

(126) 

1  The total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, 

in which case the ECL is recognised as a provision.

2  For further details on gross carrying amounts and allowances for ECL related to assets held for sale, see ‘Assets held for sale’ on page 154. At 

31 December 2023, the gross carrying amount comprised $84,074m of loans and advances to customers and banks (2022: $81,221m) and $19,112m 
of other financial assets at amortised cost (2022: $21,334m). The corresponding allowance for ECL comprised $303m of loans and advances to 
customers and banks (2022: $392m) and $21m of other financial assets at amortised cost (2022: $23m).
Includes only those financial instruments that are subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. ‘Prepayments, accrued income and other assets’ 
as presented within the consolidated balance sheet on page 331 comprises both financial and non-financial assets, including cash collateral and 
settlement accounts.

3 

4  Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
5  Debt instruments measured at FVOCI continue to be measured at fair value with the allowance for ECL as a memorandum item. Change in ECL is 

recognised in ‘Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges’ in the income statement.

The following table provides an overview of the Group’s credit risk by 
stage and industry, and the associated ECL coverage. The financial 
assets recorded in each stage have the following characteristics:

– Stage 3: There is objective evidence of impairment and the 
financial assets are therefore considered to be in default or 
otherwise credit impaired on which a lifetime ECL is recognised.

– Stage 1: These financial assets are unimpaired and without 

significant increase in credit risk on which a 12-month allowance 
for ECL is recognised.

– POCI: Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep 
discount are seen to reflect the incurred credit losses on which a 
lifetime ECL is recognised.

– Stage 2: A significant increase in credit risk has been experienced 

on these financial assets since initial recognition for which a 
lifetime ECL is recognised.

150

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of credit risk (excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 
31 December 2023
(Audited)

Gross carrying/nominal amount1

Allowance for ECL

ECL coverage %

Stage 
1

Stage 
2

$m

$m

Stage 

3 POCI2
$m

$m

Total

$m

Stage 
1

Stage 
2

$m

$m

Stage 

3 POCI2
$m

$m

Total

$m

Stage 
1

Stage 
2

%

%

Stage 

3 POCI2 Total
%
%
%

Loans and 
advances to 
customers at 
amortised cost
–  personal
–  corporate 

and 
commercial

–  non-bank 
financial 
institutions

Loans and 
advances to 
banks at 
amortised cost
Other financial 
assets 
measured at 
amortised cost
Loan and other 
credit-related 
commitments
–  personal
–  corporate 

and 
commercial

–  financial
Financial 
guarantees
–  personal
–  corporate 

and 
commercial

–  financial
At 31 Dec 
2023

  809,384    120,871    19,273   

81    949,609    (1,130)    (2,964)    (6,950)   

(30)   (11,074) 

  396,534    47,483   

3,505    —    447,522   

(579)    (1,434)   

(854)    —    (2,867) 

 0.1 

 0.1 

 2.5 

 3.0 

 36.1 

 24.4 

 37.0 

 — 

 1.2 

 0.6 

  342,878    69,738    14,958   

81    427,655   

(499)    (1,500)    (5,774)   

(30)    (7,803) 

 0.1 

 2.2 

 38.6 

 37.0 

 1.8 

  69,972   

3,650   

810    —    74,432   

(52)   

(30)   

(322)    —   

(404) 

 0.1 

 0.8 

 39.8 

 — 

 0.5 

  111,479   

1,436   

2    —    112,917   

(10)   

(3)   

(2)    —   

(15) 

 — 

 0.2 

 100.0 

 — 

 — 

  946,873    12,734   

664    —    960,271   

(109)   

(132)   

(181)    —   

(422) 

 — 

 1.0 

 27.3 

 — 

 — 

  630,949    28,922   

1,140   

4    661,015   

(153)   

(128)   

(86)    —   

(367) 

  253,183   

3,459   

355    —    256,997   

(23)   

—   

(2)    —   

(25) 

  246,210    20,928   

736   

4    267,878   

(120)   

(119)   

(83)    —   

(322) 

  131,556   

4,535   

49    —    136,140   

(10)   

(9)   

(1)    —   

(20) 

  14,746   

1,879   

384    —    17,009   

1,106   

13   

—    —   

1,119   

(7)   

—   

(7)   

—   

(25)    —   

(39) 

—    —   

— 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

  10,157   

1,290   

330    —    11,777   

3,483   

576   

54    —   

4,113   

(6)   

(1)   

(6)   

(1)   

(24)    —   

(36) 

(1)    —   

(3) 

 0.1 

 — 

 0.4 

 — 

 0.6 

 0.2 

 0.4 

 — 

 0.5 

 0.2 

 7.5 

 0.6 

 11.3 

 2.0 

 6.5 

 — 

 7.3 

 1.9 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 0.1 

 — 

 0.1 

 — 

 0.2 

 — 

 0.3 

 0.1 

 2,513,431    165,842    21,463   

85   2,700,821    (1,409)    (3,234)    (7,244)   

(30)   (11,917) 

 0.1 

 2.0 

 33.8 

 35.3 

 0.4 

1  Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
2  Purchased or originated credit-impaired (‘POCI’).

Unless identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are deemed to 
have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when they are 30 
days past due (‘DPD’) and are transferred from stage 1 to stage 2. 
The following disclosure presents the ageing of stage 2 

financial assets by those less than 30 DPD and greater than 30 DPD 
and therefore presents those financial assets classified as stage 2 due 
to ageing (30 DPD) and those identified at an earlier stage (less than 
30 DPD).

Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2023

(Audited)

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

ECL coverage %

Stage 2

$m

Up-to-
date

$m

1 to 29 
DPD1
$m

30 and 
> DPD1 Stage 2
$m

$m

Up-to-
date

$m

1 to 29 
DPD1
$m

30 and 
> DPD1 Stage 2
%

$m

Up-to-
date

%

1 to 29 
DPD1
%

30 and > 
DPD1
%

Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised 
cost
–  personal
–  corporate and 
commercial

–  non-bank financial 

institutions

Loans and advances to 
banks at amortised cost
Other financial assets 
measured at amortised 
cost

  120,871    116,320   

2,571   

1,980   

(2,964)   

(2,458)   

  47,483    44,634   

1,785   

1,064   

(1,434)   

(974)   

(245)   

(214)   

(261) 

(246) 

  69,738    68,446   

697   

595   

(1,500)   

(1,454)   

(31)   

(15) 

3,650   

3,240   

89   

321   

(30)   

(30)   

—   

1,436   

1,424   

—   

12   

(3)   

(3)   

—   

— 

— 

 2.5 

 3.0 

 2.2 

 0.8 

 0.2 

 2.1 

 2.2 

 2.1 

 0.9 

 0.2 

 9.5 

 12.0 

 4.4 

 — 

 — 

 13.2 

 23.1 

 2.5 

 — 

 — 

  12,734    12,417   

171   

146   

(132)   

(113)   

(9)   

(10) 

 1.0 

 0.9 

 5.3 

 6.8 

1  The days past due amounts presented above are on a contractual basis.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

151

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Summary of credit risk (excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 
31 December 2022
(Audited)

Gross carrying/nominal amount1
Stage 

Stage 
1

Stage 
2

$m

$m

3 POCI2
$m

$m

Allowance for ECL

ECL coverage %

Total

$m

Stage 
1

Stage 
2

$m

$m

Stage 

3 POCI2
$m

$m

Total

$m

Stage 
1

Stage 
2

%

%

Stage 

3 POCI2 Total
%
%
%

Loans and 
advances to 
customers at 
amortised cost
–  personal
– corporate and 
commercial

–  non-bank 
financial 
institutions

Loans and 
advances to 
banks at 
amortised cost
Other financial 
assets 
measured at 
amortised cost
Loan and other 
credit-related 
commitments
–  personal
–  corporate and 
commercial

–  financial
Financial 
guarantees
–  personal
–  corporate and 
commercial

–  financial
At 31 Dec 2022

  776,299   139,076    19,504   

129   

935,008    (1,092)    (3,488)    (6,829)   

(38)   (11,447) 

  362,677    48,866    3,339    —   

414,882   

(561)    (1,504)   

(805)    —    (2,870) 

 0.1 

 0.2 

 2.5 

 3.1 

 35.0 

 24.1 

 29.5 

 — 

 1.2 

 0.7 

  351,885    85,492    15,696   

129   

453,202   

(488)    (1,907)    (5,887)   

(38)    (8,320) 

 0.1 

 2.2 

 37.5 

 29.5 

 1.8 

61,737    4,718   

469    —   

66,924   

(43)   

(77)   

(137)    —   

(257) 

 0.1 

 1.6 

 29.2 

 — 

 0.4 

  102,723    1,739   

82    —   

104,544   

(18)   

(29)   

(22)    —   

(69) 

 — 

 1.7 

 26.8 

 — 

 0.1 

  938,798    15,339   

797    —   

954,934   

(95)   

(165)   

(233)    —   

(493) 

 — 

 1.1 

 29.2 

 — 

 0.1 

  583,383    34,033    1,372    —   

618,788   

(141)   

(180)   

(65)    —   

(386) 

  239,521    3,686   

799    —   

244,006   

(26)   

(1)   

—    —   

(27) 

  241,313    27,323   

551    —   

269,187   

(111)   

(166)   

(63)    —   

(340) 

  102,549    3,024   

22    —   

105,595   

(4)   

(13)   

(2)    —   

(19) 

16,071    2,463   

249    —   

18,783   

1,123   

11   

1    —   

1,135   

11,547    1,793   

247    —   

13,587   

3,401   

659   

1    —   

4,061   

(6)   

—   

(5)   

(1)   

(13)   

—   

(33)    —   

(52) 

—    —   

— 

(12)   

(33)    —   

(50) 

(1)   

—    —   

(2) 
(38)   (12,447) 

 2,417,274   192,650    22,004   

129    2,632,057    (1,352)    (3,875)    (7,182)   

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 
 0.1 

 0.5 

 — 

 0.6 

 0.4 

 0.5 

 — 

 0.7 

 0.2 
 2.0 

 4.7 

 — 

 11.4 

 9.1 

 13.3 

 — 

 13.4 

 — 
 32.6 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 
 29.5 

 0.1 

 — 

 0.1 

 — 

 0.3 

 — 

 0.4 

 — 
 0.5 

1  Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
2  Purchased or originated credit-impaired (‘POCI’).

Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2022

(Audited)

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

ECL coverage %

Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial 

institutions

Loans and advances to banks 
at amortised cost
Other financial assets 
measured at amortised cost

Stage 2

$m

Up-to-
date

$m

1 to 29 
DPD1
$m

30 and > 
DPD1
$m

Stage 
2

$m

Up-to-
date

$m

1 to 29 
DPD1
$m

30 and > 
DPD1
$m

  139,076    134,680   

2,410   

1,986    (3,488)   

(3,017)   

  48,866    46,378   
  85,492    83,976   

1,682   
712   

806    (1,504)   
804    (1,907)   

(1,080)   
(1,860)   

(234)   

(214)   
(20)   

(237) 

(210) 
(27) 

4,718   

4,326   

16   

376   

(77)   

(77)   

—   

1,739   

1,729   

—   

10   

(29)   

(29)   

—   

— 

— 

%

 2.5 

 3.1 
 2.2 

 1.6 

 1.7 

 Stage 
2

Up-to-
date

  15,339    15,103   

140   

96   

(165)   

(141)   

(8)   

(16) 

 1.1 

1 to 29 
DPD1
%

30 and > 
DPD1
%

 9.7 

 12.7 
 2.8 

 — 

 — 

 11.9 

 26.1 
 3.4 

 — 

 — 

 5.7 

 16.7 

%

 2.2 

 2.3 
 2.2 

 1.8 

 1.7 

 0.9 

1  The days past due amounts presented above are on a contractual basis.

152

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stage 2 decomposition 
The following table presents the stage 2 decomposition of gross 
carrying amount and allowances for ECL for loans and advances to 
customers and banks. It also sets out the reasons why an exposure is 
classified as stage 2 and therefore presented as a significant increase 
in credit risk at 31 December 2023.

The quantitative classification shows gross carrying amount and 
allowances for ECL for which the applicable reporting date probability 
of default (‘PD’) measure exceeds defined quantitative thresholds for 

Loans and advances to customers and banks1,2

retail and wholesale exposures, as set out in Note 1.2 ‘Summary of 
material accounting policies’, on page 348.

The qualitative classification primarily accounts for customer risk 
rating (‘CRR’) deterioration, watch-and-worry and retail management 
judgemental adjustments.

A summary of our current policies and practices for the significant 
increase in credit risk is set out in ‘Summary of material accounting 
policies’ on page 348. 

At 31 Dec 2023

Loans and advances to customers

of which:

other 
personal 
lending3

Corporate 
and 
commercial

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

Quantitative
Qualitative
of which: forbearance
30 DPD backstop4
Total gross carrying amount

Quantitative
Qualitative
of which: forbearance
30 DPD backstop4
Total allowance for ECL

Personal

first lien 
mortgage

$m

35,742   
11,678   
171   
63   
47,483   

(1,103)   
(324)   
(4)   
(7)   
(1,434)   

$m

31,178   
7,077   
69   
32   
38,287   

(149)   
(50)   
—   
(1)   
(200)   

credit 
cards3

$m

1,940   
2,477   
34   
2   
4,419   

(554)   
(142)   
(1)   
(1)   
(697)   

$m

2,624   
2,124   
68   
29   
4,777   

(400)   
(132)   
(3)   
(5)   
(537)   

$m

53,034   
16,241   
982   
463   
69,738   

(1,225)   
(270)   
(11)   
(5)   
(1,500)   

ECL coverage %

3.0

0.5

15.8

11.2

2.2

Residual average life5 (in years)

16.0   

19.3 

<1.0  

4.1   

2.5   

Loans and advances to customers1

Loans and 
advances 
to banks at 
amortised 

cost Total stage 2

$m

2,955   
653   
2   
42   
3,650   

(24)   
(6)   
—   
—   
(30)   

0.8

1.2 

$m

781   
642   
—   
13   
1,436   

(1)   
(2)   
—   
—   
(3)   

0.2

<1.0

$m

92,512 
29,214 
1,155 
581 
122,307 

(2,353) 
(602) 
(15) 
(12) 
(2,967) 

2.4

At 31 Dec 2022

Gross carrying amount

Corporate 
and 
commercial

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

Personal

Allowance for ECL

Corporate 
and 
commercial

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

Total

Personal

$m

41,610   
7,209   
47   
48,866   

$m

66,421   
18,555   
516   
85,492   

$m

$m

3,679    111,710   
26,642   
724   
4,718    139,076   

878   
161   

$m

(1,302)   
(200)   
(2)   
(1,504)   

$m

(1,642)   
(262)   
(3)   
(1,907)   

$m

(66)   
(11)   
—   
(77)   

ECL 
coverage

Total

$m

(3,010) 
(473) 
(5) 
(3,488) 

Total

%

2.7
1.8
0.7
2.5

Quantitative
Qualitative
30 DPD backstop4
Total stage 2

1   Where balances satisfy more than one of the above three criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk, the corresponding gross exposure 

and ECL have been assigned in order of categories presented.

2   Stage 2 decomposition for loans and advances to banks and personal lending products have been reported for the first time at 31 December 2023 

following the adoption of the recommendations of the DECL Taskforce’s third report.

3   The higher relative contribution of qualitative stage 2 for credit cards and other personal lending is due to management judgemental adjustments, 

primarily affordability.   
4   Days past due (‘DPD’).
5   Calculated as the difference between final contractual maturities and the reporting date, weighted based on the contribution of the instrument to the 

stage 2 total gross carrying amount of the corresponding product or sector.   

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

153

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Assets held for sale
(Audited)

At 31 December 2023, the most material balances held for sale arose 
from our banking business in Canada and our retail banking operations 
in France.

Disclosures relating to assets held for sale are provided in the 
following credit risk tables, primarily where the disclosure is relevant 
to the measurement of these financial assets:

– ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ (page 155); and

– ‘Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 

31 December’ (page 172);

Although there was a reclassification on the balance sheet, there was 
no separate income statement reclassification. As a result, charges 
for changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment 
charges shown in the credit risk disclosures include charges relating 
to financial assets classified as ‘assets held for sale’.

‘Loans and other credit-related commitments’ and ‘financial 
guarantees’, as reported in credit disclosures, also include exposures 
and allowances relating to financial assets classified as ‘assets held 
for sale’.

Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost

(Audited)

As reported
Reported in ‘Assets held for sale’
At 31 December

2023

2022

Total gross loans and 
advances

Allowance for ECL

Total gross loans and 
advances

Allowance for ECL

$m

1,062,526   
84,075   
1,146,601   

$m
(11,089)   
(303)   
(11,392)   

$m

1,039,552   
81,221   
1,120,773   

$m

(11,516) 
(392) 
(11,908) 

At 31 December 2023, gross loans and advances of our banking 
business in Canada were $56.5bn, and the related allowance for ECL 
was $0.2bn. Gross loans of our retail banking operations in France 
were $27.3bn, and the related allowance for ECL was $0.1bn. 

Lending balances held for sale continue to be measured at amortised 
cost less allowances for impairment and, therefore, such carrying 
amounts may differ from fair value. 

These lending balances are part of associated disposal groups that are 
measured in their entirety at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Any difference between the carrying amount 
of these assets and their sales price is part of the overall gain or loss 
on the associated disposal group as a whole.

For further details of the carrying amount and the fair value at 
31 December 2023 of loans and advances to banks and customers 
classified as held for sale, see Note 23 on the financial statements.

Gross loans and allowance for ECL on loans and advances to customers and banks reported in ‘Assets held for sale’

(Audited)

Banking business in 
Canada

Retail banking operations 
in France

Gross 
carrying 
amount

$m

56,349   

27,071   
27,789   
1,489   

154   

56,503   

55,431   

26,637   
27,128   
1,666   

100   

55,531   

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

(220)   

(95)   
(120)   
(5)   

—   

(220)   

(234)   

(75)   
(154)   
(5)   

—   

(234)   

Gross 
carrying 
amount

$m

16,984   

13,920   
3,012   
52   

10,333   

27,317   

25,121   

22,691   
2,379   
51   

—   

25,121   

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

(82)   

(79)   
(3)   
—   

—   

(82)   

(92)   

(88)   
(4)   
—   

—   

(92)   

Other

Total

Gross 
carrying 
amount

$m

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

Gross 
carrying 
amount

$m

255   

140   
—   
115   

—   

255   

412   

305   
107   
—   

157   

569   

(1)   

(1)   
—   
—   

—   

(1)   

(62)   

(47)   
(15)   
—   

(4)   

(66)   

73,588   

41,131   
30,801   
1,656   

10,487   

84,075   

80,964   

49,633   
29,614   
1,717   

257   

81,221   

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

(303) 

(175) 
(123) 
(5) 

— 

(303) 

(388) 

(210) 
(173) 
(5) 

(4) 

(392) 

Loans and advances to customers 
at amortised cost
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks at 
amortised cost

At 31 December 2023

Loans and advances to customers 
at amortised cost
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks at 
amortised cost
At 31 December 2022

The table below analyses the amount of ECL (charges)/releases arising from assets held for sale. The charges during the period primarily relate 
to our business in Canada.

Changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment

(Audited)

ECL (charges)/releases arising from:
–  assets held for sale
– assets not held for sale
Year ended 31 December

154

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

2023

$m

(49)   
(3,398)   
(3,447)   

2022

$m

(5) 
(3,579) 
(3,584) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit exposure
Maximum exposure to credit risk 

(Audited)

This section provides information on balance sheet items and their offsets as well as loan and other credit-related commitments. Commentary 
on consolidated balance sheet movements in 2023 is provided on page 108. The offset of derivatives remains in line with the movements 
in maximum exposure amounts.

Other credit risk mitigants

While not disclosed as an offset in the following ‘Maximum exposure 
to credit risk’ table, other arrangements are in place that reduce our 
maximum exposure to credit risk. These include a charge over 
collateral on borrowers’ specific assets, such as residential properties, 
collateral held in the form of financial instruments that are not held on 
the balance sheet and short positions in securities. In addition, for 
financial assets held as part of linked insurance/investment contracts 
the credit risk is predominantly borne by the policyholder. See page 
347 and Note 31 on the financial statements for further details of 
collateral in respect of certain loans and advances and derivatives.

Collateral available to mitigate credit risk is disclosed in the ‘Collateral’ 
section on page 187.

‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table 
The following table presents our maximum exposure before taking 
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (unless such 
enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements).
The table excludes trading assets, financial assets designated and 
otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss, and 
financial investments measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income as their carrying amount best represents the net 
exposure to credit risk. Equity securities are also excluded as they are 
not subject to credit risk. For the financial assets recognised on the 
balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying 
amount and is net of the allowance for ECL. For financial guarantees and 
other guarantees granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have 
to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan commitments and 
other credit-related commitments, it is generally the full amount of the 
committed facilities.
The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally 
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and 
where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk purposes. 
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis 
under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net presentation for 
accounting purposes. No offset has been applied to off-balance sheet 
collateral. In the case of derivatives, the offset column also includes 
collateral received in cash and other financial assets.

Maximum exposure to credit risk

(Audited)

Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost
– personal
– corporate and commercial
– non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
Other financial assets held at amortised cost
– cash and balances at central banks
– items in the course of collection from other banks
– Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
– reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
– financial investments
– assets held for sale
– prepayments, accrued income and other assets
Derivatives 
Total on-balance sheet exposure to credit risk
Total off-balance sheet
– financial and other guarantees
– loan and other credit-related commitments
At 31 Dec 

Maximum
exposure

$m
938,535 
444,655 
419,852 
74,028 
112,902 
973,316 
285,868 
6,342 
42,024 
252,217 
148,326 
114,134 
124,405 
229,714 
2,254,467 
1,007,885 
111,102 
896,783 
3,262,352 

2023

Offset

$m

(22,607) 
(2,470) 
(18,771) 
(1,366) 
— 
(13,919) 
— 
— 
— 
(13,919) 
— 
— 
— 
(222,059) 
(258,585) 
— 
— 
— 
(258,585) 

Net

$m
915,928 
442,185 
401,081 
72,662 
112,902 
959,397 
285,868 
6,342 
42,024 
238,298 
148,326 
114,134 
124,405 
7,655 
1,995,882 
1,007,885 
111,102 
896,783 
3,003,767 

Maximum
exposure

$m

923,561 
412,012 
444,882 
66,667 
104,475 
970,119 
327,002 
7,297 
43,787 
253,754 
109,066 
115,919 
113,294 
284,159 
2,282,314 
934,329 
106,861 
827,468 
3,216,643 

2022

Offset

$m

(20,315) 
(2,575) 
(16,262) 
(1,478) 
— 

(8,969) 
— 

— 

— 

(8,969) 
— 

— 

— 

(273,497) 
(302,781) 
— 

— 

— 

(302,781) 

Net

$m

903,246 
409,437 
428,620 
65,189 
104,475 
961,150 
327,002 
7,297 
43,787 
244,785 
109,066 
115,919 
113,294 
10,662 
1,979,533 
934,329 
106,861 
827,468 
2,913,862 

Concentration of exposure
We have a number of global businesses with a broad range of 
products. We operate in a number of geographical markets with the 
majority of our exposures in Asia and Europe.

For an analysis of:

– financial investments, see Note 16 on the financial statements;

– trading assets, see Note 11 on the financial statements;

– derivatives, see page 190 and Note 15 on the financial statements;

and

– loans and advances by industry sector and by the location of the

principal operations of the lending subsidiary (or, in the case of the

operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and 
HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch), see page 
176 for wholesale lending and page 190 for personal lending.

Credit deterioration of financial instruments

(Audited)

A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the 
identification, treatment and measurement of stage 1, stage 2, 
stage 3 (credit impaired) and POCI financial instruments can be found 
in Note 1.2 on the financial statements.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

155

Risk reviewRisk review

Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates
(Audited)

The recognition and measurement of ECL involves the use of 
significant judgement and estimation. We form multiple economic 
scenarios based on economic forecasts, apply these assumptions to 
credit risk models to estimate future credit losses, and probability 
weight the results to determine an unbiased ECL estimate. 

Management assessed the current economic environment, reviewed 
the latest economic forecasts and discussed key risks before 
selecting the economic scenarios and their weightings.  

Scenarios were constructed to reflect the latest geopolitical risks and 
macroeconomic developments, including the Israel-Hamas war and 
subsequent disruptions in the Red Sea, and current inflation and 
monetary policy expectations.

Management judgemental adjustments are used where modelled 
ECL does not fully reflect the identified risks and related uncertainty, 
or to capture significant late-breaking events.

At 31 December 2023, there was an overall reduction in management 
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2022, as 
modelled outcomes better reflected the key risks at 31 December 
2023.

Methodology

At 31 December 2023, four scenarios were used to capture the latest 
economic expectations and to articulate management’s view of the 
range of risks and potential outcomes. Each scenario is updated with 
the latest economic forecasts and estimates every quarter.

Three scenarios, the Upside, Central and Downside, are drawn from 
external consensus forecasts, market data and distributional 
estimates of the entire range of economic outcomes. The fourth 
scenario, the Downside 2, represents management’s view of severe 
downside risks.

The Central scenario is deemed the ‘most likely’ scenario, and usually 
attracts the largest probability weighting. It is created using 
consensus forecasts, which is the average of a panel of external 
forecasts.

The outer scenarios represent the tails of the distribution and are less 
likely to occur. The consensus Upside and Downside scenarios are 
created with reference to distributions for select markets that capture 
forecasters’ views of the entire range of economic outcomes. In the 
later years of those scenarios, projections revert to long-term 
consensus trend expectations. Reversion to trend is done with 
reference to historically observed quarterly changes in the values of 
macroeconomic variables.

The fourth scenario, the Downside 2, is designed to represent 
management’s view of severe downside risks. It is a globally 
consistent, narrative-driven scenario that explores a more extreme 
economic outcome than those captured by the consensus scenarios. 
In this scenario, variables do not, by design, revert to long-term trend 
expectations and may instead explore alternative states of 
equilibrium, where economic activity moves permanently away from 
past trends. 

The consensus Downside and the consensus Upside scenarios are 
each calibrated to be consistent with a 10% probability. The 
Downside 2 is calibrated to a 5% probability. The Central scenario is 
assigned the remaining 75%. This weighting scheme is deemed 
appropriate for the unbiased estimation of ECL in most 
circumstances. However, management may depart from this 
probability-based scenario weighting approach when the economic 
outlook and forecasts are determined to be particularly uncertain and 
risks are elevated.

In the fourth quarter of 2023, the weights were consistent with the 
calibrated scenario probabilities, as key risk metrics implied a decline 
in the uncertainty attached to the Central scenario, compared with the 
fourth quarter of 2022. Economic forecasts for the Central scenario 
remained stable, and the dispersion within consensus forecast panels 
remained low, even as the Israel-Hamas war escalated. Risks, 
including the economic consequences of a broader war in the Middle 
East, were reflected in the Downside scenarios.  

156

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Scenarios produced to calculate ECL are aligned to HSBC’s top and 
emerging risks. 

Description of economic scenarios

The economic assumptions presented in this section have been 
formed by HSBC with reference to external forecasts and estimates, 
specifically for the purpose of calculating ECL. 

Forecasts remain subject to uncertainty and variability. Outer 
scenarios are constructed so that they capture risks that could alter 
the trajectory of the economy and are designed to encompass the 
potential crystallisation of key macro-financial risks. 

In our key markets, Central scenario forecasts remained broadly 
stable in the fourth quarter of 2023, compared with the third quarter 
of 2023. The key exception was with regard to monetary policy, 
where expectations for interest rate cuts were brought forward. 
There continue to be expectations that 2024 will be a period of below 
trend growth, with inflation remaining above central bank targets.

At the end of 2023, risks to the economic outlook included a number 
of significant geopolitical issues. Within our Downside scenarios, the 
economic consequences from the crystallisation of those risks were 
captured by higher commodity and goods prices, the reacceleration of 
inflation, a further rise in interest rates and a global recession. 

The scenarios used to calculate ECL in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023 are described below.

The consensus Central scenario

HSBC’s Central scenario reflects expectations for a low growth and 
high interest rate environment across many of our key markets, 
where GDP growth is expected to be lower in 2024 than in the 
previous year.

Expectations of lower GDP growth in many markets in 2024 are 
driven by the assumed lagged effects of higher interest rates and 
inflation in North America and Europe. In the scenario, household 
discretionary income remains under pressure and business margins 
deteriorate amid higher refinancing costs. Growth only returns to its 
long-term expected trend in later years, once inflation reverts back 
towards central bank targets and interest rates stabilise at lower 
levels.

In mainland China and Hong Kong, growth is also expected to be 
moderately slower in 2024 relative to 2023. The economic boost from 
post-pandemic reopening has faded, and slower global growth and 
low trade volumes are expected to moderate activity. In mainland 
China, the continued fall in investment in the property sector is 
expected to act as a further brake on the economy, while in Hong 
Kong, higher interest rates are expected to drive a further decline in 
property valuations. Despite these headwinds, a steeper downturn is 
expected to be avoided as the authorities in mainland China increase 
fiscal and monetary support to the economy. Substantial fiscal 
expansion is anticipated for 2024, alongside additional credit easing. 

Global GDP is expected to grow by 2.2% in 2024 in the Central 
scenario, and the average rate of global GDP growth is forecast to be 
2.6% over the five-year forecast period. This is below the average 
growth rate over the five-year period prior to the onset of the 
pandemic of 2.9%. 

The key features of our Central scenario are:

– GDP growth rates in our main markets are expected to slow down
in 2024, followed by a moderate recovery in 2025. The slowdown
in the UK is particularly notable in this scenario, with growth close
to zero through much of 2024. In the scenario, weaker growth is
caused by high interest rates, which act to deter consumption and
investment.

– In most markets, unemployment is expected to rise moderately as

economic activity slows, although it remains low by historical
standards.

– Inflation is expected to continue to fall as commodity prices

decline, supply disruptions abate, and wage growth moderates. It
is anticipated that inflation converges towards central banks’ target
rates by early 2025. In mainland China, weak consumption and
excess supply has caused inflation to drop sharply but, in the
scenario, deflation is not projected to persist.

– Weak conditions in housing markets are expected to persist

through 2024 and 2025 in many of our main markets, including the
UK, Hong Kong and mainland China, as higher interest rates and,
in many cases, declining prices, depress activity.

– Challenging conditions are also forecast to continue in the

commercial property sector in a number of our key markets.
Structural changes to demand in the office segment in particular
have driven lower valuations.

– Policy interest rates in key markets are forecast to have peaked
and are projected to decline in 2024. In the longer term, they are
expected to remain at a higher level than in recent years.

– The Brent crude oil price is forecast to average around $75 per

barrel over the projection period.

The Central scenario was created with forecasts available in late 
November, and reviewed continually until the end of December 2023. 
In accordance with HSBC’s scenario framework, a probability weight 
of 75% has been assigned to the Central scenario across all major 
markets. 

The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the consensus Central scenario.

Consensus Central scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)

UK

US Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

GDP (annual average growth 
rate, %)
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
5-year average1
Unemployment rate (%)
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
5-year average1
House prices (annual average 
growth rate, %)
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
5-year average1
Inflation (annual average growth 
rate, %)
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
5-year average 
Central bank policy rate (annual 
average, %)
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
5-year average1

0.3
1.2
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.3

4.7
4.6
4.3
4.2
4.2
4.4

(5.5)
0.1
3.5
3.0
3.0
0.8

3.2
2.2
2.2
2.3
2.3
2.4

5.0
4.3
3.9
3.8
3.7
4.1

1.0
1.8
2.1
2.0
2.0
1.8

4.3
4.2
4.0
4.0
4.0
4.1

2.9
2.7
3.1
2.7
2.1
2.7

2.7
2.2
2.3
2.2
2.2
2.3

5.0
4.0
3.7
3.7
3.8
4.1

2.6
2.7
2.6
2.6
2.6
2.6

3.0
3.0
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.1

(6.6)
(0.7)
2.6
2.8
3.0
0.2

2.1
2.1
2.2
2.4
2.4
2.2

5.4
4.4
4.1
4.1
4.1
4.4

4.5
4.4
4.3
3.8
3.9
4.2

5.2
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1

(0.6)
1.1
2.6
4.0
4.5
2.3

1.8
2.0
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.0

4.1
4.2
4.4
4.6
4.8
4.4

0.8
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
1.7

6.2
5.9
5.7
5.7
5.7
5.8

(4.8)
2.2
2.8
2.4
2.8
1.1

2.6
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.2

4.7
3.9
3.4
3.2
3.3
3.7

0.8
1.5
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.4

7.5
7.3
7.0
6.8
6.8
7.1

(1.0)
2.4
4.0
4.4
4.0
2.8

2.7
1.8
1.7
1.9
2.1
2.0

3.6
2.8
2.6
2.6
2.7
2.9

3.7
4.0
3.8
3.4
3.4
3.6

2.6
2.6
2.6
2.6
2.6
2.6

12.6
7.7
4.4
2.6
2.3
5.9

2.3
2.2
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.1

5.1
4.1
3.7
3.7
3.8
4.1

1.9
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.4
2.2

2.9
2.9
2.9
2.9
2.9
2.9

6.5
4.2
4.2
4.0
4.0
4.6

4.2
3.6
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.7

10.4
8.6
7.9
7.9
8.1
8.6

1   The five-year average is calculated over a projected period of 20 quarters from 1Q24 to 4Q28.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

157

Risk reviewRisk review

Consensus Central scenario 2023–2027 (as at 4Q22)

GDP (annual average growth rate, %)
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
5-year average1
Unemployment rate (%)
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
5-year average1
House prices (annual average growth 
rate, %)
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
5-year average1
Inflation (annual average growth  
rate,%)
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
5-year average1
Central bank policy rate (annual 
average, %)
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
5-year average1

UK

(0.8)
1.3
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.1

4.4
4.6
4.3
4.1
4.1
4.3

0.2
(3.8)
0.7
2.1
2.7
0.4

6.9
2.5
2.1
2.0
2.0
3.1

4.4
4.2
3.7
3.4
3.1
3.8

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE2

Mexico

0.2
1.5
2.0
2.0
2.0
1.5

4.3
4.5
4.2
3.9
4.0
4.2

(2.5)
(3.2)
(1.0)
0.7
2.5
(0.7)

4.1
2.5
2.2
2.3
2.3
2.7

4.7
3.8
3.0
2.9
2.9
3.5

2.7
3.0
2.7
2.6
2.6
2.7

3.7
3.5
3.4
3.3
3.3
3.4

(10.0)
(3.0)
1.7
2.8
3.4
(1.0)

2.1
2.1
2.0
2.1
2.1
2.1

5.2
4.3
3.5
3.3
3.3
3.9

4.6
4.8
4.7
4.4
4.4
4.6

5.2
5.1
5.0
4.9
4.8
5.0

(0.1)
2.9
3.5
4.1
4.3
2.9

2.4
2.2
2.2
2.1
2.1
2.2

4.6
4.9
5.1
5.3
5.5
5.1

0.6
1.9
2.0
1.8
1.8
1.6

6.1
5.9
6.0
5.9
5.9
5.9

(15.6)
(1.2)
4.0
4.1
3.0
(1.1)

3.5
2.2
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.4

4.3
3.9
3.4
3.1
3.2
3.6

0.2
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.2

7.6
7.5
7.3
7.2
7.2
7.3

1.8
2.0
3.1
3.5
3.6
2.8

4.6
2.0
1.8
1.7
1.7
2.4

2.7
2.7
2.4
2.3
2.3
2.5

3.7
3.7
3.1
2.8
2.9
3.2

2.9
2.8
2.8
2.8
2.8
2.8

5.9
5.2
4.5
3.3
2.9
4.4

3.2
2.2
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.3

6.1
5.2
4.4
4.3
4.3
4.9

1.2
2.0
2.3
2.0
2.0
1.9

3.7
3.7
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.6

7.9
5.2
4.2
4.1
3.9
5.1

5.7
4.1
3.7
3.7
3.7
4.2

10.3
8.1
7.2
7.3
7.8
8.1

1   The five-year average is calculated over a projected period of 20 quarters from 1Q23 to 4Q27.

The graphs compare the Central scenario at the year end 2022 with economic expectations at the end of 2023.

GDP growth: Comparison of Central scenarios

Hong Kong

Mainland China

8.0

7.0

6.0

5.0

4.0

3.0

2.0

1.0

0.0

100

8.0

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

7.0

6.0

5.0

4.0

3.0

2.0

1.0

0.0

4Q22 Central 5Y Average: 2.7%
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 2.6%

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

4Q22 Central 5Y Average: 4.6%
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 4.2%

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

4Q22 Central

4Q23 Central

4Q22 Central

4Q23 Central

Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.

Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.

158

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

UK

3.5

2.5

1.5

0.5

‐0.5

‐1.5

‐2.5

US

100

3.5

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

2.5

1.5

0.5

‐0.5

‐1.5

‐2.5

4Q22 Central 5Y Average: 1.1%
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 1.3%

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

4Q22 Central 5Y Average: 1.5%
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 1.8%

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

4Q22 Central

4Q23 Central

4Q22 Central

4Q23 Central

Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.

Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.

The consensus Upside scenario

Compared with the Central scenario, the consensus Upside scenario 
features stronger economic activity in the near term, before 
converging to long-run trend expectations. It also incorporates a faster 
fall in the rate of inflation than incorporated in the Central scenario. 

The scenario is consistent with a number of key upside risk themes. 

These include a faster fall in the rate of inflation that allows central 
banks to reduce interest rates more quickly, an easing in financial 
conditions, and a de-escalation in geopolitical tensions as the Israel-
Hamas and Russia-Ukraine wars move towards conclusions, and the 
US-China relationship improves.

The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the consensus Upside scenario.

Consensus Upside scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)

GDP level (%, start-to-peak)1
Unemployment rate 
(%, min)2
House price index 
(%, start-to-peak)1
Inflation rate 
(YoY % change, min)3
Central bank policy rate 
(%, min)2

UK

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

10.8

(4Q28)

14.3

(4Q28)

21.8

(4Q28)

30.4

(4Q28)

14.9

(4Q28)

10.4

(4Q28)

30.7

(4Q28)

17.8

(4Q28)

3.1

(4Q24)

3.1

(2Q25)

2.4

(3Q24)

4.8

(4Q25)

5.1

(4Q25)

6.2

(4Q25)

2.0

(4Q25)

2.4

(3Q24)

13.0

(4Q28)

21.9

(4Q28)

17.9

(4Q28)

19.7

(4Q28)

21.0

(4Q28)

19.6

(4Q28)

34.2

(4Q28)

30.6

(4Q28)

1.3

(2Q25)

1.4

(1Q25)

0.3

(4Q24)

0.6

(3Q24)

1.1

(1Q25)

1.5

(3Q24)

1.4

(1Q25)

2.7

(1Q25)

3.7

(3Q28)

3.7

(2Q27)

4.1

(1Q27)

4.0

(2Q24)

3.2

(2Q27)

2.6

(2Q26)

3.7

(1Q27)

7.8

(2Q25)

1  Cumulative change to the highest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection. 
2  Lowest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario.
3  Lowest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.

Consensus Upside scenario 2023–2027 (as at 4Q22)

GDP level (%, start-to-peak)1
Unemployment rate 
(%, min)2
House price index 
(%, start-to-peak)1
Inflation rate 
(YoY % change, min)3
Central bank policy rate 
(%, min)2

UK

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

14.6

(4Q27)

13.6

(4Q27)

23.3

(4Q27)

31.5

(4Q27)

14.0

(4Q27)

10.2

(4Q27)

26.4

(4Q27)

16.4

(4Q27)

3.5

(4Q23)

3.1

(3Q23)

3.0

(4Q23)

4.7

(3Q24)

5.2

(3Q24)

6.5

(4Q24)

2.2

(3Q24)

3.1

(3Q23)

7.8

(4Q27)

3.9

(4Q27)

8.6

(4Q27)

26.3

(4Q27)

12.3

(4Q27)

17.0

(4Q27)

30.6

(4Q27)

33.0

(4Q27)

0.7

(1Q24)

1.6

(1Q24)

(0.1)

(4Q23)

0.8

(4Q23)

1.0

(1Q24)

0.8

(4Q23)

1.5

(3Q24)

3.2

(1Q24)

3.1

(4Q27)

2.9

(1Q27)

3.3

(1Q27)

4.4

(1Q23)

3.1

(3Q26)

2.3

(3Q26)

4.3

(1Q27)

7.1

(3Q25)

1  Cumulative change to the highest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection. 
2  Lowest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. 
3  Lowest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

159

Risk reviewRisk review

Downside scenarios

Downside scenarios explore the intensification and crystallisation of a 
number of key economic and financial risks. These include an 
escalation of geopolitical tensions, which disrupt key commodity and 
goods markets, causing inflation and interest rates to rise, and 
creating a global recession.

As the geopolitical environment remains volatile and complex, risks 
include: 

– a broader and more prolonged conflict in the Middle East that

undermines confidence, drives an increase in global energy costs
and reduces trade and investment;

– a potential escalation in the Russia-Ukraine war, which expands
beyond Ukraine’s borders, and further disrupts energy, fertiliser
and food supplies; and

– continued differences between the US and China, which could
affect economic confidence, the global goods trade and supply
chains for critical technologies.

High inflation and higher interest rates also remain key risks. Should 
geopolitical tensions escalate, energy and food prices could rise and 
increase pressure on household budgets and firms’ costs. 

A wage-price spiral, triggered by higher inflation and labour supply 
shortages, could put sustained upward pressure on wages and 
services prices, aggravating cost pressures and increasing the 
squeeze on household real incomes and corporate margins. In turn, it 
raises the risk of a more forceful policy response from central banks, 
a steeper trajectory for interest rates, significantly higher defaults and, 
ultimately, a deep economic recession. 

The consensus Downside scenario

In the consensus Downside scenario, economic activity is weaker 
compared with the Central scenario. In this scenario, GDP declines, 
unemployment rates rise, and asset prices fall. The scenario features 
an escalation of geopolitical tensions, which causes a rise in inflation, 
as supply chain constraints intensify and energy prices rise. The 
scenario also features a temporary increase in interest rates above 
the Central scenario, before the effects of weaker consumption 
demand begin to dominate and commodity prices and inflation fall 
again. 

The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the consensus Downside scenario.

Consensus Downside scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)

UK

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

GDP level
 (%, start-to-trough)1
Unemployment rate 
(%, max)2
House price index 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Inflation rate 
(YoY % change, max)3
Central bank policy rate 
(%, max)2

(1.0)

(2Q25)

(1.4)

(3Q24)

(1.6)

(3Q25)

(1.5)

(1Q24)

(1.7)

(3Q24)

(0.3)

(2Q24)

1.4

(1Q24)

(0.3)

(4Q24)

6.4

(1Q25)

5.6

(4Q24)

4.7

(4Q25)

6.9

(4Q25)

7.4

(3Q24)

8.5

(4Q24)

3.7

(4Q25)

3.5

(4Q25)

(12.0)

(2Q25)

(1.3)

(3Q24)

(9.6)

(4Q24)

(7.1)

(3Q25)

(12.0)

(3Q25)

(1.2)

(3Q24)

0.3

(1Q24)

1.2

(1Q24)

4.1

(1Q24)

3.5

(4Q24)

3.8

(3Q24)

3.5

(4Q24)

3.4

(2Q24)

3.8

(2Q24)

3.0

(1Q24)

6.5

(4Q24)

5.7

(1Q24)

5.6

(1Q24)

6.0

(1Q24)

4.1

(3Q24)

5.6

(1Q24)

4.2

(1Q24)

5.7

(1Q24)

12.0

(3Q24)

1  Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2  The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. 
3  The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.

Consensus Downside scenario 2023–2027 (as at 4Q22)

UK

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

GDP level 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Unemployment rate 
(%, max)2
House price index 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Inflation rate 
(YoY % change, max)3
Central bank policy rate 
(%, max)2

(3.0)

(1Q25)

(4.0)

(4Q24)

(2.3)

(3Q24)

(1.7)

(2Q23)

(3.9)

(4Q23)

(0.9)

(2Q23)

0.1

(1Q23)

(2.8)

(4Q24)

5.8

(2Q24)

5.9

(1Q24)

5.2

(3Q24)

5.9

(4Q23)

7.6

(3Q23)

8.8

(4Q23)

4.1

(3Q23)

4.4

(1Q23)

(15.0)

(4Q24)

(11.6)

(4Q25)

(11.9)

(1Q24)

(1.0)

(4Q23)

(20.1)

(4Q24)

(0.7)

(3Q23)

(4.0)

(3Q23)

1.2

(1Q23)

10.8

(1Q23)

6.2

(1Q23)

3.7

(4Q23)

4.0

(4Q23)

6.0

(1Q23)

7.2

(1Q23)

4.5

(1Q23)

7.9

(1Q23)

5.1

(3Q23)

5.2

(3Q23)

5.7

(3Q23)

5.2

(4Q23)

5.6

(3Q23)

3.4

(4Q23)

6.6

(3Q23)

12.1

(3Q23)

1  Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2  The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. 
3  The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario. 

Downside 2 scenario

The Downside 2 scenario features a deep global recession and 
reflects management’s view of the tail of the economic distribution. It 
incorporates the crystallisation of a number of risks simultaneously, 
including a further escalation of geopolitical crises globally, which 
creates severe supply disruptions to goods and energy markets.

In the scenario, as inflation surges and central banks tighten monetary 
policy further, confidence evaporates. However, this impulse is 
assumed to prove short lived, as recession takes hold, causing 
commodity prices to correct sharply and global price inflation to fall.

160

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the Downside 2 scenario.

Downside 2 scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)

UK

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

GDP level 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Unemployment rate 
(%, max)2
House price index 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Inflation rate 
(YoY % change, max)3
Central bank policy rate 
(%, max)2

(8.8)

(2Q25)

(4.6)

(1Q25)

(8.2)

(1Q25)

(6.4)

(1Q25)

(4.8)

(1Q25)

(6.6)

(1Q25)

(4.9)

(2Q25)

(8.1)

(2Q25)

8.4

(2Q25)

9.3

(2Q25)

6.4

(4Q24)

7.0

(4Q25)

11.9

(1Q25)

10.2

(4Q25)

4.3

(3Q24)

4.9

(2Q25)

(30.2)

(4Q25)

(14.7)

(4Q24)

(32.8)

(3Q26)

(25.5)

(4Q25)

(42.7)

(2Q25)

(14.5)

(2Q26)

(2.9)

(4Q25)

1.2

(1Q24)

10.1

(2Q24)

4.8

(2Q24)

4.1

(3Q24)

4.1

(4Q24)

5.4

(2Q24)

8.6

(2Q24)

3.5

(2Q24)

7.0

(4Q24)

6.0

(1Q24)

6.1

(1Q24)

6.4

(1Q24)

4.8

(3Q24)

5.8

(1Q24)

5.2

(1Q24)

6.1

(1Q24)

12.7

(3Q24)

1  Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2   The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. 
3   The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.

Downside 2 scenario 2023–2027 (as at 4Q22)

UK

US

Hong Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

GDP level 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Unemployment rate 
(%, max)2
House price index 
(%, start-to-trough)1
Inflation rate 
(YoY % change, max)3
Central bank policy rate 
(%, max)2

(7.5)

(2Q24)

(5.2)

(2Q24)

(10.1)

(2Q24)

(6.9)

(1Q24)

(7.1)

(4Q24)

(7.4)

(2Q24)

(4.3)

(2Q24)

(8.2)

(2Q24)

8.7

(2Q24)

9.5

(4Q24)

5.8

(1Q24)

6.8

(4Q24)

11.6

(2Q24)

10.3

(4Q24)

4.6

(2Q24)

5.6

(2Q24)

(32.9)

(1Q25)

(21.6)

(1Q24)

(26.6)

(2Q26)

(23.2)

(4Q24)

(41.2)

(3Q24)

(11.4)

(2Q25)

(4.8)

(2Q24)

1.1

(1Q23)

13.5

(2Q23)

6.3

(1Q23)

4.3

(4Q23)

4.6

(4Q23)

6.5

(1Q23)

10.4

(2Q23)

4.8

(1Q23)

7.9

(1Q23)

5.6

(4Q23)

5.5

(3Q23)

5.9

(3Q23)

5.1

(3Q23)

6.1

(3Q23)

4.1

(4Q23)

6.8

(3Q23)

12.3

(3Q23)

1  Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2   The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. 
3   The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.

The following graphs show the historical and forecasted GDP growth rate for the various economic scenarios in our four largest markets.

Hong Kong

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

Central

Upside

Downside

Downside 2

12.0

10.0

8.0

6.0

4.0

2.0

0.0

‐2.0

‐4.0

‐6.0

‐8.0

UK

6.0

4.0

2.0

0.0

‐2.0

‐4.0

‐6.0

‐8.0

Mainland China

100

12.0

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

Central

Upside

Downside

Downside 2

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

10.0

8.0

6.0

4.0

2.0

0.0

‐2.0

‐4.0

‐6.0

‐8.0

US

6.0

4.0

2.0

0.0

‐2.0

‐4.0

‐6.0

‐8.0

‐10.0

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

‐10.0

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

Central

Upside

Downside

Downside 2

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

Central

Upside

Downside

Downside 2

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

161

Risk reviewRisk review

Scenario weighting

In reviewing the economic environment, the level of risk and 
uncertainty, management has considered both global and country-
specific factors.

increase significantly through 2024. This suggests that there will be 
increased official support to current economic headwinds, which 
would reduce the uncertainty attached to current forecasts.

In the fourth quarter of 2023, key considerations around uncertainty 
attached to the Central scenario projections focused on: 

– the risk that the Israel-Hamas war escalates and affects economic 

expectations;

– the lagged impact of elevated interest rates on household finances 

and businesses, and the implications of recent changes to 
monetary policy expectations on growth and employment; and

– the outlook for real estate in our key markets, particularly in the 

US, UK, Hong Kong and mainland China. 

Although these risk factors remain significant, management assessed 
that they were adequately reflected in the scenarios at their calibrated 
probability. It was noted that despite the escalation of geopolitical risk 
in the Middle East, economic forecasts had remained stable, and 
dispersion of forecasts around the consensus were either stable, or 
have moved lower. Financial market measures of volatility also 
remained low through the fourth quarter of 2023.

This has led management to assign scenario probabilities that are 
aligned to the standard scenario probability calibration framework. 
This entailed assigning a 75% probability weighting to the Central 
scenario in our major markets. The consensus Upside scenario was 
awarded a 10% weighting, and the consensus Downside scenario 
was given 10%. The Downside 2 was assigned a 5% weighting.

In support of the decision, it was noted that in mainland China recent 
policy announcements suggest fiscal and monetary stimulus will 

 The following tables describe the probabilities assigned in each scenario.

Scenario weightings, %

In the UK, the Central scenario reflects a weak growth environment in 
which recession risks remain high. Similarly, in the US, the Central 
scenario reflects expectations for a weaker growth environment in 
2024 as the economy adjusts to the higher rates environment. 

For the UAE, it was agreed that there has been an increase in 
geopolitical uncertainty since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war, 
with the potential for regional escalation remaining a risk. However, 
economic and market impacts have been limited and oil production 
remains unaffected.

Management concluded that consensus expectations for Mexico, 
France and Canada were also consistent with its view of the 
economic outlook, while assessments of uncertainty were also 
aligned to historical averages.

In the fourth quarter of 2022, management varied the applied scenario 
weights to reflect greater uncertainty around the inflation and interest 
rate outlook, amid supply disruption to energy and food commodity 
markets due to the Ukraine-Russia war. In Hong Kong and mainland 
China, uncertainty assessments focused on the upside and downside 
risks of post-pandemic reopening.

Those factors were reflected in the measures of risk and uncertainty 
used to inform judgements around the Central scenario. In particular, 
large forecast changes were observed, alongside wide dispersion of 
forecasts around consensus estimates and heightened financial 
market volatility.

4Q23
Upside scenario
Central scenario
Downside scenario 
Downside 2 scenario

4Q22
Upside scenario
Central scenario
Downside scenario
Downside 2 scenario

Standard 
weights

UK

US

Hong 
Kong

Mainland 
China

Canada

France

UAE

Mexico

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 5 
 60 
 25 
 10 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 5 
 70 
 20 
 5 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 20 
 55 
 20 
 5 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 20 
 55 
 20 
 5 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 5 
 70 
 15 
 10 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 5 
 60 
 25 
 10 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 5 
 70 
 20 
 5 

 10 
 75 
 10 
 5 

 5 
 70 
 20 
 5 

At 31 December 2023, the consensus Upside and Central scenarios for all markets had a combined weighting of 85%. At 31 December 2022, 
mainland China, Hong Kong and the US each had a combined weighting of 75% for the consensus Upside and Central scenarios. The UK had a 
combined weighting of 65%.

Critical estimates and judgements
The calculation of ECL under IFRS 9 involved significant judgements, 
assumptions and estimates at 31 December 2023. These included:

– the selection of weights to apply to the economic scenarios given 

the rapidly changing economic conditions and the inherent 
uncertainty of the underlying forecast under each scenario;

– the selection of scenarios to consider given the changing nature of 
macroeconomic and geopolitical risks that the Group and wider 
economy faces; and 

– estimating the economic effects of those scenarios on ECL, 

particularly sector and portfolio-specific risks, and the uncertainty 
of default and recovery experience under all scenarios.

How economic scenarios are reflected in 
ECL calculations

Models are used to reflect economic scenarios on ECL estimates. As 
described above, modelled assumptions and linkages based on 
historical information could not alone produce relevant information 
under the conditions experienced in 2023, and management 
judgemental adjustments were still required to support modelled 
outcomes.  

We have developed globally consistent methodologies for the 
application of forward economic guidance into the calculation of ECL 
for wholesale and retail credit risk. These standard approaches are 
described below, followed by the management judgemental 
adjustments made, including those to reflect the circumstances 
experienced in 2023.

162

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
For our wholesale portfolios, a global methodology is used for the 
estimation of the term structure of probability of default (‘PD’) and 
loss given default (‘LGD’). For PDs, we consider the correlation of 
forward economic guidance to default rates for a particular industry in 
a country. For LGD calculations, we consider the correlation of 
forward economic guidance to collateral values and realisation rates 
for a particular country and industry. PDs and LGDs are estimated for 
the entire term structure of each instrument. 

For impaired loans, allowance for ECL estimates are derived based on 
discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) calculations for internal forward-looking 
scenarios specific to individual borrower circumstances (see page 
348). Probability-weighted outcomes are applied, and depending on 
materiality and status of the borrower, the number of scenarios 
considered will change. Where relevant for the case being assessed, 
forward economic guidance is incorporated as part of these scenarios. 
LGD-driven proxy and modelled estimates are used for certain less 
material cases.

For our retail portfolios, the models are predominantly based on 
historical observations and correlations with default rates and 
collateral values. 

For PD, the impact of economic scenarios is modelled for each 
portfolio, using historical relationships between default rates and 
macroeconomic variables. These are included within IFRS 9 ECL 
estimates using either economic response models or models that 
contain internal, external and macroeconomic variables. The 
macroeconomic impact on PD is modelled over the period equal to 
the remaining maturity of the underlying assets. 

For LGD, the impact is modelled for mortgage portfolios by 
forecasting future loan-to-value profiles for the remaining maturity of 
the asset, using national level house price index forecasts and 
applying the corresponding LGD expectation relative to the updated 
forecast collateral values.

Management judgemental adjustments are described below.

Management judgemental adjustments

In the context of IFRS 9, management judgemental adjustments are 
typically short-term increases or decreases to the modelled allowance 
for ECL at either a customer, segment or portfolio level where 
management believes allowances do not sufficiently reflect the credit 
risk/expected credit losses at the reporting date. These can relate to 
risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the models and/or to 
any late-breaking events with significant uncertainty, subject to 
management review and challenge.

Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20231

Modelled ECL (A)3
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties
Corporate lending adjustments
Inflation related adjustments
Other credit judgements
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4
Other adjustments (C)5
Final ECL (A + B + C)6

This includes refining model inputs and outputs and using 
adjustments to ECL based on management judgement and 
quantitative analysis for impacts that are difficult to model.

The effects of management judgemental adjustments are considered 
for both balances and allowance for ECL when determining whether 
or not a significant increase in credit risk has occurred and is allocated 
to a stage where appropriate. This is in accordance with the internal 
adjustments framework.

Management judgemental adjustments are reviewed under the 
governance process for IFRS 9 (as detailed in the section ‘Credit risk 
management’ on page 147). Review and challenge focuses on the 
rationale and quantum of the adjustments with a further review 
carried out by the second line of defence where significant. For some 
management judgemental adjustments, internal frameworks establish 
the conditions under which these adjustments should no longer be 
required and as such are considered as part of the governance 
process. This internal governance process allows management 
judgemental adjustments to be reviewed regularly and, where 
possible, to reduce the reliance on these through model recalibration 
or redevelopment, as appropriate.

The drivers of management judgemental adjustments continue to 
evolve with the economic environment and as new risks emerge.

In addition to management judgemental adjustments there are also 
‘Other adjustments’, which are made to address process limitations 
and data/model deficiencies.

‘Management judgemental adjustments’ and ‘Other adjustments’ 
constitute the total value of adjustments to modelled allowance for 
ECL. For the wholesale portfolio, defaulted exposures are assessed 
individually and management judgemental adjustments are made only 
to the performing portfolio.

At 31 December 2023, there was a $0.2bn reduction in management 
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2022. For the 
wholesale portfolio, this was due to modelled outcomes better 
reflecting the key risks at 31 December 2023. For the retail portfolio, 
there was an increase in other credit judgements due to the potential 
delayed impact of economic scenarios on unsecured portfolio 
defaults, primarily within the UK .

Management judgemental adjustments made in estimating the 
scenario-weighted reported allowance for ECL at 31 December 2023 
are set out in the following table. 

Retail

$bn
2.6   

0.1 
0.5 
0.6   
0.0
3.2   

Wholesale2
$bn
2.4   
0.0
0.1   

0.1   
0.0
2.5   

Total

$bn
5.0 
0.0
0.1 
0.1 
0.5 
0.7 
0.0
5.7 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

163

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20221 (continued)

Modelled ECL (A)3
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties
Corporate lending adjustments
Inflation-related adjustments
Other credit judgements
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4
Other adjustments (C)5
Final ECL (A + B + C)6

Retail

$bn

3.0   

0.1 
0.2 
0.3   
0.0  
3.3   

Wholesale2
$bn

2.6   
0.1   
0.5   

0.6   
(0.1)   
3.1   

Total

$bn

5.6 
0.1 
0.5 
0.1 
0.2 
0.9 
(0.1) 
6.4 

1   Management judgemental adjustments presented in the table reflect increases or (decreases) to allowance for ECL, respectively. 
2   The wholesale portfolio corresponds to adjustments to the performing portfolio (stage 1 and stage 2).
3   (A) refers to probability-weighted allowance for ECL before any adjustments are applied.
4 

(B) refers to adjustments that are applied where management believes allowance for ECL does not sufficiently reflect the credit risk/expected credit 
losses of any given portfolio at the reporting date. These can relate to risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the model and/or to any late-
breaking events.
(C) refers to adjustments to allowance for ECL made to address process limitations and data/model deficiencies.

5 
6  As presented within our internal credit risk governance (see page 147). 

Management judgemental adjustments at 31 December 2023 were 
an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn for the wholesale portfolio 
and an increase to ECL of $0.6bn for the retail portfolio.

At 31 December 2023, wholesale management judgemental 
adjustments were an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn 
(31 December 2022: $0.6bn increase). 

– Management judgemental adjustments to corporate exposures 
increased allowance for ECL by $0.1bn at 31 December 2023 
(31 December 2022: $0.5bn increase), mostly due to management 
judgements to reflect heightened uncertainty in specific sectors 
and geographies, including adjustments to exposures to the real 
estate sectors in mainland China, the UK and the US. The 
decrease in adjustments to allowances compared with 
31 December 2022 is attributed to a crystallisation of existing risks 
at that date through downgrades, and an improved reflection of 
emerging risks in macroeconomic scenarios and modelled 
outcomes.

At 31 December 2023, retail management judgemental adjustments 
were an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.6bn (31 December 2022: 
$0.3bn increase). The increase in adjustments to allowance for ECL 
compared with 31 December 2022 was primarily due to the increase 
in management judgemental adjustments in other credit judgements 
(detailed below).

– Management judgemental adjustments in relation to inflation  
increased allowance for ECL by $0.1bn (31 December 2022: 
$0.1bn). These adjustments addressed where increasing inflation 
and interest rates result in affordability risks that were not fully 
captured by the modelled output.

– Management judgemental adjustments in relation to other credit  
judgements increased allowance for ECL by $0.5bn (31 December 
2022: $0.2bn). These adjustments were primarily to capture the 
potential delayed impact of economic scenarios on unsecured 
portfolio defaults in the UK. 

Economic scenarios sensitivity analysis of 
ECL estimates

Management considered the sensitivity of the ECL outcome against 
the economic forecasts as part of the ECL governance process by 
recalculating the allowance for ECL under each scenario described 
above for selected portfolios, applying a 100% weighting to each 
scenario in turn. The weighting is reflected in both the determination 
of a significant increase in credit risk and the measurement of the 
resulting allowances.

The allowance for ECL calculated for the Upside and Downside 
scenarios should not be taken to represent the upper and lower limits 
of possible ECL outcomes. The impact of defaults that might occur in 
the future under different economic scenarios is captured by 
recalculating allowances for loans at the balance sheet date.

There is a particularly high degree of estimation uncertainty in 
numbers representing tail risk scenarios when assigned a 100% 
weighting.

For wholesale credit risk exposures, the sensitivity analysis excludes 
allowance for ECL and financial instruments related to defaulted 
(stage 3) obligors. The measurement of stage 3 ECL is relatively more 
sensitive to credit factors specific to the obligor than future economic 
scenarios, and therefore the effects of macroeconomic factors are not 
necessarily the key consideration when performing individual 
assessments of allowances for obligors in default. Loans to defaulted 
obligors are a small portion of the overall wholesale lending exposure, 
even if representing the majority of the allowance for ECL. Due to the 
range and specificity of the credit factors to which the ECL is 
sensitive, it is not possible to provide a meaningful alternative 
sensitivity analysis for a consistent set of risks across all defaulted 
obligors.

For retail mortgage exposures the sensitivity analysis includes 
allowance for ECL for defaulted obligors of loans and advances. This 
is because the retail ECL for secured mortgage portfolios, including 
loans in all stages, is sensitive to macroeconomic variables.

Wholesale and retail sensitivity

The wholesale and retail sensitivity tables present the 100% 
weighted results. These exclude portfolios held by the insurance 
business and small portfolios, and as such cannot be directly 
compared with personal and wholesale lending presented in other 
credit risk tables. In both the wholesale and retail analysis, the 
comparative period results for Downside 2 scenarios are also not 
directly comparable with the current period, because they reflect 
different risks relative to the consensus scenarios for the period end.

The wholesale and retail sensitivity analysis is stated inclusive of 
management judgemental adjustments, as appropriate to each 
scenario.

For both retail and wholesale portfolios, the gross carrying amount of 
financial instruments are the same under each scenario. For 
exposures with similar risk profile and product characteristics, the 
sensitivity impact is therefore largely the result of changes in 
macroeconomic assumptions.

164

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wholesale analysis

IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1,2,3

By geography at 31 Dec 2023

UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
Canada5
Mexico
UAE
France
Other geographies6
Total
of which:
Stage 1
Stage 2

By geography at 31 Dec 2022

UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
Canada5
Mexico
UAE
France
Other geographies6
Total

Reported 
Gross carrying 
amount4
$m
426,427   
191,104   
447,480   
129,945   
84,092   
30,159   
52,074   
178,827   
450,271   
1,990,378   

1,820,843   
169,535   

421,685   
190,858   
415,875   
125,466   
83,274   
26,096   
45,064   
173,146   
445,758   
1,927,222   

Reported 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Central 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Upside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Downside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

Downside 2 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

$m
820   
215   
609   
258   
89   
60   
32   
98   
325   
2,507   

754   
1,753   

769   
277   
925   
295   
126   
88   
45   
110   
447   
3,083   

$m
754   
199   
566   
217   
75   
56   
32   
102   
298   
2,301   

702   
1,599   

624   
241   
819   
242   
80   
80   
41   
102   
384   
2,612   

$m
599   
189   
433   
142   
56   
46   
30   
90   
245   
1,829   

553   
1,276   

484   
227   
592   
144   
60   
67   
30   
90   
304   
2,000   

$m
1,041   
268   
807   
414   
107   
73   
34   
124   
410   
3,278   

860   
2,418   

833   
337   
1,315   
415   
148   
116   
55   
121   
527   
3,866   

$m
2,487 
441 
1,393 
945 
487 
226 
40 
141 
882 
7,043 

854 
6,189 

2,240 
801 
2,161 
1,227 
579 
313 
93 
145 
1,054 
8,612 

1  Allowance for ECL sensitivity includes off-balance sheet financial instruments. These are subject to significant measurement uncertainty.
2 

Includes low credit-risk financial instruments such as debt instruments at FVOCI, which have high carrying amounts but low ECL under all the above 
scenarios. 

3  Excludes defaulted obligors. For a detailed breakdown of performing and non-performing wholesale portfolio exposures, see page 176.
4  Staging refers only to probability-weighted/reported gross carrying amount. Stage allocation of gross exposures varies by scenario, with higher 

allocation to stage 2 under the Downside 2 scenario. 

5  Classified as held for sale at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.
6   Includes small portfolios that use less complex modelling approaches and are not sensitive to macroeconomic changes.

At 31 December 2023, the highest level of 100% scenario-weighted 
allowance for ECL was observed in the UK and Hong Kong. This 
higher ECL impact was largely driven by significant exposure in these 
regions. 

Compared with 31 December 2022, the Downside 2 allowance for 
ECL was lower in Hong Kong and mainland China, mostly due to the 
crystallisation of defaults for certain high-risk exposures and a 
decrease of the associated downside uncertainty.

In the wholesale portfolio, off-balance sheet financial instruments 
have a lower likelihood to be fully converted to a funded exposure at 
the point of default, and consequently the sensitivity of the allowance 
for ECL is lower in relation to its nominal amount, when compared 
with an on-balance sheet exposure with a similar risk profile.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

165

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Retail analysis

IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1

Reported gross 
carrying 
amount

Reported 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Central 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Upside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Downside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

Downside 2 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL

$m

161,127   
7,582   
8,183   

8,666   
2,445   
4,529   

106,136   
9,128   
6,269   

2,001   
471   
721   

20,589   
1,328   

14,385   
204   

25,464   
338   
1,368   

55,368   
3,655   
2,416   
442,373   

347,874   
43,451   
2,412   

18,557   
4,953   
312   

19,551   
4,542   
722   

$m

189   
344   
341   

188   
295   
513   

2   
287   
109   

25   
24   
20   

50   
44   

8   
15   

67   
13   
13   

152   
173   
91   
2,962   

101   
264   
316   

249   
707   
193   

218   
540   
373   

$m

180   
340   
333   

180   
286   
503   

2   
239   
100   

25   
24   
20   

50   
44   

4   
15   

65   
13   
13   

149   
166   
86   
2,835   

92   
249   
314   

232   
657   
193   

151   
423   
370   

$m

172   
302   
273   

150   
206   
426   

1   
214   
88   

25   
22   
19   

50   
43   

3   
10   

64   
12   
12   

144   
151   
83   
2,471   

77   
225   
307   

180   
546   
192   

205   
519   
373   

$m

201   
353   
383   

235   
376   
600   

3   
395   
124   

25   
25   
21   

51   
45   

4   
15   

70   
16   
14   

158   
202   
95   
3,411   

145   
280   
322   

329   
859   
194   

272   
636   
375   

$m

334 
486 
515 

363 
489 
731 

5 
887 
256 

25 
32 
28 

51 
48 

10 
16 

99 
15 
33 

198 
291 
137 
5,049 

303 
429 
352 

604 
1,415 
197 

501 
868 
379 

By geography at 31 December 2023
UK
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Mexico
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Hong Kong
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
UAE
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
France3
Mortgages
Other
US
Mortgages
Credit cards
Canada2
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Other geographies
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Total
of which: mortgages
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
of which: credit cards 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
of which: others
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3

166

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1 (continued)

Reported gross 
carrying amount

Reported 
allowance for 
ECL

Consensus 
Central scenario 
allowance for ECL

Consensus 
Upside scenario 
allowance for ECL

Consensus 
Downside scenario 
allowance for ECL

Downside 2 
scenario 
allowance for ECL

By geography at 31 December 2022

$m

UK
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Mexico
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Hong Kong
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
UAE
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
France
Mortgages
Other
US
Mortgages
Credit cards
Canada
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Other geographies
Mortgages
Credit cards
Other
Total

147,306   
6,518   
7,486   

6,319   
1,616   
3,447   

100,107   
8,003   
5,899   

2,170   
441   
718   

21,440   
1,433   

13,489   
219   

25,163   
299   
1,399   

56,383   
3,871   
3,630   
417,356   

$m

204   
455   
368   

152   
198   
438   

1   
261   
85   

37   
41   
17   

51   
54   

7   
26   

45   
10   
16   

$m

188   
434   
333   

127   
162   
400   

1   
227   
81   

37   
37   
17   

50   
53   

6   
25   

44   
9   
14   

$m

183   
396   
274   

102   
97   
318   

—   
180   
74   

36   
21   
15   

50   
52   

6   
23   

43   
8   
13   

$m

189   
442   
383   

183   
233   
503   

1   
417   
100   

38   
68   
19   

51   
55   

8   
27   

46   
11   
17   

$m

399 
719 
605 

270 
289 
618 

1 
648 
123 

38 
86 
22 

52 
59 

15 
36 

58 
11 
36 

199   
192   
115   
2,972   

190   
176   
111   
2,722   

183   
150   
107   
2,331   

205   
219   
119   
3,334   

253 
324 
159 
4,821 

1   Allowance for ECL sensitivities exclude portfolios utilising less complex modelling approaches.
2   Classified as ‘assets held for sale’ at 31 December 2023.
3   Includes balances and allowance for ECL, which have been reclassified from ‘loans and advances to customers’ to ‘assets held for sale’ in the balance 
sheet at 31 December 2023. This also includes any balances and allowance for ECL, which continue to be reported as personal lending in ‘loans and 
advances to customers’ that are in accordance with the basis of inclusion for retail sensitivity analysis.

At 31 December 2023, the most significant level of allowance for ECL 
sensitivity was observed in the UK, Mexico and Hong Kong. 
Mortgages reflected the lowest level of allowance for ECL sensitivity 
across most markets given the significant levels of collateral relative 
to the exposure values. Credit cards and other unsecured lending 
across stage 1 and 2 are more sensitive to economic forecasts and 
therefore reflected the highest level of allowance for ECL sensitivity 
during 2023. 

There is limited sensitivity in credit cards and other unsecured lending 
in stage 3 as levels of loss on defaulted exposures remain consistent 
through various economic conditions. The alternative downside is 
from the tail of the economic distribution where allowance for ECL is 
more sensitive based on historical experience. 

The reported gross carrying amount by stage is representative of the 
weighted scenario allowance for ECL. The allowance for ECL 
sensitivity to the other scenarios includes changes in allowance for 
ECL due to the levels of loss and the migration of additional lending 
balances in or out of stage 2.
Group ECL sensitivity results

The allowance for ECL of the scenarios and management 
judgemental adjustments is highly sensitive to movements in 
economic forecasts. Based upon the sensitivity tables presented 
above, if the Group allowance for ECL balance was estimated solely 
on the basis of the Central scenario, Downside scenario or the 
Downside 2 scenario at 31 December 2023, it would increase/
(decrease) as presented in the below table.

Total Group ECL at 31 December 2023
Reported allowance for ECL
Scenarios
100% Consensus Central scenario
100% Consensus Upside scenario
100% Consensus Downside scenario
100% Downside 2 scenario 

Total Group ECL at 31 December 2022
Reported allowance for ECL
Scenarios
100% Consensus Central scenario
100% Consensus Upside scenario
100% Consensus Downside scenario
100% Downside 2 scenario

Retail1 Wholesale1
$bn
2.5 

$bn 
3.0   

(0.1)   
(0.5)   
0.4   
2.1   

3.0   

(0.2)   
(0.6)   
0.4   
1.8   

(0.2) 
(0.7) 
0.8 
4.5 

3.1 

(0.5) 
(1.1) 
0.8 
5.5 

1  On the same basis as retail and wholesale sensitivity analysis.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

167

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

At 31 December 2023, the Group allowance for ECL remained 
unchanged in the retail portfolio and decreased by $0.6bn in the 
wholesale portfolio, compared with 31 December 2022.

The decrease in the Downside 2 scenario sensitivity within the 
wholesale portfolio since 31 December 2022 has been mostly driven 
by the crystallisation of defaults of higher risk exposures to the 
mainland China real estate sector and a reduction of related 
uncertainty. Within the retail portfolio, the increase in the Downside 2 

scenario sensitivity was due to portfolio growth in Mexico and 
scenario forecast deterioration in Hong Kong. 

At 31 December 2023, the sensitivity of the allowance for ECL to the 
consensus Central and consensus Upside scenarios decreased for 
both retail and wholesale portfolios due to lower macroeconomic 
forecast uncertainty, and the return to standardised weighting for the 
probability-weighted reported allowance.

Reconciliation from reported exposure and ECL to sensitised exposure and weighted ECL

Included in sensitivity analysis
–  Exclusions from sensitivity as described in the 

section above1

–  Debt instruments measured at fair value through 

other comprehensive income2

–  Performance guarantees2
–  Other financial assets at amortised cost not 

presented as wholesale or personal lending, including 
held for sale2

–  Other3
As reported in the Summary of credit risk 
(excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by 
stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry 
sector at 31 December 2023
Other financial assets at amortised cost
Total reported in the Summary of credit risk 
(excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by 
stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry 
sector at 31 December 2023

Wholesale

Gross carrying/ 
nominal amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Retail
Gross carrying/
nominal amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Total
Gross carrying/
nominal amount

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

1,990,378   

$m
(2,507)   

$m
442,373   

$m
(2,962)   

$m

2,432,751   

$m
(5,469) 

17,024   

(6,237)   

308,569   

(93)   

325,593   

(6,330) 

(302,348)   

(93,312)   

(579,534)   

2,704   

97   

35   

93   

(84)   

—   

—   

(41,129)   

(4,175)   

—   

—   

174   

(11)   

(302,348)   

(93,312)   

(620,663)   

(1,471)   

97 

35 

267 

(95) 

1,034,912   

(8,603)   

705,638   

(2,892)   

1,740,550   

(11,495) 

960,271   

(422) 

2,700,821   

(11,917) 

1   Comprises wholesale defaulted obligors, retail portfolios utilising less complex modelling approaches, private banking and insurance.
2   The sensitivity analysis includes certain items reported in Other assets at amortised cost, which are not allocated to an industry in the credit tables. It 

also includes FVOCI and performance guarantees, which are presented separately in the credit tables.

3   Includes FX and other operational variances.

Reconciliations of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances 
for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments 
and financial guarantees
The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the 
Group’s gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and 
advances to banks and customers, including loan commitments and 
financial guarantees.

The net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage 
represents the increase or decrease due to these transfers, for 
example, moving from a 12-month (stage 1) to a lifetime (stage 2) 
ECL measurement basis. Net remeasurement excludes the 
underlying customer risk rating (‘CRR’)/probability of default (‘PD’) 
movements of the financial instruments transferring stage. This is 
captured, along with other credit quality movements in the ‘changes 
to risk parameters – credit quality’ line item. 

Changes in ‘Net new and further lending/repayments’ represents the 
impact from volume movements within the Group’s lending portfolio 
and includes ‘New financial assets originated or purchased’, ‘assets 
derecognised (including final repayments)’ and ‘changes to risk 
parameters – further lending/repayment’.

In addition, a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s gross carrying 
amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and 
customers and a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s nominal 
amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial 
guarantees were included in this section following the adoption of the 
recommendations of the DECL Taskforce‘s third report.

Movements are calculated on a quarterly basis and therefore fully 
capture stage movements between quarters. If movements were 
calculated on a year-to-date basis they would only reflect the opening 
and closing position of the financial instrument.

The transfers of financial instruments represents the impact of stage 
transfers upon the gross carrying/nominal amount and associated 
allowance for ECL. 

168

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 
loan commitments and financial guarantees

(Audited)

Non-credit impaired

Credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

$m

  1,433,643   

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Allowance 
for ECL

$m
(1,257)   

$m
177,223   

$m
(3,710)   

$m
21,207   

$m
(6,949)   

$m
129   

$m
(38)    1,632,202   

$m

$m

(11,954) 

(18,948)   

(1,048)   

10,286   

2,228   

8,662   

(1,180)   

(150,728)   

442   

150,728   

(442)   

133,079   

(1,467)   

(133,079)   

(1,986)   
687   

23   
(46)   

(8,600)   
1,237   

1,467   

1,379   
(176)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

10,586   
(1,924)   

(1,402)   
222   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

— 

— 

— 

— 
— 

—   

917   

—   

(973)   

—   

(124)   

—   

—   

—   

(180) 

77,693   

(185)   

(36,795)   

661   

(4,956)   

1,117   

(36)   

3   

35,906   

1,596 

—   

307   

—   

(1,262)   

—   

(3,896)   

—   
—   

(22)   
—   

—   
—   

46   
—   

—   

7   

(3,922)   

3,922   

—   

—   

—   

21   

—   

(4,830) 

—   

—   

—   

31 

(3,922)   

3,922 

—   

—   

—   

—   

(119)   

95   

—   

—   

(119)   

95 

4,417   

(12)   

2,370   

(92)   

(73)   

(55)   

  1,496,805   

(1,300)   

153,084   

(3,102)   

20,799   

(7,063)   

(8)   

85   

(16)   

6,706   

(175) 

(30)    1,670,773   

(11,495) 

1,017 

(1,528) 

(2,896) 

24 

(3,383) 

268 
(195) 

(3,310) 

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial 
instruments:
– transfers from stage 1 to 

stage 2

–  transfers from stage 2 to

stage 1

–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of 
stage
Net new and further 
lending/repayments
Changes to risk parameters 
– credit quality
Changes to models used 
for ECL calculation

Assets written off
Credit-related modifications 
that resulted in 
derecognition
Foreign exchange and 
others1
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement 
change for the period
Recoveries
Others 
Total ECL income 
statement change for the 
period

1  Total includes $7.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding 
allowance for ECL of $70m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ 
on page 401.

As above
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments
Performance and other guarantees not considered for IFRS 9
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are 
applied/Summary consolidated income statement
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI
Total allowance for ECL/total income statement ECL change for the period

At 31 Dec 2023

$m

Gross carrying/
nominal amount Allowance for ECL
$m
(11,495)   
(422)   
—   
—   

1,670,773   
960,271   
69,777   
—   

2,700,821   

302,348   
n/a  

(11,917)   

(97)   
(12,014)   

12 months ended 
31 Dec 2023

ECL charge

$m
(3,310) 
(35) 
— 
(44) 

(3,389) 

(58) 
(3,447) 

As shown in the previous table, the allowance for ECL for loans and 
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments 
and financial guarantees decreased $459m during the period from 
$11,954m at 31 December 2022 to $11,495m at 31 December 2023.

This decrease was driven by:

– $3,922m of assets written off; 

– $1,596m relating to volume movements, which included the 
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets 
derecognised and further lending/repayment; 

– $95m relating to credit-related modifications, which resulted in 

derecognition; and

– $31m of changes to models used for ECL calculation.

These were partly offset by:

– $4,830m relating to underlying credit quality changes, including the 
credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring between 
stages;

– $180m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage 

transfers; and

– foreign exchange and other movements of $175m.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

169

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

The ECL charge for the period of $3,383m presented in the previous 
table consisted of $4,830m relating to underlying credit quality 
changes, including the credit quality impact of financial instruments 
transferring between stages and $180m relating to the net 
remeasurement impact of stage transfers. 

This was partly offset by $1,596m relating to underlying net book 
volume movement and $31m in changes to models used for ECL 
calculation.

Summary views of the movement in wholesale and personal lending 
are presented on pages 179 and 192.

Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 
loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)

Non-credit impaired

Credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Gross 
exposure

Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL

Gross 
exposure

Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL

Gross 
exposure

Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL

Gross 
exposure

Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL

Gross 
exposure

Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

 1,575,808   
(98,940)   

(1,552)    155,654   
88,974   

(794)   

(3,323)   
1,616   

19,796   
9,966   

$m

(6,928)   
(822)   

$m

275   
—   

$m

$m

$m

(64)   1,751,533   
—   
—   

(11,867) 
— 

  (225,458)   

469    225,458   

(469)   

—   

—   

—   

  128,170   

(1,211)    (128,170)   

(2,392)   
740   

9   
(61)   

(10,083)   
1,769   

1,211   

1,132   
(258)   

—   

12,475   
(2,509)   

—   

(1,141)   
319   

—   

735   

—   

(948)   

—   

(148)   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

— 

— 

— 
— 

—   

(361) 

99,253   

(175)   

(44,877)   

435   

(3,399)   

674   

(133)   

3   

50,844   

937 

—   

400   

—   

(1,671)   

—   

(3,019)   

—   

32   

—   

(4,258) 

—   

—   

—   

4   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(151)   

—   

13   

—   

(2,791)   

2,791   

—   

(32)   

  (142,478)   
 1,433,643   

125   

(22,528)   
(1,257)    177,223   

332   
(3,710)   

(2,333)   
21,207   

—   

—   
—   

—   

964   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

(2,335) 

—   
—   

—   

0  

—   
—   

—   

—   

(10)   

—   

(3)   
129   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

10   

—   

(134) 

(2,801)   

2,801 

—   

(32)   

9 

(19)   
(167,342)   
(38)   1,632,202   

919 
(11,954) 

35   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

(3,816) 

316 
(28) 

—   

(3,528) 

9   

481   
(6,949)   

(2,480)   

—   
—   

—   

At 1 Jan 2022
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to 

stage 2

–  transfers from stage 2 to 

stage 1

–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
Net new and further lending/
repayments
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
Assets written off
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
Foreign exchange and others1
At 31 Dec 2022
ECL income statement change for 
the period
Recoveries
Others
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period

1   Total includes $82.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a 

corresponding allowance for ECL of $426m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups 
held for sale’ on page 401.

As above
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments
Performance and other guarantees not considered for IFRS 9
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are 
applied/Summary consolidated income statement
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI
Total allowance for ECL/total income statement ECL change for the period

At 31 Dec 2022

Gross carrying/
nominal amount

Allowance for 
ECL

12 months ended 
31 Dec 2022

ECL charge

$m

1,632,202   
954,934   
44,921   

— 

2,632,057   

265,147   
n/a  

$m

(11,954)   
(493)   
—   
—   

(12,447)   

(126)   
(12,573)   

$m

(3,528) 
(38) 
— 
39 

(3,527) 

(57) 
(3,584) 

170

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers 

Non-credit impaired

Credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Gross 
carrying 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

  879,023   
  (19,276)   
 (108,758)   
  90,655   

(1,692)   
519   

(1,109)    140,816   
(980)    11,250   
423    108,758   
(1,382)    (90,655)   

(3,518)    19,586   
8,026   
2,154   
—   
(423)   
—   
1,382   

22   
(43)   

(7,975)   
1,122   

1,367   
(172)   

9,667   
(1,641)   

$m
(6,851)   
(1,174)   
—   
—   

(1,389)   
215   

$m
129   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   

$m

$m
(38)   1,039,554   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

$m

(11,516) 
— 
— 
— 

— 
— 

—   

859   

—   

(934)   

—   

(118)   

—   

—   

—   

(193) 

  55,024   

(210)    (32,069)   

685   

(4,233)   

1,026   

(40)   

3    18,682   

1,504 

—   

311   

—   

(1,292)   

—   

(3,804)   

—   

21   

—   

(4,764) 

—   

—   

—   

(17)   

—   

—   

—   

28   

—   

7   

—   

(3,922)   

3,922   

—   

—   

—   

(119)   

95   

6,092   
  920,863   

6   

2,310   
(1,140)    122,307   

(90)   

(63)   
(2,967)    19,275   

(55)   
(6,952)   

—   

—   

—   

(8)   
81   

—   

—   

18 

—   

(3,922)   

3,922 

—   

(119)   

95 

8,331   
(16)   
(30)   1,062,526   

(155) 
(11,089) 

943 

(1,513) 

(2,889) 

24 

(3,435) 

268 
(203) 

(3,370) 

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
–  transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL arising 
from transfer of stage
Net new and further lending/
repayments
Changes to risk parameters – credit 
quality
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation

Assets written off
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
Foreign exchange and others1
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement change for 
the period
Recoveries
Others 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period

1   Total includes $7.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding 
allowance for ECL of $70m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ 
on page 401.

Reconciliation of changes in nominal amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial guarantees

Non-credit impaired

Credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to

stage 2

–  transfers from stage 2 to

stage 1

–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
Net new and further lending/
repayments
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation

Foreign exchange and others
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement change 
for the period
Recoveries
Others 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period

$m

  554,620   
328   

$m

$m
(148)    36,407   
(964)   

(68)   

$m
(192)   
74   

$m
1,621   
636   

$m
(98)   
(6)   

  (41,970)   

19    41,970   

(19)   

—   

—   

  42,424   

(85)    (42,424)   

(294)   
168   

1   
(3)   

(625)   
115   

85   

12   
(4)   

—   

919   
(283)   

—   

(13)   
7   

—   

58   

—   

(39)   

—   

(6)   

$m

$m

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

$m
592,648   
—   

$m
(438) 
— 

  22,669   

25   

(4,726)   

(24)   

(723)   

91   

4   

—   

17,224   

—   

—   

(1,675)   
  575,942   

(4)   

—   

30   

—   

(92)   

—   

(5)   

—   

(18)   

60   
(160)    30,777   

74 

—   

(10)   
1,524   

18   

(2)   
(135)   

(15) 

—   

—   
(111)   

(7) 

—   

—   
4   

—   

—   

(1,625)   
608,247   

—   

—   

—   
—   

— 

— 

— 

— 
— 

13 

92 

(66) 

13 

(20) 
(406) 

52 

— 
8 

60 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

171

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Credit quality
Credit quality of financial instruments

(Audited)

We assess the credit quality of all financial instruments that are 
subject to credit risk. The credit quality of financial instruments is a 
point-in-time assessment of PD, whereas stages 1 and 2 are 
determined based on relative deterioration of credit quality since initial 
recognition for the majority of portfolios. Accordingly, for non-credit-
impaired financial instruments, there is no direct relationship 
between the credit quality assessment and stages 1 and 2, although 

typically the lower credit quality bands exhibit a higher proportion in 
stage 2.

The five credit quality classifications provided below each encompass 
a range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale 
and personal lending businesses and the external ratings attributed by 
external agencies to debt securities, as shown in the table on 
page 148.

Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 31 December 2023

(Audited)

Gross carrying/notional amount

Strong

$m

Good Satisfactory

$m

$m

Sub-
standard

$m

Credit 
impaired

$m

Allowance 
for ECL/
other credit 
provisions

$m

Total

$m

Net

$m

In-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Loans and advances to 
customers held at amortised cost
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks 
held at amortised cost 
Cash and balances at central 
banks 
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness 
Reverse repurchase agreements 
– non-trading
Financial investments
Assets held for sale
Other assets
–  endorsements and 

acceptances

–  accrued income and other
Debt instruments measured at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income1
Out-of-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Trading assets
Other financial assets designated 
and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through 
profit or loss 

Derivatives
Assets held for sale
Total gross carrying amount on 
balance sheet
Percentage of total 
credit quality (%)
Loan and other credit-related 
commitments
Financial guarantees
In-scope: Irrevocable loan 
commitments and financial 
guarantees
Loan and other credit-related 
commitments
Performance and other 
guarantees

Out-of-scope: Revocable loan 
commitments and non-
financial guarantees

497,665   

206,476   

197,582   

346,562   
118,123   
32,980   

62,656   
123,713   
20,107   

32,314   
145,249   
20,019   

28,532   

2,485   
25,531   
516   

19,354   

3,505   
15,039   
810   

949,609   

(11,074)   

447,522   
427,655   
74,432   

(2,867)   
(7,803)   
(404)   

938,535 

444,655 
419,852 
74,028 

101,057   

4,640   

6,363   

855   

2   

112,917   

(15)   

112,902 

284,723   

1,068   

6,327   

42,024   

170,494   

143,333   
68,501   
99,857   

2,405   

97,452   

15   

—   

46,884   

3,814   
16,403   
11,967   

2,666   

9,301   

77   

—   

—   

34,206   

1,137   
14,812   
9,965   

2,707   

7,258   

—   

—   

—   

633   

62   
2,939   
366   

161   

205   

—   

285,868   

—   

285,868 

—   

6,342   

—   

6,342 

—   

42,024   

—   

42,024 

—   

—   
531   
133   

18   

115   

252,217   

148,346   
103,186   
122,288   

7,957   

114,331   

—   

(20)   
(324)   
(78)   

(18)   

(60)   

252,217 

148,326 
102,862 
122,210 

7,939 

114,271 

288,959   

12,037   

7,897   

805   

5   

309,703   

(97)   

309,606 

122,695   

20,595   

20,746   

1,326   

135   

165,497   

—   

165,497 

52,649   

196,098   
12,495   

11,517   

27,377   
—   

4,733   

6,041   
—   

84   

187   
—   

6   

11   
—   

68,989   

229,714   
12,495   

—   

—   
—   

68,989 

229,714 
12,495 

2,086,877   

362,793   

303,559   

35,789   

20,177   

2,809,195   

(11,608)   

2,797,587 

 74.3 

 12.9 

 10.8 

 1.3 

 0.7 

 100 

436,359   

142,500   

7,700   

4,146   

73,230   

4,080   

7,782   

699   

1,144   

661,015   

384   

17,009   

(367)   

(39)   

660,648 

16,970 

444,059   

146,646   

77,310   

8,481   

1,528   

678,024   

(406)   

677,618 

92,509   

77,891   

61,462   

3,896   

377   

236,135   

—   

236,135 

39,784   

32,231   

19,445   

1,853   

964   

94,277   

(145)   

94,132 

132,293   

110,122   

80,907   

5,749   

1,341   

330,412   

(145)   

330,267 

1  For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. 
As such, the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value 
gains and losses.

172

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

                                                                                                                                                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 31 December 2022 (continued)

(Audited)

Gross carrying/notional amount

Strong

$m

Good

Satisfactory

$m

$m

Sub- 
standard

$m

Credit 
impaired

$m

Allowance 
for ECL/other 
credit 
provisions

$m

Total

$m

Net

$m

492,711   

196,735   

196,486   

333,839   
126,521   
32,351   

45,590   
132,128   
19,017   

28,918   
153,841   
13,727   

29,443   

3,196   
24,887   
1,360   

19,633   

3,339   
15,825   
469   

935,008   

414,882   
453,202   
66,924   

(11,447)   

(2,870)   
(8,320)   
(257)   

923,561 

412,012 
444,882 
66,667 

92,675   

4,833   

5,643   

1,311   

82   

104,544   

(69)   

104,475 

325,119   

1,296   

590   

7,280   

43,787   

170,386   

103,379   
67,616   
91,006   

2,350   

88,656   

12   

—   

41,659   

3,212   
17,993   
11,126   

3,059   

8,067   

5   

—   

41,686   

2,334   
13,972   
8,875   

2,815   

6,060   

—   

—   

—   

20   

161   
2,333   
290   

175   

115   

—   

327,005   

(3)   

327,002 

—   

7,297   

—   

7,297 

—   

43,787   

—   

43,787 

3   

253,754   

—   
642   
152   

25   

127   

109,086   
102,556   
111,449   

8,424   

103,025   

—   

(20)   
(415)   
(55)   

(17)   

(38)   

253,754 

109,066 
102,141 
111,394 

8,407 

102,987 

260,654   

9,957   

5,730   

1,910   

7   

278,258   

(126)   

278,132 

91,330   

14,371   

23,414   

820   

133   

130,068   

—   

130,068 

49,602   

241,918   
15,254   

11,116   

34,181   
—   

3,145   

7,843   
—   

187   

181   
—   

—   

36   
—   

64,050   

284,159   
15,254   

—   

—   
—   

64,050 

284,159 
15,254 

2,052,717   

346,491   

309,723   

36,656   

20,688   

2,766,275   

(12,135)   

2,754,140 

 74.2 

 12.6 

 11.2 

 1.3 

 0.7 

 100 

 — 

 — 

402,972   

132,402   

74,410   

8,281   

4,669   

4,571   

7,632   

1,013   

1,372   

618,788   

249   

18,783   

(386)   

(52)   

618,402 

18,731 

411,253   

137,071   

78,981   

8,645   

1,621   

637,571   

(438)   

637,133 

76,098   

69,667   

59,452   

3,360   

489   

209,066   

—   

209,066 

37,943   

30,029   

17,732   

2,137   

399   

88,240   

(110)   

88,130 

114,041   

99,696   

77,184   

5,497   

888   

297,306   

(110)   

297,196 

In-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Loans and advances to customers 
held at amortised cost
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks 
held at amortised cost 
Cash and balances at central 
banks 
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness 
Reverse repurchase agreements 
–  non-trading
Financial investments
Assets held for sale
Other assets
–  endorsements and 

acceptances

–  accrued income and other
Debt instruments measured at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income1
Out-of-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Trading assets
Other financial assets designated 
and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through 
profit or loss 

Derivatives
Assets held for sale
Total gross carrying amount on 
balance sheet
Percentage of total 
credit quality (%)
Loan and other credit-related 
commitments
Financial guarantees
In-scope: Irrevocable loan 
commitments and financial 
guarantees

Loan and other credit-related 
commitments
Performance and other 
guarantees
Out-of-scope: Revocable loan 
commitments and non-financial 
guarantees

1  For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. 
As such, the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value 
gains and losses.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

173

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Distribution of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied, by credit quality and stage allocation
(Audited)

Gross carrying/notional amount

Strong

Good Satisfactory

Sub-
standard

Credit 
impaired

Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Loan and other credit-related commitments 
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Financial guarantees
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
At 31 Dec 2023
Debt instruments at FVOCI1
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
At 31 Dec 2023

Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Loan and other credit-related commitments
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
Financial guarantees
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
At 31 Dec 2022
Debt instruments at FVOCI1
–  stage 1
–  stage 2
–  stage 3
–  POCI
At 31 Dec 2022

$m

$m

19,243   
—   
—   
  101,057   
  101,011   
46   
—   
—   
  815,259   
  814,776   
483   
—   
—   

  497,665    206,476   
  478,422    177,410   
29,066   
—   
—   
4,640   
4,631   
9   
—   
—   
80,151   
78,486   
1,665   
—   
—   
  436,359    142,500   
  432,017    135,192   
7,308   
—   
—   
4,146   
3,943   
203   
—   
—   
  1,858,040    437,913   

4,342   
—   
—   
7,700   
7,497   
203   
—   
—   

  288,909   
50   
—   
—   
  288,959   

12,037   
—   
—   
—   
12,037   

34,005   
—   
—   
92,675   
92,377   
298   
—   
—   
  808,573   
  807,893   
680   
—   
—   

  492,711    196,735   
  458,706    170,055   
26,680   
—   
—   
4,833   
4,465   
368   
—   
—   
75,298   
70,794   
4,504   
—   
—   
  402,972    132,402   
  398,120    121,581   
10,821   
—   
—   
4,669   
4,245   
424   
—   
—   
  1,805,212    413,937   

4,852   
—   
—   
8,281   
8,189   
92   
—   
—   

  260,411   
243   
—   
—   
  260,654   

9,852   
105   
—   
—   
9,957   

$m
197,582   
147,940   
49,642   
—   
—   
6,363   
5,550   
813   
—   
—   
60,197   
53,095   
7,102   
—   
—   
73,230   
61,213   
12,017   
—   
—   
4,080   
3,204   
876   
—   
—   
341,452   

7,579   
318   
—   
—   
7,897   

196,486   
142,408   
54,078   
—   
—   
5,643   
5,466   
177   
—   
—   
67,462   
59,887   
7,575   
—   
—   
74,410   
60,990   
13,420   
—   
—   
4,571   
3,488   
1,083   
—   
—   
348,572   

5,446   
284   
—   
—   
5,730   

$m
28,532   
5,612   
22,920   
—   
—   
855   
287   
568   
—   
—   
4,000   
516   
3,484   
—   
—   
7,782   
2,527   
5,255   
—   
—   
699   
102   
597   
—   
—   
41,868   

—   
805   
—   
—   
805   

29,443   
5,130   
24,313   
—   
—   
1,311   
415   
896   
—   
—   
2,804   
224   
2,580   
—   
—   
7,632   
2,692   
4,940   
—   
—   
1,013   
149   
864   
—   
—   
42,203   

—   
1,910   
—   
—   
1,910   

Total

$m

$m

19,273   
81   

19,354    949,609   
—    809,384   
—    120,871   
19,273   
81   
2    112,917   
—    111,479   
1,436   
—   
2   
2   
—   
—   
664    960,271   
—    946,873   
12,734   
—   
664   
664   
—   
—   
1,144    661,015   
—    630,949   
28,922   
—   
1,140   
1,140   
4   
4   
17,009   
384   
14,746   
—   
1,879   
—   
384   
384   
—   
—   
21,548    2,700,821   

Allowance  
for ECL

Net

$m
(11,074)   
(1,130)   
(2,964)   
(6,950)   
(30)   
(15)   
(10)   
(3)   
(2)   
—   
(422)   
(109)   
(132)   
(181)   
—   
(367)   
(153)   
(128)   
(86)   
—   
(39)   
(7)   
(7)   
(25)   
—   

$m
938,535 
808,254 
117,907 
12,323 
51 
112,902 
111,469 
1,433 
— 
— 
959,849 
946,764 
12,602 
483 
— 
660,648 
630,796 
28,794 
1,054 
4 
16,970 
14,739 
1,872 
359 
— 
(11,917)    2,688,904 

—    308,525   
1,173   
—   
5   
5   
—   
—   
5    309,703   

(37)   
(59)   
(1)   
—   
(97)   

308,488 
1,114 
4 
— 
309,606 

19,504   
129   

19,633    935,008   
—    776,299   
—    139,076   
19,504   
129   
82    104,544   
—    102,723   
1,739   
—   
82   
82   
—   
—   
797    954,934   
—    938,798   
15,339   
—   
797   
797   
—   
—   
1,372    618,788   
—    583,383   
34,033   
—   
1,372   
1,372   
—   
—   
18,783   
249   
16,071   
—   
2,463   
—   
249   
249   
—   
—   
22,133    2,632,057   

(11,447)   
(1,092)   
(3,488)   
(6,829)   
(38)   
(69)   
(18)   
(29)   
(22)   
—   
(493)   
(95)   
(165)   
(233)   
—   
(386)   
(141)   
(180)   
(65)   
—   
(52)   
(6)   
(13)   
(33)   
—   

923,561 
775,207 
135,588 
12,675 
91 
104,475 
102,705 
1,710 
60 
— 
954,441 
938,703 
15,174 
564 
— 
618,402 
583,242 
33,853 
1,307 
— 
18,731 
16,065 
2,450 
216 
— 
(12,447)    2,619,610 

—    275,709   
2,542   
—   
5   
5   
2   
2   
7    278,258   

(67)   
(58)   
(1)   
—   
(126)   

275,642 
2,484 
4 
2 
278,132 

1  For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. 
As such, the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value 
gains and losses.

174

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit-impaired loans

(Audited)

We determine that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in 
stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether:

– contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for 

more than 90 days;

– there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely to pay, 

such as when a concession has been granted to the borrower for 
economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial 
condition; and

– the loan is otherwise considered to be in default. If such 

unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed 

     to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due. Therefore, the 
definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as 
possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered 
defaulted or otherwise credit impaired.

Forbearance
The following table shows the gross carrying amounts and allowances 
for ECL of the Group’s holdings of forborne loans and advances to 
customers by industry sector and by stages. 

A summary of our current policies and practices for forbearance is set 
out in ‘Credit risk management’ on page 147. 

Forborne loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage allocation

Performing forborne 

Non-performing forborne

Total forborne

Gross carrying amount
Personal
–  first lien residential mortgages
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
Wholesale
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
At 31 Dec 2023
Allowance for ECL
Personal
–  first lien residential mortgages
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
Wholesale
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
At 31 Dec 2023

Gross carrying amount
Personal
–  first lien residential mortgages
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
Wholesale
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
At 31 Dec 2022
Allowance for ECL
Personal
–  first lien residential mortgages
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
Wholesale
–  corporate and commercial
–  non-bank financial institutions
At 31 Dec 2022

Stage 2

$m

Stage 3

$m

POCI

$m

816   
530   
1   
24   
1   
96   
155   
9   
5,848   
5,778   
70   
6,664   

(113)   
(50)   
—   
—   
—   
(17)   
(43)   
(3)   
(259)   
(257)   
(2)   
(372)   

651   
369   
—   
—   
5   
93   
179   
5   
4,873   
4,859   
14   
5,524   

(124)   
(49)   
—   
—   
—   
(19)   
(54)   
(2)   
(152)   
(151)   
(1)   
(276)   

1,282   
815   
8   
20   
6   
83   
349   
1   
5,505   
5,459   
46   
6,787   

(307)   
(113)   
(3)   
(2)   
(1)   
(46)   
(142)   
—   
(1,932)   
(1,920)   
(12)   
(2,239)   

1,171   
738   
7   
4   
13   
75   
334   
—   
4,576   
4,562   
14   
5,747   

(302)   
(118)   
(3)   
(3)   
(2)   
(44)   
(132)   
—   
(1,497)   
(1,490)   
(7)   
(1,799)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
68   
68   
—   
68   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(28)   
(28)   
—   
(28)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
107   
107   
—   
107   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(25)   
(25)   
—   
(25)   

Total

$m

2,098 
1,345 
9 
44 
7 
179 
504 
10 
11,421 
11,305 
116 
13,519 

(420) 
(163) 
(3) 
(2) 
(1) 
(63) 
(185) 
(3) 
(2,219) 
(2,205) 
(14) 
(2,639) 

1,822 
1,107 
7 
4 
18 
168 
513 
5 
9,556 
9,528 
28 
11,378 

(426) 
(167) 
(3) 
(3) 
(2) 
(63) 
(186) 
(2) 
(1,674) 
(1,666) 
(8) 
(2,100) 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

175

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Forborne loans and advances to customers by legal entities

The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC Bank 
plc

$m

$m

$m

 HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited 

$m

 HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc. 

 Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V. 

Other 
trading 
entities

$m

$m

$m

1,478   
1,936   
3,414   

(75)   
(289)   
(364)   

899   
1,723   
2,622   

(63)   
(257)   
(320)   

2,081   
1,199   
3,280   

(25)   
(400)   
(425)   

2,222   
913   
3,135   

(31)   
(310)   
(341)   

1,574   
2,250   
3,824   

(142)   
(986)   
(1,128)   

276   
1,562   
1,838   

(21)   
(525)   
(546)   

31   
471   
502   

(1)   
(225)   
(226)   

435   
554   
989   

(7)   
(356)   
(363)   

954   
430   
1,384   

(43)   
(74)   
(117)   

997   
209   
1,206   

(50)   
(21)   
(71)   

503   
233   
736   

(84)   
(126)   
(210)   

530   
195   
725   

(79)   
(111)   
(190)   

43   
336   
379   

(2)   
(167)   
(169)   

165   
698   
863   

(25)   
(244)   
(269)   

Total

$m

6,664 
6,855 
13,519 

(372) 
(2,267) 
(2,639) 

5,524 
5,854 
11,378 

(276) 
(1,824) 
(2,100) 

Gross carrying amount 
Performing forborne
Non-performing forborne
At 31 Dec 2023
Allowance for ECL
Performing forborne
Non-performing forborne
At 31 Dec 2023

Gross carrying amount
Performing forborne
Non-performing forborne
At 31 Dec 2022
Allowance for ECL
Performing forborne
Non-performing forborne
At 31 Dec 2022

Wholesale lending
This section provides further details on the major legal entities, 
countries, territories and products comprising wholesale loans and 
advances to customers and banks. Product granularity is also provided 
by stage with legal entity data presented for loans and advances to 
customers, banks, other credit commitments, financial guarantees 
and similar contracts. Additionally, this section provides a 
reconciliation of the opening 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 
closing gross carrying/nominal amounts and the associated allowance 
for ECL.

At 31 December 2023, wholesale lending for loans and advances to 
banks and customers of $615bn decreased by $9.6bn compared with 
31 December 2022. This included favourable foreign exchange 
movements of $6.1bn. Excluding foreign exchange movements, the 
total loans and advances to customers decrease of $24.6bn was 
driven by a $31.5bn decrease in corporate and commercial balances, 
partly offset by a $6.9bn increase in balances from non-bank financial 
institutions. In addition, there was a $8.9bn increase in loans and 
advances to banks.

The underlying reduction in corporate and commercial lending was 
mainly driven by decreases in Hong Kong (down $18.6bn), in the UK 
(down $5.4bn), in mainland China (down $2.2bn), in France (down 
$1.6bn), in the US (down $1.3bn). These were partly offset by 
increased lending in India (up $1.8bn). There was a $2.1bn decrease 
from the merger of our business in Oman.

The underlying decrease in loans advances to corporate and 
commercial customers within stage 2 included repayments within our 
commercial real estate portfolio in Hong Kong, together with de-
risking measures in our mainland China commercial real estate 
portfolio. In addition, there was a further decrease in the wholesale 
and retail trade portfolio in the UK largely from repayments and 
improvements in the economic outlook that led to upgrades to 
stage 1.

The underlying growth in loans and advances to non-bank financial 
institutions was mainly driven by the formation of HSBC Innovation 
Banking, following the acquisition of SVB UK, in the UK (up $6.4bn). In 
addition, increases in France (up $1.4bn) were partly offset by 
decreases in mainland China (down $0.9bn).

The underlying growth in loans and advances to banks was mainly 
driven by central bank balances and money market lending growth in 
Singapore (up $6.5bn), Hong Kong (up $5.1bn), the UK (up $2.8bn) 
and Egypt (up $1.5bn). These were partly offset by reductions in 
mainland China (down $2.6bn), Malaysia (down $1.6bn), Switzerland 
(down $1.4bn) and the UAE (down $1.2bn). There was also a $0.6bn 
decrease from the merger of our business in Oman.

Loan commitments and financial guarantees increased by $27.5bn 
since 31 December 2022 to $419.9bn at 31 December 2023. 
Excluding favourable foreign exchange movements of $8.7bn, loan 
commitments and financial guarantees grew by $18.8bn. This can be 
mainly attributed to a $23.2bn increase in unsettled reverse 
repurchase agreements, partly offset by a decrease of $6.3bn in loan 
commitments with corporate and commercial customers.

The allowance for ECL attributable to loans and advances to banks 
and customers of $8.2bn at 31 December 2023 decreased from 
$8.6bn at 31 December 2022. This included adverse foreign exchange 
movements of $0.1bn.

Excluding foreign exchange movements, the total decrease in the 
wholesale allowance for ECL attributable to loans and advances to 
customers and banks was mostly driven by a $0.6bn decrease in 
corporate and commercial balances, partly offset by a $0.1bn increase 
in loans to non-bank financial institutions and banks.

The allowance for ECL attributable to loan commitments and financial 
guarantees at 31 December 2023 remained stable at $0.4bn 
compared with 31 December 2022.

The table below provides a breakdown by industry sector and stage of 
the Group’s gross carrying amount and allowances for ECL for 
wholesale loans and advances to banks and customers. 
Counterparties or exposures are classified when presenting 
comparable economic characteristics, or engaged in similar activities 
so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is 
uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other 
conditions. Therefore, the industry classification does not adhere to 
Nomenclature des Activités Économiques dans la Communauté 
Européenne (‘NACE’), which is applicable to other financial regulatory 
reporting.

176

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution 

Corporate and commercial
–  agriculture, forestry and fishing
–  mining and quarrying
–  manufacturing
–  electricity, gas, steam and air-

conditioning supply

–  water supply, sewerage, waste 
management and remediation

–  real estate and construction
–  of which: commercial real estate
–  wholesale and retail trade, repair of 
motor vehicles and motorcycles

–  transportation and storage
–  accommodation and food
–  publishing, audiovisual and 

broadcasting

–  professional, scientific and technical 

activities

–  administrative and support services
–  public administration and defence, 

compulsory social security

–  education
–  health and care
–  arts, entertainment and recreation
–  other services
–  activities of households
–  extra-territorial organisations and 

bodies activities

–  government
–  asset-backed securities
Non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks
At 31 Dec 2023
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
Holding companies, shared service 
centres and intra-Group eliminations

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

$m

  342,878   
5,207   
6,260   
69,690   

$m
69,738   
1,662   
638   
13,744   

$m
14,958   
312   
325   
1,877   

$m

$m
81    427,655   
7,181   
—   
7,223   
—   
85,333   
22   

$m
(499)   
(13)   
(7)   
(89)   

$m
(1,500)   
(53)   
(11)   
(194)   

$m
(5,774)   
(64)   
(83)   
(839)   

$m
(30)   
—   
—   
(21)   

Total

$m
(7,803) 
(130) 
(101) 
(1,143) 

12,817   

1,283   

255   

—   

14,355   

(14)   

(17)   

(88)   

—   

(119) 

2,753   

407   

102   

—   

3,262   

73,701   
59,883   

21,871   
19,107   

5,835   
4,552   

48    101,455   
83,589   
47   

66,083   

10,676   

2,358   

4   

79,121   

17,117   
9,681   

3,894   
5,135   

445   
1,058   

—   
—   

21,456   
15,874   

(5)   

(96)   
(73)   

(80)   

(18)   
(27)   

(7)   

(51)   

(629)   
(603)   

(2,554)   
(2,091)   

(127)   

(1,132)   

(52)   
(118)   

(160)   
(112)   

—   

(7)   
(7)   

(2)   

—   
—   

(63) 

(3,286) 
(2,774) 

(1,341) 

(230) 
(257) 

17,455   

2,066   

210   

—   

19,731   

(42)   

(81)   

(50)   

—   

(173) 

22,686   

3,327   

19,055   

2,551   

1,037   

1,137   
3,245   
1,666   
7,065   
684   

5   

277   
808   
196   
972   
10   

733   

597   

—   

46   
183   
99   
318   
—   

7   

26,753   

—   

22,203   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

1,042   

1,460   
4,236   
1,961   
8,355   
694   

100   

1   

—   

—   

101   

5,420   
19   
69,972   
  111,479   
  524,329   

202   
13   
3,650   
1,436   
74,824   

205   
—   
810   
2   
15,770   

5,827   
—   
32   
—   
—   
74,432   
—    112,917   
81    615,004   

76,793   
82,025   

18,735   
8,452   

3,769   
2,673   

—   
40   

99,297   
93,190   

(32)   

(31)   

—   

(3)   
(9)   
(5)   
(26)   
—   

—   

(2)   
—   
(52)   
(10)   
(561)   

(213)   
(69)   

(63)   

(63)   

—   

(8)   
(21)   
(6)   
(37)   
—   

(306)   

(174)   

—   

(4)   
(26)   
(31)   
(90)   
—   

—   

—   

—   
(13)   
(30)   
(3)   
(1,533)   

(10)   
—   
(322)   
(2)   
(6,098)   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
(30)   

(401) 

(268) 

— 

(15) 
(56) 
(42) 
(153) 
— 

— 

(12) 
(13) 
(404) 
(15) 
(8,222) 

(474)   
(138)   

(593)   
(1,035)   

—   
(7)   

(1,280) 
(1,249) 

  287,876   

37,402   

7,077   

38    332,393   

(185)   

(696)   

(3,349)   

(21)   

(4,251) 

21,927   
30,797   
13,714   
11,164   

1,598   
5,712   
1,186   
1,739   

894   
583   
382   
392   

33   

—   

—   

3   
—   
—   
—   

—   

24,422   
37,092   
15,282   
13,295   

(17)   
(24)   
(39)   
(14)   

(11)   
(145)   
(56)   
(13)   

(571)   
(127)   
(231)   
(192)   

33   

—   

—   

—   

(2)   
—   
—   
—   

—   

(601) 
(296) 
(326) 
(219) 

— 

At 31 Dec 2023

  524,329   

74,824   

15,770   

81    615,004   

(561)   

(1,533)   

(6,098)   

(30)   

(8,222) 

Total wholesale lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees to banks and customers by stage distribution1

Nominal amount

Allowance for ECL

Corporate and commercial
Financial 
At 31 Dec 2023
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Bank Canada
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2023

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

  256,367   
  135,039   
  391,406   

$m
22,218   
5,111   
27,329   

$m
1,066   
103   
1,169   

POCI

$m

$m

4    279,655   
—    140,253   
4    419,908   

31,982   
  148,980   

5,760   
9,466   

350   
310   

—   
38,092   
4    158,760   

70,436   

3,975   

79   

—   

74,490   

6,944   
  101,067   
28,156   
2,092   
1,749   
  391,406   

323   
5,103   
2,461   
34   
207   
27,329   

56   
248   
66   
—   
60   
1,169   

—   
7,323   
—    106,418   
30,683   
—   
2,126   
—   
—   
2,016   
4    419,908   

$m
(126)   
(11)   
(137)   

(31)   
(20)   

(59)   

(4)   
(14)   
(8)   
(1)   
—   
(137)   

$m
(125)   
(10)   
(135)   

(32)   
(27)   

(39)   

(1)   
(27)   
(8)   
—   
(1)   
(135)   

$m
(107)   
(2)   
(109)   

(56)   
(27)   

(16)   

(3)   
(1)   
(3)   
—   
(3)   
(109)   

POCI

$m

—   
—   
—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

Total

$m
(358) 
(23) 
(381) 

(119) 
(74) 

(114) 

(8) 
(42) 
(19) 
(1) 
(4) 
(381) 

1 

Included in loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees is $70bn relating to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements, which 
once drawn are classified as ‘Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading’.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

177

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution (continued)

Corporate and commercial
–  agriculture, forestry and fishing
–  mining and quarrying
–  manufacturing
–  electricity, gas, steam and air-

conditioning supply

–  water supply, sewerage, waste 
management and remediation

–  real estate and construction
–  of which: commercial real estate
–  wholesale and retail trade, repair of 
motor vehicles and motorcycles

–  transportation and storage
–  accommodation and food 
–  publishing, audiovisual and 

broadcasting

–  professional, scientific and technical 

activities

–  administrative and support services
–  public administration and defence, 

compulsory social security

–  education
–  health and care
–  arts, entertainment and recreation
–  other services
–  activities of households
–  extra-territorial organisations and 

bodies activities

–  government
–  asset-backed securities
Non-bank financial institutions
Loans and advances to banks
At 31 Dec 2022
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
Holding companies, shared service 
centres and intra-Group eliminations
At 31 Dec 2022

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

$m

POCI

$m

Total

$m

  351,885   
4,805   
6,424   
70,144   

85,492   
1,505   
1,463   
15,251   

15,696   
261   
232   
2,016   

129    453,202   
6,571   
8,120   
87,460   

—   
1   
49   

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

(488)   
(10)   
(5)   
(93)   

$m

$m

(1,907)   
(44)   
(21)   
(164)   

(5,887)   
(68)   
(145)   
(867)   

POCI

$m

(38)   
—   
(1)   
(29)   

Total

$m

(8,320) 
(122) 
(172) 
(1,153) 

14,402   

1,799   

277   

—   

16,478   

(10)   

(31)   

(67)   

—   

(108) 

2,690   

277   

26   

—   

2,993   

81,830   
68,120   

27,104   
23,608   

5,625   
4,648   

26    114,585   
96,395   
19   

63,752   

15,867   

2,805   

5   

82,429   

19,068   
9,862   

5,062   
6,523   

556   
787   

—   
2   

24,686   
17,174   

(3)   

(107)   
(82)   

(97)   

(30)   
(23)   

(5)   

(954)   
(865)   

(13)   

(2,229)   
(1,799)   

(225)   

(1,341)   

(65)   
(139)   

(153)   
(81)   

—   

(3)   
—   

(3)   

—   
(1)   

(21) 

(3,293) 
(2,746) 

(1,666) 

(248) 
(244) 

16,574   

1,537   

249   

28   

18,388   

(22)   

(36)   

(58)   

(1)   

(117) 

15,164   

2,229   

20,592   

3,505   

1,166   

1,325   
2,993   
1,264   
10,335   
730   

14   

181   
643   
452   
1,547   
14   

542   

962   

—   

87   
266   
146   
589   
—   

47   

—   

—   

8,699   
19   
61,737   
  102,723   
  516,345   

506   
13   
4,718   
1,739   
91,949   

270   
—   
469   
82   
16,247   

—   

17,935   

18   

25,077   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

1,180   

1,593   
3,902   
1,862   
12,471   
744   

47   

9,475   
—   
32   
—   
—   
66,924   
—    104,544   
129    624,670   

64,930   
83,174   

18,856   
9,175   

4,439   
2,631   

28   
3   

88,253   
94,983   

(21)   

(25)   

—   

(4)   
(6)   
(4)   
(25)   
—   

—   

(3)   
—   
(43)   
(18)   
(549)   

(165)   
(56)   

(51)   

(90)   

(1)   

(5)   
(17)   
(16)   
(30)   
—   

(200)   

(293)   

—   

(22)   
(67)   
(57)   
(219)   
—   

—   

—   

—   
(13)   
(77)   
(29)   
(2,013)   

(7)   
—   
(137)   
(22)   
(6,046)   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
(38)   

(272) 

(408) 

(1) 

(31) 
(90) 
(77) 
(274) 
— 

— 

(10) 
(13) 
(257) 
(69) 
(8,646) 

(445)   
(181)   

(643)   
(1,075)   

(1)   
—   

(1,254) 
(1,312) 

  292,022   

50,708   

6,934   

80    349,744   

(216)   

(1,074)   

(3,125)   

21,922   
30,816   
9,969   
13,512   

1,777   
6,861   
1,979   
2,593   

946   
211   
399   
687   

—   

—   

—   

4   
—   
—   
14   

—   

24,649   
37,888   
12,347   
16,806   

(11)   
(24)   
(48)   
(29)   

(21)   
(194)   
(62)   
(36)   

(684)   
(22)   
(225)   
(272)   

(24)   

(3)   
—   
—   
(10)   

(4,439) 

(719) 
(240) 
(335) 
(347) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

— 

  516,345   

91,949   

16,247   

129    624,670   

(549)   

(2,013)   

(6,046)   

(38)   

(8,646) 

Total wholesale lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution1 (continued)

Corporate and commercial
Financial 
At 31 Dec 2022
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Bank Canada
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2022

Nominal amount

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

  252,860   
  105,950   
  358,810   

29,116   
3,683   
32,799   

26,036   
  142,100   

5,527   
11,710   

67,473   

6,081   

6,683   
88,039   
24,395   
2,468   
1,616   
  358,810   

231   
3,959   
4,671   
240   
380   
32,799   

$m

798   
23   
821   

208   
291   

114   

14   
87   
84   
3   
20   
821   

POCI

$m

Total

$m

—    282,774   
—    109,656   
—    392,430   

—   
31,771   
—    154,101   

—   

73,668   

6,928   
—   
92,085   
—   
29,150   
—   
2,711   
—   
—   
2,016   
—    392,430   

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

(116)   
(5)   
(121)   

(24)   
(16)   

(54)   

(2)   
(13)   
(8)   
(1)   
(3)   
(121)   

$m

(178)   
(14)   
(192)   

(45)   
(41)   

(53)   

(2)   
(32)   
(15)   
—   
(4)   
(192)   

$m

(96)   
(2)   
(98)   

(38)   
(47)   

(9)   

—   
(2)   
—   
—   
(2)   
(98)   

POCI

$m

—   
—   
—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

Total

$m

(390) 
(21) 
(411) 

(107) 
(104) 

(116) 

(4) 
(47) 
(23) 
(1) 
(9) 
(411) 

1 

Included in loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees is $45bn relating to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements, which 
once drawn are classified as ‘Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading’.

178

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wholesale lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)

Non-credit impaired

Credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

$m

  830,322   

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Allowance 
for ECL

Allowance 
for ECL

$m
(670)    124,660   

$m

$m
(2,205)   

$m
17,068   

$m
(6,144)   

$m
129   

$m
(38)   

$m
972,179   

$m
(9,057) 

(16,804)   

(429)   

10,247   

1,141   

6,557   

(712)   

(93,511)   

172   

93,511   

(172)   

77,772   

(1,444)   
379   

(605)   

(77,772)   

20   
(16)   

(6,255)   
763   

605   

765   
(57)   

—   

—   

7,699   
(1,142)   

—   

—   

(785)   
73   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

— 

— 

— 

— 
— 

—   

354   

—   

(294)   

—   

(45)   

—   

—   

—   

15 

43,282   

(138)   

(32,082)   

311   

(3,787)   

973   

(36)   

3   

7,377   

1,149 

—   

—   

—   

203   

—   

(621)   

—   

(2,941)   

(9)   

—   

—   

—   

25   

—   

—   

—   

(2,596)   

2,596   

—   

—   

—   

21   

—   

(3,338) 

—   

—   

—   

16 

(2,596)   

2,596 

—   

—   

—   

—   

(119)   

95   

—   

—   

(119)   

95 

(10,818)   

(9)   

(696)   

(25)   

(184)   

(29)   

  845,982   

(698)    102,129   

(1,668)   

16,939   

(6,207)   

(8)   

85   

(16)   

(11,706)   

(79) 

(30)   

965,135   

(8,603) 

410 

(579) 

(2,013) 

24 

(2,158) 

42 
(203) 

(2,319) 

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial 
instruments:
– transfers from stage 1 to 

stage 2

– transfers from stage 2 to 

stage 1

–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of 
ECL arising from transfer 
of stage
Net new and further 
lending/repayments
Change to risk parameters 
– credit quality 
Changes to models used 
for ECL calculation
Assets written off
Credit-related 
modifications that resulted 
in derecognition
Foreign exchange and 
others1
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement 
change for the period
Recoveries
Others

Total ECL income 
statement change for the 
period

1   Total includes $13.5bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale during the year, and 

a corresponding allowance for ECL of $61m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal 
groups held for sale’ on page 401.

As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and 
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments 
and financial guarantees decreased by $454m during the period from 
$9,057m at 31 December 2022 to $8,603m at 31 December 2023.

These were partly offset by:

– $3,338m of changes to models used for ECL calculation; and

– foreign exchange and other movements of $79m.

This decrease was driven by:

– $2,596m of assets written off;

– $1,149m relating to volume movements, which included the 
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets 
derecognised and further lending/repayments;

– $95m relating to credit-related modification, which resulted in 

derecognition;

– $16m relating to changes to models used for ECL calculation; and 

– $15m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage 

transfers.

The ECL charge for the period of $2,158m presented in the previous 
table consisted of $3,338m relating to underlying credit quality 
changes, including the credit quality impact of financial instruments 
transferring between stages. This was partly offset by $1,149m 
relating to underlying net book volume movement, $16m in changes 
to models used for ECL calculation and $15m relating to the net 
remeasurement impact of stage transfers.

During the period, there was a net transfer to stage 2 of $15,739m 
gross carrying/nominal amounts. It was primarily driven by $8,792m in 
Hong Kong, mainly due to deterioration in the real estate and 
construction sectors, and $6,273m in the UK, mainly driven by 
increased interest rates affecting the corporate and commercial 
portfolio.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

179

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Wholesale lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)

Non-credit impaired

Credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

880,181   
(58,104)   

(860)    137,493   
(298)    49,485   

(2,103)    14,685   
8,619   

942   

$m

(5,702)   
(644)   

(157,443)   

202    157,443   

(202)   

—   

—   

100,810   

(484)    (100,810)   

(1,829)   
358   

8   
(24)   

(8,101)   
953   

484   

770   
(110)   

—   

9,930   
(1,311)   

—   

(778)   
134   

—   

240   

—   

(369)   

—   

(63)   

$m

275   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

$m

$m

(64)    1,032,634   
—   
—   

$m

(8,729) 
— 

—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
—   

— 

— 

— 
— 

—   

(192) 

68,616   

(158)   

(45,336)   

201   

(3,253)   

583   

(133)   

3   

19,894   

629 

—   

318   

—   

(995)   

—   

(2,196)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

6   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(56)   

—   

—   

—   

(1,579)   

1,579   

—   

(32)   

9   

(60,371)   
830,322   

82   

(16,982)   
(670)    124,660   

175   

(1,372)   
(2,205)    17,068   

290   
(6,144)   

—   

(10)   

—   

(3)   
129   

406 

(1,219) 

(1,676) 

32   

—   

10   

—   

(19)   
(38)   

35 

—   

(2,841) 

—   

(50) 

(1,589)   

1,589 

(32)   

9 

(78,728)   
972,179   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

528 
(9,057) 

(2,454) 

33 
(25) 

(2,446) 

At 1 Jan 2022
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to 

stage 2

–  transfers from stage 2 to 

stage 1

–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
Net new and further lending/
repayments
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
Assets written off
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
Foreign exchange and others1
At 31 Dec 2022
ECL income statement change 
for the period
Recoveries
Others 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period

1   Total includes $33.1bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale during the year, and 
a corresponding allowance for ECL of $204m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal 
groups held for sale’ on page 401.

Wholesale lending – distribution of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 are applied by credit quality 

Gross carrying amount

Strong

Good Satisfactory

Sub-
standard

Credit 
impaired

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

Total

$m

Net

$m

By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
Holding companies, shared service centres and 
intra-Group eliminations
At 31 Dec 2023
Percentage of total credit quality (%)

20,777   
41,149   

30,245   
20,962   

165,255   

72,683   

13,660   
6,244   
1,853   
3,189   

3,082   
13,668   
6,543   
1,277   

36,206   
24,164   

78,566   

6,270   
13,094   
5,882   
7,449   

8,300   
4,202   

8,774   

513   
3,503   
622   
988   

3,769   
2,713   

99,297   
93,190   

(1,280)   
(1,249)   

98,017 
91,941 

7,115   

332,393   

(4,251)   

328,142 

897   
583   
382   
392   

24,422   
37,092   
15,282   
13,295   

(601)   
(296)   
(326)   
(219)   

23,821 
36,796 
14,956 
13,076 

33              —                —               —                 —            

33   

—           

33 

      252,160 
 41.0 

       148,460             171,631 
 27.9 

 24.1 

          26,902 
 4.4 

          15,851 
 2.6 

        615,004 
 100.0 

(8,222)           606,782 

By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2022
Percentage of total credit quality (%)

17,533   
41,687   

28,685   
21,058   

32,388   
24,560   

5,180   
5,044   

4,467   
2,634   

88,253   
94,983   

(1,254)   
(1,312)   

86,999 
93,671 

167,209   

81,128   

84,661   

9,732   

7,014   

349,744   

(4,439)   

345,305 

13,023   
7,226   
1,024   
3,845   
251,547   
 40.3 

4,119   
13,220   
5,540   
2,228   
155,978   
 25.0 

5,879   
12,673   
4,612   
8,438   
173,211   
 27.7 

678   
4,558   
772   
1,594   
27,558   
 4.4 

950   
211   
399   
701   
16,376   
 2.6 

24,649   
37,888   
12,347   
16,806   
624,670   
 100.0 

(719)   
(240)   
(335)   
(347)   
(8,646)   

23,930 
37,648 
12,012 
16,459 
616,024 

180

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support calculation of 
our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The credit quality classifications can be found on page 148.

Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loans and advances at amortised cost

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

Basel one-year 

PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI

Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI

Total

ECL 
coverage

Mapped 
external 
rating

%

$m

$m

$m $m

$m

$m

$m

$m $m

$m

%

Corporate 
and 
commercial
–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 81
–  CRR 9/10
Non-bank 
financial 
institutions
–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10
Banks
–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10
At 31 Dec 
2023

 342,878    69,738    14,958   

81   427,655   

(499)   

(1,500)   

(5,774)   

(30)   

(7,803) 

 1.8 

715   
0.000 to 0.053   34,097   
0.054 to 0.169   81,131   
2,180   
0.170 to 0.740  112,322    11,391   
0.741 to 1.927   72,654    16,904   
1.928 to 4.914   37,631    18,060   
7,341   
4.915 to 8.860  
6,319   
8.861 to 15.000  
15.001 to 99.999  
6,828   
100.000   

2,675   
1,031   
1,337   
—   

—    —    34,812   
—    —    83,311   
—    —   123,713   
—    —    89,558   
—    —    55,691   
—    —    10,016   
7,350   
—    —   
8,165   
—    —   
81    15,039   

(4)   
(23)   
(106)   
(156)   
(169)   
(24)   
(10)   
(7)   
—   

(3)   
(14)   
(87)   
(130)   
(240)   
(176)   
(246)   
(604)   
—   

—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(30)   

(5,774)   

(7) 
(37) 
(193) 
(286) 
(409) 
(200) 
(256) 
(611) 
(5,804) 

 —  AA- and above
 — 
A+ to A-
 0.2  BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
 0.3 
BB- to B
 0.7 
B-
 2.0 
CCC+
 3.5 
CCC to C
 7.5 
D
 38.6 

—    14,958   

  69,972   

3,650   

810    —    74,432   

0.000 to 0.053   15,475   
0.054 to 0.169   16,920   
0.170 to 0.740   19,195   
0.741 to 1.927   11,480   
6,635   
1.928 to 4.914  
232   
4.915 to 8.860  
25   
8.861 to 15.000  
10   
15.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000   
 111,479   
0.000 to 0.053   89,112   
0.054 to 0.169   11,899   
4,631   
0.170 to 0.740  
2,488   
0.741 to 1.927  
3,062   
1.928 to 4.914  
22   
4.915 to 8.860  
1   
8.861 to 15.000  
264   
15.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000   

211   
374   
912   
1,032   
872   
116   
93   
40   
—   
1,436   
10   
36   
9   
58   
755   
20   
—   
548   
—   

—    —    15,686   
—    —    17,294   
—    —    20,107   
—    —    12,512   
7,507   
—    —   
348   
—    —   
118   
—    —   
50   
—    —   
810   
810    —   
2    —   112,917   
—    —    89,122   
—    —    11,935   
4,640   
—    —   
2,546   
—    —   
3,817   
—    —   
42   
—    —   
—    —   
1   
812   
—    —   
2   
2    —   

(52)   

(2)   
(6)   
(10)   
(19)   
(9)   
(6)   
—   
—   
—   
(10)   
(4)   
(2)   
(1)   
(1)   
(2)   
—   
—   
—   
—   

(30)   

—   
(2)   
(4)   
(5)   
(15)   
(1)   
(2)   
(1)   
—   
(3)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(1)   
—   
—   
(2)   
—   

(322)    —   

(404) 

 0.5 

—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(322)    —   
(2)    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(2)    —   

(2) 
(8) 
(14) 
(24) 
(24) 
(7) 
(2) 
(1) 
(322) 
(15) 
(4) 
(2) 
(1) 
(1) 
(3) 
— 
— 
(2) 
(2) 

 —  AA- and above
A+ to A-
 — 
 0.1  BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
 0.2 
BB- to B
 0.3 
B-
 2.0 
CCC+
 1.7 
CCC to C
 2.0 
 39.8 
D
 — 
 —  AA- and above
 — 
A+ to A-
 —  BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
 — 
BB- to B
 0.1 
B-
 — 
CCC+
 — 
CCC to C
 0.2 
D
 100.0 

 524,329    74,824    15,770   

81   615,004   

(561)   

(1,533)   

(6,098)   

(30)   

(8,222) 

 1.3 

1   Corporate and commercial lending reported in CRR 8 for stage 1 includes $782m related to the UK Bounce Back Loan Scheme with immaterial 

allowances for ECL.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

181

Risk review 
 
 
Risk review

Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (continued)

Basel one-year 
PD range

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI

Total  Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI

Total 

ECL 
coverage

Mapped 
external rating

Corporate and
commercial
–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10
Non-bank financial 
institutions
–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10
Banks
–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10
At 31 Dec 2022

%

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m $m

$m

 351,885    85,492    15,696    129   453,202   

(488)   

(1,907)   

(5,887)   

(38)    (8,320) 

0.000 to 0.053   35,574   
330   
0.054 to 0.169   87,383    3,234   
0.170 to 0.740  114,403    17,725   
0.741 to 1.927   74,100    21,550   
1.928 to 4.914   36,563    21,628   
4.915 to 8.860   2,512    9,171   
8.861 to 15.000   1,164    5,477   
186    6,377   

—    —    35,904   
—    —    90,617   
—    —   132,128   
—    —    95,650   
—    —    58,191   
—    —    11,683   
—    —    6,641   
—    —    6,563   
—    15,696    129    15,825   

15.001 to 99.999  
100.000   

—   

(6)   
(28)   
(128)   
(155)   
(145)   
(16)   
(8)   
(2)   
—   

(1)   
(15)   
(122)   
(210)   
(361)   
(236)   
(336)   
(626)   
—   

—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   

(7) 
(43) 
(250) 
(365) 
(506) 
(252) 
(344) 
(628) 
(38)    (5,925) 

(5,887)   

  61,737    4,718   

469    —    66,924   

(43)   

(77)   

(137)    —   

(257) 

421   
0.000 to 0.053   15,082   
0.054 to 0.169   16,351   
497   
0.170 to 0.740   17,253    1,764   
717   
0.741 to 1.927   7,059   
736   
1.928 to 4.914   5,215   
90   
716   
4.915 to 8.860  
32   
46   
8.861 to 15.000  
461   
15   
15.001 to 99.999  
—   
—   
100.000   
 102,723    1,739   
120   
178   
368   
5   
172   
5   
861   
30   
—   

—    —    15,503   
—    —    16,848   
—    —    19,017   
—    —    7,776   
—    —    5,951   
806   
—    —   
—    —   
78   
476   
—    —   
469   
469    —   
82    —   104,544   
—    —    79,337   
—    —    13,338   
—    —    4,833   
—    —    2,159   
—    —    3,484   
—    —   
5   
862   
—    —   
444   
—    —   
82   
82    —   
 516,345    91,949    16,247    129   624,670   

0.000 to 0.053   79,217   
0.054 to 0.169   13,160   
0.170 to 0.740   4,465   
0.741 to 1.927   2,154   
1.928 to 4.914   3,312   
—   
4.915 to 8.860  
1   
8.861 to 15.000  
414   
15.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000   

(2)   
(3)   
(9)   
(19)   
(10)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(18)   
(8)   
(2)   
(3)   
(1)   
(4)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(549)   

(1)   
(1)   
(13)   
(4)   
(10)   
(4)   
(3)   
(41)   
—   
(29)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(1)   
—   
(27)   
(1)   
—   
(2,013)   

—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(137)    —   
(22)    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(22)    —   

(3) 
(4) 
(22) 
(23) 
(20) 
(4) 
(3) 
(41) 
(137) 
(69) 
(8) 
(2) 
(3) 
(1) 
(5) 
— 
(27) 
(1) 
(22) 
(38)    (8,646) 

(6,046)   

%

 1.8 

 — 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.4 
 0.9 
 2.2 
 5.2 
 9.6 
 37.4 

 0.4 

 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.5 
 3.9 
 8.6 
 29.2 
 0.1 
 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 3.1 
 0.2 
 26.8 
 1.4 

AA- and above
A+ to A-
BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
BB- to B
B-
CCC+
CCC to C
D

AA- and above
A+ to A-
BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
BB- to B
B-
CCC+
CCC to C
D

AA- and above
A+ to A-
BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
BB- to B
B-
CCC+
CCC to C
D

Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees

Nominal amount

Allowance for ECL

Basel one-year 

PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI

Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI

Total

ECL 
coverage

Mapped 
external 
rating

%

$m

$m

$m $m

$m

$m

$m

$m $m

$m

%

Loan and 
other credit-
related 
commitments

–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10

Financial 
guarantees

–  CRR 1
–  CRR 2
–  CRR 3
–  CRR 4
–  CRR 5
–  CRR 6
–  CRR 7
–  CRR 8
–  CRR 9/10

 377,766    25,463   

785   

4   404,018   

(130)   

(128)   

(84)    —   

(342) 

 0.1 

0.000 to 0.053   65,730   
0.054 to 0.169  152,224   
0.170 to 0.740  105,569   
0.741 to 1.927   38,102   
1.928 to 4.914   14,054   
1,170   
4.915 to 8.860  
780   
8.861 to 15.000  
137   
15.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000   

1,676   
2,490   
6,044   
4,751   
5,367   
2,453   
848   
1,834   
—   

—    —    67,406   
—    —   154,714   
—    —   111,613   
—    —    42,853   
—    —    19,421   
—    —    3,623   
—    —    1,628   
—    —    1,971   
789   
4   

785   

  13,640   

1,866   

384    —    15,890   

0.000 to 0.053  
0.054 to 0.169  
0.170 to 0.740  
0.741 to 1.927  
1.928 to 4.914  
4.915 to 8.860  
8.861 to 15.000  
15.001 to 99.999  
100.000   

2,553   
4,212   
3,584   
1,932   
1,266   
91   
1   
1   
—   

1   
202   
202   
407   
455   
387   
76   
136   
—   

—    —    2,554   
—    —    4,414   
—    —    3,786   
—    —    2,339   
—    —    1,721   
478   
—    —   
77   
—    —   
137   
—    —   
384   
384    —   

(5)   
(13)   
(46)   
(33)   
(28)   
(4)   
(1)   
—   
—   

(7)   

—   
(1)   
(2)   
(2)   
(2)   
—   
—   
—   
—   

(1)   
(6)   
(24)   
(20)   
(31)   
(15)   
(10)   
(21)   
—   

(7)   

—   
—   
—   
(1)   
(2)   
(1)   
—   
(3)   
—   

—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(84)    —   

(25)    —   

—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
—    —   
(25)    —   

(6) 
(19) 
(70) 
(53) 
(59) 
(19) 
(11) 
(21) 
(84) 

(39) 

— 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(1) 
— 
(3) 
(25) 

 —  AA- and above
A+ to A-
 — 
 0.1  BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
 0.1 
BB- to B
 0.3 
B-
 0.5 
CCC+
 0.7 
CCC to C
 1.1 
D
 10.6 

 0.2 

 —  AA- and above
 — 
A+ to A-
 0.1  BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB-
 0.1 
BB- to B
 0.2 
B-
 0.2 
CCC+
 — 
CCC to C
 2.2 
D
 6.5 

At 31 Dec 2023

 391,406    27,329   

1,169   

4   419,908   

(137)   

(135)   

(109)    —   

(381) 

 0.1 

182

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate

Commercial real estate lending includes the financing of corporate, 
institutional and high net worth customers who are investing primarily 
in income-producing assets and, to a lesser extent, in their 
construction and development. The portfolio has larger concentrations 
in Hong Kong, the UK, mainland China and the US.

Our global exposure is centred largely on cities with economic, 
political or cultural significance. In more developed markets, our 
exposure mainly comprises the financing of investment assets, the 
redevelopment of existing stock and the augmentation of both 
commercial and residential markets to support economic and 
population growth. In less developed commercial real estate markets, 
our exposures comprise lending for development assets on relatively 

short tenors with a particular focus on supporting larger, better 
capitalised developers involved in residential construction or assets 
supporting economic expansion.

Excluding favourable foreign exchange movements of $1.1bn, 
commercial real estate lending decreased by $13.8bn, mainly from 
$7.4bn in Hong Kong due to loan repayments. The decrease included 
loan sales of $0.5bn in the US as part of an initiative to reduce the 
portfolio exposure.

Despite the lower exposure, allowance for  ECL remained at $2.8bn, 
reflecting the challenging conditions in the commercial property 
sector, including the impact of lower valuations in the office segment.

Commercial real estate lending to customers

of which:

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

$m

$m

$m

$m

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.1
$m

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.

$m

Other 
trading 
entities

$m

Total

$m

UK

$m

10,304   
3,262   
444   
—   
14,010   

4,218   
400   
184   
32   
4,834   

41,307   
13,229   
3,570   
15   
58,121   

1,126   
189   
145   
—   
1,460   

1,803   
1,956   
166   
—   
3,925   

685   
70   
25   
—   
780   

440    59,883    10,790   
1    19,107    3,294   
470   
4,552   
32   
47   
459    83,589    14,586   

18   
—   

Hong 
Kong

$m

28,846 
10,375 
3,226 
15 
42,462 

461   

69   

2,454   

126   

433   

52   

—   

3,595   

519   

2,227 

(148)   

(49)   

(2,399)   

(55)   

(98)   

(15)   

(10)   

(2,774)   

(172)   

(2,149) 

11,409   
2,763   
702   
—   
14,874   

5,083   
828   
277   
—   
6,188   

46,700   
16,311   
3,320   
19   
66,350   

1,094   
323   
264   
—   
1,681   

2,096   
3,249   
—   
—   
5,345   

832   
43   
28   
—   
903   

906    68,120    12,209   
3,008   
827   
—   
1,054    96,395    16,044   

91    23,608   
4,648   
57   
19   
—   

35,905 
11,068 
3,029 
19 
50,021 

215   

143   

763   

449   

428   

47   

23   

2,068   

336   

654 

(216)   

(153)   

(2,094)   

(153)   

(93)   

(24)   

(13)   

(2,746)   

(323)   

(1,878) 

Gross loans 
and advances
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
At 31 Dec 2023  
–  of which:  
   forborne loans
Allowance for 
ECL

Gross loans and 
advances
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
At 31 Dec 2022  
–  of which: 
   forborne loans  
Allowance for 
ECL

1   During 1Q23, we aligned the classification of commercial real estate across the Group and re-presented commercial real estate exposure in HSBC 

North America Holdings Inc. at 31 December 2022 as $5.3bn, which had a corresponding ECL charge of $0.1bn.

Commercial real estate lending to customers by global business

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

The Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC North 
America 
Holdings Inc.

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

UK

$m

Hong 
Kong

$m

of which:

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global Banking 
and Markets
Corporate 
Centre

409   

377   

66   

—   

2   

—   

423   

1,277   

409   

66 

13,601   

3,322   

37,826   

733   

3,923   

780   

36    60,221    13,686   

27,811 

—   

1,135   

20,066   

727   

—   

—   

163   

—   

—   

—   

At 31 Dec 2023  

14,010   

4,834   

58,121   

1,460   

3,925   

—   

—    21,928   

491   

14,444 

—   

780   

—   

163   

—   

141 

459    83,589    14,586   

42,462 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

183

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Commercial real estate lending to customers by global business (continued)

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

The Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC Bank 
Middle East 
Limited

HSBC North 
America 
Holdings Inc.

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

of which:

Total

$m

UK

$m

Hong 
Kong

$m

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global Banking 
and Markets
Corporate 
Centre
At 31 Dec 2022  

532   

2   

70   

—   

4   

—   

826   

1,434   

534   

70 

14,342   

4,390   

42,803   

951   

5,341   

903   

205    68,935    14,638   

33,123 

—   

1,796   

23,333   

730   

—   

—   

144   

—   

—   

—   

14,874   

6,188   

66,350   

1,681   

5,345   

—   

23    25,882   

872   

16,684 

—   

903   

—   

144   

—   

144 

1,054    96,395    16,044   

50,021 

Commercial real estate lending to customers by credit quality

of which:

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

$m
3,940   
2,555   
6,370   
701   
444   
14,010   

3,951   
3,094   
6,819   
308   
702   
14,874   

$m
740   
2,054   
1,642   
182   
216   
4,834   

1,444   
1,448   
2,647   
372   
277   
6,188   

Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Sub-standard
Credit impaired
At 31 Dec 2023  

Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Sub-standard
Credit impaired
At 31 Dec 2022  

The Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC North 
America 
Holdings Inc.

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Total

UK

$m
12,394   
17,777   
19,509   
4,856   
3,585   
58,121   

16,063   
20,692   
20,930   
5,326   
3,339   
66,350   

$m
255   
246   
634   
180   
145   
1,460   

303   
359   
539   
216   
264   
1,681   

$m
25   
781   
1,691   
1,262   
166   
3,925   

352   
864   
2,397   
1,732   
—   
5,345   

$m
65   
130   
500   
60   
25   
780   

29   
190   
616   
40   
28   
903   

$m

$m
$m
16    17,435    4,191   
18    23,561    2,592   
407    30,753    6,575   
726   
7,241   
502   
4,599   
459    83,589    14,586   

—   
18   

72    22,214    4,681   
4    26,651    3,244   
881    34,829    6,959   
8,034   
333   
4,667   
827   
1,054    96,395    16,044   

40   
57   

Hong 
Kong

$m
6,527 
12,004 
16,290 
4,400 
3,241 
42,462 

10,061 
15,209 
16,775 
4,928 
3,048 
50,021 

Refinance risk in commercial real estate

Commercial real estate lending tends to require the repayment of a 
significant proportion of the principal at maturity. Typically, a customer 
will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a new loan to settle 
the existing debt. Refinance risk is the risk that a customer, being 

unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails to refinance it at 
commercial terms. We monitor our commercial real estate portfolio 
closely, assessing indicators for signs of potential issues with 
refinancing.

Commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers maturity analysis

of which:

HSBC UK 
Bank plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

The Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC Bank 
Middle East 
Limited

$m
3,553   
4,514   
5,411   
532   
14,010   

8,315   
3,518   
2,385   
656   
14,874   

$m
1,496   
474   
2,149   
715   
4,834   

2,059   
1,503   
1,644   
982   
6,188   

$m
25,427   
14,144   
16,052   
2,498   
58,121   

23,468   
18,007   
21,804   
3,071   
66,350   

$m
396   
175   
441   
448   
1,460   

423   
218   
664   
376   
1,681   

< 1 year
1–2 years
2–5 years
> 5 years
At 31 Dec 2023

< 1 year
1–2 years
2–5 years
> 5 years
At 31 Dec 2022

HSBC North 
America 
Holdings Inc.1
$m
1,472   
623   
1,814   
16   
3,925   

1,883   
810   
2,624   
28   
5,345   

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Total

UK 

$m
619   
60   
71   
30   
780   

241   
115   
449   
98   
903   

$m

$m
437    33,400   
2    19,992   
3    25,941   
4,256   
459    83,589   

17   

703   
228   
60   
63   
1,054   

37,092   
24,399   
29,630   
5,274   
96,395   

$m
3,950   
4,571   
5,520   
545   
14,586   

9,211   
3,678   
2,472   
683   
16,044   

Hong 
Kong

$m
19,887 
10,923 
9,885 
1,767 
42,462 

18,675 
13,873 
14,963 
2,510 
50,021 

1   During 1Q23, we aligned the classification of commercial real estate across the Group and re-presented commercial real estate exposure in HSBC 

North America Holdings Inc. at 31 December 2022 as $5.3bn, which had a corresponding ECL charge of $0.1bn.

184

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the Group’s exposure to borrowers classified in the commercial real estate sector where the ultimate parent is 
based in mainland China, as well as all commercial real estate exposures booked on mainland China balance sheets. 

The exposures at 31 December 2023 are split by country/territory and credit quality including allowances for ECL by stage.

Mainland China commercial real estate

(Audited)

Loans and advances to customers1
Guarantees issued and others2
Total mainland China commercial real estate exposure at 31 Dec 2023

Distribution of mainland China commercial real estate exposure by 
credit quality
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Sub-standard
Credit impaired
At 31 Dec 2023

Allowance for ECL by credit quality
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Sub-standard
Credit impaired
At 31 Dec 2023

Allowance for ECL by stage distribution
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
At 31 Dec 2023

ECL coverage %

Hong Kong Mainland China Rest of the Group

$m
6,033   
255   
6,288   

781   
604   
679   
1,298   
2,926   
6,288   

—   
—   
(3)   
(66)   
(1,726)   
(1,795)   

—   
(69)   
(1,726)   
(1,795)   

 28.5 

$m
4,917   
66   
4,983   

1,723   
953   
1,704   
327   
276   
4,983   

(3)   
(5)   
(27)   
(87)   
(125)   
(247)   

(10)   
(112)   
(125)   
(247)   

 5.0 

$m
839   
37   
876   

6   
421   
261   
188   
—   
876   

—   
(1)   
—   
(16)   
—   
(17)   

—   
(17)   
—   
(17)   

 1.9 

Total

$m
11,789 
358 
12,147 

2,510 
1,978 
2,644 
1,813 
3,202 
12,147 

(3) 
(6) 
(30) 
(169) 
(1,851) 
(2,059) 

(10) 
(198) 
(1,851) 
(2,059) 

 17.0 

1   Amounts represent gross carrying amount.
2   Amounts represent nominal amount for guarantees and other contingent liabilities.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

185

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Mainland China commercial real estate (continued)

Loans and advances to customers2
Guarantees issued and others3
Total mainland China commercial real estate exposure at 31 Dec 2022

Distribution of mainland China commercial real estate exposure by credit 
quality
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Sub-standard
Credit impaired
At 31 Dec 2022

Allowance for ECL by credit quality
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Sub-standard
Credit impaired
At 31 Dec 2022

Allowance for ECL by stage distribution
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
At 31 Dec 2022

ECL coverage %

Hong Kong Mainland China
(audited)2
$m

(audited)1
$m

Rest of the Group
(unaudited)1
$m

Total
(unaudited)2
$m

9,129   
249   
9,378   

1,425   
697   
1,269   
2,887   
3,100   
9,378   

—   
—   
(20)   
(458)   
(1,268)   
(1,746)   

(1)   
(477)   
(1,268)   
(1,746)   

 18.6 

5,752   
755   
6,507   

2,118   
1,087   
2,248   
779   
275   
6,507   

(5)   
(8)   
(81)   
(42)   
(105)   
(241)   

(9)   
(127)   
(105)   
(241)   

 3.7 

860   
18   
878   

220   
370   
77   
193   
18   
878   

—   
(1)   
—   
(3)   
—   
(4)   

(1)   
(3)   
—   
(4)   

 0.5 

15,741 
1,022 
16,763 

3,763 
2,154 
3,594 
3,859 
3,393 
16,763 

(5) 
(9) 
(101) 
(503) 
(1,373) 
(1,991) 

(11) 
(607) 
(1,373) 
(1,991) 

 11.9 

1   Disclosures in respect of mainland China commercial real estate exposures in Hong Kong and mainland China form part of the scope of the audit of 

the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts 2022. Amounts disclosed for mainland China commercial real estate exposures elsewhere in the Group have 
not been audited but are provided for completeness.

2   Amounts represent gross carrying amount.
3   Amounts represent nominal amount for guarantees and other contingent liabilities.

(Unaudited)

Commercial real estate financing refers to lending that focuses on 
commercial development and investment in real estate and covers 
commercial, residential and industrial assets. The exposures in the 
table are related to companies whose primary activities are focused 
on these activities. Lending is generally focused on tier 1 and 2 cities. 
The table also includes financing provided to a corporate or financial 
entity for the purchase or financing of a property that supports the 
overall operations of the business. Such exposures are outside of our 
normal definition of commercial real estate, as applied elsewhere in 
this report, but are provided here for a more comprehensive view of 
our mainland China property exposure.

The table above shows 59% ($7.1bn) of total exposure with a credit 
quality of ’satisfactory’ or above, which was slightly higher in 
proportion compared with 31 December 2022 (57%, $9.5bn). Total 
‘credit impaired’ exposures increased to 26% ($3.2bn) (31 December 
2022: 20%, $3.4bn), reflecting sustained stress in the China 
commercial real estate market, including weakness in both property 
market fundamentals and financing conditions for borrowers 
operating in this sector.

Allowances for ECL are substantially against unsecured exposures. 
For secured exposures, allowances for ECL are minimal, reflecting the 
nature and value of the security held.

Facilities booked in Hong Kong continued to represent the largest 
proportion of mainland China commercial real estate exposures, 
although total exposures reduced to $6.3bn, down $3.1bn since 
31 December 2022, as a result of de-risking measures, repayments 

and write-offs. This portfolio remains relatively higher risk, with 33% 
(31 December 2022: 36%) of exposure booked with a credit quality of 
‘satisfactory’ or above and 47% ‘credit impaired’ (31 December 2022: 
33%).

At 31 December 2023, the Group had allowances for ECL of $1.8bn 
(31 December 2022: $1.7bn) held against mainland China commercial 
real estate exposures booked in Hong Kong. ECL coverage increased 
to 28.5% (31 December 2022: 18.6%), reflecting a further credit 
deterioration during the year.

Approximately half of the unimpaired exposure in the Hong Kong 
portfolio is lending to state-owned enterprises and relatively strong 
private-owned enterprises. This is reflected in the relatively low 
allowance for ECL in this part of the portfolio.

Market conditions are likely to remain subdued with a protracted 
recovery as sentiment and domestic residential demand remain weak, 
with ongoing refinancing and liquidity risk for corporates operating in 
this market. The divergence between privately-owned enterprises and 
state-owned enterprises is likely to continue, with state-owned 
enterprises achieving above-market sales performance, and benefiting 
from market share gains and better access to funding.

The Group has additional exposures to mainland China commercial 
real estate as a result of lending to multinational corporates booked 
outside of mainland China, which is not incorporated in the table 
above.

186

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Collateral and other credit enhancements

(Audited)

Although collateral can be an important mitigant of credit risk, it is the 
Group’s practice to lend on the basis of the customer’s ability to meet 
their obligations out of cash flow resources rather than placing 
primary reliance on collateral and other credit risk enhancements. 
Depending on the customer’s standing and the type of product, 
facilities may be provided without any collateral or other credit 
enhancements. For other lending, a charge over collateral is obtained 
and considered in determining the credit decision and pricing. In the 
event of default, the Group may utilise the collateral as a source of 
repayment.

Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial effect 
in mitigating our exposure to credit risk. Where there is sufficient 
collateral, an expected credit loss is not recognised. This is the case 
for reverse repurchase agreements and for certain loans and 
advances to customers where the loan to value (‘LTV’) is very low.

Mitigants may include a charge on borrowers’ specific assets, such as 
real estate or financial instruments. Other credit risk mitigants include 
short positions in securities and financial assets held as part of linked 
insurance/investment contracts where the risk is predominantly borne 
by the policyholder. Additionally, risk may be managed by employing 
other types of collateral and credit risk enhancements, such as 
second charges, other liens and unsupported guarantees. Guarantees 
are normally taken from corporates and export credit agencies. 
Corporates would normally provide guarantees as part of a parent/
subsidiary relationship and span a number of credit grades. The export 
credit agencies will normally be investment grade. 

Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in portfolio management 
activities. While single name concentrations arise in portfolios 
managed by Global Banking and Corporate Banking, it is only in Global 
Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio level credit 
mitigants. Across Global Banking, risk limits and utilisations, maturity 
profiles and risk quality are monitored and managed proactively. This 
process is key to the setting of risk appetite for these larger, more 
complex, geographically distributed customer groups. While the 
principal form of risk management continues to be at the point of 
exposure origination, through the lending decision-making process, 
Global Banking also utilises loan sales and credit default swap (‘CDS’) 
hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk. 

These transactions are the responsibility of a dedicated Global 
Banking portfolio management team. Hedging activity is carried out 
within agreed credit parameters, and is subject to market risk limits 
and a robust governance structure. Where applicable, CDSs are 
entered into directly with a central clearing house counterparty. 
Otherwise, the Group’s exposure to CDS protection providers is 
diversified among mainly banking counterparties with strong credit 
ratings.

CDS mitigants are held at portfolio level and are not included in the 
expected credit loss calculations. CDS mitigants are not reported in 
the following tables.

Collateral on loans and advances

Collateral held is analysed separately for commercial real estate and 
for other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. The 
following tables include off-balance sheet loan commitments, 
primarily undrawn credit lines.

The collateral measured in the following tables consists of fixed first 
charges on real estate, and charges over cash and marketable 
financial instruments. The values in the tables represent the expected 
market value on an open market basis. No adjustment has been made 
to the collateral for any expected costs of recovery. Marketable 
securities are measured at their fair value.

Other types of collateral such as unsupported guarantees and floating 
charges over the assets of a customer’s business are not measured 
in the following tables. While such mitigants have value, often 
providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is not sufficiently 
certain and they are therefore assigned no value for disclosure 
purposes.

The LTV ratios presented are calculated by directly associating loans 
and advances with the collateral that individually and uniquely 
supports each facility. When collateral assets are shared by multiple 
loans and advances, whether specifically or, more generally, by way 
of an all monies charge, the collateral value is pro-rated across the 
loans and advances protected by the collateral.

For credit-impaired loans, the collateral values cannot be directly 
compared with impairment allowances recognised. The LTV figures 
use open market values with no adjustments. Impairment allowances 
are calculated on a different basis, by considering other cash flows 
and adjusting collateral values for costs of realising collateral as 
explained further on page 348.

Commercial real estate loans and advances

The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined by using 
a combination of external and internal valuations and physical 
inspections. For commercial real estate, where the facility exceeds 
regulatory threshold requirements, Group policy requires an 
independent review of the valuation at least every three years, or 
more frequently as the need arises.

In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending to major 
property companies to be either secured by guarantees or unsecured. 
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are generally not 
secured by a first fixed charge, and are therefore disclosed as not 
collateralised.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

187

Risk reviewRisk review

Wholesale lending – commercial real estate loans and advances to customers including loan commitments by level of collateral for key 
countries/territories (by stage)
(Audited)

Gross carrying/nominal amount

ECL coverage

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

POCI

Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

POCI

Total

Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (A):  LTV > 100%
–  collateral value on A
Total at 31 Dec 2023
of which: UK
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (B):  LTV > 100%
–  collateral value on B
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (C):  LTV > 100%
–  collateral value on C
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023

Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (A):  LTV > 100%
–  collateral value on A
Total at 31 Dec 20221
of which: UK
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (B):  LTV > 100%
–  collateral value on B
Total UK at 31 Dec 2022
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (C):  LTV > 100%
–  collateral value on C
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2022

$m

$m
  36,754   
5,128   
  46,212    15,177   
7,413   
  24,391   
5,240   
  16,086   
1,437   
3,140   
1,087   
2,595   
1,487   
7,075   
1,061   
4,004   
  90,041    21,792   

4,644   
9,762   
3,514   
4,826   
749   
673   
1,580   
524   
  15,986   

1,288   
2,512   
507   
1,418   
292   
295   
239   
171   
4,039   

  16,889   
  20,783   
  15,425   
4,102   
657   
599   
1,770   
1,569   

2,323   
8,447   
5,604   
2,140   
619   
84   
616   
535   
  39,442    11,386   

  43,987   
9,779   
  54,003    17,619   
6,523   
  29,635   
8,312   
  18,664   
911   
3,220   
1,873   
2,484   
1,924   
4,965   
1,192   
2,804   
  102,955    29,322   

5,960   
  10,293   
2,900   
6,361   
556   
476   
1,920   
1,113   
  18,173   

2,511   
2,025   
664   
1,197   
140   
24   
179   
144   
4,715   

  20,263   
  27,892   
  21,185   
5,365   
995   
347   
804   
584   

4,648   
7,457   
3,539   
3,536   
134   
248   
390   
249   
  48,959    12,495   

$m
2,543   
1,963   
574   
657   
454   
278   
156   
115   
4,662   

97   
295   
51   
103   
80   
61   
82   
62   
474   

2,215   
989   
294   
312   
315   
68   
52   
39   
3,256   

2,612   
1,617   
544   
594   
315   
164   
513   
293   
4,742   

295   
372   
53   
291   
11   
17   
176   
72   
843   

2,123   
864   
318   
205   
264   
77   
73   
39   
3,060   

$m

$m
—    44,425 
—    63,352 
—    32,378 
—    21,983 
5,031 
—   
3,960 
—   
8,768 
50   
26   
5,206 
50    116,545 

—   
6,029 
—    12,569 
4,072 
—   
6,347 
—   
1,121 
—   
1,029 
—   
1,936 
35   
17   
774 
35    20,534 

—    21,427 
—    30,219 
—    21,323 
6,554 
—   
1,591 
—   
751 
—   
2,453 
15   
2,151 
8   
15    54,099 

—    56,378 
—    73,239 
—    36,702 
—    27,570 
4,446 
—   
4,521 
—   
7,421 
19   
4,297 
8   
19    137,038 

—   
8,766 
—    12,690 
3,617 
—   
7,849 
—   
707 
—   
517 
—   
2,275 
—   
—   
1,329 
—    23,731 

—    27,034 
—    36,213 
—    25,042 
9,106 
—   
1,393 
—   
672 
—   
1,286 
19   
880 
8   
19    64,533 

%
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.1 

 0.1 

 0.4 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 

 0.2 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.1 

 0.1 

 0.3 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.2 
 0.2 

 0.2 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

%
 3.9 
 2.5 
 1.9 
 3.1 
 3.5 
 2.3 
 1.8 

 2.8 

 2.0 
 1.3 
 1.9 
 1.1 
 1.3 
 1.6 
 1.1 

 1.5 

 6.5 
 2.1 
 1.5 
 3.8 
 1.8 
 0.1 
 0.8 

 2.9 

 5.7 
 1.8 
 1.9 
 1.3 
 2.1 
 3.5 
 2.2 

 3.1 

 1.5 
 0.9 
 0.9 
 0.9 
 1.4 
 0.4 
 1.1 

 1.3 

 10.6 
 1.1 
 1.4 
 1.0 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 2.8 

%
 72.4 
 12.0 
 13.1 
 9.3 
 11.8 
 16.6 
 30.2 

%
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 14.5 

 45.6 

 14.5 

 12.4 
 13.9 
 21.6 
 16.4 
 14.9 
 1.9 
 34.2 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 20.7 

 17.1 

 20.7 

 78.7 
 5.0 
 1.4 
 2.1 
 8.0 
 20.5 
 24.5 

 55.5 

 53.7 
 10.9 
 16.5 
 4.4 
 4.1 
 28.7 
 54.2 

 39.1 

 35.3 
 6.5 
 3.8 
 2.1 
 18.2 
 76.5 
 68.8 

 29.5 

 56.9 
 5.2 
 2.2 
 3.4 
 1.9 
 32.5 
 61.6 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

1   During 1Q23, we aligned the classification of commercial real estate across the Group and re-presented commercial real estate exposure in HSBC 

North America Holdings Inc. at 31 December 2022 as $5.3bn, which had a corresponding ECL charge of $0.1bn.

188

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 4.7 

 42.5 

%
 4.7 
 1.0 
 0.7 
 1.1 
 2.1 
 1.9 
 1.0 

 2.4 

 0.9 
 0.7 
 0.6 
 0.6 
 1.5 
 0.6 
 2.0 

 0.9 

 8.8 
 0.8 
 0.5 
 1.4 
 2.3 
 1.9 
 0.7 

 4.0 

 3.6 
 0.7 
 0.7 
 0.5 
 0.8 
 2.6 
 4.4 

 2.1 

 1.8 
 0.4 
 0.4 
 0.3 
 0.7 
 2.8 
 5.5 

 1.5 

 6.3 
 0.4 
 0.3 
 0.5 
 0.4 
 3.9 
 4.4 

 2.9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances

Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans are 
analysed separately in the following table, which focuses on the 
countries/territories containing the majority of our loans and advances 
balances. For financing activities in other corporate and commercial 
lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated to principal 
repayment performance.

Collateral values are generally refreshed when an obligor’s general 
credit performance deteriorates and we have to assess the likely 
performance of secondary sources of repayment should it prove 
necessary to rely on them. 

Wholesale lending – other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level 
of collateral for key countries/territories (by stage)
(Audited)

Gross carrying/nominal amount

ECL coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

POCI

Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

POCI

Total

Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (A):  LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on A
Total at 31 Dec 2023
of which: UK
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (B):  LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on B
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (C):  LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on C
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023

Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (A):  LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on A
Total at 31 Dec 2022
of which: UK
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (B):  LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on B
Total UK at 31 Dec 2022
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 75%
–  76% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (C):  LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on C
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2022

$m

$m
76,261   
19,747   
7,069   
8,222   
2,531   
1,925   
9,019   
4,266   
  839,167    105,027   

  672,142   
  113,339   
42,953   
24,011   
10,194   
36,181   
53,686   
24,505   

  117,824   
22,217   
7,385   
6,966   
2,256   
5,610   
6,335   
3,508   
  146,376   

  114,025   
32,857   
16,175   
9,461   
4,245   
2,976   
16,152   
6,619   
  163,034   

20,401   
5,912   
2,340   
2,292   
809   
471   
1,732   
1,080   
28,045   

7,523   
8,918   
2,898   
4,515   
863   
642   
2,887   
1,306   
19,328   

  632,889   
94,789   
36,747   
29,108   
9,643   
19,291   
54,794   
27,775   

79,009   
27,422   
10,643   
10,457   
2,987   
3,335   
12,830   
6,289   
  782,472    119,261   

  105,126   
21,192   
6,928   
7,611   
1,889   
4,764   
6,480   
3,470   
  132,798   

  109,919   
38,083   
15,695   
13,893   
4,964   
3,531   
17,704   
7,737   
  165,706   

16,886   
6,511   
2,872   
2,656   
578   
405   
2,288   
1,197   
25,685   

9,901   
12,693   
4,577   
5,413   
1,479   
1,224   
3,379   
1,524   
25,973   

$m
7,702   
2,629   
1,168   
887   
421   
153   
2,233   
993   
12,564   

3,423   
1,162   
601   
434   
106   
21   
299   
175   
4,884   

906   
877   
230   
336   
253   
58   
704   
318   
2,487   

8,278   
1,948   
678   
503   
402   
365   
2,120   
1,133   
12,346   

3,783   
699   
175   
336   
102   
86   
308   
158   
4,790   

939   
665   
175   
115   
268   
107   
777   
397   
2,381   

$m

$m
8    756,113 
23    135,738 
51,190 
—   
33,120 
—   
13,169 
23   
38,259 
—   
64,941 
3   
29,765 
1   
34    956,792 

—    141,648 
29,291 
—   
10,326 
—   
9,692 
—   
3,171 
—   
6,102 
—   
8,366 
—   
—   
4,763 
—    179,305 
— 
—    122,454 
42,674 
22   
19,303 
—   
14,312 
—   
5,383 
22   
3,676 
—   
19,743 
—   
—   
8,243 
22    184,871 

64    720,240 
24    124,183 
48,068 
—   
40,069 
1   
13,055 
23   
22,991 
—   
69,766 
22   
35,213 
16   
110    914,189 

28    125,823 
28,402 
—   
9,975 
—   
10,603 
—   
2,569 
—   
5,255 
—   
9,076 
—   
—   
4,825 
28    163,301 

—    120,759 
51,465 
24   
20,447 
—   
19,422 
1   
6,734 
23   
4,862 
—   
21,874 
14   
13   
9,671 
38    194,098 

%
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 0.1 

 0.1 

 0.2 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.1 
 0.2 

 0.2 

 — 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 — 

 0.1 

 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 0.1 

 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 0.1 
 — 
 0.1 

 — 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 — 
 0.1 

%
 0.9 
 1.4 
 1.5 
 1.3 
 1.6 
 1.1 
 0.7 

%
 40.0 
 10.7 
 11.8 
 6.4 
 10.3 
 27.6 
 32.2 

%
 6.8 
 89.8 
 — 
 — 
 90.6 
 — 
 38.4 

 1.0 

 32.5 

 67.1 

 1.9 
 1.7 
 1.2 
 1.7 
 2.5 
 2.1 
 1.8 

 23.2 
 3.7 
 1.3 
 3.6 
 15.8 
 14.5 
 18.4 

 1.8 

 18.3 

 0.4 
 1.3 
 1.4 
 1.2 
 1.8 
 0.4 
 0.6 

 0.8 

 1.1 
 1.1 
 1.1 
 1.2 
 1.0 
 0.8 
 0.9 
 — 
 1.0 

 2.2 
 1.3 
 1.0 
 1.5 
 1.9 
 1.2 
 1.2 
 — 
 1.9 

 0.7 
 1.0 
 0.9 
 1.2 
 0.7 
 0.3 
 0.6 
 — 
 0.8 

 57.5 
 6.6 
 11.8 
 3.1 
 2.0 
 27.0 
 30.2 

 31.8 

 38.4 
 13.7 
 18.6 
 11.3 
 4.7 
 17.5 
 37.3 
 — 
 34.3 

 17.8 
 4.6 
 3.4 
 6.5 
 1.0 
 3.5 
 25.6 
 — 
 16.4 

 56.0 
 3.8 
 1.7 
 7.8 
 0.4 
 10.3 
 30.9 
 — 
 33.2 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 — 
 94.7 
 — 
 — 
 94.7 
 — 
 — 

 94.7 

 18.8 
 91.7 
 — 
 — 
 95.7 
 — 
 18.2 
 — 
 34.6 

 3.6 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 3.6 

 — 
 91.7 
 — 
 — 
 95.7 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 57.9 

%
 0.6 
 0.5 
 0.5 
 0.6 
 0.9 
 0.2 
 1.3 

 0.6 

 1.0 
 0.6 
 0.5 
 0.7 
 1.3 
 0.3 
 1.2 

 0.9 

 0.5 
 0.5 
 0.4 
 0.5 
 0.9 
 0.5 
 1.2 

 0.6 

 0.6 
 0.5 
 0.6 
 0.5 
 0.6 
 0.4 
 1.4 
 — 
 0.7 

 0.9 
 0.5 
 0.5 
 0.6 
 0.5 
 0.2 
 1.2 

 0.9 

 0.5 
 0.4 
 0.3 
 0.5 
 0.6 
 0.3 
 1.2 

 0.6 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

189

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Other credit risk exposures
In addition to collateralised lending, other credit enhancements are 
employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from 
financial assets. These are summarised below:

– Some securities issued by governments, banks and other financial 
institutions benefit from additional credit enhancements provided 
by government guarantees that cover the assets.

– Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions include 
asset-backed securities (‘ABSs’) and similar instruments, which 
are supported by underlying pools of financial assets. Credit risk 
associated with ABSs is reduced through the purchase of credit 
default swap (‘CDS’) protection.

– Trading loans and advances mainly pledged against cash collateral 
are posted to satisfy margin requirements. There is limited credit 
risk on cash collateral posted since in the event of default of the 
counterparty this would be set off against the related liability. 
Reverse repos and stock borrowing are by their nature 
collateralised.

Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted to sell or 
repledge under these arrangements is described on page 390 of the 
financial statements.

The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial 
guarantees and similar contracts granted, as well as loan and other 
credit-related commitments. Depending on the terms of the 
arrangement, we may use additional credit mitigation if a guarantee is 
called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and subsequently 
defaults.

For further information on these arrangements, see Note 33 on the 
financial statements.

Derivatives

We participate in transactions exposing us to counterparty credit risk. 
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of financial loss if the counterparty 
to a transaction defaults before satisfactorily settling it. It arises 
principally from over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivatives and securities 
financing transactions and is calculated in both the trading and non-
trading books. Transactions vary in value by reference to a market 
factor such as an interest rate, exchange rate or asset price.

The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into 
account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions. The 
adjustment to the fair value is known as the credit valuation 
adjustment (‘CVA’).

For an analysis of CVAs, see Note 12 on the financial statements.

The following table reflects by risk type the fair values and gross notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared through an exchange, central 
counterparty or non-central counterparty. 

Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives 

Total OTC derivatives
–  total OTC derivatives cleared by central counterparties
–  total OTC derivatives not cleared by central counterparties
Total exchange traded derivatives
Gross
Offset
At 31 Dec

Notional 
amount

$m

  24,551,539   
  11,130,785   
  13,420,754   
  1,111,247   
  25,662,786   

2023

20221

Fair value

Assets

Liabilities

Notional 
amount

Fair value

Assets

Liabilities

$m
337,066   
116,520   
220,546   
9,134   
346,200   
(116,486)   
229,714   

$m

$m

$m

$m

343,098    23,649,591   
118,796    11,360,730   
224,302    12,288,861   
8,159    1,146,426   
351,258    24,796,017   
(116,486) 
234,772 

421,324   
149,193   
272,131   
3,822   
425,146   
(140,987)   
284,159   

423,909 
154,167 
269,742 
2,840 
426,749 
(140,987) 
285,762 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

The purposes for which HSBC uses derivatives are described 
in Note 15 on the financial statements.

The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (‘ISDA’) master 
agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting derivatives 
activity. It is common, and our preferred practice, for the parties 
involved in a derivative transaction to execute a credit support annex 
(‘CSA’) in conjunction with the ISDA master agreement. Under a CSA, 
collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate the counterparty 
risk inherent in outstanding positions. The majority of our CSAs are 
with financial institutional clients.

We manage the counterparty exposure on our OTC derivative 
contracts by using collateral agreements with counterparties and 
netting agreements. Currently, we do not actively manage our general 
OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit markets, although 
we may manage individual exposures in certain circumstances.

We place strict policy restrictions on collateral types and as a 
consequence the types of collateral received and pledged are, by 
value, highly liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly cash.

Where a collateral type is required to be approved outside the 
collateral policy, approval is required from a committee of senior 
representatives from Markets, Legal and Risk.

See Note 31 on the financial statements for details regarding legally 
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and 
collateral received in respect of derivatives.

190

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Personal lending
This section presents further disclosures related to personal lending. 
It provides details of the major legal entities, countries and products 
that are driving the change observed in personal loans and advances 
to customers, with the impact of foreign exchange separately 
identified. Additionally, Hong Kong and UK mortgage book LTV data is 
provided.

This section also provides reconciliations of the opening 
1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 closing gross carrying/nominal 
amounts and associated allowance for ECL by product. Further 
product granularity is also provided by stage, with data for major legal 
entities presented for loans and advances to customers, loan and 
other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees.

At 31 December 2023, total personal lending for loans and advances 
to customers of $447.5bn increased by $32.6bn compared with 
31 December 2022. This increase included favourable foreign 
exchange movements of $11.5bn. Excluding foreign exchange 
movements, the increase of $21.1bn was mainly driven by growth in 
the UK (up $6.6bn), in Hong Kong (up $5.8bn), in Mexico (up $2.3bn) 
and in Australia (up $1.4bn). Additionally, France increased by $7.8bn 
due to the retention of the home loan portfolio, which is no longer 
classified as assets held for sale.

The increase was partly offset by a $1.2bn decrease from the merger 
of our business in Oman and a $1.0bn decrease from the sale of our 
retail mortgage loan portfolio in New Zealand.

 
 
 
 
The allowance for ECL attributable to personal lending, excluding off-
balance sheet loan commitments and guarantees, remained broadly 
stable at $2.9bn at 31 December 2023, as net releases were offset by 
adverse foreign exchange movements of $0.1bn.

Excluding foreign exchange movements and reclassifications to held 
for sale, mortgage lending balances increased by $15.5bn to $360.9bn 
at 31 December 2023, mainly in Hong Kong (up $5.9bn), in the UK (up 
$4.9bn), in Mexico (up $1.7bn), in the US (up $1.5bn) and in Australia 
(up $1.4bn). The allowance for ECL attributable to mortgages 
remained broadly stable at $0.6bn when compared with 31 December 
2022.

Total personal lending gross carrying amounts in stage 2 decreased 
by $1.4bn compared with 31 December 2022. Excluding favourable 
foreign exchange movements of $2.3bn, the decrease of $3.7bn was 
driven by favourable economic conditions and the model updates for 
interest-only and offset mortgages at a portfolio level in the UK. 

The quality of both our Hong Kong and UK mortgage books remained 
strong, with low levels of impairment allowances. The average LTV 
ratio on new mortgage lending in Hong Kong was 64%, compared 
with an estimated 60% for the overall mortgage portfolio. The 
average LTV ratio on new lending in the UK was 65%, compared with 
an estimated 53% for the overall mortgage portfolio. 

Excluding foreign exchange movements and reclassifications to held 
for sale, other personal lending balances at 31 December 2023 
increased by $7.8bn compared with 31 December 2022. This was 
mainly from the retained home loan portfolio in France (up $7.4bn), 
which is no longer classified as assets held for sale. In addition, our 
credit card portfolio in Mexico increased by $0.6bn.

The allowance for ECL, excluding foreign exchange movements, 
attributable to other personal lending of $2.3bn remained unchanged 
from 31 December 2022. The allowance for ECL attributable to credit 
cards decreased by $0.1bn, offset by adverse foreign exchange 
movements of $0.1bn in other personal lending.

Total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage distribution

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

By portfolio
First lien residential mortgages
–  of which: interest-only (including offset)
–  affordability (including US adjustable rate                    

mortgages)

Other personal lending 
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property  
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
At 31 Dec 2023
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2023

320,410   
21,895   

38,287   
2,923   

2,212   
139   

360,909   
24,957   

14,380   

76,124   
317   
8,001   
28,900   
19,909   
17,010   
1,987   

381   

9,196   
58   
502   
424   
4,419   
3,582   
211   

291   

15,052   

1,293   
21   
90   
157   
352   
659   
14   

86,613   
396   
8,593   
29,481   
24,680   
21,251   
2,212   

396,534   

47,483   

3,505   

447,522   

146,354   
14,598   

35,190   
1,747   

1,218   
273   

182,762   
16,618   

191,382   

7,741   

948   

200,071   

3,335   
18,096   
12,717   
10,052   
396,534   

397   
553   
1,740   
115   
47,483   

47   
364   
536   
119   
3,505   

3,779   
19,013   
14,993   
10,286   
447,522   

(102)   
(4)   

(3)   

(477)   
—   
(1)   
(13)   
(236)   
(212)   
(15)   

(579)   

(152)   
(24)   

(165)   

(19)   
(5)   
(197)   
(17)   
(579)   

(200)   
(27)   

(1)   

(1,234)   
(3)   
(5)   
(5)   
(697)   
(505)   
(19)   

(1,434)   

(490)   
(22)   

(402)   

(33)   
(14)   
(463)   
(10)   
(1,434)   

(269)   
(31)   

(10)   

(585)   
(5)   
(14)   
(24)   
(203)   
(331)   
(8)   

(854)   

(255)   
(91)   

(162)   

(36)   
(16)   
(273)   
(21)   
(854)   

Total

$m

(571) 
(62) 

(14) 

(2,296) 
(8) 
(20) 
(42) 
(1,136) 
(1,048) 
(42) 

(2,867) 

(897) 
(137) 

(729) 

(88) 
(35) 
(933) 
(48) 
(2,867) 

Total personal lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Bank Canada
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2023

Nominal amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

$m
52,093   
1,630   

181,967   

1,978   
3,695   
6,610   
4,308   
2,008   
254,289   

$m
734   
36   

2,479   

7   
72   
113   
—   
31   
3,472   

$m
88   
4   

$m
52,915   
1,670   

223   

184,669   

1   
8   
30   
—   
1   
355   

1,986   
3,775   
6,753   
4,308   
2,040   
258,116   

$m
(11)   
—   

(3)   

—   
—   
—   
(8)   
(1)   
(23)   

$m

$m

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

(2)   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2)   

$m
(13) 
— 

(3) 

— 
— 
— 
(8) 
(1) 
(25) 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

191

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage distribution (continued)

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

$m

By portfolio
First lien residential mortgages
–  of which: interest-only (including offset) 
–  affordability (including US adjustable rate 

mortgages)

Other personal lending
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property  
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
At 31 Dec 2022
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2022

294,919   
19,636   

39,860   
4,485   

2,042   
169   

336,821   
24,290   

14,773   

67,758   
353   
1,121   
31,306   
16,705   
16,512   
1,761   
362,677   

369   

240   

15,382   

9,006   
20   
121   
594   
4,423   
3,681   
167   
48,866   

1,297   
6   
125   
206   
260   
687   
13   
3,339   

78,061   
379   
1,367   
32,106   
21,388   
20,880   
1,941   
414,882   

128,590   
6,377   

37,394   
740   

1,012   
127   

166,996   
7,244   

185,723   

8,698   

1,117   

195,538   

3,657   
16,906   
9,542   
11,882   
362,677   

184   
375   
1,099   
376   
48,866   

86   
270   
377   
350   
3,339   

3,927   
17,551   
11,018   
12,608   
414,882   

(74)   
(3)   

(5)   

(487)   
(1)   
(1)   
(15)   
(225)   
(234)   
(11)   
(561)   

(135)   
(10)   

(138)   

(26)   
(12)   
(213)   
(27)   
(561)   

(231)   
(46)   

(3)   

(1,273)   
(2)   
(3)   
(10)   
(776)   
(469)   
(13)   
(1,504)   

(688)   
(18)   

(362)   

(37)   
(23)   
(331)   
(45)   
(1,504)   

(270)   
(41)   

(4)   

(535)   
(3)   
(30)   
(30)   
(160)   
(305)   
(7)   
(805)   

(227)   
(38)   

(187)   

(52)   
(6)   
(194)   
(101)   
(805)   

Total

$m

(575) 
(90) 

(12) 

(2,295) 
(6) 
(34) 
(55) 
(1,161) 
(1,008) 
(31) 
(2,870) 

(1,050) 
(66) 

(687) 

(115) 
(41) 
(738) 
(173) 
(2,870) 

Total personal lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution (continued)

Nominal amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Bank Canada
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities
At 31 Dec 2022

$m

50,535   
2,440   

170,104   

1,717   
3,914   
6,346   
3,198   
2,390   
240,644   

$m

439   
131   

2,916   

8   
24   
115   
—   
64   
3,697   

Exposure to UK interest-only mortgage loans 

Total

$m

51,078   
2,578   

$m

104   
7   

634   

173,654   

1   
17   
30   
—   
7   
800   

1,726   
3,955   
6,491   
3,198   
2,461   
245,141   

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

$m

(11)   
—   

(2)   

(1)   
(1)   
—   
(9)   
(2)   
(26)   

$m

$m

(1)   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(1)   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

$m

(12) 
— 

(2) 

(1) 
(1) 
— 
(9) 
(2) 
(27) 

The following information is presented for HSBC branded interest-
only mortgage loans. This excludes offset mortgages in first direct 
and private banking mortgages.

At the end of 2023, the average LTV ratio of the interest-only 
mortgage loans was 44% (2022: 41%), and 97% (2022: 99%) had an 
LTV ratio of 75% or less. 

Of the interest-only mortgage loans that expired in 2021, 82% were 
repaid within 12 months of expiry with a total of 96% being repaid 
within 24 months of expiry. For those expiring during 2022, 92% 
were repaid within 12 months of expiry. 

At 31 December 2023, interest-only mortgage loan exposures were 
$15.2bn (2022: $14.4bn) and the maturity profile was as follows:

UK interest-only mortgage loans 

Expired interest-only mortgage loans
Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity
–  2024
–  2025
–  2026
–  2027
–  2028–2032
–  post-2032
At 31 Dec 2023

192

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

$m

141 

141 
242 
315 
436 
2,919 
11,010 
15,204 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UK interest-only mortgage loans (continued)

Expired interest-only mortgage loans
Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity
–  2023
–  2024
–  2025
–  2026
–  2027–2031
–  post-2031
At 31 Dec 2022

$m

134 

219 
215 
300 
383 
2,951 
10,248 
14,450 

Exposure to offset mortgage in first direct

The offset mortgage in first direct is a flexible way for our customers to take control of their finances. It works by grouping together the 
customer’s mortgage, savings and current accounts to offset their credit and debit balances against their mortgage exposure. At 31 December 
2023, exposures were worth a total $5.0bn with an average LTV ratio of 29% (2022: $5.5bn exposure and 32% LTV ratio).

Reconciliations of changes in personal lending gross carrying/nominal amount and 
allowances for loans and advances to customers including loan commitments and financial 
guarantees
The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s personal lending gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for 
loans and advances to customers, including loan commitments and financial guarantees.

In addition, three reconciliations by stage of the Group’s gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for first lien mortgages, credit cards and 
other personal lending, including loan commitments and financial guarantees were added at 31 December 2023 following the adoption of the 
recommendations of the DECL Taskforce’s third report.

Personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees

(Audited)

Non-credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Credit impaired

Stage 3

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Allowance 
for ECL

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
–  transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer 
of stage
Net new and further lending/repayments
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
Assets written off
Foreign exchange and others1,2
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement change for the period
Recoveries
Others
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period

$m
603,321   
(2,144)   
(57,217)   
55,307   
(542)   
308   

—   

34,411   
—   
—   
—   
15,235   
650,823   

$m
(587)   
(619)   
270   
(862)   
3   
(30)   

563   

(47)   
104   
(13)   
—   
(3)   
(602)   
607 

$m
52,563   
39   
57,217   
(55,307)   
(2,345)   
474   

—   

(4,713)   
—   
—   
—   
3,066   
50,955   

$m
(1,505)   
1,087   
(270)   
862   
614   
(119)   

(679)   

350   
(641)   
21   
—   
(67)   
(1,434)   
(949) 

$m
4,139   
2,105   
—   
—   
2,887   
(782)   

—   

(1,169)   
—   
—   
(1,326)   
111   
3,860   

$m
(805)   
(468)   
—   
—   
(617)   
149   

(79)   

144   
(955)   
7   
1,326   
(26)   
(856)   
(883) 

$m
660,023   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

28,529   
—   
—   
(1,326)   
18,412   
705,638   

$m
(2,897) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

(195) 

447 
(1,492) 
15 
1,326 
(96) 
(2,892) 
(1,225) 
226 
8 

(991) 

1   Total includes $7.8bn of gross carrying loans and advances and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $11m, due to the retention of certain balances 
previously classified as assets held for sale of our retail banking operations in France. For further details, see Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and 
liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 401.

2   Total includes $2.0bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance 

for ECL of $20m, reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on 
page 401.

As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and 
advances to customers and relevant loan commitments and financial 
guarantees decreased by $5m during the period from $2,897m at 
31 December 2022 to $2,892m at 31 December 2023.

This decrease was driven by:

– $1,326m of assets written off;

– $447m relating to volume movements, which included the 
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets 
derecognised and further lending/repayment; and

– $15m of changes to models used for ECL calculation.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

193

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

These were partly offset by:

– $1,492m relating to underlying credit quality changes, including the 
credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring between 
stages;

– $195m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage 

transfers; and

– foreign exchange and other movements of $96m. 

The ECL charge for the period of $1,225m presented in the above 
table consisted of $1,492m relating to underlying credit quality 

changes, including the credit quality impact of financial instruments 
transferring between stages, and $195m relating to the net 
remeasurement impact of stage transfers. This was partly offset by 
$447m relating to underlying net book volume movements and $15m 
in changes to models used for the calculation of ECL.
During the period, there was a net transfer to stage 2 of $1,910m 
gross carrying/nominal amounts. This increase was mainly driven by 
$1,550m in Mexico, due to slight deterioration in the unsecured 
portfolio. 

Personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees

(Audited)

Credit impaired

Stage 3

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Non-credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

$m

695,627   
(40,836)   
(68,016)   
27,359   
(561)   
382   

—   

30,637   
—   
—   
—   
(82,107)   
603,321   

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

(692)   
(496)   
268   
(730)   
2   
(36)   

495   

(17)   
82   
(2)   
—   
43   
(587)   
558 

At 1 Jan 2022
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
–  transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
Net new and further lending/repayments
Change to risk parameters – credit quality
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
Assets written off
Foreign exchange and others1
At 31 Dec 2022
ECL income statement change for the period
Recoveries
Others
Total ECL income statement change for the period

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

$m

18,161   
39,489   
68,016   
(27,359)   
(1,983)   
815   

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

(1,220)   
674   
(268)   
730   
361   
(149)   

$m

5,111   
1,347   
—   
—   
2,544   
(1,197)   

—   

(579)   

—   

459   
—   
—   
—   
(5,546)   
52,563   

234   
(676)   
(95)   
—   
157   
(1,505)   
(1,116) 

(146)   
—   
—   
(1,212)   
(961)   
4,139   

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

$m

718,899   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

30,950   
—   
—   
(1,212)   
(88,614)   
660,023   

Allowance 
for ECL

$m

(3,138) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

(169) 

308 
(1,417) 
(84) 
1,212 
391 
(2,897) 
(1,362) 
283 
(3) 
(1,082) 

$m

(1,226)   
(178)   
—   
—   
(363)   
185   

(85)   

91   
(823)   
13   
1,212   
191   
(805)   
(804) 

1   Total includes $49.6bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding 

allowance for ECL of $221m, reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ 
on page 401.

First lien residential mortgages – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees

Non-credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Credit impaired

Stage 3

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
–  transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
Net new and further lending/repayments
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
Assets written off
Foreign exchange and others
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement change for the period
Recoveries
Others
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period

$m
317,666   
(1,182)   
(41,207)   
40,164   
(354)   
215   

—   

15,447   
—   
—   
—   
8,833   
340,764   

$m
(74)   
(109)   
28   
(117)   
1   
(21)   

72   

(3)   
16   
(2)   
—   
(9)   
(109)   
83 

$m
40,048   
421   
41,207   
(40,164)   
(958)   
336   

—   

(3,939)   
—   
—   
—   
1,983   
38,513   

$m
(231)   
138   
(28)   
117   
100   
(51)   

(79)   

22   
(67)   
28   
—   
(13)   
(202)   
(96) 

$m
2,230   
761   
—   
—   
1,312   
(551)   

—   

(751)   
—   
—   
(53)   
71   
2,258   

$m
(270)   
(29)   
—   
—   
(101)   
72   

(67)   

322   
(269)   
—   
53   
(4)   
(264)   
(14) 

$m
359,944   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

10,757   
—   
—   
(53)   
10,887   
381,535   

$m
(575) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

(74) 

341 
(320) 
26 
53 
(26) 
(575) 
(27) 
10 
13 

(4) 

194

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit cards – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers including loan 
commitments and financial guarantees

Non-credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Credit impaired

Stage 3

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
–  transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
Net new and further lending/repayments
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
Assets written off
Foreign exchange and others
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement change for the period
Recoveries
Others
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period

$m
140,519   
199   
(7,855)   
8,124   
(82)   
12   

—   

13,206   
—   
—   
—   
(632)   
153,292   

$m
(244)   
(292)   
102   
(391)   
1   
(4)   

185   

27   
82   
(9)   
—   
(2)   
(253)   
285 

$m
6,747   
(848)   
7,855   
(8,124)   
(621)   
42   

—   

621   
—   
—   
—   
27   
6,547   

$m
(777)   
496   
(102)   
391   
227   
(20)   

(301)   

169   
(281)   
15   
—   
(19)   
(698)   
(398) 

$m
353   
649   
—   
—   
703   
(54)   

—   

12   
—   
—   
(571)   
7   
450   

$m
(160)   
(204)   
—   
—   
(228)   
24   

(5)   

(41)   
(301)   
1   
571   
(5)   
(144)   
(346) 

$m
147,619   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

13,839   
—   
—   
(571)   
(598)   
160,289   

$m
(1,181) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

(121) 

155 
(500) 
7 
571 
(26) 
(1,095) 
(459) 
108 
(200) 

(551) 

Other personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees

Non-credit impaired

Stage 1

Stage 2

Credit impaired

Stage 3

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

$m
145,136   
(1,161)   
(8,155)   
7,019   
(106)   
81   

—   

5,758   
—   
—   
—   
7,034   
156,767   

$m
(269)   
(218)   
140   
(354)   
1   
(5)   

306   

(71)   
6   
(2)   
—   
8   
(240)   
239 

$m
5,768   
466   
8,155   
(7,019)   
(766)   
96   

—   

(1,395)   
—   
—   
—   
1,056   
5,895   

$m
(497)   
453   
(140)   
354   
287   
(48)   

(299)   

159   
(293)   
(22)   
—   
(35)   
(534)   
(455) 

$m
1,556   
695   
—   
—   
872   
(177)   

—   

(430)   
—   
—   
(702)   
33   
1,152   

$m
(375)   
(235)   
—   
—   
(288)   
53   

(7)   

(137)   
(385)   
6   
702   
(17)   
(448)   
(523) 

Total

Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount

Allowance 
for ECL

$m
152,460   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

$m
(1,141) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

—   

— 

3,933   
—   
—   
(702)   
8,123   
163,814   

(49) 
(672) 
(18) 
702 
(44) 
(1,222) 
(739) 
108 
195 

(436) 

At 1 Jan 2023
Transfers of financial instruments:
–  transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
–  transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
–  transfers to stage 3
–  transfers from stage 3
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
Net new and further lending/repayments
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
Assets written off
Foreign exchange and others1
At 31 Dec 2023
ECL income statement change for the period
Recoveries
Others
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period

1   Total includes $7.2bn of gross carrying loans and advances and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $10m, due to the retention of certain balances 
previously classified as assets held for sale of our retail banking operations in France. For further details, see Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and 
liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 401.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

195

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

PD range1
%

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

First lien residential 
mortgages2
–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
Credit cards
–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
Other personal lending 
(excluding credit cards)
–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
At 31 Dec 2023

First lien residential 
mortgages2
–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
Other personal lending
–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
At 31 Dec 2022

  320,410   

38,287   

2,212    360,909   

0.000 to 0.250   229,188   
54,891   
0.251 to 0.500  
28,159   
0.501 to 1.500  
7,451   
1.501 to 5.000  
599   
5.001 to 20.000  
122   
20.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000  
19,909   
9,490   
2,481   
4,799   
2,787   
352   
—   
—   

0.000 to 0.250  
0.251 to 0.500  
0.501 to 1.500  
1.501 to 5.000  
5.001 to 20.000  
20.001 to 99.999  
100.000  

3,174   
12,266   
16,140   
4,559   
1,097   
1,051   
—   
4,419   
1   
6   
294   
2,291   
1,374   
453   
—   

—    232,362   
67,157   
—   
44,299   
—   
12,010   
—   
1,696   
—   
1,173   
—   
2,212   
2,212   
24,680   
352   
9,491   
—   
2,487   
—   
5,093   
—   
5,078   
—   
1,726   
—   
453   
—   
352   
352   

56,215   

4,777   

941   

61,933   

0.000 to 0.250  
0.251 to 0.500  
0.501 to 1.500  
1.501 to 5.000  
5.001 to 20.000  
20.001 to 99.999  
100.000  

28,115   
6,634   
12,935   
7,215   
1,137   
179   
—   
  396,534   

30   
286   
329   
1,447   
2,005   
680   
—   
47,483   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
941   

28,145   
6,920   
13,264   
8,662   
3,142   
859   
941   
3,505    447,522   

  294,919   

39,860   

2,042    336,821   

0.000 to 0.250   247,330   
19,615   
0.251 to 0.500  
21,323   
0.501 to 1.500  
6,594   
1.501 to 5.000  
34   
5.001 to 20.000  
23   
20.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000  
67,758   
30,150   
7,219   
17,077   
10,344   
2,501   
467   
—   
  362,677   

0.000 to 0.250  
0.251 to 0.500  
0.501 to 1.500  
1.501 to 5.000  
5.001 to 20.000  
20.001 to 99.999  
100.000  

21,220   
7,900   
5,691   
2,694   
1,024   
1,331   
—   
9,006   
153   
251   
1,499   
2,036   
3,692   
1,375   
—   
48,866   

—    268,550   
27,515   
—   
27,014   
—   
9,288   
—   
1,058   
—   
1,354   
—   
2,042   
2,042   
78,061   
1,297   
30,303   
—   
7,470   
—   
18,576   
—   
12,380   
—   
6,193   
—   
1,842   
—   
1,297   
1,297   
3,339    414,882   

(102)   

(16)   
(11)   
(22)   
(52)   
—   
(1)   
—   
(236)   
(32)   
(21)   
(56)   
(93)   
(34)   
—   
—   

(241)   

(34)   
(11)   
(61)   
(79)   
(55)   
(1)   
—   
(579)   

(74)   

(13)   
(4)   
(18)   
(39)   
—   
—   
—   
(487)   
(54)   
(26)   
(82)   
(170)   
(154)   
(1)   
—   
(561)   

Total

$m

(571) 

(30) 
(28) 
(71) 
(82) 
(11) 
(80) 
(269) 
(1,136) 
(32) 
(22) 
(73) 
(251) 
(292) 
(263) 
(203) 

(200)   

(14)   
(17)   
(49)   
(30)   
(11)   
(79)   
—   
(697)   
—   
(1)   
(17)   
(158)   
(258)   
(263)   
—   

(269)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(269)   
(203)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(203)   

(537)   

(382)   

(1,160) 

(1)   
(1)   
(9)   
(46)   
(199)   
(281)   
—   
(1,434)   

(231)   

(4)   
(3)   
(7)   
(24)   
(40)   
(153)   
—   
(1,273)   
(13)   
(1)   
(44)   
(103)   
(520)   
(592)   
—   
(1,504)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(382)   
(854)   

(270)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(270)   
(535)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(535)   
(805)   

(35) 
(12) 
(70) 
(125) 
(254) 
(282) 
(382) 
(2,867) 

(575) 

(17) 
(7) 
(25) 
(63) 
(40) 
(153) 
(270) 
(2,295) 
(67) 
(27) 
(126) 
(273) 
(674) 
(593) 
(535) 
(2,870) 

ECL 
coverage

%

 0.2 

 — 
 — 
 0.2 
 0.7 
 0.6 
 6.8 
 12.2 
 4.6 

 0.3 
 0.9 
 1.4 
 4.9 
 16.9 
 58.1 
 57.7 

 1.9 

 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.5 
 1.4 
 8.1 
 32.8 
 40.6 
 0.6 

 0.2 

 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 0.7 
 3.8 
 11.3 
 13.2 
 2.9 
 0.2 
 0.4 
 0.7 
 2.2 
 10.9 
 32.2 
 41.2 
 0.7 

1   12-month point in time adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.
2   PD bands do not consider the impact of any management judgemental adjustments on stage or allowances for ECL including the impact of new 

models not yet formally implemented. For a list of management judgemental adjustments see page 163.

196

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees 

Nominal amount

Allowance for ECL

PD range1
%

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

  253,183   

3,459   

355    256,997   

0.000 to 0.250   196,201   
17,861   
0.251 to 0.500  
29,623   
0.501 to 1.500  
8,550   
1.501 to 5.000  
508   
5.001 to 20.000  
440   
20.001 to 99.999  
—   
100.000  
1,106   
348   
386   
359   
3   
2   
8   
—   
  254,289   

0.000 to 0.250  
0.251 to 0.500  
0.501 to 1.500  
1.501 to 5.000  
5.001 to 20.000  
20.001 to 99.999  
100.000  

114   
63   
1,262   
1,334   
564   
122   
—   
13   
—   
—   
1   
—   
12   
—   
—   
3,472   

—    196,315   
17,924   
—   
30,885   
—   
9,884   
—   
1,072   
—   
562   
—   
355   
355   
1,119   
—   
348   
—   
386   
—   
360   
—   
3   
—   
14   
—   
8   
—   
—   
—   
355    258,116   

(23)   

(15)   
(1)   
(1)   
(4)   
(2)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(23)   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

(2)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2)   

(25) 

(15) 
(1) 
(1) 
(4) 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(25) 

ECL 
coverage

%

 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 0.2 
 — 
 0.6 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

Loan and other credit-
related commitments

–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
Financial guarantees
–  Band 1
–  Band 2
–  Band 3
–  Band 4
–  Band 5
–  Band 6
–  Band 7
At 31 Dec 2023

1  12-month point in time adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.

Collateral on loans and advances 

(Audited)

The following table provides a quantification of the value of fixed 
charges we hold over specific assets where we have a history 
of enforcing, and are able to enforce, collateral in satisfying a debt in 
the event of the borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, 
and where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an 

established market. The collateral valuation excludes any adjustments 
for obtaining and selling the collateral and, in particular, loans shown 
as not collateralised or partially collateralised may also benefit from 
other forms of credit mitigants.

Personal lending – residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral for key countries/territories by stage

(Audited)

Gross carrying/nominal amount

ECL coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 70%
–  71% to 80%
–  81% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on A
Total at 31 Dec 2023
of which: UK
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 70%
–  71% to 80%
–  81% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on B
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023
of which: Hong Kong
Fully collateralised 
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 70%
–  71% to 80%
–  81% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%  

–  collateral value on C
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023

$m
331,279   
140,992   
113,043   
37,866   
23,278   
16,100   
9,529   
8,968   
340,808   

146,739   
60,403   
49,945   
20,293   
12,946   
3,152   
317   
244   
147,056   

97,414   
41,903   
29,762   
5,260   
8,161   
12,328   
8,973   

8,535   
106,387   

$m
38,378   
19,715   
12,636   
4,111   
1,499   
417   
136   
123   
38,514   

33,597   
17,629   
11,248   
3,275   
1,161   
284   
19   
15   
33,616   

1,354   
831   
330   
48   
61   
84   
86   

81   
1,440   

$m
2,129   
1,165   
568   
229   
109   
58   
129   
104   
2,258   

759   
458   
207   
61   
18   
15   
27   
22   
786   

93   
66   
15   
2   
4   
6   
4   

4   
97   

$m
371,786 
161,872   
126,247 
42,206 
24,886 
16,575 
9,794 
9,195 
381,580 

181,095 

78,490   
61,400 
23,629 
14,125 
3,451 
363 
281 
181,458 

98,861 
42,800   
30,107 
5,310 
8,226 
12,418 
9,063 

8,620 
107,924 

%
 — 
— 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
—

 — 

—
— 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
0.1

 — 

—
— 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
—

 — 

%
 0.5 
 0.3 
 0.6 
 0.9 
 1.2 
 1.6 
 3.4 

 0.5 

0.3
 0.2 
 0.4 
 0.6 
 0.8 
 1.0 
 1.7 

 0.3 

—
 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.3 
 0.9 

 0.1 

%
 10.1 
 7.1 
 10.9 
 15.2 
 17.3 
 28.9 
 42.0 

 11.9 

 9.7 
 7.9 
 9.4 
 13.4 
 17.5 
 41.6 
 17.5 

 9.9 

 0.3 
 0.1 
 0.5 
 0.4 
 1.9 
 1.8 
 7.8 

 0.7 

%
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.2 
 0.2 
 0.6 

 0.1 

 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.3 
 1.4 

 0.1 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

197

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Personal lending – residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral for key countries/territories by stage
(continued)

(Audited)

Gross carrying/nominal amount

ECL coverage

Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 70%
–  71% to 80%
–  81% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on A
Total at 31 Dec 2022
of which: UK
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 70%
–  71% to 80%
–  81% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on B
Total UK at 31 Dec 2022
of which: Hong Kong
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
–  less than 50%
–  51% to 70%
–  71% to 80%
–  81% to 90%
–  91% to 100%
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%  
–  collateral value on C
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2022

Stage 1

$m

310,705   
154,337   
102,191   
25,458   
17,106   
11,613   
6,964   
6,521   
317,669   

134,044   
70,936   
43,617   
12,849   
5,922   
720   
329   
237   
134,373   

94,949   
44,740   
28,123   
4,167   
7,883   
10,036   
6,441   
6,146   
101,390   

Stage 2

$m

39,906   
12,250   
16,989   
6,770   
3,388   
509   
143   
123   
40,049   

34,541   
10,387   
14,943   
5,922   
2,918   
371   
49   
38   
34,590   

981   
577   
256   
37   
51   
60   
47   
44   
1,028   

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

$m

2,097   
1,077   
537   
212   
147   
124   
133   
79   
2,230   

676   
448   
158   
33   
10   
27   
12   
4   
688   

237   
105   
37   
25   
27   
43   
1   
1   
238   

$m

352,708 
167,664 
119,717 
32,440 
20,641 
12,246 
7,240 
6,723 
359,948 

169,261 
81,771 
58,718 
18,804 
8,850 
1,118 
390 
279 
169,651 

96,167 
45,422 
28,416 
4,229 
7,961 
10,139 
6,489 
6,191 
102,656 

%

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

%

 0.6 
 0.7 
 0.5 
 0.5 
 0.5 
 1.1 
 6.9 

 0.6 

 0.4 
 0.6 
 0.4 
 0.3 
 0.2 
 0.2 
 0.3 

 0.4 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.2 

 — 

%

 9.9 
 7.2 
 9.5 
 14.7 
 17.8 
 18.1 
 46.9 

 12.1 

 11.1 
 9.4 
 11.6 
 19.7 
 24.5 
 22.5 
 9.8 

 11.1 

 0.1 
 — 
 0.3 
 0.1 
 — 
 — 
 0.3 

 0.1 

%

 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.2 
 0.2 
 0.3 
 1.0 

 0.2 

 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.6 
 0.3 

 0.1 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 

 — 

Supplementary information

Wholesale lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory

Gross carrying amount

Corporate 
and 
commercial

$m
105,536   

of which: real 
estate and 
construction1
$m
17,852   

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

Corporate 
and 
commercial

Total

$m
18,343   

$m
123,879   

$m
(1,451)   

Allowance for ECL

of which: real 
estate and 
construction1
$m
(246)   

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

$m
(231)   

Total

$m
(1,682) 

80,248   

17,060   

9,372   

89,620   

(1,212)   

(212)   

(66)   

(1,278) 

24,791   

792   

8,971   

33,762   

(240)   

(34)   

(165)   

(405) 

497   

27,017   
6,667   
1,168   
125,340   
12,685   
10,856   
3,100   
28,655   
5,797   
15,845   
4,512   
899   
13,740   
26,993   
11,326   
27,519   
427,655   

—   

—   

497   

4,796   
240   
423   
48,594   
4,443   
2,083   
162   
6,709   
1,137   
3,458   
30   
45   
1,979   
5,143   
865   
3,496   
101,455   

5,701   
632   
378   
19,319   
1,564   
5,315   
411   
7,775   
258   
948   
81   
86   
823   
9,155   
1,349   
2,294   
74,432   

32,718   
7,299   
1,546   
144,659   
14,249   
16,171   
3,511   
36,430   
6,055   
16,793   
4,593   
985   
14,563   
36,148   
12,675   
29,813   
502,087   

1   

(636)   
(74)   
(12)   
(3,099)   
(49)   
(47)   
(136)   
(313)   
(69)   
(321)   
—   
(128)   
(543)   
(239)   
(320)   
(366)   
(7,803)   

—   

(53)   
—   
(1)   
(2,147)   
(1)   
(7)   
(58)   
(212)   
(15)   
(40)   
—   
(10)   
(296)   
(101)   
(19)   
(80)   
(3,286)   

—   

(18)   
—   
—   
(57)   
—   
(4)   
—   
(11)   
—   
(1)   
—   
(1)   
—   
(58)   
(5)   
(18)   
(404)   

1 

(654) 
(74) 
(12) 
(3,156) 
(49) 
(51) 
(136) 
(324) 
(69) 
(322) 
— 
(129) 
(543) 
(297) 
(325) 
(384) 
(8,207) 

UK
– of which: HSBC UK Bank 
plc (ring-fenced bank)
– of which: HSBC Bank plc 
(non-ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: Other trading 

entities

France
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
US
Mexico
Other
At 31 Dec 2023

198

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wholesale lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory (continued)

Corporate 
and 
commercial

$m

Gross carrying amount

of which: real 
estate and 
construction

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

$m

$m

Corporate 
and 
commercial

$m

Total

$m

104,775   

18,747   

12,662   

117,437   

(1,522)   

78,249   

17,121   

2,980   

81,229   

(1,247)   

26,526   

27,571   
6,603   
988   
144,256   
11,641   
9,052   
3,214   
31,790   
5,986   
15,905   
4,701   
1,262   
13,503   
28,249   
9,784   
33,922   
453,202   

1,625   

9,682   

36,208   

4,607   
252   
635   
58,531   
3,339   
1,901   
206   
7,499   
1,351   
4,031   
36   
111   
2,091   
6,491   
1,081   
3,676   
114,585   

4,152   
713   
298   
20,798   
1,157   
4,267   
226   
8,908   
180   
1,192   
65   
101   
149   
8,640   
717   
2,699   
66,924   

31,723   
7,316   
1,286   
165,054   
12,798   
13,319   
3,440   
40,698   
6,166   
17,097   
4,766   
1,363   
13,652   
36,889   
10,501   
36,621   
520,126   

(275)   

(621)   
(154)   
(8)   
(2,997)   
(97)   
(80)   
(187)   
(327)   
(133)   
(387)   
(1)   
(117)   
(674)   
(214)   
(334)   
(467)   
(8,320)   

UK
– of which: HSBC UK Bank 
plc (ring-fenced bank)
– of which: HSBC Bank plc 
(non-ring-fenced bank)

France
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
US
Mexico
Other
At 31 Dec 2022

Allowance for ECL

of which: real 
estate and 
construction

Non-bank 
financial 
institutions

$m

(420)   

(279)   

(141)   

(49)   
—   
—   
(1,980)   
(1)   
(26)   
(5)   
(174)   
(38)   
(44)   
—   
(6)   
(342)   
(95)   
(34)   
(79)   
(3,293)   

Total

$m

$m

(131)   

(1,653) 

(6)   

(1,253) 

(125)   

(4)   
(3)   
—   
(35)   
—   
(10)   
—   
(30)   
—   
(1)   
—   
(1)   
—   
(26)   
(1)   
(15)   
(257)   

(400) 

(625) 
(157) 
(8) 
(3,032) 
(97) 
(90) 
(187) 
(357) 
(133) 
(388) 
(1) 
(118) 
(674) 
(240) 
(335) 
(482) 
(8,577) 

1  Real estate lending within this disclosure corresponds solely to the industry of the borrower. Commercial real estate on page 183 includes borrowers 

in multiple industries investing in income-producing assets and, to a lesser extent, their construction and development.

Personal lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory

UK
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced 
   bank)
– of which: Other trading entities
France1
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
US
Mexico
Other
At 31 Dec 2023

Gross carrying amount

Allowance for ECL

First lien 
residential 
mortgages

Other 
personal

of which: 
credit 
cards

First lien 
residential 
mortgages

Other 
personal

of which: 
credit 
cards

Total

$m
168,469   
164,878   

$m
19,503   
17,884   

$m
8,056   
7,975   

$m
187,972   
182,762   

3,226   

141   

81   

3,367   

365   
436   
—   
1,770   
107,182   
23,001   
1,537   
58   
7,503   
2,313   
8,151   
5,607   
—   
1,957   
18,340   
8,778   
5,807   
360,909   

1,478   
7,476   
165   
5,466   
31,248   
446   
680   
288   
754   
2,115   
5,589   
1,370   
341   
1,325   
673   
6,215   
2,959   
86,613   

—   
1   
—   
—   
9,663   
396   
185   
137   
287   
882   
521   
309   
89   
440   
199   
2,465   
1,050   
24,680   

1,843   
7,912   
165   
7,236   
138,430   
23,447   
2,217   
346   
8,257   
4,428   
13,740   
6,977   
341   
3,282   
19,013   
14,993   
8,766   
447,522   

$m
(209)   
(205)   

(3)   

(1)   
(13)   
—   
(1)   
(2)   
(5)   
(4)   
(2)   
(3)   
(23)   
—   
—   
—   
(10)   
(15)   
(176)   
(108)   
(571)   

$m
(697)   
(692)   

$m
(339)   
(336)   

(5)   

(2)   

—   
(8)   
—   
(20)   
(417)   
(19)   
(16)   
(11)   
(49)   
(87)   
(38)   
(17)   
(1)   
(62)   
(19)   
(757)   
(78)   
(2,296)   

(1)   
—   
—   
—   
(286)   
(18)   
(12)   
(7)   
(39)   
(36)   
(17)   
(4)   
(1)   
(24)   
(14)   
(297)   
(42)   
(1,136)   

Total

$m
(906) 
(897) 

(8) 

(1) 
(21) 
— 
(21) 
(419) 
(24) 
(20) 
(13) 
(52) 
(110) 
(38) 
(17) 
(1) 
(72) 
(34) 
(933) 
(186) 
(2,867) 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

199

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Personal lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised costs by country/territory (continued)

UK
–  of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
–  of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced 
    bank)
France1
Germany
Switzerland
Hong Kong
Australia
India
Indonesia
Mainland China
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Egypt
UAE
US
Mexico
Other
At 31 Dec 2022

Gross carrying amount

First lien 
residential 
mortgages

Other 
personal

$m

$m

of which: 
credit 
cards
$m

Total

$m

154,519   
151,188   

16,793   
15,808   

6,622   
6,556   

171,312   
166,996   

3,331   

985   

66   

4,316   

30   
—   
1,378   
101,478   
21,372   
1,078   
70   
9,305   
2,292   
7,501   
5,428   
—   
2,104   
16,847   
6,124   
7,295   
336,821   

76   
234   
5,096   
31,409   
456   
590   
278   
921   
2,437   
6,264   
1,189   
310   
1,339   
704   
4,894   
5,071   
78,061   

9   
—   
—   
8,644   
396   
162   
141   
378   
843   
422   
284   
83   
426   
213   
1,615   
1,150   
21,388   

106   
234   
6,474   
132,887   
21,828   
1,668   
348   
10,226   
4,729   
13,765   
6,617   
310   
3,443   
17,551   
11,018   
12,366   
414,882   

Allowance for ECL

First lien 
residential 
mortgages

Other 
personal

$m

(227)   
(222)   

(5)   

(14)   
—   
—   
(1)   
(11)   
(4)   
(1)   
(3)   
(27)   
—   
—   
—   
(14)   
(10)   
(145)   
(118)   
(575)   

$m

(838)   
(828)   

(10)   

(8)   
—   
(20)   
(352)   
(18)   
(18)   
(17)   
(61)   
(92)   
(35)   
(18)   
(2)   
(84)   
(31)   
(593)   
(108)   
(2,295)   

of which: 
credit 
cards
$m

(449)   
(447)   

(2)   

—   
—   
—   
(258)   
(18)   
(13)   
(12)   
(49)   
(31)   
(14)   
(5)   
(1)   
(41)   
(23)   
(196)   
(51)   
(1,161)   

Total

$m

(1,065) 
(1,050) 

(15) 

(22) 
— 
(20) 
(353) 
(29) 
(22) 
(18) 
(64) 
(119) 
(35) 
(18) 
(2) 
(98) 
(41) 
(738) 
(226) 
(2,870) 

1 

Included in other personal lending at 31 December 2023 is $7,424m (31 December 2022: nil) guaranteed by Crédit Logement.

Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied – by global business

Gross carrying/nominal amount

Allowance for ECL

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

POCI

Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

POCI

Total

–  WPB
–  CMB
–  GBM
–  Corporate Centre
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2023
–  WPB
–  CMB
–  GBM
–  Corporate Centre
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2023

–  WPB
–  CMB
–  GBM
–  Corporate Centre
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI at 
31 Dec 2023

–  WPB
–  CMB
–  GBM
–  Corporate Centre
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2022
–  WPB
–  CMB
–  GBM
–  Corporate Centre
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2022
–  WPB
–  CMB
–  GBM
–  Corporate Centre
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI at 
31 Dec 2022

$m

$m

$m
4,233   
  630,661    54,069   
  464,893    66,688    12,698   
3,002   
  696,377    14,247   
6   
37   

75,805   

$m

$m

—    688,963   
49    544,328   
32    713,658   
75,848   
—   

$m
(621)   
(508)   
(119)   
(1)   

$m
(1,551)   
(1,336)   
(199)   
(13)   

$m
(977)   
(4,995)   
(1,161)   
—   

$m

—   
(23)   
(7)   
—   

$m
(3,149) 
(6,862) 
(1,486) 
(14) 

 1,867,736    135,041    19,939   

81    2,022,797   

(1,249)   

(3,099)   

(7,133)   

(30)    (11,511) 

  253,333   
3,811   
  142,206    16,238   
  250,007    10,752   
—   

149   

333   
877   
314   
—   

—    257,477   
—    159,321   
4    261,077   
149   
—   

(22)   
(100)   
(38)   
—   

—   
(101)   
(34)   
—   

(2)   
(102)   
(7)   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

(24) 
(303) 
(79) 
— 

  645,695    30,801   

1,524   

4    678,024   

(160)   

(135)   

(111)   

—   

(406) 

  124,747   
86,021   
88,229   
2,201   

406   
405   
173   
165   

—   
—   
1   
—   

—    125,153   
86,426   
—   
88,403   
—   
2,366   
—   

(14)   
(9)   
(13)   
(1)   

(17)   
(18)   
(6)   
(18)   

—   
—   
(1)   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

(31) 
(27) 
(20) 
(19) 

  301,198   

1,149   

1   

—    302,348   

(37)   

(59)   

(1)   

—   

(97) 

  593,424   
  440,638   
  700,267   
83,491   

53,302    3,959   
82,087    13,072   
20,577    3,344   
8   

188   

—    650,685   
112    535,909   
17    724,205   
—    83,687   

(602)   
(484)   
(116)   
(3)   

(1,586)   
(1,620)   
(463)   
(13)   

(980)   
(4,988)   
(1,116)   
—   

—   
(38)   
—   
—   

(3,168) 
(7,130) 
(1,695) 
(16) 

 1,817,820    156,154    20,383   

129   1,994,486   

(1,205)   

(3,682)   

(7,084)   

(38)    (12,009) 

  239,357   
  130,342   
  229,507   
248   

4,388   
20,048   
12,059   
1   

770   
642   
209   
—   

—    244,515   
—    151,032   
—    241,775   
249   
—   

(25)   
(83)   
(39)   
—   

(1)   
(136)   
(56)   
—   

—   
(81)   
(17)   
—   

  599,454   

36,496    1,621   

—    637,571   

(147)   

(193)   

(98)   

  112,591   
71,445   
75,228   
3,347   

1,066   
735   
434   
299   

—   
—   
—   
—   

1    113,658   
—    72,180   
1    75,663   
3,646   
—   

(17)   
(9)   
(10)   
(31)   

(17)   
(14)   
(8)   
(19)   

—   
—   
—   
(1)   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

(26) 
(300) 
(112) 
— 

(438) 

(34) 
(23) 
(18) 
(51) 

  262,611   

2,534   

—   

2    265,147   

(67)   

(58)   

(1)   

—   

(126) 

200

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans and advances to customers and banks – other supplementary information

Gross 
carrying 
amount

of which: 
stage 3 
and POCI

Allowance 
for ECL

of which: 
stage 3 
and POCI

Change in 

ECL Write-offs

Recoveries

First lien residential mortgages
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
Other personal lending
Personal lending
–  agriculture, forestry and fishing
–  mining and quarrying
–  manufacturing
–  electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply
–  water supply, sewerage, waste management and 

remediation

–  real estate and construction
–  wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and 

motorcycles

–  transportation and storage
–  accommodation and food
–  publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting
–  professional, scientific and technical activities
–  administrative and support services
–  public administration and defence, compulsory social 

security
–  education
–  health and care
–  arts, entertainment and recreation
–  other services
–  activities of households
–  extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities
–  government
–  asset-backed securities
Corporate and commercial
Non-bank financial institutions
Wholesale lending
Loans and advances to customers
Loans and advances to banks
At 31 Dec 2023

$m
360,909   
396   
8,593   
29,481   
24,680   
21,251   
2,212   
86,613   
447,522   
7,181   
7,223   
85,333   
14,355   

$m
2,212   
21   
90   
157   
352   
659   
14   
1,293   
3,505   
312   
325   
1,899   
255   

$m
(571)   
(8)   
(20)   
(42)   
(1,136)   
(1,048)   
(42)   
(2,296)   
(2,867)   
(130)   
(101)   
(1,143)   
(119)   

$m
(269)   
(5)   
(14)   
(24)   
(203)   
(331)   
(8)   
(585)   
(854)   
(64)   
(83)   
(860)   
(88)   

$m
(10)   
(1)   
2   
8   
(577)   
(380)   
(61)   
(1,009)   
(1,019)   
(21)   
27   
(355)   
(26)   

$m
(53)   
(1)   
(8)   
(2)   
(571)   
(663)   
(28)   
(1,273)   
(1,326)   
(9)   
(49)   
(273)   
(10)   

3,262   

102   

(63)   

(51)   

(44)   

(2)   

101,455   

5,883   

(3,286)   

(2,561)   

(1,358)   

(1,191)   

(1,341)   

(1,134)   

79,121   

21,456   
15,874   
19,731   
26,753   
22,203   

2,362   

445   
1,058   
210   
740   
597   

(230)   
(257)   
(173)   
(401)   
(268)   

(160)   
(112)   
(50)   
(306)   
(174)   

—   

(4)   
(26)   
(31)   
(90)   
—   
—   
(10)   
—   
(5,804)   
(322)   
(6,126)   
(6,980)   
(2)   
(6,982)   

(124)   

(87)   
(33)   
(106)   
(262)   
39   

—   

(1)   
40   
15   
22   
—   
—   
(15)   
—   
(2,289)   
(168)   
(2,457)   
(3,476)   
53   
(3,423)   

(447)   

(42)   
(26)   
(73)   
(110)   
(137)   

—   

(22)   
(7)   
(8)   
(181)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2,587)   
(9)   
(2,596)   
(3,922)   
—   
(3,922)   

1,042   

—   

—   

1,460   
4,236   
1,961   
8,355   
694   
101   
5,827   
32   
427,655   
74,432   
502,087   
949,609   
112,917   
  1,062,526   

46   
183   
99   
318   
—   
—   
205   
—   
15,039   
810   
15,849   
19,354   
2   
19,356   

(15)   
(56)   
(42)   
(153)   
—   
—   
(12)   
(13)   
(7,803)   
(404)   
(8,207)   
(11,074)   
(15)   
(11,089)   

$m
10 
2 
2 
2 
108 
99 
3 
216 
226 
— 
— 
11 
— 

— 

6 

12 

— 
— 
— 
1 
— 

— 

— 
— 
— 
12 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42 
— 
42 
268 
— 
268 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

201

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Loans and advances to customers and banks – other supplementary information (continued)

Gross 
carrying 
amount

of which: 
stage 3 and 
POCI

Allowance 
for ECL

of which: 
stage 3 and 
POCI

Change in 

ECL Write-offs Recoveries

First lien residential mortgages
–  second lien residential mortgages
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
–  other personal lending which is secured
–  credit cards
–  other personal lending which is unsecured
–  motor vehicle finance
Other personal lending
Personal lending
–  agriculture, forestry and fishing
–  mining and quarrying
–  manufacturing
–  electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply
–  water supply, sewerage, waste management and 

remediation

–  real estate and construction
–  wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and 

motorcycles

–  transportation and storage
–  accommodation and food
–  publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting
–  professional, scientific and technical activities
–  administrative and support services
–  public administration and defence, compulsory social 

security
–  education
–  health and care
–  arts, entertainment and recreation
–  other services
–  activities of households
–  extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities
–  government
–  asset-backed securities
Corporate and commercial
Non-bank financial institutions
Wholesale lending
Loans and advances to customers
Loans and advances to banks
At 31 Dec 2022

HSBC Holdings
(Audited)

$m

336,821   
379   
1,367   
32,106   
21,388   
20,880   
1,941   
78,061   
414,882   
6,571   
8,120   
87,460   
16,478   

$m
2,042   
6   
125   
206   
260   
687   
13   
1,297   
3,339   
261   
233   
2,065   
277   

$m

(575)   
(6)   
(34)   
(55)   
(1,161)   
(1,008)   
(31)   
(2,295)   
(2,870)   
(122)   
(172)   
(1,153)   
(108)   

$m
(270)   
(3)   
(30)   
(30)   
(160)   
(305)   
(7)   
(535)   
(805)   
(68)   
(146)   
(896)   
(67)   

$m

180   
9   
(11)   
(16)   
(638)   
(655)   
39   
(1,272)   
(1,092)   
(32)   
(24)   
(191)   
(75)   

2,993   

26   

(21)   

(13)   

3   

114,585   

5,651   

(3,293)   

(2,232)   

(1,630)   

$m

(48)   
(1)   
(9)   
(5)   
(471)   
(660)   
(18)   
(1,164)   
(1,212)   
(42)   
(46)   
(171)   
(16)   

(1)   

(310)   

2,810   

(1,666)   

(1,344)   

(344)   

(667)   

82,429   

24,686   
17,174   
18,388   
17,935   
25,077   

556   
789   
277   
542   
980   

(248)   
(244)   
(117)   
(272)   
(408)   

1,180   

—   

(1)   

1,593   
3,902   
1,862   
12,471   
744   
47   
9,475   
32   
453,202   
66,924   
520,126   
935,008   
104,544   
  1,039,552   

87   
266   
146   
589   
—   
—   
270   
—   
15,825   
469   
16,294   
19,633   
82   
19,715   

(31)   
(90)   
(77)   
(274)   
—   
—   
(10)   
(13)   
(8,320)   
(257)   
(8,577)   
(11,447)   
(69)   
(11,516)   

(153)   
(82)   
(59)   
(200)   
(293)   

—   

(22)   
(67)   
(57)   
(219)   
—   
—   
(7)   
—   
(5,925)   
(137)   
(6,062)   
(6,867)   
(22)   
(6,889)   

(13)   
103   
9   
(81)   
(27)   

5   

1   
(30)   
1   
120   
—   
1   
(5)   
(4)   
(2,213)   
(165)   
(2,378)   
(3,470)   
(53)   
(3,523)   

(82)   
(29)   
(47)   
(31)   
(27)   

—   

(3)   
(7)   
(17)   
(92)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(1,588)   
(1)   
(1,589)   
(2,801)   
—   
(2,801)   

$m

26 
4 
2 
1 
126 
119 
5 
257 
283 
— 
— 
3 
— 

— 

8 

8 

1 
— 
1 
1 
1 

— 

— 
1 
— 
7 
— 
1 
— 
— 
32 
1 
33 
316 
— 
316 

Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset and 
Liability Management Committee. The major risks faced by HSBC 
Holdings are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (in the form of 
interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk).

Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions with 
Group subsidiaries.

In HSBC Holdings, the maximum exposure to credit risk arises from 
two components:

– financial assets on the balance sheet, where maximum exposure 

equals the carrying amount (see page 338); and

– financial guarantees and other guarantees, where the maximum 
exposure is the maximum that we would have to pay if the 
guarantees were called upon (see Note 34).

In the case of our derivative asset balances (see page 338), there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default 
and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk 
purposes. However, as there is no intention to settle these balances 
on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes. These offsets also include 
collateral received in cash and other financial assets.

The total offset relating to our derivative asset balances was $3.0bn at 
31 December 2023 (2022: $3.1bn).

The credit quality of loans and advances and financial investments, 
both of which consist of intra-Group lending and US Treasury bills and 
bonds, is assessed as ‘strong’, with 100% of the exposure being 
neither past due nor impaired (2022: 100%). For further details of 
credit quality classification, see page 148. 

202

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treasury risk

Contents

203

203

205

206

210

213

214

Overview

Treasury risk management

Other Group risks

Capital risk in 2023

Liquidity and funding risk in 2023

Structural foreign exchange risk in 2023

Interest rate risk in the banking book in 2023

Overview
Treasury risk is the risk of having insufficient capital, liquidity or 
funding resources to meet financial obligations and satisfy regulatory 
requirements, including the risk of adverse impact on earnings or 
capital due to structural and transactional foreign exchange 
exposures, as well as changes in market interest rates, together with 
pension and insurance risk.

Treasury risk arises from changes to the respective resources and risk 
profiles driven by customer behaviour, management decisions or the 
external environment.
Approach and policy

(Audited)

Our objective in the management of treasury risk is to maintain 
appropriate levels of capital, liquidity, funding, foreign exchange and 
market risk to support our business strategy, and meet our regulatory 
and stress testing-related requirements.

Our approach to treasury management is driven by our strategic and 
organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, 
economic and commercial environment. We aim to maintain a strong 
capital and liquidity base to support the risks inherent in our business 
and invest in accordance with our strategy, meeting both consolidated 
and local regulatory requirements at all times.

Our policy is underpinned by our risk management framework. The 
risk management framework incorporates a number of measures 
aligned to our assessment of risks for both internal and regulatory 
purposes. These risks include credit, market, operational, pensions, 
structural and transactional foreign exchange risk, and interest rate 
risk in the banking book.

For further details, refer to our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 
2023.
Treasury risk management
Key developments in 2023

– Following high-profile banking failures in the first quarter of 2023, 
we reviewed our liquidity monitoring and metric assumptions as 
part of our internal liquidity adequacy assessment process cycle to 
ensure they continued to cover observed and emerging risks.

– In 2023, we reverted to a policy of paying quarterly dividends, with 
the Board approving three interim dividends of $0.10 per share. 
We announced $7bn of share buy-backs during 2023.

– Effective July 2023, the Bank of England’s Financial Policy 

Committee doubled the UK countercyclical capital buffer rate from 
1% to 2%, in line with the usual 12-month implementation lag. 
This change increased our CET1 requirement by 0.2 percentage 
points.

– We further stabilised our net interest income against a backdrop of 
fluctuating interest rate expectations as the trajectory of inflation 
for major economies was reassessed.

– Following the acquisition of SVB UK in the first quarter of 2023, 

we launched HSBC Innovation Banking in June, which combined 
the expertise of SVB UK with the reach of our international 
network. We are in the process of integrating HSBC Innovation 

Banking into the Group. The acquisition was funded from existing 
resources, and the impacts on our Group LCR and CET1 ratio were 
minimal.

– In the fourth quarter of 2023, we reclassified our retail banking 

operations in France as held for sale, recognising a $2.0bn loss. In 
the first quarter, we had recognised a $2.1bn partial reversal of 
impairment for this business. The net result for the year was a 
favourable $0.1bn impact. On 1 January 2024, we completed the 
sale of this business with no material incremental impact on CET1.

– Having entered into an agreement to sell our banking business in 
Canada in 2022, the transaction is expected to complete at the 
end of the first quarter of 2024. The associated gain on sale is 
expected to add approximately 1.2 percentage points to the CET1 
ratio as it stood at 31 December 2023.

For quantitative disclosures on capital ratios, own funds and risk-
weighted assets (‘RWAs’), see pages 206 to 207. For quantitative 
disclosures on liquidity and funding metrics, see pages 210 to 211. 
For quantitative disclosures on interest rate risk in the banking book, 
see pages 214 to 216.
Governance and structure

The Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management and Risk 
Analytics is the accountable risk steward for all treasury risks. The 
Group Treasurer is the risk owner for all treasury risks, with the 
exception of pension risk and insurance risk. The Group Treasurer co-
owns pension risk with the Group Head of Performance, Reward and 
Employee Relations. Insurance risk is owned by the Chief Executive 
Officer for Global Insurance.

Capital risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk in the banking book, 
structural foreign exchange risk and transactional foreign exchange 
risk are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the 
Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’). Global Treasury actively manages 
these risks on an ongoing basis, supported by the Holdings Asset and 
Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen 
by Treasury Risk Management and Risk Management Meetings.

Pension risk is overseen by a network of local and regional pension 
risk management meetings. The Global Pensions Risk Management 
Meeting provides oversight of all pension plans sponsored by HSBC 
globally, and is chaired by the accountable risk steward. Insurance risk 
is overseen by the Global Insurance Risk Management Meeting, 
chaired by the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for Global 
Insurance.
Capital, liquidity and funding risk 
management processes

Assessment and risk appetite

Our capital management policy is supported by a global capital 
management framework. The framework sets out our approach to 
determining key capital risk appetites including CET1, total capital, 
minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (‘MREL’), 
the leverage ratio and double leverage. Our internal capital adequacy 
assessment process (‘ICAAP’) is an assessment of the Group’s 
capital position, outlining both regulatory and internal capital resources 
and requirements resulting from HSBC’s business model, strategy, 
risk profile and management, performance and planning, risks to 
capital, and the implications of stress testing. Our assessment of 
capital adequacy is driven by an assessment of risks. These risks 
include credit, market, operational, pensions, insurance, structural 
foreign exchange, interest rate risk in the banking book and Group 
risk. Climate risk is also considered as part of the ICAAP, and we are 
continuing to develop our approach. The Group’s ICAAP supports the 
determination of the consolidated capital risk appetite and target 
ratios, as well as enables the assessment and determination of capital 
requirements by regulators. Subsidiaries prepare ICAAPs in line with 
global guidance, while considering their local regulatory regimes to 
determine their own risk appetites and ratios.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

203

Risk review 
Risk review

HSBC Holdings is the provider of MREL to its subsidiaries, including 
equity and non-equity capital. These investments are funded by HSBC 
Holdings’ own equity capital and MREL-eligible debt. MREL includes 
own funds and liabilities that can be written down or converted into 
capital resources in order to absorb losses or recapitalise a bank in the 
event of its failure. In line with our existing structure and business 
model, HSBC has three resolution groups – the European resolution 
group, the Asian resolution group and the US resolution group. There 
are some smaller entities that fall outside these resolution groups.

HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the 
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries. 

As a matter of long-standing policy, the holding company group 
retains a substantial holdings capital buffer comprising cash and other 
high-quality liquid assets, which at 31 December 2023 was in excess 
of $27bn, within risk appetite.

We aim to ensure that management has oversight of our liquidity and 
funding risks at Group and entity level through robust governance, in 
line with our risk management framework. We manage liquidity and 
funding risk at an operating entity level in accordance with globally 
consistent policies, procedures and reporting standards. This ensures 
that obligations can be met in a timely manner, in the jurisdiction 
where they fall due.

Operating entities are required to meet internal minimum 
requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements at all times. 
These requirements are assessed through our internal liquidity 
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which ensures that 
operating entities have robust strategies, policies, processes and 
systems for the identification, measurement, management and 
monitoring of liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, 
including intra-day. The ILAAP informs the validation of risk tolerance 
and the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses the capability to 
manage liquidity and funding effectively in each major entity. These 
metrics are set and managed locally but are subject to robust global 
review and challenge to ensure consistency of approach and 
application of the Group’s policies and controls.

Planning and performance

Capital and RWA plans form part of the annual financial resource plan 
that is approved by the Board. Capital and RWA forecasts are 
submitted to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis, and 
capital and RWAs are monitored and managed against the plan. The 
responsibility for global capital allocation principles rests with the 
Group Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Capital 
Management Meeting. This is a specialist forum addressing capital 
management, reporting into Holdings ALCO.  

Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen 
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and to 
ensure that returns on investment meet management’s objectives. 
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities to 
support growth objectives where returns above internal hurdle levels 
have been identified and in order to meet their regulatory and 
economic capital needs. We evaluate and manage business returns 
by using a return on average tangible equity measure and a related 
economic profit measure.

Funding and liquidity plans also form part of the financial resource 
plan that is approved by the Board. The Board-level appetite measures 
are the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and net stable funding ratio 
(‘NSFR’), together with an internal liquidity metric. In addition, we use 
a wider set of measures to manage an appropriate funding and 
liquidity profile, including legal entity depositor concentration limits, 
intra-day liquidity, forward-looking funding assessments and other key 
measures.

Risks to capital and liquidity

Outside the stress testing framework, other risks may be identified 
that have the potential to affect our RWAs, capital and/or liquidity 
position. Downside and Upside scenarios are assessed against our 
management objectives, and mitigating actions are assigned as 
necessary. We closely monitor future regulatory developments and 
continue to evaluate the impact of these upon our capital and liquidity 
requirements, particularly those related to the UK’s implementation of 

204

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

the outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel III 
reforms (‘Basel 3.1‘). 

Regulatory developments

Future changes to our ratios will occur with the implementation of 
Basel 3.1. The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA‘) has published 
its consultation paper on the UK’s implementation, with a proposed 
implementation date of 1 July 2025. The PRA has also published a set 
of near-final rules in relation to some Basel 3.1 elements. We are 
currently assessing the impact of implementation.

The RWA output floor under Basel 3.1 is proposed to be subject to a 
four-and-a-half year transitional provision. Any impact from the output 
floor is expected be towards the end of the transition period.

Regulatory reporting processes and controls

The quality of regulatory reporting remains a key priority for 
management and regulators. We are progressing with a 
comprehensive programme to strengthen our global processes, 
improve consistency and enhance controls across regulatory reports.

The ongoing programme of work focuses on our material regulatory 
reports and is being phased over a number of years. This programme 
includes data enhancement, transformation of the reporting systems 
and an uplift to the control environment over the report production 
process.

While this programme continues, there may be further impacts on 
some of our regulatory ratios, such as the CET1, LCR and NSFR, as 
we implement recommended changes and continue to enhance our 
controls across the process.

Stress testing and recovery and resolution planning

The Group uses stress testing to inform management of the capital 
and liquidity needed to withstand internal and external shocks, 
including a global economic downturn or a systems failure. Stress 
testing results are also used to inform risk mitigation actions, input 
into global business performance measures through tangible equity 
allocation, and recovery and resolution planning, as well as to re-
evaluate business plans where analysis shows capital, liquidity and/or 
returns do not meet their target.

In addition to a range of internal stress tests, we are subject to 
supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. These include the 
programmes of the Bank of England (‘BoE’), the US Federal Reserve 
Board, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank 
and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The results of regulatory 
stress testing and our internal stress tests are used when assessing 
our internal capital and liquidity requirements through the ICAAP and 
ILAAP. The outcomes of stress testing exercises carried out by the 
PRA and other regulators feed into the setting of regulatory minimum 
ratios and buffers.

We maintain recovery plans for the Group and material entities, which 
set out potential options management could take in a range of stress 
scenarios that could result in a breach of capital or liquidity buffers.

The Group recovery plan sets out the framework and governance 
arrangements to support restoring HSBC to a stable and viable 
position, and so lowering the probability of failure from either 
idiosyncratic company-specific stress or systemic market-wide issues. 
Our material entities’ recovery plans provide detailed actions that 
management would consider taking in a stress scenario should their 
positions deteriorate and threaten to breach risk appetite and 
regulatory minimum levels. This is to help ensure that HSBC entities 
can stabilise their financial position and recover from financial losses 
in a stress environment.

The Group also has capabilities, resources and arrangements in place 
to address the unlikely event that HSBC might not be recoverable and 
would therefore need to be resolved by regulators. The Group and the 
BoE publicly disclosed the status of HSBC’s progress against the 
BoE’s Resolvability Assessment Framework in June 2022, following 
the submission of HSBC’s inaugural resolvability self-assessment in 
October 2021. HSBC has continued to enhance its resolvability 
capabilities since this time and submitted its second self-assessment 
in October 2023. A subsequent update was provided to the BoE in 
January 2024. Further public disclosure by the Group and the BoE as 

to HSBC’s progress against the Resolvability Assessment Framework 
will be made in June 2024.

Overall, HSBC’s recovery and resolution planning helps safeguard the 
Group’s financial and operational stability. The Group is committed to 
further developing its recovery and resolution capabilities, including in 
relation to the Resolvability Assessment Framework.
Measurement of interest rate risk in the 
banking book processes

Assessment and risk appetite

Interest rate risk in the banking book is the risk of an adverse impact 
to earnings or capital due to changes in market interest rates. It is 
generated by our non-traded assets and liabilities, specifically loans, 
deposits and financial instruments that are not held for trading intent 
or in order to hedge positions held with trading intent. Interest rate 
risk that can be economically hedged may be transferred to Global 
Treasury. Hedging is generally executed through interest rate 
derivatives or fixed-rate government bonds. Any interest rate risk that 
Global Treasury cannot economically hedge is not transferred and will 
remain within the global business where the risks originate.

Global Treasury uses a number of measures to monitor and control 
interest rate risk in the banking book, including:

– net interest income sensitivity;

– banking net interest income sensitivity; and 

– economic value of equity sensitivity.

Net interest income and banking net interest income 
sensitivity

A principal part of our management of non-traded interest rate risk is 
to monitor the sensitivity of expected net interest income (‘NII’) under 
varying interest rate scenarios (i.e. simulation modelling), where all 
other economic variables are held constant. This monitoring is 
undertaken at an entity and Group level, where a range of interest 
rate scenarios are monitored on a one-year basis.

NII sensitivity figures represent the effect of pro forma movements in 
projected yield curves based on a static balance sheet size and 
structure, except for certain mortgage products where balances are 
impacted by interest rate sensitive prepayments. These sensitivity 
calculations do not incorporate actions that would be taken by Global 
Treasury or in the business that originates the risk to mitigate the 
effect of interest rate movements. 

The NII sensitivity calculations assume that interest rates of all 
maturities move by the same amount in the ‘up-shock’ scenario. The 
sensitivity calculations in the ‘down-shock’ scenarios reflect no floors 
to the shocked market rates. However, customer product-specific 
interest rate floors are recognised where applicable.

During 2023, we introduced an additional metric to measure and 
manage the sensitivity of our NII to interest rate shocks. In addition to 
NII sensitivity, we now also monitor banking NII sensitivity. HSBC has 
a significant quantity of trading book assets that are funded by 
banking book liabilities, and the NII sensitivity measure does not 
include the sensitivity of the internal transfer income from this 
funding. Banking NII sensitivity includes an adjustment on top of NII 
sensitivity to reflect this. Going forwards, this will be our primary 
metric for monitoring and management of interest rate risk in the 
banking book.

Economic value of equity sensitivity

Economic value of equity (‘EVE’) represents the present value of the 
future banking book cash flows that could be distributed to equity 
holders under a managed run-off scenario. This equates to the current 
book value of equity plus the present value of future NII in this 
scenario. An EVE sensitivity represents the expected movement in 
EVE due to pre-specified interest rate shocks, where all other 
economic variables are held constant. Operating entities are required 
to monitor EVE sensitivities as a percentage of capital resources.

Further details of HSBC’s risk management of interest rate risk in the 
banking book can be found in the Group’s Pillar 3 Disclosures at 
31 December 2023.

Other Group risks
Non-trading book foreign exchange 
exposures

Structural foreign exchange exposures

Structural foreign exchange exposures arise from net assets or capital 
investments in foreign operations, together with any associated 
hedging. A foreign operation is defined as a subsidiary, associate, joint 
arrangement or branch where the activities are conducted in a 
currency other than that of the reporting entity. An entity’s functional 
reporting currency is normally that of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates.

Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other 
comprehensive income (‘OCI’). We use the US dollar as our 
presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements 
because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major 
currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Therefore, 
our consolidated balance sheet is affected by exchange differences 
between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies 
of underlying foreign operations.

Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the 
primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated 
capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries 
are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. 
We hedge structural foreign exchange positions where it is capital 
efficient to do so, and subject to approved limits. This is achieved 
through a combination of net investment hedges and economic 
hedges. Hedging positions are monitored and rebalanced periodically 
to manage RWA or downside risks associated with HSBC’s foreign 
currency investments.

For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, see 
page 213.

Transactional foreign exchange exposures

Transactional foreign exchange risk arises primarily from day-to-day 
transactions in the banking book generating profit and loss or fair 
value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) reserves in a 
currency other than the reporting currency of the operating entity. 
Transactional foreign exchange exposure generated through profit and 
loss is periodically transferred to Markets and Securities Services and 
managed within limits, with the exception of limited residual foreign 
exchange exposure arising from timing differences or for other 
reasons. Transactional foreign exchange exposure generated through 
OCI reserves is managed by Global Treasury within approved 
appetite.
HSBC Holdings risk management

As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited 
market risk activities. Its activities predominantly involve maintaining 
sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; 
allocating these capital resources across the Group’s businesses; 
earning dividend and interest income on its investments in the 
businesses; payment of operating expenses; providing dividend 
payments to its equity shareholders and interest payments to 
providers of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term liquid 
assets for deployment under extraordinary circumstances. 

The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are 
banking book interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure to 
these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions 
held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial assets, 
financial liabilities including debt capital issued, and structural foreign 
exchange hedges. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market risk 
management strategy is to manage volatility in capital resources, cash 
flows and distributable reserves that could be caused by movements 
in market parameters. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by 
Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

205

Risk reviewRisk review

HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest 
rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency risk 
arising from its long-term debt issues. It also uses forward foreign 
exchange contracts to manage its structural foreign exchange 
exposures.

For quantitative disclosures on interest rate risk in the banking book, 
see pages 214 to 216.
Pension risk management processes

Our global pensions strategy is to move from defined benefit to 
defined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is considered 
competitive to do so. Our most material defined benefit plans have 
been closed to new entrants for many years, and the majority 
(including the largest plan in the UK) are also closed to future accrual.

In defined contribution pension plans, the contributions that HSBC is 
required to make are known, while the ultimate pension benefit will 
vary, typically with investment returns achieved by investment 
choices made by the employee. While the market risk to HSBC of 
defined contribution plans is low, the Group is still exposed to 
operational and reputational risk.

In defined benefit pension plans, the level of pension benefit is 
known. Therefore, the level of contributions required by HSBC will 
vary due to a number of risks, including:

– investments delivering a return below the level required to provide 

the projected plan benefits;

– the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, 
thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt);

– a change in either interest rates or inflation expectations, causing 

an increase in the value of plan liabilities; and

– plan members living longer than expected (known as longevity 

risk).

Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model that takes 
into account potential variations in these factors. The impact of these 
variations on both pension assets and pension liabilities is assessed 
using a one-in-200-year stress test. Scenario analysis and other stress 
tests are also used to support pension risk management, including 
the review of de-risking opportunities. 

To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, 
sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances employees, 
make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries 
and in consultation with the plan’s fiduciaries where relevant. These 
contributions are normally set to ensure that there are sufficient funds 
to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of 
active members. However, higher contributions are required when 
plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension 
liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or once 
every three years, depending on the plan.

The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of 
investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet a 
plan’s liabilities. Any changes in expected returns from the 
investments may also change future contribution requirements. In 
pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation is 
established between asset classes of the defined benefit plan. In 
addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as 
stock-market or property valuation indices or liability characteristics. 
The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every three to five years 
and more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances. 
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.

In addition, some of the Group’s pension plans hold longevity swap 
contracts. These arrangements provide long-term protection to the 
relevant plans against costs resulting from pensioners or their 
dependants living longer than initially expected. The most sizeable 
plan to do this is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which holds 
longevity swaps covering approximately 50% of the plan’s pensioner 
liabilities.

Capital risk in 2023 
Capital overview

Capital adequacy metrics

Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) ($bn)
Credit risk
Counterparty credit risk
Market risk
Operational risk
Total RWAs
Capital on a transitional basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
Tier 1 capital
Total capital
Capital ratios on a transitional basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio
Tier 1 ratio
Total capital ratio
Capital on an end point basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
Tier 1 capital
Total capital
Capital ratios on an end point basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio
Tier 1 ratio
Total capital ratio
Liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’)
Total high-quality liquid assets ($bn)
Total net cash outflow ($bn)
LCR (%)
Net stable funding ratio (‘NSFR’)
Total available stable funding ($bn)
Total required stable funding ($bn)
NSFR (%)

206

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

At

31 Dec

2023

31 Dec

2022

683.9   
35.5   
37.5   
97.2   
854.1   

126.5   
144.2   
171.2   

 14.8 
 16.9 
 20.0 

126.5   
144.2   
167.1   

 14.8 
 16.9 
 19.6 

647.5
477.1
 136 

679.1 
37.1 
37.6 
85.9 
839.7 

119.3 
139.1 
162.4 

 14.2 
 16.6 
 19.3 

119.3 
139.1 
157.2 

 14.2 
 16.6 
 18.7 

647.0
490.8
 132 

1,601.9  
1,202.4  
 133 

1,552.0 
1,138.4 
 136 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References to EU regulations and directives (including technical 
standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK’s 
version of such regulation or directive, as onshored into UK law under 
the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be 
subsequently amended under UK law.
Capital figures and ratios in the previous table are calculated in 
accordance with the regulatory requirements of the Capital 
Requirements Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the 
PRA Rulebook (‘CRR II’). The table presents them under the 

transitional arrangements in CRR II for capital instruments and after 
their expiry, known as the end point.

The liquidity coverage ratio is based on the average month-end value 
over the preceding 12 months. The net stable funding ratio is the 
average of the preceding four quarters.
Regulatory numbers and ratios are as presented at the date of 
reporting. Small changes may exist between these numbers and 
ratios and those submitted in regulatory filings. Where differences are 
significant, we may restate in subsequent periods.

Own funds disclosure

(Audited)

Ref*

1

2,3
5
5a
6
28
29
36
43
44
45
51
57
58
59

Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital: instruments and reserves
Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts
–  ordinary shares
Retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves)1
Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1)
Independently reviewed net profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend
Common equity tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments1
Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier1
Common equity tier 1 capital
Additional tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments
Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 capital
Additional tier 1 capital
Tier 1 capital
Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments
Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 capital
Tier 2 capital
Total capital

At

31 Dec

31 Dec

2023

$m

22,964   
22,964   
128,419   
3,917   
10,568   
165,868   
(39,367)   
126,501   
17,732   
(70)   
17,662   
144,163   
28,148   
(1,107)   
27,041   
171,204   

2022

$m

23,406 
23,406 
121,609 
4,444 
8,633 
158,092 
(38,801) 
119,291 
19,836 
(60) 
19,776 
139,067 
24,779 
(1,423) 
23,356 
162,423 

*  The references identify lines prescribed in the PRA template, which are applicable and where there is a value.
1  On adoption of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, comparative data previously published under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ have been restated for 2022, 

with no impact on CET1 and total capital.

At 31 December 2023, our CET1 capital ratio increased to 14.8% from 
14.2% at 31 December 2022, reflecting an increase in CET1 capital of 
$7.2bn, partly offset by an increase in RWAs of $14.4bn. The key 
drivers of the overall rise in our CET1 ratio during the year were:

– a 1.0 percentage point increase from capital generation, mainly 

through profits less dividends and share buy-backs;

– a 0.3 percentage point reduction due to an increase in regulatory 
deductions, primarily for expected excess loss and intangible 
assets; and

– a 0.1 percentage point decrease from the adverse impact of 

foreign exchange fluctuations and the increase in the underlying 
RWAs.

Risk-weighted assets 

RWAs by global business

The impairment of BoCom had an insignificant impact on our capital 
and CET1 ratio. This is because the impairment charge had a partially 
offsetting reduction in threshold deductions from regulatory capital. 
For regulatory capital purposes, our share of BoCom’s profits is not 
capital accretive, although the dividends we receive from BoCom are 
capital accretive.

Our Pillar 2A requirement at 31 December 2023, as per the PRA’s 
Individual Capital Requirement based on a point-in-time assessment, 
was equivalent to 2.6% of RWAs, of which 1.5% was required to be 
met by CET1. Throughout 2023, we complied with the PRA’s 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements.

Credit risk
Counterparty credit risk
Market risk
Operational risk
At 31 Dec 2023
At 31 Dec 2022

WPB

$bn
155.3   
1.9   
1.3   
34.4   
192.9   
182.9   

CMB1
$bn
319.1   
1.5   
1.0   
32.9   
354.5   
342.4   

GBM1
$bn
131.5   
32.0   
22.2   
32.8   
218.5   
225.9   

Corporate 
Centre

$bn
78.0   
0.1   
13.0   
(2.9)   
88.2   
88.5   

Total
RWAs

$bn
683.9 
35.5 
37.5 
97.2 
854.1 
839.7 

1   In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective needs, 
a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data have 
been re-presented accordingly.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

207

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

RWAs by legal entities1

Credit risk
Counterparty credit risk
Market risk2
Operational risk
At 31 Dec 2023
At 31 Dec 2022

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations

Total 
RWAs

$bn
314.0   
8.7   
27.4   
46.6   
396.7   
407.0   

$bn
17.1   
0.7   
2.8   
3.7   
24.3   
22.5   

$bn
59.3   
3.1   
2.6   
7.2   
72.2   
72.5   

$bn
27.1   
0.5   
0.8   
3.5   
31.9   
31.9   

$bn
25.9   
0.7   
0.7   
5.3   
32.6   
26.7   

$bn
48.0   
3.7   
1.6   
6.3   
59.6   
60.3   

$bn
$bn
8.4    683.9 
35.5 
—   
37.5 
9.3   
97.2 
(11.0)   
6.7    854.1 
8.1    839.7 

HSBC 
UK 
Bank 
plc

HSBC 
Bank 
plc

$bn
  110.7   
0.3   
0.2   
18.0   

$bn
73.4   
17.8   
22.7   
17.6   
  129.2    131.5   
  110.9    127.0   

1  Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
2  Market risk RWAs are non-additive across the legal entities due to diversification effects within the Group.

RWA movement by global business by key driver

RWAs at 1 Jan 2023
Asset size2
Asset quality
Model updates
Methodology and policy
Acquisitions and disposals
Foreign exchange movements3
Total RWA movement
RWAs at 31 Dec 2023

Credit risk, counterparty credit risk and operational 
risk

WPB

$bn
181.2   
15.6   
2.8   
(1.3)   
(6.2)   
(1.3)   
0.8   
10.4   
191.6   

CMB1
$bn
341.3   
3.2   
1.5   
(0.1)   
(1.8)   
8.0   
1.4   
12.2   
353.5   

GBM1
$bn
202.3   
3.2   
(0.6)   
(0.3)   
(7.5)   
(0.7)   
(0.1)   
(6.0)   
196.3   

Corporate 
Centre

Market
risk

Total
RWAs

$bn
77.3   
2.6   
(1.2)   
—   
(3.5)   
0.1   
(0.1)   
(2.1)   
75.2   

$bn
37.6   
1.6   
—   
(0.9)   
(0.9)   
0.1   
—   
(0.1)   
37.5   

$bn
839.7 
26.2 
2.5 
(2.6) 
(19.9) 
6.2 
2.0 
14.4 
854.1 

1   In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective needs, 
a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data have 
been re-presented accordingly. 

2   The movements in asset size include the increase in operational risk RWAs, which was driven by revenue.
3   Credit risk foreign exchange movements in this disclosure are computed by retranslating the RWAs into US dollars based on the underlying 

transactional currencies.

RWA movement by legal entities by key driver1

Credit risk, counterparty credit risk and operational risk

The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited

HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited

HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc

Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.

HSBC 
Bank 
Canada

Other 
trading 
entities

Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations

Market 
risk

Total 
RWAs

$bn
378.4   
5.8   
(1.9)   
(0.4)   
(11.2)   

$bn
20.8   
1.8   
(1.0)   
0.1   
(0.3)   

$bn
69.5   
0.4   
0.8   
—   
(1.1)   

$bn
31.1   
(0.2)   
0.3   
—   
(0.7)   

$bn
26.2   
2.9   
(0.5)   
—   
0.2   

$bn
58.0   
12.1   
3.3   
(0.1)   
(2.5)   

$bn
0.8   
(3.5)   
0.1   
—   
(0.2)   

$bn
37.6   
1.6   
—   
(0.9)   
(0.9)   

$bn
839.7 
26.2 
2.5 
(2.6) 
(19.9) 

HSBC 
UK Bank 
plc

HSBC 
Bank plc

$bn
110.8   
5.1   
2.3   
(1.0)   
(4.0)   

$bn
106.5   
0.2   
(0.9)   
(0.3)   
0.8   

9.5   

(0.2)   

(0.1)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(3.2)   

0.1   

0.1   

6.2 

6.3   

2.7   

18.2   
129.0   

2.3   
108.8   

(1.3)   

(9.1)   
369.3   

0.1   

0.7   
21.5   

—   

0.6   

0.1   
69.6   

—   
31.1   

3.1   

5.7   
31.9   

(9.6)   

—   
58.0   

0.1   

(3.4)   
(2.6)   

—   

2.0 

(0.1)   
37.5   

14.4 
854.1 

RWAs at 1 Jan 2023
Asset size2
Asset quality
Model updates
Methodology and policy
Acquisitions and 
disposals
Foreign exchange 
movements3
Total RWA movement
RWAs at 31 Dec 2023

1   Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
2   The movements in asset size include the increase in operational risk RWAs, which was driven by revenue.
3   Credit risk foreign exchange movements in this disclosure are computed by retranslating the RWAs into US dollars based on the underlying 

transactional currencies.

208

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) rose by $14.4bn during the year, 
driven by an increase of $34.4bn from increased lending, higher 
operational risk RWAs, business acquisitions and foreign exchange 
movements. These were partly offset by a reduction of $19.9bn due 
to methodology and policy changes. 

Asset size

Asset size RWAs increased by $26.2bn, including a $10.4bn rise in 
operational risk RWAs driven by growth in NII.

WPB RWAs increased by $15.6bn, notably due to an expansion of 
retail lending in Asia, the UK and Mexico, additional sovereign 
exposures in Asia and other trading entities, including a $2.9bn rise in 
operational risk RWAs.

CMB RWAs increased by $3.2bn, reflecting an increase in operational 
risk RWAs of $5.2bn and additional sovereign exposures across 
various entities. This was partly offset by a net decrease in corporate 
lending in Asia, the US and Europe.

GBM RWAs increased by $3.2bn, mainly from the $4.0bn rise in 
operational risk RWAs and additional sovereign exposures across 
various entities. This was partly offset by a fall in lending in Asia and 
Europe.

Corporate Centre RWAs rose by $2.6bn, primarily due to an increase 
in corporate exposures in Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’).

Asset quality

Asset quality contributed to an RWA increase of $2.5bn due to credit 
risk rating migrations and portfolio mix changes, notably in Asia, the 
US and Europe.

Model updates

Model updates decreased RWAs by $2.6bn, mainly due to a change 
in our risk approach to multilateral development banks’ exposures, 
following approval for change from the PRA, the implementation of 
the exposure at default mortgage model in the UK, and changes to 
the incremental risk charge model.

Methodology and policy

The decrease of RWAs from methodology and policy of $19.9bn was 
mainly driven by a decline of $7.7bn from regulatory changes related 
to the risk-weighting of residential mortgages in Hong Kong, and 
credit risk parameter refinements mainly in Asia and Europe.

Acquisitions and disposals

The increase in RWAs from acquisitions and disposals of $6.2bn was 
primarily due to a rise of $9.6bn from the acquisition of SVB UK. This 
was partly offset by a decline of $3.2bn from the disposal of our 
business in Oman.

Foreign currency movements increased total RWAs by $2.0bn.

Leverage ratio1

Tier 1 capital (leverage)
Total leverage ratio exposure

Leverage ratio

At

31 Dec

2023

$bn
144.2   
2,574.8   

%
 5.6 

31 Dec

2022

$bn

139.1 
2,417.2 
%
 5.8 

1  Leverage ratio calculation is in line with the PRA’s UK leverage rules. This includes IFRS 9 transitional arrangement and excludes central bank claims.

Our leverage ratio was 5.6% at 31 December 2023, down from 5.8% 
at 31 December 2022. The increase in the leverage exposure was 
primarily due to growth in the balance sheet, which led to a fall of 
0.4 percentage points in the leverage ratio. This was partly offset by a 
rise of 0.2 percentage points due to an increase in tier 1 capital.

At 31 December 2023, our UK minimum leverage ratio requirement of 
3.25% was supplemented by a leverage ratio buffer of 0.9%, which 
consists of an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.7% and a 
countercyclical leverage ratio buffer of 0.2%. These buffers translated 
into capital values of $18.0bn and $5.1bn respectively. 

Regulatory transitional arrangements for 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’

We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements of the 
Capital Requirements Regulation for IFRS 9, including paragraph four 
of article 473a. These allow banks to add back to their capital base a 
proportion of the impact that IFRS 9 has upon their loan loss 
allowances. Our capital and ratios are presented under these 
arrangements throughout the tables in this section, including the end 
point figures.

Regulatory and other developments
In September 2023, the PRA announced changes to the UK 
implementation of Basel 3.1 with a new proposed implementation 
date of 1 July 2025. For further details related to the November 2022 
consultation, see page 6 of our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 
2022. We are currently assessing the impact of the consultation paper 
and the associated implementation challenges (including data 
provision) on our RWAs upon initial implementation. The RWA output 
floor under Basel 3.1 is now proposed to be subject to a four-and-a-
half year transitional provision. Any impact from the output floor is 
expected to be towards the end of the transition period.

Pillar 3 disclosure requirements

Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market 
discipline and aims to make financial services firms more transparent 
by requiring publication of wide-ranging information on their risks, 
capital and management.

For further details, see our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2023, 
which is expected to be published on or around 21 February 2024 at 
www.hsbc.com/investors.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

209

Risk review 
 
Risk review

Liquidity and funding risk in 2023
Liquidity metrics
At 31 December 2023, all of the Group’s material operating entities 
were above the required regulatory minimum liquidity and funding 
levels.

Each entity maintains sufficient unencumbered liquid assets to 
comply with local and regulatory requirements. 

Each entity maintains a sufficient stable funding profile and is 
assessed using the NSFR or other appropriate metrics. 

Operating entities’ liquidity1

HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)2
HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)3
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch4
HSBC Singapore5
Hang Seng Bank
HSBC Bank China
HSBC Bank USA
HSBC Continental Europe 6,7
HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd – UAE branch
HSBC Canada
HSBC Mexico

HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)2
HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)3
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch4
HSBC Singapore5
Hang Seng Bank
HSBC Bank China
HSBC Bank USA
HSBC Continental Europe6
HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd – UAE branch
HSBC Canada
HSBC Mexico

In addition to regulatory metrics, we use a wide set of measures to 
manage our liquidity and funding profile. 

The Group liquidity and funding position on an average basis is 
analysed in the following sections.

At 31 December 2023

LCR

HQLA

Net 
outflows

$bn

$bn
118   
132   
147   
26   
52   
24   
82   
83   
13   
21   
8   

At 31 December 2022

136   
128   
147   
21   
50   
23   
85   
55   
12   
22   
8   

NSFR

%
158 
116 
127 
174 
163 
139 
131 
137 
163 
129 
124 

164 
115 
130 
173 
156 
132 
131 
132 
158 
122 
129 

59   
89   
77   
9   
21   
14   
48   
52   
5   
13   
5   

60   
90   
82   
9   
22   
13   
52   
37   
5   
15   
5   

%
201   
148   
192   
292   
254   
170   
172   
158   
281   
164   
149   

226   
143   
179   
247   
228   
183   
164   
151   
239   
149   
155   

1 The LCR and NSFR ratios presented in the above table are based on average values. The LCR is the average of the preceding 12 months. The NSFR is 

the average of the preceding four quarters.

2 HSBC UK Bank plc refers to the HSBC UK liquidity group, which comprises five legal entities: HSBC UK Bank plc, Marks and Spencer Financial 

Services plc, HSBC Private Bank (UK) Ltd, HSBC Innovation Bank Limited and HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited, managed as a single operating 
entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the PRA.

3 HSBC Bank plc includes overseas branches and special purpose entities consolidated by HSBC for financial statements purposes.
4 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch represents the material activities of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 

Corporation Limited. It is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.

5 HSBC Singapore includes HSBC Bank Singapore Limited and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Singapore branch. Liquidity and 

funding risk is monitored and controlled at country level in line with the local regulator’s approval. 

6 In response to the requirement for an intermediate parent undertaking in line with the EU Capital Requirements Directive (’CRD V’), HSBC Continental 
Europe acquired control of HSBC Germany and HSBC Bank Malta on 30 November 2022. The averages for LCR and NSFR include the impact of the 
inclusion of the two entities from November 2022.

7 HSBC Continental Europe NSFR includes the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France. 

Consolidated liquidity metrics

Net stable funding ratio

We manage funding risk based on the PRA’s NSFR rules. The Group’s NSFR at 31 December 2023, calculated from the average of the four 
preceding quarters average, was 133%.

Total available stable funding ($bn)
Total required stable funding ($bn)
NSFR ratio (%)

31 Dec

2023

$bn
1,602   
1,202   
 133 

At1

30 Jun

31 Dec 

2023

$bn

1,575 
1,172 
 134 

 2022

$bn

1,552
1,138
 136 

1   Group NSFR numbers above are based on average values. The NSFR number is the average of the preceding four quarters.

210

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liquidity coverage ratio

Sources of funding

At 31 December 2023, the average high-quality liquid assets (‘HQLA‘) 
held at entity level amounted to $795bn (31 December 2022: 
$812bn). The Group consolidation methodology includes a deduction 
to reflect the impact of limitations in the transferability of entity 
liquidity around the Group. That resulted in an adjustment of $147bn 
to LCR HQLA and $7bn to LCR inflows on an average basis. 
Furthermore, this methodology was enhanced in 2023 to consider 
more accurately non-convertible currencies. 

High-quality liquid assets (in entities)
EC Delegated Act adjustment for transfer
restrictions2
Group LCR HQLA
Net outflows
Liquidity coverage ratio (%)

At1
30 Jun

31 Dec 

2023

 2022

$bn

796

$bn

812

31 Dec

2023

$bn
795

(154) 

(172)

(174)

648
477
 136 

631
478
 132 

647
491
 132 

1   Group LCR numbers above are based on average values. The LCR is 

the average of the preceding 12 months.

2   This includes adjustments made to high-quality liquid assets and 

inflows in entities to reflect liquidity transfer restrictions. 

Liquid assets

After the $147bn deduction, the average Group LCR HQLA of $648bn 
(31 December 2022: $647bn) was held in a range of asset classes and 
currencies. Of these, 97% were eligible as level 1 (31 December 
2022: 97%).

The following tables reflect the composition of the average liquidity 
pool by asset type and currency at 31 December 2023.

Liquidity pool by asset type1

Cash and balance at central 
bank
Central and local government 
bonds
Regional government public 
sector entities
International organisation and 
multilateral developments 
banks
Covered bonds
Other
Total at 31 Dec 2023
Total at 31 Dec 2022

Liquidity 
pool

$bn

Cash Level 12 Level 22
$bn
$bn

$bn

310   

310   

—   

319   

—   

303   

2   

—   

2   

10   

6   
1   
648   
647   

—   

—   
—   
310   
344   

10   

2   
—   
317   
284   

— 

16 

— 

— 

4 
1 
21 
19 

1  Group liquid assets numbers are based on average values.
2  As defined in EU regulations, level 1 assets means ‘assets of 

extremely high liquidity and credit quality’, and level 2 assets means 
‘assets of high liquidity and credit quality’.

Liquidity pool by currency1

$

£

€

HK$ Other Total

$bn

$bn

$bn

$bn

$bn

$bn

Liquidity pool at 31 Dec 
2023

Liquidity pool at 31 Dec 
2022

  184    173    112   

51   

128    648 

  167    191   

98   

54   

137    647 

1   Group liquid assets numbers are based on average values. 

Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts and 
savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice. We issue 
secured and unsecured wholesale securities to supplement customer 
deposits, meet regulatory obligations and to change the currency mix, 
maturity profile or location of our liabilities. 

The following ‘Funding sources’ and ‘Funding uses’ tables provide a 
view of how our consolidated balance sheet is funded. In practice, all 
the principal operating entities are required to manage liquidity and 
funding risk on a stand-alone basis.

The tables analyse our consolidated balance sheet according to the 
assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the sources of 
funding primarily supporting these activities. Assets and liabilities that 
do not arise from operating activities are presented at a net balancing 
source or deployment of funds.

Funding sources 

(Audited)

Customer accounts
Deposits by banks
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Debt securities in issue
Cash collateral, margin and settlement accounts
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale2
Subordinated liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Insurance contract liabilities
Trading liabilities
–  repos
–  stock lending
–  other trading liabilities
Total equity
Other balance sheet liabilities
At 31 Dec

Funding uses

(Audited)

Loans and advances to customers
Loans and advances to banks
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Cash collateral, margin and settlement accounts 
Assets held for sale2
Trading assets
–  reverse repos
–  stock borrowing
–  other trading assets
Financial investments
Cash and balances with central banks
Other balance sheet assets
At 31 Dec

2023

$m

20221
$m

  1,611,647    1,570,303 
66,722 
127,747 
78,149 
88,476 
114,597 
22,290 
127,321 
108,816 
72,353 
16,254 
3,541 
52,558 
185,197 
387,315 
  3,038,677    2,949,286 

73,163   
172,100   
93,917   
85,255   
108,406   
24,954   
141,426   
120,851   
73,150   
12,198   
3,322   
57,630   
192,610   
341,198   

2023

20221
$m

$m
938,535   
112,902   
252,217   
89,911   
114,134   
289,159   
16,575   
14,609   
257,975   
442,763   
285,868   
513,188   

923,561 
104,475 
253,754 
82,984 
115,919 
218,093 
14,798 
10,706 
192,589 
364,726 
327,002 
558,772 
  3,038,677    2,949,286 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which 

replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 
comparative data.

2  ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ includes $82bn and ‘Assets 
held for sale’ includes $88bn in respect of the planned sale of our 
banking business in Canada. ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ 
includes $26bn and ‘Assets of disposal groups held for sale’ includes 
$28bn in respect of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.

.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

211

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Wholesale term debt maturity profile

The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt obligations is set out 
in the following table. The balances in the table are not directly 
comparable with those in the consolidated balance sheet because the

table presents gross cash flows relating to principal payments and 
not the balance sheet carrying value, which includes debt securities 
and subordinated liabilities measured at fair value. 

Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities1

Due not
more 
than
1 month

Due over 
1 month 
but not 
more than 
3 months

Due over 
3 months 
but not 
more than 
6 months

Due over 
6 months 
but not 
more than 
9 months

Due over 
9 months
but not 
more
than 
1 year

Due over
1 year
but not 
more than 
2 years

Due over 
2 years
but not 
more than 
5 years

Due 
over
5 years

Total

$m

$m

1,073   

$m
64,010    50,045    202,091 
925    36,897 
54,984    41,007    129,503 
5,910    21,533 
2,793   
1,275 
1,275   
426 
—   
1,829 
861   
3,024   
1,664    10,628 
4,282    27,234    36,887 
4,282    25,441    35,081 
1,806 
1,793   
68,292    77,279    238,978 

—   
—   
539   

—   

707   

52,435    52,952    184,250 
1,004    27,161 
44,023    44,021    123,732 
5,990    20,471 
2,609   
602 
602   
690 
—   
1,156 
656   
3,838   
1,717    10,438 
5,581    25,189    32,941 
5,581    23,446    31,198 
1,743 
1,743   
58,016    78,141    217,191 

—   
—   
220   

—   

Debt securities issued
–  unsecured CDs and CP
–  unsecured senior MTNs
–  unsecured senior structured notes
–  secured covered bonds
–  secured asset-backed commercial paper
–  secured ABS
–  others
Subordinated liabilities
–  subordinated debt securities
–  preferred securities
At 31 Dec 2023

Debt securities issued
–  unsecured CDs and CP
–  unsecured senior MTNs
–  unsecured senior structured notes
–  secured covered bonds
–  secured asset-backed commercial paper
–  secured ABS
–  others
Subordinated liabilities
–  subordinated debt securities
–  preferred securities
At 31 Dec 2022

$m
17,620   
6,400   
8,190   
2,307   
—   
426   
22   
275   
—   
—   
—   
17,620   

11,959   
3,821   
5,973   
1,264   
—   
690   
15   
196   
—   
—   
—   
11,959   

$m
9,798   
6,777   
1,160   
1,491   
—   
—   
44   
326   
2,013   
2,000   
13   
11,811   

11,266   
6,017   
2,351   
1,421   
—   
—   
28   
1,449   
—   
—   
—   
11,266   

$m
14,284   
7,601   
4,365   
1,617   
—   
—   
62   
639   
—   
—   
—   
14,284   

12,532   
7,088   
3,534   
1,247   
—   
—   
40   
623   
11   
11   
—   
12,543   

$m
13,226   
6,429   
3,627   
2,513   
—   
—   
58   
599   
—   
—   
—   
13,226   

8,225   
4,137   
1,363   
1,850   
—   
—   
38   
837   
160   
160   
—   
8,385   

$m
12,226   
6,513   
3,267   
1,978   
—   
—   
55   
413   
—   
—   
—   
12,226   

8,212   
3,123   
3,238   
1,627   
—   
—   
36   
188   
—   
—   
—   
8,212   

$m
20,882   
1,179   
12,903   
2,924   
—   
—   
188   
3,688   
3,358   
3,358   
—   
24,240   

26,669   
1,264   
19,229   
4,463   
—   
—   
123   
1,590   
2,000   
2,000   
—   
28,669   

1  Excludes financial liabilities of disposal groups.

212

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Structural foreign exchange risk in 2023
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net assets or capital investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates, 
together with any associated hedges, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. Exchange differences on 
structural exposures are usually recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’.

Net structural foreign exchange exposures

Net 
investment 
in foreign 
operations 
(excl non-
controlling 
interest)
$m

39,014   
46,661   
33,809   
15,673   
5,418   
6,286   
4,883   
4,312   
4,995   
2,754   
2,345   
2,362   
2,212   
1,535   
1,191   
1,354   
1,022   
959   
834   
794   
872   
4,386   
183,671   

39,191   
39,298   
35,712   
14,436   
4,402   
4,967   
3,932   
4,182   
4,534   
2,715   
2,517   
2,264   
2,058   
1,453   
1,233   
1,283   
908   
746   
785   
1,010   
665   
4,470   
172,761   

2023

Structural 
foreign 
exchange 
exposures 
(pre-
economic 
hedges)

Net 
investment 
hedges

$m

(5,792)   
(16,415)   
(3,299)   
(515)   
(1,076)   
(2,110)   
—   
—   
(613)   
—   
(224)   
—   
(1,127)   
(512)   
(526)   
(864)   
—   
—   
(215)   
—   
—   
(487)   
(33,775)   

(4,597)   
(14,000)   
(3,532)   
(777)   
(811)   
(1,380)   
—   
(109)   
(731)   
—   
(358)   
—   
(1,140)   
(469)   
(727)   
(817)   
—   
—   
(200)   
—   
—   
(495)   
(30,143)   

$m

33,222   
30,246   
30,510   
15,158   
4,342   
4,176   
4,883   
4,312   
4,382   
2,754   
2,121   
2,362   
1,085   
1,023   
665   
490   
1,022   
959   
619   
794   
872   
3,899   
149,896   
20223
34,594   
25,298   
32,180   
13,659   
3,591   
3,587   
3,932   
4,073   
3,803   
2,715   
2,159   
2,264   
918   
984   
506   
466   
908   
746   
585   
1,010   
665   
3,975   
142,618   

Economic 
hedges – 
structural 
FX hedges1
$m

Economic 
hedges – 
equity 
securities 
(AT1)2
$m

(7,979)   
—   
(1,066)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2,761)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(299)   
—   
—   
—   
(12,105)   

(8,363)   
—   
(994)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2,285)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(277)   
—   
—   
(36)   
(11,955)   

—   
(1,275)   
—   
(1,384)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2,659)   

—   
(1,205)   
—   
(2,402)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(559)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(4,166)   

Net 
structural 
foreign 
exchange 
exposures

$m

25,243 
28,971 
29,444 
13,774 
4,342 
4,176 
4,883 
4,312 
1,621 
2,754 
2,121 
2,362 
1,085 
1,023 
665 
490 
1,022 
959 
320 
794 
872 
3,899 
135,132 

26,231 
24,093 
31,186 
11,257 
3,591 
3,587 
3,932 
4,073 
1,518 
2,715 
1,600 
2,264 
918 
984 
506 
466 
908 
746 
308 
1,010 
665 
3,939 
126,497 

Currency of structural exposure

Hong Kong dollars
Pounds sterling
Chinese renminbi
Euros
Canadian dollars
Indian rupees
Mexican pesos
Saudi riyals
UAE dirhams
Malaysian ringgit
Singapore dollars
Australian dollars
Taiwanese dollars
Indonesian rupiah
Swiss francs
Korean won
Thai baht
Egyptian pound
Qatari rial
Argentinian peso
Vietnamese dong
Others, each less than $700m
At 31 Dec

Hong Kong dollars
Pounds sterling
Chinese renminbi
Euros
Canadian dollars
Indian rupees
Mexican pesos
Saudi riyals
UAE dirhams
Malaysian ringgit
Singapore dollars
Australian dollars
Taiwanese dollars
Indonesian rupiah
Swiss francs
Korean won
Thai baht
Egyptian pound
Qatari rial
Argentinian peso
Vietnamese dong
Others, each less than $700m
At 31 Dec

1  Represents hedges that do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes.
2  Represents foreign currency-denominated preference share and AT1 instruments. These are accounted for at historical cost under IFRS Accounting 

Standards and do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes. The gain or loss arising from changes in the US dollar value of these 
instruments is recognised on redemption in retained earnings.

3   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year  

ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

For a definition of structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 205.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

213

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Interest rate risk in the banking book in 2023
Net interest income and banking net interest income sensitivity

We have introduced a new metric to analyse sensitivity of our income 
to interest rate shocks. In addition to NII sensitivity, we are also 
disclosing banking NII sensitivity. HSBC has trading book assets that 
are funded by banking book liabilities and the NII sensitivity measure 
does not include the sensitivity of the internal transfer income from 
this funding. Banking NII sensitivity includes an adjustment on top of 
NII sensitivity to reflect this. The currency split of banking NII 
sensitivities includes the impact of vanilla foreign exchange swaps to 
optimise cash management across the Group.

In this disclosure we present the banking NII sensitivity alongside the 
NII sensitivity. Over time we expect to phase out NII sensitivity once 
the appropriate prior period comparables are available for banking NII 
sensitivity.

The following tables set out the assessed impact to a hypothetical 
base case projection of our NII and banking NII under an immediate 
shock of 100bps to the current market-implied path of interest rates 
across all currencies on 1 January 2024 (effects in the first, second 
and third years). For example, Year 3 shows the impact of an 
immediate rate shock on the NII and banking NII projected for the 
third year.

The sensitivities shown represent a hypothetical simulation of the 
base case income, assuming a static balance sheet (specifically no 
assumed migration from current account to term deposits), and no 
management actions from Global Treasury. This also incorporates the 
effect of interest rate behaviouralisation, hypothetical managed rate 
product pricing assumptions, prepayment of mortgages and deposit 
stability. The sensitivity calculations exclude pensions, insurance, and 
interests in associates.

The sensitivity analysis performed in the case of a down-shock does 
not include floors to market rates, and it does not include floors on 
some wholesale assets and liabilities. However, floors have been 
maintained for deposits and loans to customers where this is 
contractual or where negative rates would not be applied.

As market and policy rates move, the degree to which these changes 
are passed on to customers will vary based on a number of factors, 
including the absolute level of market rates, regulatory and 
contractual frameworks, and competitive dynamics. To aid 
comparability between markets, we have simplified the basis of 
preparation for our disclosure and have used a 50% pass-on 
assumption for major entities on certain interest-bearing deposits. 
Our pass-through asset assumptions are largely in line with our 
contractual agreements or established market practice, which 
typically results in a significant portion of interest rate changes being 
passed on. 

An immediate interest rate rise of 100bps would increase projected 
NII for the 12 months to 31 December 2024 by $1.1bn and banking 
NII by $2.8bn. An immediate interest rate fall of 100bps would 
decrease projected NII for the 12 months to 31 December 2024 by 
$1.6bn and banking NII by $3.4bn.

The sensitivity of NII for 12 months as at 31 December 2023 
decreased by $2.5bn in the plus 100bps parallel shock and by $2.4bn 
in the minus 100bps parallel shock, when compared with 
31 December 2022. The key drivers of the reduction in NII sensitivity 
are the increase in stabilisation activities in line with our strategy, as 
well as deposit migration.

For further details of measurement of interest rate risk in the banking 
book, see page 205.  

NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency

Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2023)
+100bps parallel
-100bps parallel
Change in Jan 2023 to Dec 2023 (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2022)
+100bps parallel
-100bps parallel

Currency

$

$m

HK$

$m

£

$m

€

$m

Other

$m

Total

$m

(1,155)   
1,004   

148   
(230)   

325   
(432)   

503   
(522)   

1,232   
(1,391)   

1,053 
(1,571) 

(267)   
236   

413   
(476)   

1,026   
(1,177)   

674   
(765)   

1,689   
(1,787)   

3,535 
(3,969) 

NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency

Change in NII (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2023)

Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)
Change in NII (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2022)

Year 2 (Jan 2024 to Dec 2024)
Year 3 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)

Currency

$

$m

HK$

$m

£

$m

€

$m

Other

$m

Total

$m

488   
213   

(431)   
(499)   

(768)   
(1,269)   

(552)   
(624)   

(1,733)   
(1,861)   

(2,996) 
(4,040) 

(43)   
(404)   

(532)   
(636)   

(1,580)   
(1,954)   

(810)   
(839)   

(1,979)   
(2,092)   

(4,944) 
(5,925) 

Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency

Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2023)
+100bps parallel

$

$m

HK$

$m

343

411

Currency

£

$m

496

€

$m

Other

$m

Total

$m

285

1,297

2,832

-100bps parallel

(494)   

(493)   

(602)   

(304)   

(1,460)   

(3,353) 

214

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency

Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2023)

Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)

Non-trading value at risk 
Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the 
interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking 
assets and liabilities, financial investments measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income, debt instruments measured at 
amortised cost, and exposures arising from our insurance operations.

Value at risk of non-trading portfolios

Value at risk (‘VaR’) is a technique for estimating potential losses on 
risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices 
over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The 
use of VaR is integrated into the market risk management of non-
trading portfolios to have a complete picture of risk, complementing 
risk sensitivity analysis. 

Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that 
incorporates the following features:

– historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with 

reference to interest rates, credit spreads and the associated 
volatilities;

– potential market movements that are calculated with reference to 

data from the past two years; and

– calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day 

holding period.

Daily VaR (non-trading portfolios), 99% 1 day ($m)

Currency

$

$m

HK$

$m

£

$m

€

$m

Other

$m

Total

$m

(1,015)   
(1,289)   

(693)   
(761)   

(938)   
(1,439)   

(333)   
(405)   

(1,798)   
(1,926)   

(4,777) 
(5,820) 

Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used for non-trading 
portfolios with awareness of its limitations. For example:

– The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market 

moves may not encompass all potential market events, 
particularly those that are extreme in nature. As the model is 
calibrated on the last 500 business days, it does not adjust 
instantaneously to a change in the market regime.

– The use of a one-day holding period for risk management 

purposes of non-trading books is only an indication of exposure 
and not indicative of the time period required to hedge or liquidate 
positions.

– The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into 
account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.

The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC 
Holdings is not included in the Group non-trading VaR. The 
management of this risk is described on page 217. 

Non-trading VaR also excludes the equity risk on securities held at fair 
value and non-trading book foreign exchange risk.

The daily levels of total non-trading VaR in 2023 are set out in the 
graph below.

The Group non-trading VaR for 2023 is shown in the table below.

Non-trading VaR, 99% 1 day

(Audited)

Balance at 31 Dec 2023
Average
Maximum
Minimum

Interest
rate

Credit
spread

$m
173.8   
156.2   
201.9   
108.8   

$m
112.8   
84.2   

116.4 
55.2 

Portfolio
diversification1
$m
(104.2)   
(63.7)   

Total2
$m

182.4 
176.6 
224.3 
127.0 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

215

 Non-trading total Interest rate Credit spread DiversificationDec-22Jan-23Feb-23Mar-23Apr-23May-23Jun-23Jul-23Aug-23Sep-23Oct-23Nov-23Dec-23-140-120-100-80-60-40-20020406080100120140160180200220240260Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Non-trading VaR, 99% 1 day (continued)

(Audited)

Balance at 31 Dec 2022
Average
Maximum
Minimum

Interest
rate

Credit
spread

$m

159.8   
134.6   
225.5   
98.3   

$m

56.6   
56.9   
84.7 
43.4 

Portfolio
diversification1
$m

(45.3)   
(35.9)   

Total2
$m

171.1 
155.6 
265.3 
106.3 

1  Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in 

unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate and credit spreads – together in one 
portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number 
represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful 
to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.

2  The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.

The VaR for non-trading activity increased by $11m from $171m at 
31 December 2022 to $182m at 31 December 2023 due to relatively 
small changes in risk profile over the year. The average portfolio 
diversification effect between interest rate and credit spread 
exposure increased during the year, with the offset increasing to 
$104m from $45m.

hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio, together with any associated 
derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships, is 
accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income and 
has an impact on CET1. The portfolio represents the vast majority of 
our hold-to-collect-and-sell capital risk and is risk managed with a 
variety of tools, including risk sensitivities and value at risk measures.

Sensitivity of capital and reserves
Global Treasury maintains a portfolio of high-quality liquid assets for 
contingent liquidity and NII stabilisation purposes, which is in part 
accounted for under a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model. This 

Sensitivity of hold-to-collect-and-sell reserves to interest rate movements

The table below measures the sensitivity of the value of this portfolio 
to an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates, based 
on the risk sensitivity of a shift in value for a 1 basis point (‘bps‘) 
parallel movement in interest rates.

At 31 Dec 2023
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity

At 31 Dec 2022
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity

$m

(2,264) 

(1.22)%

(1,199) 
(0.64)%

The increase in the sensitivity of the portfolio during 2023 was mainly 
driven by an increase in NII stabilisation in line with our strategy. The 
figures in the table above do not take into account the effects of 
interest rate convexity. The portfolio mostly comprises vanilla 
sovereign bonds in a variety of currencies, and the primary risk is 
interest rate duration risk, although the portfolio also generates asset 
swap, credit spread and asset spread risks that are managed within 
appetite as part of our risk management framework. A minus 100bps 
shock would lead to an approximately symmetrical gain.

Alongside our monitoring of the hold-to-collect-and-sell reserve 
sensitivity, we also monitor the sensitivity of reported cash flow 
hedging reserves to interest rate movements on a yearly basis by 
assessing the expected reduction in valuation of cash flow hedges 
due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield curves.

The following table describes the sensitivity of our cash flow hedging 
reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves at the 

year end. The sensitivities are indicative and based on simplified 
scenarios. These particular exposures form only a part of our overall 
interest rate exposure. We apply flooring on negative rates in the 
minus 100bps scenario in this assessment. Due to increases in 
interest rates in most markets, the effect of this flooring is immaterial 
at the end of 2023.

Comparing 31 December 2023 with 31 December 2022, the 
sensitivity of the cash flow hedging reserve increased by $1,537m in 
the plus 100bps scenario and increased by $1,562m in the minus 
100bps scenario. The increase in the sensitivity of this reserve was 
mainly driven by an increase in our NII stabilisation. Our exposure to 
fixed rate pound sterling hedges continued to be the largest in size 
and in terms of year-on-year increase. Hong Kong dollar and euro 
hedges contributed to the majority of the rest of the increase in 
exposure, partly offset by a reduction in the size of US dollar hedges.

Sensitivity of cash flow hedging reported reserves to interest rate movements

At 31 Dec 2023
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
-100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity

At 31 Dec 2022
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
-100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity

216

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

$m

(3,436) 

(1.85)%
3,474 
1.87%

(1,899) 
(1.01)%
1,912 
1.02%

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury 

Third-party assets in Markets Treasury increased by 5% compared 
with 31 December 2022. The net increase of $38bn is partly 
reflective of higher commercial surpluses during the year, with the 

increase of $76bn in ‘Financial Investments’ and the decrease of 
$39bn in ‘Cash and balances at central banks’ largely driven by NII 
stabilisation activity.

Third-party assets in Markets Treasury 

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Loans and advances:
–  to banks
–  to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements
Financial investments
Other
At 31 Dec

Defined benefit pension plans

2023

$m
278,289   
238   

78,667   
1,083   
45,419   
396,259   
34,651   
834,606   

2022

$m

317,479 
498 

67,612 
2,102 
53,016 
319,852 
36,192 
796,751 

Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension plans to the extent that the obligations of the plans are not fully matched by assets with 
determinable cash flows.

For details of our defined benefit plans, including asset allocation, see Note 5 on the financial statements, and for pension risk management, 
see page 206.

Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company

HSBC Holdings monitors and manages foreign exchange risk and 
interest rate risk. In order to manage interest rate risk, HSBC 
Holdings uses the projected sensitivity of its NII to future changes in 
yield curves. 

Foreign exchange risk

HSBC Holdings’ foreign exchange exposures derive almost entirely 
from the execution of structural foreign exchange hedges on behalf 
of the Group. At 31 December 2023, HSBC Holdings had forward 
foreign exchange contracts of $33.8bn (2022: $30.1bn) to manage 
the Group’s structural foreign exchange exposures.

For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, see 
page 213.

Sensitivity of net interest income 

HSBC Holdings monitors NII sensitivity in the first, second and third 
years, reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk 
management appropriate to a financial services holding company. 
These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC Holdings 
has an option to redeem at a future call date is called at this date. 

The tables below set out the effect on HSBC Holdings’ future NII of 
an immediate shock of +/-100bps to the current market-implied path 
of interest rates across all currencies on 1 January 2024. 

The NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on simplified 
scenarios. An immediate interest rate rise of 100bps would decrease 
projected NII for the 12 months to 31 December 2024 by $233m. 
Conversely, an immediate fall of 100bps would increase projected NII 
for the 12 months to 31 December 2024 $233m.

Overall the NII sensitivity is mainly driven by floating liabilities funding 
equity (non-interest bearing) investments in subsidiaries.

During 2023, HSBC Holdings hedged $3.6bn of previously unhedged 
issuances, which increased the negative NII sensitivity to positive 
parallel shifts in interest rates. In year 1, that impact is offset by a 
shorter repricing profile of assets.

As of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, HSBC Holdings is no 
longer disclosing the interest rate repricing gap table, as the 
sensitivity of net interest income table captures HSBC Holdings‘ 
exposure to interest rate risk and is aligned to the way we disclose 
interest rate risk internally to key management.

NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency

Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2023)
+100bps parallel
-100bps parallel
Change in Jan 2023 to Dec 2023 (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2022)
+100bps parallel
-100bps parallel

$

$m

HK$

$m

(258)   
258   

(265)   
265   

—   
—   

—   
—   

£

$m

12   
(12)   

16   
(16)   

€

$m

Other

$m

Total

$m

5   
(5)   

9   
(9)   

8   
(8)   

—   
—   

(233) 
233 

(240) 
240 

NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency

Change in NII (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2023)
Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)
Change in NII (based on balance sheet at 31 December 2022)
Year 2 (Jan 2024 to Dec 2024)
Year 3 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)

$

$m

219   
218   

182   
160   

HK$

$m

—   
—   

—   
—   

£

$m

(12)   
(12)   

(12)   
(10)   

€

$m

Other

$m

Total

$m

1   
—   

(8)   
(7)   

(9)   
(10)   
— 

—   
—   

199 
196 

162 
143 

The figures represent hypothetical movements in NII based on our 
projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings’ current interest rate 
risk profile and assumed changes to that profile during the next three 
years. The sensitivities represent our assessment of the change to a 

hypothetical base case based on a static balance sheet assumption, 
and do not take into account the effect of actions that could be taken 
to mitigate this interest rate risk.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

217

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Market risk

Contents

Overview

218
218 Market risk management
219 Market risk in 2023
219
220 Market risk balance sheet linkages

Trading portfolios 

Overview
Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact on trading 
activities arising from changes in market parameters such as interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates, asset prices, volatilities, correlations 
and credit spreads. Market risk arises from both trading portfolios and 
non-trading portfolios.

For further details of market risk in non-trading portfolios, see page 
215 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023.
Market risk management

Key developments in 2023
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the 
management of market risk in 2023.
Governance and structure
The following diagram summarises the main business areas where 
trading market risks reside and the market risk measures used to 
monitor and limit exposures.

Risk types

Trading risk

– Foreign exchange and commodities
– Interest rates
– Credit spreads
– Equities

Global business
Risk measure

GBM

Value at risk | Sensitivity | Stress testing

The objective of our risk management policies and measurement 
techniques is to manage and control market risk exposures to 
optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent 
with our established risk appetite.

Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for HSBC Holdings. These 
limits are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal 
entities. Each major operating entity has an independent market risk 
management and control sub-function, which is responsible for 
measuring, monitoring and reporting market risk exposures against 
limits on a daily basis. Each operating entity is required to assess the 
market risks arising in its business and to transfer them either to its 
local Markets and Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for 
management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of 
the local ALCO. The Traded Risk function enforces the controls 
around trading in permissible instruments approved for each site as 
well as changes that follow completion of the new product approval 
process. Traded Risk also restricts trading in the more complex 
derivative products to only those offices with appropriate levels of 
product expertise and control systems.
Key risk management processes
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures

Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while 
maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite.

We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures 
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.

218

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Sensitivity analysis

Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of movements in individual 
market factors on specific instruments or portfolios, including interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. We use sensitivity 
measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type. 
Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading desks with consideration 
of market liquidity, customer demand and capital constraints, among 
other factors.
Value at risk
(Audited)

VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as 
a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified 
time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is 
integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading 
positions regardless of how we capitalise them. Where we do not 
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in 
the ‘Stress testing’ section below.

Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that 
incorporates the following features:

– historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with 

reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest 
rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;

– potential market movements that are calculated with reference to 

data from the past two years; and

– calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day 

holding period.

The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the 
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an 
increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR 
without any changes in the underlying positions.
VaR model limitations
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of its 
limitations. For example:

– The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market 

moves may not encompass all potential market events, 
particularly those that are extreme in nature. As the model is 
calibrated on the last 500 business days, it does not adjust 
instantaneously to a change in the market regime.

– The use of a one-day holding period for risk management 

purposes of trading books assumes that this short period is 
sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.

– The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into 
account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.

– VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the 
close of business and therefore does not reflect intra-day 
exposures.

Risk not in VaR framework
The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises 
material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR 
model.

Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either 
incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified 
through either the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test 
approach within the RNIV framework. While VaR-based RNIVs are 
calculated by using historical scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are 
estimated on the basis of stress scenarios whose severity is 
calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements. The 
outcome of the VaR-based RNIV approach is included in the overall 
VaR calculation but excluded from the VaR measure used for 
regulatory back-testing.

Stress-type RNIVs include a deal contingent derivatives capital charge 
to capture risk for these transactions and a de-peg risk measure to 
capture risk to pegged and heavily managed currencies.

 
Stress testing
Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our 
market risk management framework to evaluate the potential impact 
on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or 
movements in a set of financial variables. In such scenarios, losses 
can be much greater than those predicted by VaR modelling. Stress 
testing and reverse stress testing provide senior management with 
insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR.

Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall 
Group levels. A set of scenarios is used consistently across all 
regions within the Group. Market risk stress testing incorporates both 
historical and hypothetical events. Market risk reverse stress tests 
are designed to identify vulnerabilities in our portfolios by looking for 
scenarios that lead to loss levels considered severe for the relevant 
portfolio. These scenarios may be local or idiosyncratic in nature and 
complement the systematic top-down stress testing. 

The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set 
and monitored against limits.

Trading portfolios

Trading portfolios comprise positions held for client servicing and 
market-making, with the intention of short-term resale and/or to 
hedge risks resulting from such positions.
Back-testing
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-testing 
the VaR metric against both actual and hypothetical profit and loss. 
Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as 
fees, commissions and revenue of intra-day transactions. 

The hypothetical profit and loss reflects the profit and loss that would 
be realised if positions were held constant from the end of one 
trading day to the end of the next. This measure of profit and loss 
does not align with how risk is dynamically hedged, and is not 
therefore necessarily indicative of the actual performance of the 
business. 

The number of hypothetical loss back-testing exceptions, together 
with a number of other indicators, is used to assess model 
performance and to consider whether enhanced internal monitoring 
of a VaR model is required. We back-test our VaR at set levels of our 
Group entity hierarchy.

Market risk in 2023
During 2023, global financial markets were mainly driven by the 
inflation outlook, interest rate expectations and recession risks, 
coupled with banking failures in March, and rising geopolitical 
tensions in the Middle East from October. Major central banks 
maintained restrictive monetary policies, and bond markets 
experienced a volatile year. After rising significantly in the second and 
third quarters of 2023, US treasury bond yields fell during the fourth 
quarter, as lower inflation pressures led markets to expect that key 
rates would be cut in 2024. The interest rate outlook was also a major 
driver of performance in global equity markets, alongside resilient 
corporate earnings and positive sentiment in the technology sector. 
Equities in developed markets advanced significantly amid low 
volatility, while performance in emerging markets was more 
subdued. In foreign exchange markets, the US dollar fluctuated 
against other major currencies, mostly in line with US Federal 
Reserve policy and bond yields expectations. Investor sentiment 
remained resilient in credit markets. High-yield and investment-grade 
credit spreads narrowed, in general, as fears of contagion in the 
banking sector in the first quarter of 2023 abated, and economic 
growth remained resilient throughout the year.

We continued to manage market risk prudently during 2023. 
Sensitivity exposures and VaR remained within appetite as the 
business pursued its core market-making activity in support of our 
customers. Market risk was managed using a complementary set of 
risk measures and limits, including stress testing and scenario 
analysis.

Trading portfolios
Value at risk of the trading portfolios

Trading VaR was predominantly generated by the Markets and 
Securities Services business. 

Trading VaR as at 31 December 2023 increased by $3.3m compared 
with 31 December 2022. Interest rate risk factors were the major 
contributors to VaR at the end of December 2023. The VaR increase 
during 2023 peaked in September, and was mainly driven by:

– interest rate risk exposures in currencies held across the Fixed 
Income and Foreign Exchange business lines to facilitate client-
driven activity; and

– the effects of relatively large short-term interest rate shocks for 
key currencies, which are captured in the VaR scenario window.

These factors were partly offset by lower losses from equity risks 
and interest rate risks that were captured within the RNIV framework.

The daily levels of total trading VaR during 2023 are set out in the graph below.

Daily VaR (trading portfolios), 99% 1 day ($m)

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

219

 Trading totalInterest rate (‘IR’) trading Equity (‘EQ’) tradingCredit spread (‘CS’) trading intentForeign exchange (‘FX’) trading DiversificationDec-22Jan-23Feb-23Mar-23Apr-23May-23Jun-23Jul-23Aug-23Sep-23Oct-23Nov-23Dec-23-80-60-40-20020406080100120Risk reviewRisk review

The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.

Trading VaR, 99% 1 day1

(Audited)

Balance at 31 Dec 2023
Average
Maximum
Minimum

Balance at 31 Dec 2022
Average
Maximum
Minimum

Foreign
exchange and 
commodity

Interest
rate

Equity

Credit
spread

$m
13.4   
16.2   
24.6   
9.3   

15.4   
13.6   
29.2   
5.7   

$m
55.9   
53.9   
86.0   
25.5   

40.0   
29.6   
73.3   
20.2   

$m
15.2   
19.0   
27.8   
13.4   

18.6   
16.1   
24.8   
11.5   

$m
7.2   
11.6   
16.5 
6.6 

11.9   
16.8   
27.9 
9.1 

Portfolio 
diversification2
$m
(38.9)   
(40.8)   

(36.4)   
(34.0)   

Total3
$m
52.8 
59.8 
98.2 
34.4 

49.5 
42.1 
78.3 
29.1 

1  Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
2  Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in 

unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate, equity and foreign exchange – together 
in one portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number 
represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful 
to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.

3  The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.

The table below shows trading VaR at a 99% confidence level compared with trading VaR at a 95% confidence level at 31 December 2023. 
This comparison facilitates the benchmarking of the trading VaR, which can be stated at different confidence levels, with financial institution 
peers. The 95% VaR is unaudited. 

Comparison of trading VaR, 99% 1 day vs trading VaR, 95% 1 day

Balance at 31 Dec 2023
Average
Maximum
Minimum

Balance at 31 Dec 2022
Average
Maximum
Minimum

Back-testing

Trading VaR, 
99% 1 day

Trading VaR, 
95% 1 day

$m
52.8   
59.8   
98.2   
34.4   

49.5   
42.1   
78.3   
29.1   

$m
35.3 
36.8 
53.3 
21.0 

31.7 
24.6 
49.0 
17.5 

During 2023, the Group experienced no back-testing exceptions on losses against actual or hypothetical profit and losses.

Market risk balance sheet linkages

The following balance sheet lines in the Group’s consolidated position are subject to market risk:

Trading assets and liabilities

Derivative assets and liabilities

The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases 
originated by GBM. Other than a limited number of exceptions, these 
assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the purposes of 
market risk management. The exceptions primarily arise in Global 
Banking where the short-term acquisition and disposal of assets are 
linked to other non-trading-related activities such as loan origination.

We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to create 
risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks 
arising from client business, and to manage and hedge our own risks. 
Most of our derivative exposures arise from sales and trading 
activities within GBM. The assets and liabilities included in trading 
VaR give rise to a large proportion of the income included in net 
income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a 
fair value basis. Adjustments to trading income such as valuation 
adjustments are not measured by the trading VaR model.

For information on the accounting policies applied to financial 
instruments at fair value, see Note 1 on the financial statements.

220

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Climate risk TCFD 

Contents 

221

222

223

225

Overview

Climate risk management

Embedding our climate risk approach

Insights from climate scenario analysis

Overview
Our climate risk approach is aligned to the framework outlined by the 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’), which 
identifies two primary drivers of climate risk:

– physical risk, which arises from the increased frequency and 
severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and 
floods, or chronic gradual shifts in weather patterns or rises in the 
sea level; and

– transition risk, which arises from the process of moving to a net 
zero economy, including changes in government policy and 
legislation, technology, market demand, and reputational 
implications triggered by a change in stakeholder expectations, 
action or inaction. 

In addition to these primary drivers of climate risk, we have also 
identified the following thematic issues related to climate risk, which 
are most likely to materialise in the form of reputational, regulatory 
compliance and litigation risks:

– net zero alignment risk, which arises from the risk of HSBC failing 
to meet its net zero commitments or failing to meet external 
expectations related to net zero, because of inadequate ambition 
and/or plans, poor execution, or inability to adapt to changes in the 
external environment; and

– the risk of greenwashing, which arises from the act of knowingly 

or unknowingly making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or 
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our 
stakeholders. 

Approach 

We recognise that the physical impacts of climate change and the 
transition to a net zero economy can create significant financial risks 
for companies, investors and the financial system. HSBC may be 
affected by climate risks either directly or indirectly through our 
relationships with our customers, which could result in both financial 
and non-financial impacts.

Our climate risk approach aims to effectively manage the material 
climate risks that could impact our operations, financial performance 
and stability, and reputation. It is informed by the evolving 
expectations of our regulators.

We are developing our climate risk capabilities across our businesses, 
by prioritising sectors, portfolios and counterparties with the highest 
impacts.

We continue to make progress in enhancing our climate risk 
capabilities, and recognise it is a long-term iterative process.

We aim to regularly review our approach to increase coverage and 
incorporate maturing data, climate analytics capabilities, frameworks 
and tools, as well as respond to emerging industry best practice and 
climate risk regulations.

This includes updating our approach to reflect how the risks 
associated with climate change continue to evolve in the real world, 
and maturing how we embed climate risk factors into strategic 
planning, transactions and decision making across our businesses.

Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk 
management framework and three lines of defence model, which 
sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. For further 
details of the three lines of defence framework, see page 138.

The tables below provide an overview of the climate risk drivers and thematic issues considered within HSBC’s climate risk approach. 

Climate risk – risk drivers

Details

Potential impacts

Time horizons

Physical

Acute

Chronic

Transition

Policy and 
legal

Increased frequency and severity of weather events causing 
disruption to business operations

Longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g. sustained higher 
temperatures, sea level rise, shifting monsoons or chronic 
heat waves)

Mandates on, and regulation of products and services and/or 
policy support for low-carbon alternatives. Litigation from 
parties who have suffered loss and damage from climate 
impacts

Technology

Replacement of existing products with lower emissions 
options

End-demand 
(market)

Reputational

Changing consumer demand from individuals and corporates

Increased scrutiny following a change in stakeholder 
perceptions of climate-related action or inaction

– Decreased real estate values or 

stranded assets

– Decreased household income and 

wealth 

– Increased costs of legal and 

compliance 

– Increased public scrutiny 
– Decreased profitability 
– Lower asset performance

Short term
Medium term
Long term

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

221

Risk reviewRisk review

Climate risk – thematic issues

Net zero 
alignment risk

Net zero 
ambition risk

Risk of 
greenwashing

Net zero 
execution risk

Net zero 
reporting risk
Firm

Product

Client

Failing to set or adapt our net zero ambition and broader business strategy in alignment with key stakeholder 
expectations, latest scientific understanding and commercial objectives.

Failing to meet our net zero targets due to taking insufficient or ineffective actions, or due to the actions of 
clients, suppliers and other stakeholders.

Failing to report emissions baselines and targets, and performance against these accurately due to data, 
methodology and model limitations.

Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or unsubstantiated claims in relation to our sustainability commitments 
and targets, as well as the reporting of our performance towards them.

Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to products or services offered to 
clients that have stated sustainability objectives, characteristics, impacts or features.

Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims as a consequence of our relationships with 
clients or transactions we undertake with them, where their sustainability commitments or related performance 
are misrepresented or are not aligned to our own commitments.

In 2023, we updated our climate risk materiality assessment, to 
understand how climate risk may impact across HSBC’s risk 
taxonomy. The assessment focused on a 12-month time horizon, as 
well as time horizons for the short-term, medium-term and long-term 
periods. We define short term as time periods up to 2025; medium 
term as between 2026 and 2035; and long term as between 2036 
and 2050. These time periods align to the Climate Action 100+ 
disclosure framework v1.2. The table below provides a summary of 
how climate risk may impact a subset of HSBC’s principal risks.

The assessment is refreshed annually, and the results may change as 
our understanding of climate risk and how it impacts HSBC evolve 
(for further details, see ‘Impact on reporting and financial statements’ 
on page 44). 

In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our 
emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis (for further details, see 
‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 38).

Climate risk drivers

Physical risk

Transition risk

Credit risk

Traded risk

Reputational risk1

Regulatory 
compliance risk1

Resilience risk

Other financial 
and non-financial 
risk types

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

1   Our climate risk approach identifies thematic issues such as HSBC net zero alignment risk and the risk of greenwashing, which are most likely to 

materialise in the form of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks.

Climate risk management
Key developments in 2023
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development of 
our climate risk management capabilities. The following outlines key 
developments in 2023:

– We updated our climate risk management approach to incorporate 
net zero alignment risk and developed guidance on how climate 
risk should be managed for non-financial risk types. 

– We enhanced our climate risk materiality assessment to consider 

longer time horizons.

– We enhanced our approach to assessing the impact of climate 

change on capital, focusing on credit and market risks.

– We further developed our risk metrics to monitor our performance 
against our net zero targets for both financed emissions and own 
operations.

– We enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis, including 

through improvements to our use of customer transition plan data. 
For further details of scenario analysis, see page 65.

– We have updated our merger and acquisition process to consider 

potential climate and sustainability-related targets, net zero 
transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to 
HSBC.

While we have made progress in enhancing our climate risk 
framework, further work remains. This includes the need to develop 
additional metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-
related risks, and to incorporate these tools within decision making. 

222

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Governance and structure
The Board takes overall supervisory responsibility for our ESG 
strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the 
approach, execution and associated reporting. 

The ESG Committee supports the development and delivery of our 
ESG strategy, key policies and material commitments by providing 
oversight, coordination and management of ESG commitments and 
initiatives. It is co-chaired by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer 
and the Group Chief Financial Officer. 

The Sustainability Execution Committee has oversight of the 
environmental strategy, including the commercial execution and 
operationalisation through the sustainability execution programme, 
which is a Group-wide programme established to enable the delivery 
of our sustainability agenda.

The Group Reputational Risk Committee considers climate-related 
matters arising from customers, transactions and third parties that 
either present a serious potential reputational risk to the Group or 
merit a Group-led decision to ensure a consistent approach to 
reputational risk management across the regions, global businesses 
and global functions. 

The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk 
Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk profile and 
progress of our climate risk programme.

The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager 
responsible for the management of climate risk under the UK Senior 
Managers Regime, which involves holding overall accountability for 
the Group’s climate risk programme. 

The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum (formerly the Climate Risk 
Oversight Forum) oversees risk activities relating to climate and 
sustainability risk management, including the transition and physical 
risks from climate change. Equivalent forums have been established 
at a regional level.

For further details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see 
page 88.

Risk appetite

Policies, processes and controls

Our climate risk appetite forms part of the Group’s risk appetite 
statement and supports the business in delivering our net zero 
ambition effectively and sustainably.

Our climate risk appetite statement is approved and overseen by the 
Board. It is supported by risk appetite metrics and tolerance 
thresholds. We have also defined additional key management 
information metrics. Both the risk appetite statement and key 
management information metrics are reported on a quarterly basis for 
oversight by the Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group 
Risk Committee.

Embedding our climate risk approach

We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and 
controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue 
to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature 
over time. For further details of how we manage climate risk across 
our global businesses, see page 65.

The table below provides further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types. For further details of 
our internal scenario analysis, see ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ on page 225.

Risk type

Our approach

Wholesale 
credit risk

We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition risk sectors, as 
shown in the below table. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors was $112bn. The sector 
classifications are based on internal HSBC definitions and can be judgemental in nature. The sector classifications are subject to the 
remediation of ongoing data quality challenges. This data will be enhanced and refined in future years.
Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers through a transition engagement questionnaire (formerly the 
transition and physical risk questionnaire) to gather information and assess the alignment of our wholesale customers’ business 
models to net zero and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to create a climate 
risk score for our key wholesale customers.
Our credit policies require that relationship managers comment on climate risk factors in credit applications for new money requests 
and annual credit reviews. Our credit policies also require manual credit risk rating overrides if climate is deemed to have a material 
impact on credit risk under 12 months if not already captured under the original credit risk rating.
Key developments to our framework in 2023 include expanding the scope of our transition engagement questionnaire to capture new 
countries, territories and sectors.
Key challenges for further embedding climate risk into credit risk management relate to the availability of adequate physical risk data to 
assess impacts to our wholesale customers.
Wholesale loan exposure to high transition risk sectors at 31 December 20231

Units Automotive Chemicals

Exposure to sector1, 2, 3, 4
Sector weight as a proportion of 
high transition risk sectors 

$bn

%

21

18

17

16

Construction 
and building 
materials
20

Metals 
and 
mining
14

18

13

Oil and 
gas

Power 
and 
utilities

18

16

22

19

Total 2023

112

100

1   Amounts shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero 

economy. The methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve 
over time as more data becomes available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes.

2   Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group 
of connected counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included in one high transition risk sector 
irrespective of the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected 
counterparties is not in a high transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included. 
The main business of a group of connected counterparties is identified by the industry that generates the majority of revenue within 
a group. Customer revenue data utilised during this allocation process is the most recent readily available and will not align to our 
own reporting period.

3   These disclosures cover the whole of the value chain of the sector. For details of financed emissions coverage, please refer to page 

53.

4   The six high transition risk sectors make up 17.4% of total wholesale loans and advances to customer and banks of $644bn. 

Amounts include assets held for sale.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

223

Risk reviewRisk review

Risk type

Our approach

Retail credit 
risk

We have implemented policies and tools to manage climate risk across our retail mortgage markets. 
Our retail credit risk management policy requires each mortgage market to conduct an annual review of their climate risk management 
procedures, including perils and data sources, to ensure they remain fit for purpose. In 2023 we introduced a global ‘soft trigger’ 
monitoring and review process for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets 
are actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. 
Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified and assessed locally and 
potential exposure is monitored through quarterly metrics.  We have also set risk appetite metrics for physical risk in our largest 
mortgage markets, the UK and Hong Kong, as well as those with local regulatory requirements, including Singapore.  
The UK is our largest mortgage market, which as at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage portfolio. We estimate 
that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding and 3.5% is at high risk. This is based on approximately 
94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as at September 2023. 
In the UK we also monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties in our mortgage portfolio. As at 
September 2023, approximately 64.5% of properties within the portfolio by value had a valid EPC dated within the last 10 years. Of 
these, 40.0% of properties had a current rating of A to C, and 97.0% had the potential to reach these rating bands, if appropriate 
energy efficiency improvement measures are taken. 
For both flood risk and EPC data, we disclose the end of September 2023 position. This is due to the time required for the data to be 
processed and our reliance on the government’s public EPC data, which usually lags one month behind.
The table below outlines the UK retail mortgage portfolio tenor as at the end of December 2023 (by balance split by remaining term). 
This table shows that the majority of our portfolio tenor is greater than five years, and that the average remaining loan term in the UK 
is 21.5 years.  
Residential mortgages tenor (remaining mortgage term by balance $m)1

Tenor 

<1 years 

1 to 5 years 

>5 years 

Weighted average of remaining 
mortgage term (years)

Remaining mortgage balance ($m)

382

3,469

157,643

21.50

The average term for new mortgages in the UK is 25 years, although the average life of a loan is approximately five years due to 
refinancing. Despite this, our strategic approach to climate risk considers present day and long-term risk given customers may remain 
over the whole loan term. 
For further details of flood risk and the EPC breakdown of our UK retail mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/
esg.

1   The table includes instances where individual properties have multiple associated accounts and balances. These are aggregated to a 

property level and the longest term remaining is taken as the tenor.

Treasury risk As part of our ICAAP in 2023, we enhanced our approach for assessing the impact of climate change on capital, focusing on credit and 
market risks. As part of our ILAAP, we conducted an initial analysis to identify the potential climate risk exposures across key liquidity 
risk drivers.  
We updated our treasury risk policies to ensure that the impact of climate risk is considered when assessing applicable treasury risks. 
We regularly discuss climate-related topics that may impact Global Treasury through climate-relevant governance forums, including the 
Treasury Risk Management Climate Risk Oversight Forum and the Group Treasury Sustainability Committee.
Treasury portfolios are also included within the scope of the internal climate scenario analysis and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s 
climate risk stress test, with potential quantitative impacts on relevant hold-to-collect-and-sell positions estimated.
Pensions risk
We conduct an annual exercise to monitor the exposure of our largest pension plans to climate risk.
Our pension policies have also been updated to explicitly reflect climate considerations. 
Insurance risk
We have an evolving programme to support the identification and management of climate risk. In 2023, we updated our sustainability 
procedures to align with the Group’s updated energy and thermal coal-phase out policy.

Traded risk We have implemented metrics and thresholds to monitor exposure to high physical and transition risk sectors for the different asset 

Reputational 
risk

classes in the Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘) business. The metrics use a risk taxonomy that categorises countries/territories 
and sectors into high, medium and low risk, for which we have set corresponding thresholds. We have implemented these metrics for 
key entities. In addition, we have identified key regions and business lines that contribute the most to the total MSS high-climate 
sensitive exposures and developed reports to monitor trends and pockets of risks.
We have developed tools to provide a better understanding of key profit and loss drivers under different climate scenarios along 
different dimensions such as risk factors and business lines. These reports are available to traded risk managers to help monitor and 
understand how climate-sensitive exposures are impacted under different scenarios. Stress testing results have been presented to 
senior management for visibility during dedicated review and challenge sessions to provide awareness on the impact to the MSS 
portfolio and underlying business lines. 

We manage the reputational impact of climate risk through our broader reputational risk framework, supported by our sustainability risk 
policies and metrics.
Our sustainability risk policies set out our appetite for financing activities in certain sectors. Our thermal coal phase-out and energy 
policies aim to drive down greenhouse gas emissions while supporting a just transition.
Our global network of sustainability risk managers provides local policy guidance to relationship managers for the oversight of policy 
compliance and in support of implementation across our wholesale banking activities. For further details of our sustainability risk 
policies, see the ESG review on page 42. 
We have developed risk appetite metrics to monitor our performance against our financed emissions targets. For further details of our 
targets, see page 57.

224

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Risk type

Our approach

Regulatory 
compliance 
risk

Our policies set the Group-wide standards that are required to manage the risk of breaches of our regulatory duty to customers, 
including those related to climate risk, ensuring fair customer outcomes are achieved. To make sure our responsibilities are met in this 
regard, our policies are subject to continuous review and enhancement. We are also focused on the ongoing development and 
improvement of our monitoring capabilities, ensuring appropriate alignment to the broader focus on regulatory compliance risks.
Regulatory Compliance is particularly focused on mitigating climate risks inherent to the product lifecycle. To support this, we have 
enhanced a number of processes including: 
– ensuring Regulatory Compliance provides risk oversight and review of new product marketing materials with any reference to 

climate, sustainability and ESG;

Resilience 
risk

Model risk

Financial 
reporting 
risk

– developing our product marketing controls to ensure climate claims are robustly evidenced and substantiated within product 

–

marketing materials; and  
clarifying and improving product marketing framework, procedures and associated guidance, to ensure product-related marketing 
materials comply with both internal and external standards, and are subject to robust governance.

Regulatory Compliance operates an ESG and Climate Risk Working Group to track and monitor the integration and embedding of 
climate risk management into the functions’ activities, while monitoring regulatory and legislative changes across the ESG and climate 
risk agenda. Regulatory Compliance also continues to be an active member of the Group’s Environmental Risk Oversight Forums. 

Our Enterprise Risk Management function is responsible for overseeing the identification and assessment of physical and transition 
climate risks that may impact on the organisation’s operational and resilience capabilities. 
We have developed metrics to assess how physical risk may impact our critical properties. In 2023, we also developed an energy and 
travel risk appetite metric for our own operations to establish and monitor progress against our net zero ambitions. 
Our resilience risk policies are subject to continuous improvement to remain relevant to evolving climate risks. New developments 
relevant to our own operations are reviewed to ensure climate risk considerations are effectively captured.

The impact of climate risk on model risk is driven by the increasing number of climate risk models and the expanding model use cases. 
Review and challenge of models mitigates some risk but given the nascent nature of climate modelling and the lack of benchmarks, 
the validation of model assumptions and results remains a key challenge.
Model Risk has published a new climate risk and ESG model category standard, which sets out minimum control requirements for 
identifying, measuring and managing model risk for climate-related models.  
We completed independent model validation for a number of models used for financed emissions calculations and climate scenario 
analysis using both qualitative and quantitative assessments of modelling decisions and outputs. 

We have expanded the scope of financial reporting risk to explicitly include oversight over accuracy and completeness of ESG and 
climate reporting. In 2023, we updated the risk appetite statement to reference our ESG and climate-related disclosures. We also 
updated our internal controls to incorporate requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in ESG and climate reporting. To 
support this, we have developed a framework to guide control implementation over ESG and climate reporting disclosures, which 
includes areas such as process and data governance, and risk assessment. 
As the landscape for ESG and climate-related disclosures develops, we continue to focus on horizon scanning and interpretation of 
relevant external reporting requirements, to ensure a timely response for producing the required disclosures. As the volume and 
nature of these requirements continue to evolve, the level of risk is heightened. Part of our response to this heightened risk includes 
undertaking a range of assurance procedures over these disclosures.

Challenges

While we have continued to develop our climate risk framework, our 
remaining challenges include:

We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis exercises so 
that we can have a more comprehensive understanding of climate 
headwinds, risks and opportunities to support our strategic planning 
and actions.

– the diverse range of internal and external data sources and data 

structures needed for climate-related reporting, which introduces 
data accuracy and reliability risks;

In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly, both physical risks 
and transition risks. For further details about these risks, see ‘Climate 
risk’ on page 221.

– data limitations on customer assets and supply chains, and 

methodology gaps, which hinder our ability to assess physical 
risks accurately;

We also analyse how these climate risks impact principal risk types 
within our organisation, including credit and traded market risks, non-
financial risks, and pension risk.

– industry-wide data gaps on customer emissions and transition 
plan and methodology gaps, which limit our ability to assess 
transition risks accurately; and

– limitations in our management of net zero alignment risk is due to 
known and unknown factors, including the limited accuracy and 
reliability of data, merging methodologies, and the need to 
develop new tools to better inform decision making.
Insights from climate scenario 
analysis
Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential 
exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range of climate 
scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for 
the future and meet our growing regulatory requirements.

In 2023, we enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis exercise 
by focusing our efforts on generating more granular insights for key 
sectors and regions to support core decision-making processes, and 
to respond to our regulatory requirements. We also produced several 
climate stress tests for regulators around the world, including the 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) and the Central Bank of the 
United Arab Emirates.  

Our climate scenarios

In our 2023 climate scenario analysis exercises, we explored five 
scenarios that were created to examine the potential impacts from 
climate change for the Group and its entities.

The analysis considered the key regions in which we operate, and 
assessed the impact on our balance sheet across three distinct 
timeframes: short term up to 2025; medium term from 2026 to 2035; 
and long term from 2036 to 2050. The time horizons are aligned to 
the Climate Action 100+ framework v1.2.

We created our internal scenarios using external publicly available 
climate scenarios as a reference, including those produced by the 
Network for Greening the Financial System (‘NGFS’), the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and the 
International Energy Agency. Using these external scenarios as a 
template, we adapted them by incorporating the unique climate risks 
and vulnerabilities to which our organisation and customers across 
different business sectors and regions are exposed. This helped us 
produce the scenarios, which vary by severity to analyse how climate 
risks will impact our portfolios.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

225

Risk reviewRisk review

Our scenarios were:

– the Net Zero scenario, which is consistent with the Paris
Agreement. This assumes that there will be orderly but
considerable climate action, limiting global warming to no more
than 1.5°C by 2100, when compared with pre-industrial levels;

– the Current Commitments scenario, which assumes that climate
action is limited to current governmental committed policies,
including already implemented actions, leading to global
temperature rises of 2.4°C by 2100. This slow transition scenario
helps us to determine the actions we need to take to reach our
net zero ambition while operating in a world that is not net zero;

– the Delayed Transition Risk scenario, which assumes that climate
action is delayed until 2030 with a late disorderly transition to net
zero but stringent and rapid enough to limit global warming to
under 2°C by 2100. This scenario allows us to stress test severe
but plausible transition risk impacts;

– the Downside Physical Risk scenario, which assumes climate

action is limited to currently implemented governmental policies,
leading to extreme global warming with global temperatures
increasing by greater than 4°C by 2100. This scenario allows us to
assess physical risks associated with climate change; and

Characteristics of our scenarios

– the Near Term scenario, which assumes both a sharp increase in
policies that drive a disorderly transition towards net zero and a
sharp increase in extreme climate events over a five-year period
until 2027. This scenario focused on our business in Asia.

We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that will 
supplement the Group’s current and future strategic thinking. They 
reflect inputs from our key stakeholders and experts across the 
Group, and have been reviewed through internal governance.

Our scenarios reflect different levels of physical and transition risks 
over a variety of time periods. The scenario assumptions include 
varying levels of governmental climate policy changes, 
macroeconomic factors and technological developments. However, 
these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are still 
unproven, such as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation 
and shipping.

The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and 
limitations of the analysis lead to outcomes that are indicative of 
climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct forecast. 

Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario 
analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We 
therefore expect this view to change over time.

Rise in global temperatures by 
2100 (vs pre-industrial levels) 1.5˚c
Focus horizon

Medium term

Net zero

Scenarios

Current 
Commitments

... ... ... ... l

1.6˚c
Medium/long term Medium/long term

1.4˚c
Short/medium term

2.4˚c
Short/medium term

Delayed   
Transition Risk

Downside 
Physical Risk

T

Near Term

4.2˚c

Scenario 
outcomes

Underlying 
assumptions 
based on 
global 
averages

Assumed variation in global 
climate policies

Assumed pace of technology 
change and adoption
Assumed socioeconomic 
impact

Low

Fast

High

Medium

Gradual

High

Accelerates from 
2030

Low

None

Moderate

Very high

Very high 
(in long term)
2030

2050

2030

2050

2030

2050

2030

2050

Assumed carbon price 
($/tCO2)
Assumed change in energy 
consumption (% change after 
2022)
Assumed change in CO2 
emissions (% change after 2022)

161

623

34

91

34

558

6

6

(10)% (16)%

12%

17%

12% (11)%

5%

24%

(37)% (100)%

(7)%

(33)%

(7)% (89)%

3%

11%

Scenario risk 
characteristics

Climate 
risk

Our methodology

Physical

q Lower

u Moderate

q Lower

p Higher

Transition

p Higher

u Moderate

p Higher

q Lower

High

Based on existing 
technology

Very high

2027

193

(14)%

(34)%

p Higher

p Higher

For our scenario analysis, we used models to assess how transition 
and physical risks may impact our portfolios under different 
scenarios. Our models incorporate a range of climate-specific metrics 
that will have an impact on our customers, including expected 
production volumes, revenue, costs and capital expenditure.

We assess how these metrics interplay with economic factors such 
as carbon prices, which represent the cost effect of climate-related 
policies that aim to discourage carbon-emitting activities and 
encourage low-carbon solutions. The expected result of higher carbon 
prices is a reduction in emissions as high-emission activities become 
uneconomical. We also assume carbon prices will vary from country 
to country.

The models for our wholesale corporate lending portfolio consider  
our customers’ individual climate transition plans where available, 
while we refine and deepen our assessment of these plans. These 
results feed into the calculation of our risk-weighted assets and 
expected credit loss (‘ECL’) projections. For our real estate portfolio 
models, we focus on physical risk factors, including property 
locations, perils and insurance coverage when assessing the overall 
credit risk impact to the portfolio. The results are reviewed by our 
sector specialists who, subject to our governance procedures, make 

226

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

bespoke adjustments to our results based on their expert judgement 
where relevant.

Our models support the calculation of outputs that inform us about 
the level of climate-related ECL provisions required under IFRS 9, and 
also support the shaping of our climate-related capital approach under 
ICAAP. In 2023, in addition to incorporating our customers’ transition 
plans, we enhanced our credit risk models for the wholesale portfolio 
by updating our assumptions regarding how we expect state-
supported companies to be impacted, and improved how we model 
the impact of emissions on company financial forecasts.

Modelling limitations

We continue to look for ways of enhancing our methodology to 
improve the effectiveness of our climate scenario analyses. There are 
industry-wide limitations, particularly on data availability, although our 
models are designed to produce outputs that can support our 
assessment of the level of our climate resilience.

Climate scenario analysis requires considerable amounts of data, 
although data is only available for a subset of our counterparties. As a 
result, we have to extrapolate the results observed in the subset to 
the wider population or dataset. We do not capture the second order 

 
impacts of climate risk exposures within our modelling approach, 
such as impacts on our counterparties from their supply chains.

We continue to enhance our capabilities by incorporating lessons 
learnt from previous exercises and feedback from key stakeholders, 
including regulators.

For a broad overview of the models that we use for our climate 
scenario analysis, as well as graphs that show how global carbon 
prices and carbon emissions will differ under our climate scenarios, 
see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Analysing the outputs of climate scenario 
analysis 

Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential 
climate pathways may affect and impact the resilience of our 
customers and our portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses. 
As the following chart shows, losses are influenced by their exposure 
to a variety of climate risks under different climate scenarios.

How credit losses from climate risks have been modelled 
under different transition scenarios

3
s
t
n
e
m

r
i

a
p
m

i

l

e
v
i
t
a
u
m
u
C

<1.5x

>1.5x

2023

2028

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Net Zero 
Counterfactual1

Current Commitments
Net Zero2

Delayed Transition Risk

1   The counterfactual scenario is modelled on a scenario where there 

would be no losses due to climate change.

2   The dotted line in the chart shows the impact of modelled expected 

credit losses following our strategic responses to reduce the effect of 
climate risks under the Net Zero scenario.

3   The projections shown in this chart were modelled during 2023 and are 
not intended to reflect the final 31 December 2023 position that is 
disclosed elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023.

While climate-related losses are expected to remain minimal in the 
short term, they are likely to increase compared with the 
counterfactual scenario in the medium and longer term, driven by the 
transition to a net zero economy.

These losses are lower in the Net Zero orderly transition scenario,  
than in the Delayed Transition Risk scenario where climate action 
begins later and is more rapid and disruptive as our customers will 
have less time to restructure their business models and reduce their 
carbon emissions. As the dotted line in the graph shows, losses in 
these scenarios can be mitigated through active management 
approaches, which include identifying new climate-related business 
opportunities and adapting our portfolios to reduce exposure to 
climate risks and losses.

By building a more climate-resilient balance sheet, we can reduce 
impairment risks and improve longer-term stability. 

Under the Current Commitments scenario, we expect lower levels of 
losses relating to transition risks, although we would expect an 
increase in the effects of climate-related physical risks over the 
longer term. If the world does not align with a net zero path, physical 
risks in the medium to long term are expected to continue to rise due 
to the increasing frequency of extreme weather events.

The Near Term scenario

Our Near Term scenario allowed us to explore the combined impacts 
of a disorderly transition towards net zero and extreme acute physical 
events occurring simultaneously. The scenario was designed to meet 
HKMA regulatory requirements and will help us to improve how we 
assess short-term impacts across the Group. As part of the HKMA 
exercise, our initial analysis was focused on our portfolio in Asia.

The exercise allowed us to understand the extent to which a stressed 
scenario exhibiting both high physical and transition risks in the near 
term could immediately impact our customers across all our sectors.

In the following sections, we assess the impacts to our banking 
portfolios under different climate scenarios.  
How climate change is impacting our 
wholesale lending portfolio 
In our internal climate scenario analysis, we assessed the impact of 
climate-related risks on our corporate counterparties under different 
climate scenarios, which we measured by reviewing the modelled 
effect on our ECL.

The climate scenario analysis exercise for the wholesale lending 
portfolio was designed to examine our climate risks and 
vulnerabilities, primarily in the short and medium term. We focused 
on the Current Commitment scenario, believing it to be the scenario 
most likely to unfold in this timeframe, and the Net Zero scenario, 
which allows us to assess the resilience of our strategy and to 
identify specific climate-related opportunities.

Within our wholesale lending portfolio, customers in higher emitting 
sectors continue to be most exposed to larger climate-related losses. 

For each sector in both scenarios, we calculated the projected ECL 
increase as at 2035, where we compared the increase in ECL under 
the scenario against a counterfactual scenario that incorporates no 
climate change. 

We use the sector’s exposure at default (‘EAD’), which represents 
the size of our exposure to potential losses from customer defaults. 
This helps to identify which sectors are the most material to us in 
terms of the impact of climate change. 

The table below shows the relative size of exposures at default in 
2023 and the increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario 
compared with a counterfactual scenario by 2035 (expressed as a 
multiple).

Impact on wholesale lending portfolios

Wholesale sectors

Conglomerates and 
industrials

Construction and 
building materials

Chemicals

Power and utilities

Oil and gas

Automotive

Land transport and 
logistics
Agriculture & soft 
commodities

Metals and mining

Aviation

Marine

Exposure 
at default 
(2023)

ECL increase1

Current 
Commitments

Net Zero

<1.25x

n <1.1x
n
n
n
n
n

<1.1x

<1.1x

<1.1x

<1.25x

n

n

n

n

n

<1.1x

<1.1x

<1.1x

<1.1x

<1.1x

<2.75x

<2.25x

<1.75x

<1.75x

<1.25x

<1.75x

<2.75x

<2.5x

>3x

<1.5x

<1.5x

1   Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual by 2035 

expressed as a multiple.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

227

Risk review 
Risk review

We have continued to incorporate information from our customers’ 
transition plans to consider more detailed information on how they 
and their sector will be impacted under different climate scenarios.

In 2023, we widened the scope of our climate modelling to include 
new markets, such as mainland China, and increased the peril 
coverage within markets already covered.

The levels of ECL observed across our wholesale lending portfolio are 
driven by: our customers’ carbon emissions; the presence of realistic 
transition plans; the amount of capital investment required to support 
their transition; and the degree to which their competitive 
environment impacts their ability to pass on carbon costs.

In 2022, we used scenario analysis to assess the impacts on our 
corporate counterparties across the sectors that are most affected by 
climate-related risks.

In 2023, we enhanced our approach in some key high-emitting 
sectors, which includes the construction and building materials, 
power and utilities, and oil and gas sectors. The analysis below 
provides a more detailed view of the anticipated impacts on these 
portfolios and our customers, improving our understanding of climate 
risks and potential opportunities.

The construction and building materials sector faces an increase in 
losses because it includes companies with high emissions from 
manufacturing processes, such as steel or cement, or from their 
supply chains, which will increase cost pressures due to carbon 
taxes. The sector also has a high proportion of customers without 
transition plans.

Although our scenario analysis showed that companies with 
transition plans performed better on average, their plans typically fall 
short of requirements needed to meet net zero targets. Overall, we 
believe there are significant lending opportunities for us to help 
support our customers as they transition to a lower carbon economy 
while meeting their growing business demands. 

These opportunities include the exploration of less carbon-intensive 
fuel sources, electrification, the integration of carbon capture and 
storage, and the adoption of new technologies in the search to 
reduce emissions. 

In the power and utilities sector, our analysis showed that rising costs 
from increased carbon prices and the capital expenditure required to 
support transition requirements, infrastructure improvements and 
decommissioning costs, alongside greater downstream energy 
demands, will potentially lead to higher debt levels and worsening 
counterparty risk ratings for customers.

As technologies mature, the capital cost of some renewables 
infrastructure is expected to fall, becoming cheaper than non-
renewable sources due to improved efficiencies. This will reduce the 
required expenditure for companies.

In the oil and gas sector, customers that commit to renewable energy 
should benefit from the additional greener revenue streams, which 
will help mitigate the impact of reduced profitability from fossil fuels 
and heightened carbon prices, enabling them to sustain their gross 
margins. This sector has relatively lower projected losses as a large 
proportion of customers provided transition plans with granular 
information about their climate-related impacts.

We have the opportunity to ease potential negative impacts as 
transition risks increase by supporting our customers to diversify into 
more renewable and greener revenue streams, and invest in 
emission-reducing technologies. 

How climate change is impacting our retail 
mortgage portfolio 
As part of our 2023 internal climate scenario analysis, we completed 
a detailed climate risk assessment for the UK, Hong Kong, mainland 
China and Australia, which together represent 75% of the balances in 
our global retail mortgage portfolio. 

Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal 
losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments 
scenario. Although the severity of climate perils is expected to 
worsen over time, our overall losses also remain low under a 
Downside Physical Risk scenario.

228

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

In our analysis of the retail mortgage portfolio, we reassessed the 
physical perils that could impact the value of properties, which 
include flooding, wildfire and windstorms. The underlying peril data 
we use has been enhanced to include updated and higher resolution 
flood maps where available. We have also worked with external 
vendors to improve outputs from peril projections and to increase the 
granularity of data to provide more detailed insights into the impact of 
climate risks across our portfolio of properties, in particular the impact 
of wildfires.

Our scenario analysis methodology was enriched further in 2023 by 
combining the impacts of physical risk with transition risks, including 
rising energy costs and impacts from direct government legislation 
such as homeowner energy efficiency upgrades in the UK. We have 
enhanced our modelling by considering customers’ affordability 
incorporating increased debt servicing costs and the impacts on 
property valuations. As insurance remains a key mitigator against 
climate losses, we further refined our assumptions including the 
assessment of insurance availability for properties that experience 
frequent climate events.

Projected peril risk 

Flooding has the potential to drive significant impacts at an aggregate 
level but this is localised to specific areas that are close to water 
sources such as rivers or the coast, or areas that are located in 
valleys where surface water can ‘pool’.

The ’Exposure to flooding’ table below shows that the majority of 
properties located in four of our largest markets are predicted to 
experience zero to low risk of flooding, with flood depths of less than 
0.5 metres, under a 1-in-100-year event in each of the scenarios. 

Flood depths outlined here do not consider building type and property 
floor level, which would potentially further mitigate the impacts. 
However, they are considered within our climate risk modelling and 
loss projections.

The table below sets out the proportion of properties with projected 
flood depths in a 1-in-100-year severity flood event, under the Current 
Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios.
Exposure to flooding (%)1

Scenarios

Baseline    
flood risk             

Current 
Commitments 
2050  
(%)

Number of 
properties2

Flood depth 
(metres)

UK

0-0.5

n 0.5-1.5

>1.5

Hong Kong
n
Australia

n

Mainland 
China

n

0-0.5

0.5-1.5

>1.5

0-0.5

0.5-1.5

>1.5

0-0.5

0.5-1.5

>1.5

20233 
(%)

97.4

2.4

0.2

85.3

14.6

0.1

95.7

2.9

1.5

88.0

11.1

0.9

Downside 
Physical 
Risk 2050  
(%)

96.9

2.8

0.3

79.5

20.4

0.1

95.3

3.1

1.5

84.7

12.7

2.7

97.4

2.5

0.2

81.4

18.4

0.1

95.4

3.0

1.5

86.5

12.5

1.0

1   Severe flood events include river and surface flooding and coastal 
inundation. The table compares 2050 snapshots under the Current 
Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios with a baseline 
view in 2023. We do expect to see changes to our flood depth 
distributions as climate risk data is refreshed.

2   The size of the bubbles represents the size of the portfolios, in terms 
of number of properties where exposure to flooding data is available, 
relative to one another.

3   Baseline flood risk is the flood risk for a 1 in 100 year event, based on 

current peril data.

How climate change is impacting our 
commercial real estate portfolios

We assessed our commercial real estate customers’ vulnerability to 
various perils, including flooding and windstorms. Our commercial 
real estate portfolio is globally diversified with larger concentrations in 
Hong Kong, the UK and the US.

Geographical location is a key determinant in our exposure to 
potential physical risk events, which can lead to higher ECL due to 
the cost of repairing damage as well as impact property valuations in 
areas where physical risk events are increasing in frequency.

The ‘Exposure to peril’ table below shows the proportion of our 
commercial real estate portfolio exposed to specific physical perils in 
our key markets.

Exposure to peril (%)1

Exposure 
at 
default2

Coastal 
inundation 
(%)

Cyclone 
wind 
(%)

Surface 
water 
flooding 
(%)

Riverine 
flooding
(%)

Hong Kong n 2.0

94.8

19.0

10.0

UK

US

n

n

15.8

10.1

0.0

81.5

16.5

11.4

7.1

28.6

1   Proportion of our commercial real estate portfolio exposed to specific 

physical perils in the Downside Physical scenario.

2   The size of the bubbles represents the size of the portfolios, in terms 

of EAD, relative to one another.

Overall, and in line with our 2022 disclosure, our commercial real 
estate portfolio remains resilient to climate risk, with the more severe 
impacts mitigated by insurance coverage.

Our most significant credit exposure is in Hong Kong, a region with 
material physical risk exposures to wind and flooding due to strong 
tropical cyclones. The impact on prospective credit losses remains 
low, due to stringent building standards and existing measures in 
place against flooding and storm surges.

Our largest exposure to transition risk is within our UK portfolio. 
Under the Net Zero scenario, we assessed the impacts of the UK 
government consultation on non-domestic rental properties being 
required to hold an energy performance certificate rating of at least 
’B’ by 2030. To meet these proposed minimum standards, more than 
80% of the properties in our portfolio would potentially need to be 
retrofitted, which would increase impairments and lead to a small 
uplift in ECL for this portfolio.

In 2023, as part of the scenario analysis exercise for the Central Bank 
of the United Arab Emirates, we also assessed in more detail the 
climate risk impacts on our UAE portfolio. Our findings showed that 
many properties could become chronically exposed to permanent 
inundation over time due to their relatively low elevation above sea 
level.
How we assess climate risk impacts on 
other risk types

We use climate scenario analysis to assess the impacts on other 
risks beyond credit risk. These include traded market risks, non-
financial risks and pension risk.

Traded market risk 

In 2023, we explored the potential impacts of climate risks on our 
trading and banking portfolio under the Delayed Transition Risk and 
Downside Physical Risk scenarios. 

The analysis considered all relevant asset classes including interest 
rates, exchange rates, corporate and sovereign bonds and equities. 
The analysis applied shocks reflecting the impact of abrupt increases 
in carbon prices or physical risk perils resulting in structural economic 
impacts that affect the productivity of high-risk sectors at a country 
level.

We have developed tools to provide us with a more granular 
understanding of the key profit and loss drivers under different 
climate scenarios. These can be viewed by risk factor, business line 
or at trading desk level to help traded risk managers to monitor and 
understand how climate sensitive exposures are impacted.

Sovereign credit risk 

We assessed the impacts of climate risks on sovereign debt under 
the different climate scenarios. In particular, our models considered 
the impacts of climate change on a country’s GDP, the amount of 
headroom sovereign nations have in terms of their fiscal and external 
reserves, and their dependency and exposure to particular corporate 
sectors.

Pension risk 

We modelled balance sheet and income statement projections for 
the main pension plans. Our modelling capability has been enhanced 
to incorporate climate-specific modelling over a longer timeframe, 
with the initial exercise being focused on assessing the impacts of a 
disruptive transition to net zero using the Delayed Transition scenario.

Non-financial risk 

We assessed the potential impacts of errors in sustainable lending 
volumes contained within our ESG disclosures as part of our financial 
reporting risks. To understand our regulatory compliance risks we 
assessed any misrepresentations within the marketing of our ESG 
funds.
Use of climate scenario analysis outputs

Climate scenario analysis plays a crucial role helping us to identify and 
understand the impact of climate-related risks and potential 
opportunities as we navigate the transition to net zero.

Scenario analysis results have been used to support the Group’s 
ICAAP. This is an internal assessment of the capital the Group needs 
to hold to meet the risks identified on a current and projected basis, 
including climate risk.

In addition, scenario analysis informs our risk appetite statement 
metrics. As an example, it supports the calibration of physical risk 
metrics for our retail mortgage portfolios and it is used to consider 
climate impact in our IFRS 9 assessment.

From a financial planning perspective, internal climate scenario 
analysis results are used to assess whether additional short-term 
climate-specific ECL are required within our financial plan.
Next steps
We plan to continue to enhance our capabilities for climate scenario 
analysis including addressing model limitations and data gaps and 
developing our assessment of liquidity, resilience and insurance risks. 
We also plan to use the results for decision making, particularly in:

– client engagement, by identifying climate opportunities and 

vulnerabilities in specific regions and sectors such as renewables, 
carbon capture technologies and electric vehicles, and using this 
information to engage and support clients in their transition to net 
zero;

– portfolio steering, by using scenario analysis outputs to inform 

how to reallocate our portfolio to maximise returns and mitigate 
risk while achieving our net zero targets; and

– looking beyond climate change by building capabilities to assess 

our resilience to wider environmental risks.

Understanding the resilience of our critical 
properties
Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy 
as an organisation, including our offices, retail branches and data 
centres, both in terms of loss and damage, and business interruption. 

We measure the impacts of climate and weather events to our 
buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and scenario 
modelled forecast data. In 2023, there were 27 major storms that had 
a minor impact on five premises with no impact on the availability of 
our buildings.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

229

Risk reviewRisk review

We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact on our 
owned or leased premises. Our scenario stress test, conducted in 
2023, analysed how eight climate change-related hazards could 
impact 1,000 of our critical and important buildings. These hazards 
were coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds, wildfires, 
riverine flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, and 
surface water flooding. 

The 2023 stress test modelled climate change with IPCC’s Taking the 
Highway scenario (SSP5-8.5), which projects that the rise in global 
temperatures will likely exceed 4°C by 2100. It also modelled a less 
severe IPCC Middle of the Road scenario (SSP2-4.5), which projects 
that global warming will likely be limited to 2°C.

Key findings from the Taking the Highway scenario included that by 
2050, 20 of our 1,000 critical and important buildings will have a high 
potential for impact due to climate change, with insurance-related 
losses estimated to be in excess of 10% of the insured value of the 
buildings.

These include 16 retail properties primarily impacted by extreme 
temperatures and four data centres, where three face the risk of 
water stress and one faces extreme temperatures and water stress. 
This could lead to failure of mechanical cooling equipment or soil 
movement resulting from drought.

Resilience risk
Overview
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained and significant business 
disruption from execution, delivery, physical security or safety events, 
causing the inability to provide critical services to our customers, 
affiliates and counterparties. Resilience risk arises from failures or 
inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events.
Resilience risk management
Key developments in 2023

During the year, we carried out several initiatives to keep pace with 
geopolitical, regulatory and technology changes, and strengthened 
the management of resilience risk:

– We focused on enhancing our understanding of our risk and 

control environment, by updating our risk taxonomy and control 
libraries, and refreshing risk and control assessments.

– We continued to recognise that our customers are impacted by 

service disruptions, and responded to these urgently and aimed to 
recover with minimum delay. We continued to initiate post-
incident review processes to prevent recurrence. Where we 
identify that investment is required to further enhance the Group’s 
operational resilience capabilities, findings are fed into the Group’s 
financial planning, helping to ensure we continue to meet the 
expectations of our customers and our regulators.

– We continued to monitor markets affected by the Russia-Ukraine 
and Israel-Hamas wars, as well as other geopolitical events, for 
any potential impact they may have on our colleagues and 
operations.

– We strengthened the way third-party risk is overseen and 
managed across all non-financial risks, and enhanced the 
processes, framework and reporting capabilities used by our 
global businesses, functions and regions.

– We provided analysis and easy-to-access risk and control 

information and metrics to enable management to focus on non-
financial risks in their decision making and appetite setting.

– We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and 
senior leadership, and improved our coverage and risk steward 
oversight for data risk and change execution.

230

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

A further 248 properties have the potential to be impacted by climate 
change, albeit to a lesser extent, with insurance-related losses 
estimated at between 5% and 10% of the insured value of our 
buildings. The principal risks are temperature extremes and water 
stress.

A key finding from the Middle of the Road scenario showed that the 
total number of buildings at risk reduced from 20 to 13. The 
highlighted facilities are still at risk from the same perils of extreme 
temperature and water stress by 2050.

This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real 
estate planning. We will continue to enhance our understanding of 
how extreme weather events impact our building portfolio as climate 
risk assessment tools improve and evolve. We buy insurance for 
property damage and business interruption and consider insurance as 
a loss mitigation strategy depending on its availability and price.

We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and 
global engineering standards and will continue to assess historical 
claims data to help ensure our building selection and design 
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.

We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing 
strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We also 
remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including support of 
chief risk officers, in territories where we have no physical presence.

Governance and structure

The Enterprise Risk Management target operating model provides a 
globally consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk 
management oversight while operating effectively as part of a 
simplified non-financial risk structure. 

We view resilience risk across seven sub-risk types related to: third-
party risk; technology and cybersecurity risk; transaction processing 
risk; business interruption and incident risk; data risk; change 
execution risk; and facilities availability, safety and security risk.  

Risk appetite and key escalations for resilience risk are reported to 
the Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, with an escalation path to the 
Group Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.

Key risk management processes

Operational resilience is our ability to anticipate, prevent, adapt, 
respond to, recover and learn from operational disruption while 
minimising customer and market impact. Resilience is determined by 
assessing whether we can continue to provide our important 
business services, within an agreed impact tolerance. This is 
achieved via day-to-day oversight and periodic and ongoing 
assurance, such as deep dive reviews and controls testing, which 
may result in challenges being raised to the business by risk 
stewards. Further challenge is also raised in the form of risk steward 
opinion papers to formal governance. We accept we will not be able 
to prevent all disruption but we must prioritise investment to 
continually improve the response and recovery strategies for our 
important business services and important group business services 
to meet regulatory expectations.

Business operations continuity

We continue to monitor the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars, 
and remain ready to take measures to ensure business continuity in 
affected markets should the situations require. There have been no 
significant disruptions to our services, although businesses and 
functions in nearby markets continually review their plans and 
responses to minimise any potential impacts.

Regulatory compliance risk
Overview
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching our 
duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market conduct 
(including unauthorised trading) and breaching related financial 
services regulatory standards. Regulatory compliance risk arises from 
the failure to observe relevant laws, codes, rules and regulations and 
can manifest itself in poor market or customer outcomes and lead to 
fines, penalties and reputational damage to our business. 
Regulatory compliance risk management
Key developments in 2023

The dedicated programme to embed our updated purpose-led 
conduct approach has concluded. Work to map applicable regulations 
to our risks and controls continued in 2023, alongside the adoption of 
new tooling to support enterprise-wide horizon scanning for new 
regulatory obligations and supporting wider work on regulatory 
reporting enhancements. Climate risk has been integrated into 
regulatory compliance policies and processes, with enhancements 
made to the product governance framework and controls to ensure 
the effective consideration of climate – and in particular the risk of 
greenwashing – risks. 
Governance and structure

The Compliance function has now been restructured and integrated 
into a combined Risk and Compliance function with the appointment 
of a Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reporting directly into the 

Financial crime risk

Overview
Financial crime risk is the risk that HSBC’s products and services will 
be exploited for criminal activity. This includes fraud, bribery and 
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations, 
money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing. 
Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking operations 
involving customers, third parties and employees.
Financial crime risk management
Key developments in 2023

We regularly review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk 
management framework, which includes continued consideration of 
the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance and export 
control risk. We continued to respond to the financial sanctions and 
trade restrictions that have been imposed on Russia, including 
methods used to limit sanctions evasion. 

We continued to make progress with several key financial crime risk 
management initiatives, including:

– We deployed our intelligence-led, dynamic risk assessment 

capability for customer account monitoring in additional entities 
and global businesses, including in the UK, the Channel Islands 
and the Isle of Man, Hong Kong and the UAE.

– We deployed a next generation capability to increase our 
monitoring coverage on correspondent banking activity. 

– We successfully introduced the required changes to our 

transaction screening capability to accommodate the global 
change to payment systems formatting under ISO 20022 
requirements.

– We made enhancements in response to the rapidly evolving and 

complex global payments landscape and refined our digital assets 
and currencies strategy.

Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. Regulatory Compliance and 
Financial Crime teams work together and with relevant stakeholders 
to achieve good conduct outcomes, and provide enterprise-wide 
support on the compliance risk agenda in close collaboration with 
colleagues from the Group Risk and Compliance function.

Key risk management processes

The Global Regulatory Compliance capability is responsible for setting 
global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s 
management of regulatory compliance risk. It also devises the 
required frameworks, support processes and tooling to protect 
against regulatory compliance risks. The Group capability provides 
oversight, review and challenge of the global market, regional and line 
of business teams to help them identify, assess and mitigate 
regulatory compliance risks, where required. The Group’s regulatory 
compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global policies and 
procedures require the identification and escalation of any actual or 
potential regulatory breaches, and relevant events and issues are 
escalated to the Group’s Non-Financial Risk Management Board, the 
Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, as 
appropriate. The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reports to the 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and attends the Risk and 
Compliance Executive Committee, the Group Risk Management 
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee.  

Governance and structure

The structure of the Financial Crime function remained substantively 
unchanged in 2023, although we continued to review the 
effectiveness of our governance framework to manage financial 
crime risk. The Group Head of Financial Crime and Group Money 
Laundering Reporting Officer continues to report to the Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer, while the Group Risk Committee retains 
oversight of matters relating to financial crime.

Key risk management processes

We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with individuals 
or entities believed to be engaged in criminal activity. We require 
everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining effective systems 
and controls to prevent and detect financial crime. Where we believe 
we have identified suspected criminal activity or vulnerabilities in our 
control framework, we will take appropriate mitigating action. 

We manage financial crime risk because it is the right thing to do to 
protect our customers, shareholders, staff, the communities in which 
we operate, as well as the integrity of the financial system on which 
we all rely. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which these 
same policy goals are codified in law and regulation. 

We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all 
the markets in which we operate and applying a consistently high 
financial crime standard globally.

We continue to assess the effectiveness of our end-to-end financial 
crime risk management framework, and invest in enhancing our 
operational control capabilities and technology solutions to deter and 
detect criminal activity. We have simplified our framework and 
consolidated previously separate financial crime policies into a single 
policy to drive consistency and provide a more holistic assessment of 
financial crime risk. We further strengthened our financial crime risk 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

231

Risk reviewRisk review

taxonomy and control libraries and our monitoring capabilities through 
technology deployments. We developed more targeted metrics, and 
continued to seek to enhance our governance and reporting. We are 
committed to working in partnership with the wider industry and the 
public sector in managing financial crime risk and we participate in 
numerous public-private partnerships and information sharing 
initiatives around the world. In 2023, our focus remained on 
measures to improve the overall effectiveness of the global financial 
crime framework, notably by providing input into legislative and 
regulatory reform activities. We did this by contributing to the 

development of responses to consultation papers focused on how 
financial crime risk management frameworks can deliver more 
effective outcomes in detecting and deterring criminal activity. 
Through our work with the Wolfsberg Group and the Institute of 
International Finance, we supported the efforts of the global standard 
setter, the Financial Action Task Force. In addition, we participated in 
a number of public events related to enhancing public-private 
partnerships, payment transparency, asset recovery, tackling forestry 
crimes, wildlife trafficking and human trafficking. 

Model risk

Overview
Model risk is the risk of the potential for adverse consequences from 
model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs to inform 
business decisions.

Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts 
whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. 
Key developments in 2023
In 2023, we continued to make improvements in our model risk 
management processes amid regulatory changes in model 
requirements.

Initiatives during the year included: 

– Following regulatory feedback on a number of our model 

submissions for our internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach for 
credit risk, internal model method (‘IMM’) for counterparty credit 
risk and internal model approach (‘IMA’) for market risk, we 
implemented approved models for IMM and IMA alongside an 
approved IRB model for UK mortgages. We began a programme 
of work to address feedback from the PRA and other regulators 
on the IRB models for wholesale credit. 

– We made changes to our VaR model in response to multiple 

breaches that had been observed from market volatility resulting 
from changes in monetary policy in major markets. 

– We introduced a new procedure to ensure any new tool 

developed using generative AI would require validation by Model 
Risk Management before its use. 

– We enhanced our frameworks and controls as climate risk and AI 

and machine learning models become more embedded in 
business processes.

– Following the publication of Supervisory Statement 1/23 – the 

PRA’s guiding principles for how model risks should be managed 
across the industry – we began a programme of work to seek to 
meet the enhanced model risk management requirements, with 
representation from all global businesses and key functions, 
including Internal Audit.

Governance and structure

Model risk governance committees at the Group, business and 
functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The committees 
include senior leaders from the three global businesses and the 
Group Risk and Compliance function, and focus on model-related 
concerns and are supported by key model risk metrics. We also have 
Model Risk Committees in our geographical regions focused on local 
delivery and requirements. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is 
chaired by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the 
heads of key businesses participate in these meetings.

Key risk management processes
We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression, 
simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental scorecards 
for a range of business applications. These activities include 
customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction 
monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. Global 
responsibility for managing model risk is delegated from the Board to 
the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, who authorises the 
Group Model Risk Committee. This committee regularly reviews our 
model risk management policies and procedures, and requires the 
first line of defence to demonstrate comprehensive and effective 
controls based on a library of model risk controls provided by Model 
Risk Management. Model Risk Management also reports on model 
risk to senior management and the Group Risk Committee on a 
regular basis through the use of the risk map, risk appetite metrics 
and top and emerging risks. 

We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes, including 
the model risk committee structure, to help ensure appropriate 
understanding and ownership of model risk is embedded in the 
businesses and functions.

232

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

Insurance manufacturing operations risk

Contents

233

233

Overview

Insurance manufacturing operations risk management

Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2023

234
234 Measurement
Key risk types
235

235

236

236

237

–  Market risk

–  Credit risk

–  Liquidity risk 

–  Insurance underwriting risk

Overview
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are market 
risk, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risk and insurance 
underwriting risk. These have a direct impact on the financial results 
and capital positions of the insurance operations. Liquidity risk, while 
significant in other parts of the Group, is less material for our 
insurance operations.
HSBC’s insurance business

We sell insurance products through a range of channels including our 
branches, insurance sales forces, direct channels and third-party 
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated 
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally for 
customers with whom we have a banking relationship, although the 
proportion of sales through other sources such as independent 
financial advisers, tied agents and digital platforms is increasing.

For the insurance products we manufacture, the majority of sales are 
savings, universal life and protection contracts.

We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC 
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk 
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and 
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part 
of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group.

We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight markets, 
which are Hong Kong, Singapore, mainland China, France, UK, Malta, 
Mexico and Argentina. In addition, we have: an interest in a life 
insurance manufacturing associate in India; a captive insurance entity 
in Bermuda that insures the non-financial risks of the wider Group; 
and a reinsurance entity in Bermuda.

Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an 
effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small number of 
leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance 
products to our customers. These arrangements are generally 
structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a 
combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits. We 
distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions.

This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance 
products we manufacture.
Insurance manufacturing operations 
risk management
Key developments in 2023

The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk 
management framework. In addition, there are specific policies and 
practices relating to the risk management of insurance contracts, 
which did not change materially over 2023. During the year, there 
was continued market volatility observed across interest rates, equity 
and credit markets and foreign exchange rates. This was 
predominantly driven by geopolitical factors and wider inflationary 
concerns. One key area of risk management focus during 2023 was 
the implementation of the new accounting standard, IFRS 17 

‘Insurance Contracts’, which became effective on 1 January 2023. 
Given the fundamental change the new accounting standard 
represented in insurance accounting, and the complexity of the new 
standard, this presented additional financial reporting and model risks 
for the Group, which were managed via the IFRS 17 implementation 
project. Other areas of focus were the ongoing integration of the 
insurance business that was acquired through AXA Singapore in 2022 
into the Group’s risk management framework, the establishment of a 
reinsurance entity in Bermuda and controls supporting IFRS 17 
implementation. 
Governance and structure

(Audited)

Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk appetite, 
which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk management 
framework, including its three lines of defence model. For details of 
the Group’s governance framework, see page 137. The Global 
Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control 
framework globally and is accountable to the WPB Risk Management 
Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.

The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is carried 
out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship functions 
support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of 
expertise.
Stress and scenario testing

(Audited)

Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework 
for the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide 
regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and 
scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.

The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management 
action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s 
ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency 
Assessments, which are produced by all material entities.

Key risk management processes

Market risk

(Audited) 

All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk 
mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in which 
they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market 
risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by using, among 
others, some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the 
nature of the contracts written:

– We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to 

policyholders for products with participating features. The effect is 
that a significant proportion of the market risk is borne by the 
policyholder.

– We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are 
structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group 
manages its assets using an approach that considers asset quality, 
diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target 
investment return. We use models to assess the effect of a range 
of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and 
associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in 
determining how best to structure asset holdings to support 
liabilities.

– We use derivatives and other financial instruments to protect 

against adverse market movements.

– We design new products to mitigate market risk, such as 

changing the investment return sharing proportion between 
policyholders and the shareholder.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

233

Risk reviewRisk review

Credit risk

(Audited)

Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries also have credit risk 
mandates and limits within which they are permitted to operate, 
which consider the credit risk exposure, quality and performance of 
their investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness 
of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally 
recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.

Stress testing is performed on investment credit exposures using 
credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.

We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These 
include a credit report containing a watch-list of investments with 
current credit concerns, primarily investments that may be at risk of 
future impairment or where high concentrations to counterparties are 
present in the investment portfolio. Sensitivities to credit spread risk 
are assessed and monitored regularly.

Capital and liquidity risk

(Audited)

Capital risk for our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries is assessed 
in the Group’s ICAAP based on their financial capacity to support the 
risks to which they are exposed. Capital adequacy is assessed on 
both the Group’s economic capital basis, and the relevant local 
insurance regulatory basis. 

Risk appetite buffers are set to ensure that the operations are able to 
remain solvent, allowing for business-as-usual volatility and extreme 
but plausible stress events.

investing in high credit-quality investments with deep and liquid 
markets, monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them 
where appropriate, and establishing committed contingency 
borrowing facilities.

Insurance manufacturing subsidiaries complete quarterly liquidity risk 
reports and an annual review of the liquidity risks to which they are 
exposed.

Insurance underwriting risk 

Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily use the following 
frameworks and processes to manage and mitigate insurance 
underwriting risks:

– a formal approval process for launching new products or making 

changes to products;

– a product pricing and profitability framework, which requires initial 
and ongoing assessment of the adequacy of premiums charged 
on new insurance contracts to meet the risks associated with 
them;

– a framework for customer underwriting;

– reinsurance, which cedes risks to third-party reinsurers to keep 
risks within risk appetite, reduce volatility and improve capital 
efficiency; and

– oversight by financial reporting committees in each of our entities 

of the methodology and assumptions that underpin IFRS 17 
reporting.

Liquidity risk is less material for the insurance business. It is managed 
by cash flow matching and maintaining sufficient cash resources, 
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2023
Measurement

The following tables show the composition of the fair value of underlying items of the Group’s participating contracts at the reporting date.

Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract

(Audited)

Life direct 
participating 
and 
investment 
DPF 
contracts1
$m
113,605   
—   

Life
other 
contracts2
$m
3,753   
—   

Other
contracts3
$m
5,812   
—   

Shareholder 
assets
and liabilities

$m
7,696   
—   

Total

$m
130,866 
— 

100,427   

258   
1,351   
8,859   
2,710   
13   
—   
2,782   
116,400   
—   
116,389   
—   
—   
—   
116,389   
—   
116,389   

3,593   

10   
67   
—   
83   
213   
4,871   
164   
9,001   
—   
3,961   
819   
1   
—   
4,781   
—   
4,781   

4,177   

—   
1,157   
5   
473   
—   
—   
35   
5,847   
5,103   
—   
—   
—   
—   
5,103   
—   
5,103   

1,166   

109,363 

6   
4,772   
693   
1,059   
—   
—   
1,636   
9,332   
—   
—   
—   
3   
6,573   
6,576   
7,731   
14,307   

274 
7,347 
9,557 
4,325 
226 
4,871 
4,617 
140,580 
5,103 
120,350 
819 
4 
6,573 
132,849 
7,731 
140,580 

At 31 Dec 2023

Financial assets
–  trading assets
–  financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 

through profit or loss

–  derivatives
–  financial investments – at amortised cost
–  financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
–  other financial assets
Insurance contract assets
Reinsurance contract assets
Other assets and investment properties
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value
Insurance contract liabilities
Reinsurance contract liabilities
Deferred tax
Other liabilities
Total liabilities
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2023

234

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract (continued)

(Audited)

At 31 Dec 20224
Financial assets
–  trading assets
–  financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 

through profit or loss

–  derivatives
–  financial investments – at amortised cost
–  financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
–  other financial assets
Insurance contract assets
Reinsurance contract assets
Other assets and investment properties
Total assets at 31 Dec 20224
Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value
Insurance contract liabilities
Reinsurance contract liabilities
Deferred tax
Other liabilities
Total liabilities
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 20224

Life direct 
participating 
and 
investment 
DPF 
contracts1
$m

Life
other 
contracts2
$m

Other
contracts3
$m

102,539   
—   

89,671   

432   
981   
9,030   
2,425   
4   
—   
2,443   
104,986   
—   
104,662   
—   
23   
—   
104,685   
—   
104,685   

4,398   
—   

3,749   

9   
165   
—   
475   
130   
4,413   
60   
9,001   
—   
3,766   
748   
—   
—   
4,514   
—   
4,514   

6,543   
—   

4,916   

21   
1,221   
—   
385   
—   
—   
30   
6,573   
5,374   
—   
—   
—   
—   
5,374   
—   
5,374   

Shareholder 
assets
and liabilities

$m

7,109   
—   

Total

$m

120,589 
— 

1,088   

99,424 

15   
4,660   
569   
777   
—   
—   
1,666   
8,775   
—   
—   
—   
2   
7,524   
7,526   
7,236   
14,762   

477 
7,027 
9,599 
4,062 
134 
4,413 
4,199 
129,335 
5,374 
108,428 
748 
25 
7,524 
122,099 
7,236 
129,335 

1 
2 

‘Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts’ are substantially measured under the variable fee approach measurement model.
‘Life other contracts’ are measured under the general measurement model and mainly includes protection insurance contracts as well as reinsurance 
contracts. The reinsurance contracts primarily provide diversification benefits over the life direct participating and investment discretionary 
participation feature (’DPF’) contracts.
‘Other contracts’ includes investment contracts for which HSBC does not bear significant insurance risk.

3 
4  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

Key risk types 

Market risk

(Audited)

Description and exposure

Market risk is the risk of changes in market factors affecting HSBC’s 
capital or profit. Market factors include interest rates, equity and 
growth assets, credit spreads and foreign exchange rates. 

Our exposure varies depending on the type of contract issued. 
Our most significant life insurance products are contracts with 
participating features. These products typically include some form of 
capital guarantee or guaranteed return on the sums invested by the 
policyholders, to which bonuses are added if allowed by the overall 
performance of the funds. These funds are primarily invested in fixed 
interest, with a proportion allocated to other asset classes to provide 
customers with the potential for enhanced returns.

Participating products expose HSBC to the risk of variation in asset 
returns, which will impact our participation in the investment 
performance. 

In addition, in some scenarios the asset returns can become 
insufficient to cover the policyholders’ financial guarantees, in which 
case the shortfall has to be met by HSBC. Amounts are held against 
the cost of such guarantees, calculated by stochastic modelling in the 
larger entities.

The cost of such guarantees are generally not material and are 
absorbed by the insurance fulfilment cash flows. 

For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the 
policyholder, but some market risk exposure typically remains, as 
fees earned are related to the market value of the linked assets.

Sensitivities

(Audited)

The following table provides the impacts on the CSM, profit after tax 
and equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries from 
reasonably possible effects of changes in selected interest rate, 
credit spread, equity price, growth assets and foreign exchange rate 
scenarios for the year. These sensitivities are prepared in accordance 
with current IFRS Accounting Standards and are based on changing 
one assumption at a time with other variables being held constant, 
which in practice could be correlated.

Due in part to the impact of the cost of guarantees and hedging 
strategies, which may be in place, the relationship between the CSM, 
profit after tax and total equity and the risk factors is non-linear. 
Therefore, the results disclosed should not be extrapolated to 
measure sensitivities to different levels of stress. For the same 
reason, the impact of the stress is not necessarily symmetrical on the 
upside and downside. The sensitivities are stated before allowance 
for management actions, which may mitigate the effect of changes in 
the market environment. 

The method used for deriving sensitivity information and significant 
market risk factors remain consistent between 2022 and 2023. In 
2022, due to a lower CSM level, some portfolios generated onerous 
contracts in the 100bps up scenarios for interest rate and credit 
spread sensitivities, generating income statement losses and equity 
reductions in those scenarios. This was less prevalent in 2023 as the 
base CSMs were higher from changing market conditions and 
changes in lapse rate assumptions.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

235

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk review

Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors1

(Audited)

+100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments
-100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments
+100 basis point shift in credit spreads
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial Instruments
-100 basis point shift in credit spreads
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments
10% increase in growth assets3
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments
10% decrease in growth assets3
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments
10% appreciation in US dollar exchange rate against local 
functional currency
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments
10% depreciation in US dollar exchange rate against local 
functional currency
–  Insurance and reinsurance contracts
–  Financial instruments

2023

20222

Effect on 
profit after tax

Effect on 
CSM

Effect on 
total equity

Effect on profit 
after tax

Effect on 
CSM

Effect on 
total equity

$m
66   
69   
(3)   
(137)   
(133)   
(4)   
(11)   
(9)   
(2)   
104   
102   
2   
78   
43   
35   
(85)   
(49)   
(36)   

117   

27   
90   

(117)   

(27)   
(90)   

$m
(92)   
(92)   
—   
(390)   
(390)   
—   
(884)   
(884)   
—   
806   
806   
—   
436   
436   
—   
(507)   
(507)   
—   

390   

390   
—   

(390)   

(390)   
—   

$m
32   
69   
(37)   
(103)   
(133)   
30   
(45)   
(9)   
(36)   
138   
102   
36   
78   
43   
35   
(86)   
(49)   
(36)   

117   

27   
90   

(117)   

(27)   
(90)   

$m

(210)   
(214)   
4   
(49)   
(41)   
(8)   
(324)   
(322)   
(2)   
119   
117   
2   
68   
38   
30   
(81)   
(49)   
(32)   

95   

20   
75   

(95)   

(20)   
(75)   

$m

(82)   
(82)   
—   
(57)   
(57)   
—   
(843)   
(843)   
—   
1,133   
1,133   
—   
400   
400   
—   
(560)   
(560)   
—   

272   

272   
—   

(272)   

(272)   
—   

$m

(240) 
(214) 
(26) 
(19) 
(41) 
22 
(354) 
(322) 
(32) 
149 
117 
32 
68 
38 
30 
(81) 
(49) 
(32) 

95 

20 
75 

(95) 

(20) 
(75) 

1  Sensitivities presented for ‘Insurance and reinsurance Contracts’ includes the impact of the sensitivity stress on underlying assets held to support 

insurance and reinsurance contracts. Sensitivities presented for ‘Financial instruments’ includes the impact of the sensitivity stress on other financial 
instruments, primarily shareholder assets.

2   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

3 

accordingly.
‘Growth assets’ primarily comprise equity securities and investment properties. Variability in growth asset fair value constitutes a market risk to 
HSBC insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.

Credit risk

(Audited)

Description and exposure 

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty 
fails to meet their obligation under a contract. It arises in two main 
areas for our insurance manufacturers:

– risk associated with credit spread volatility and default by debt 
security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a 
return for policyholders and shareholders; and

– risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-

reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.

The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect 
of these items are shown in the table on page 234.

The credit quality of the reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance 
contracts is assessed as ‘satisfactory’ or higher (as defined on 
page 148), with 100% of the exposure being neither past due nor 
impaired (2022: 100%). 

Credit risk on assets supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly 
borne by the policyholders. Therefore, our exposure is primarily 

related to liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment 
contracts and shareholders’ funds. The credit quality of insurance 
financial assets is included in the table on page 172. 

The risk associated with credit spread volatility is to a large extent 
mitigated by holding debt securities to maturity, and sharing a degree 
of credit spread experience with policyholders.

Liquidity risk

(Audited)

Description and exposure

Liquidity risk is the risk that an insurance operation, though solvent, 
either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet 
its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at 
excessive cost. Liquidity risk may be able to be shared with 
policyholders for products with participating features.

The remaining maturity of insurance contract liabilities is included in 
Note 4 on page 362.

236

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amounts of insurance contract liabilities that are payable on demand are set out by the product grouping below:

Amounts payable on demand
(Audited)

Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
At 31 Dec

2023

20221

Amounts payable 
on demand

Carrying amount 
for these 
contracts

Amounts payable 
on demand

Carrying amount 
for these contracts

$m
107,287   
2,765   
110,052   

$m
116,389   
3,961   
120,350   

$m

100,273   
2,813   
103,086   

$m

104,669 
3,759 
108,428 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

Insurance underwriting risk

Description and exposure

Insurance underwriting risk is the risk of loss through adverse 
experience, in either timing or amount, of insurance underwriting 
parameters (non-economic assumptions). These parameters include 
mortality, morbidity, longevity, lapse and expense rates. Lapse risk 
exposure on products with premium financing increased over the 
year as rising interest rates led to an increase in the cost of financing 
for customers.

The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of the contract, 
including claims and benefits, may exceed the total amount of 
premiums and investment income received. 

The tables on pages 234 analyse our life insurance underwriting risk 
exposures by composition of the fair value of the underlying items. 

The insurance underwriting risk profile and related exposures remain 
largely consistent with those observed at 31 December 2022. 

Sensitivities 

(Audited)

The following table shows the sensitivity of the CSM, profit and total 
equity to reasonably foreseeable changes in non-economic 
assumptions across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. 

These sensitivities are prepared in accordance with current IFRS 
Accounting Standards, which have changed following the adoption of 
IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, effective from 1 January 2023. Further 
information about the adoption of IFRS 17 is provided on page 342.

Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life insurance 
contracts. The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity 
depends on the type of business being written. 

Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts 
being written. An increase in lapse rates typically has a negative 
effect on CSM (and therefore expected future profits) due to the loss 
of future income on the lapsed policies. However, some contract 
lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of policy 
surrender charges. 

Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the allocated cost 
of administering insurance contracts. To the extent that increased 
expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in 
expense rates will have a negative effect on our profits. This risk is 
generally greatest for our smaller entities.

The impact of changing insurance underwriting risk factors is 
primarily absorbed within the CSM, unless contracts are onerous in 
which case the impact is directly to profits. The impact of changes to 
the CSM is released to profits over the expected coverage periods of 
the related insurance contracts. 

Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to insurance underwriting risk factors
(Audited)

At 31 Dec 2023

10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates
10% increase in lapse rates
10% decrease in lapse rates
10% increase in expense rates
10% decrease in expense rates
At 31 Dec 20223
10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates
10% increase in lapse rates
10% decrease in lapse rates
10% increase in expense rates
10% decrease in expense rates

Effect on CSM 
(gross)1
$m
(392)   
440   
(316)   
348   
(68)   
69   

Effect on profit 
after tax (gross)1
$m
(49)   
22   
(33)   
22   
(9)   
8   

Effect on profit 
after tax (net)2
$m
(24)   
30   
(24)   
29   
(6)   
11   

Effect on total 
equity (gross)1
$m
(49)   
22   
(33)   
22   
(9)   
8   

Effect on total 
equity (net)2
$m
(24) 
30 
(24) 
29 
(6) 
11 

(354)   
374   
(225)   
232   
(59)   
60   

(23)   
16   
(23)   
22   
(7)   
4   

(21)   
18   
(23)   
22   
(7)   
5   

(23)   
16   
(23)   
22   
(7)   
4   

(21) 
18 
(23) 
22 
(7) 
5 

1  The ‘gross’ sensitivities impacts are provided before considering the impacts of reinsurance contracts held as risk mitigation. 
2  The ‘net’ sensitivities impacts are provided after considering the impacts of reinsurance contracts held as risk mitigation. 
3   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

237

Risk review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate 
governance 
report

HSBC continues to enhance its corporate  
governance practices and procedures to 
support the Board’s ambition of world-class 
governance.

The corporate governance report contains 
the Report of the Directors and gives  
details of our Board of Directors, senior 
management, and Board committees. It 
outlines key aspects of our approach to 
corporate governance, including internal 
control.

It also includes the Directors’ remuneration 
report, which explains our policies on 
remuneration and their application.

239   The Board

244  Senior management

248   How we are governed

254  

 Board matters considered and shareholder 
engagement

260   Board and committee effectiveness,  
performance and accountability

262   Board committees

279  Directors’ remuneration report

306 

 Share capital and other related governance 
disclosures

311 

Internal control

313  Employees

315  Statement of compliance

316  Directors’ responsibility statement

We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems  
in place designed to help ensure that the Group is well  
managed, with effective oversight and control.

238

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
The Board
The Board, which seeks to promote the Group’s long-term  
success, deliver sustainable value to shareholders  
and promote a culture of openness and debate, comprises 
diverse, high-calibre members who have experience in 
our global markets.

Chairman and executive Directors

Mark E Tucker (66)
N  

Group Chairman
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 
Group Chairman since: October 2017

Skills and experience: With over 35 years of 
experience in financial services in Asia, Africa,  
the US, the EU and the UK, including 30 years  
living and working in Hong Kong, Mark has a  
deep understanding of the industry and markets 
in which we operate. 

Career: Mark was previously Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive and President of AIA Group 
Limited (‘AIA’), and prior to AIA he was Group Chief 
Executive of Prudential plc. Mark previously served 
as a non-executive Director of the Court of the Bank 
of England and as an independent non-executive 
Director of Goldman Sachs Group.

External appointments: 
 – Non-executive Chairman of Discovery Limited
 – Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero
 – Member of the UK Investment Council
 – Member of the Advisory Group on Trade Finance 

to the International Chamber of Commerce 

 – Member of the Trade Advisory Group on Financial 
Services to the UK Government’s Department for 
International Trade 

 – Member of the Asia Business Council
 – Member of Hong Kong’s Chief Executive’s 

Advisory Council on Economic Development 

 – Member of the Investment Advisory Council of the 
Supreme National Investment Committee of the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

 – Chairman of the Multinational Chairman’s Group 
 – Director, Peterson Institute for  

International Economics

 – Director, Institute of International Finance
 – Asia Society Global Board of Trustees
 – International Advisory Council of the China 

National Financial Regulatory Administration
 – Hong Kong Academy of Finance International 

Council of Advisors

 – Member of the Asia Global Institute
 – International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council 
to the Mayor of Beijing – Adviser to the Mayor
 – International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council 
to the Mayor of Shanghai – Adviser to the Mayor

Georges Elhedery (49)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: January 2023

Skills and experience: Georges has over 25 years 
of experience in the banking industry across Europe, 
the Middle East and Asia, and has held a number 
of executive roles at both a regional and global 
business level.

Career: Georges was appointed Group Chief 
Financial Officer and executive Director with effect 
from 1 January 2023. He is also responsible for the 
oversight of the Group’s transformation initiatives, 
strategy and corporate development activities. 
Georges was previously co-Chief Executive Officer, 
Global Banking and Markets and also Head of 
the Markets and Securities Services division of 
the business. Georges joined HSBC in 2005 with 
extensive trading experience in London, Paris 
and Tokyo. He has since held a number of senior 
leadership roles, including Head of Global Banking 
and Markets, Middle East and North Africa; Chief 
Executive Officer for HSBC, Middle East, North 
Africa and Türkiye; and Global Head of Markets 
based in London. 

Noel Quinn (62)
Group Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board: August 2019 
Group Chief Executive since: March 2020

Skills and experience: Having qualified as an 
accountant in 1987, Noel has more than 30 years  
of banking and financial services experience, both  
in the UK and Asia.

Career: Noel was appointed Group Chief Executive 
in March 2020, having held the role on an interim 
basis since August 2019. Since joining HSBC and 
its constituent companies in 1987, Noel has held a 
variety of roles including Chief Executive Officer, 
Global Commercial Banking; Regional Head of 
Commercial Banking for Asia-Pacific; Head of 
Commercial Banking UK; and Head of Commercial 
Finance Europe.

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director of Sustainable 
Markets Initiative Limited and Chair of the Financial 
Services Task Force

 – Principal member of the Glasgow Financial 

Alliance for Net Zero

 – Member of the World Economic Forum’s 

International Business Council

 – Member of the World Bank Private Sector 

Investment Lab

 – Member of the Advisory Board of the China 

Children Development Fund

 – Founding member of CNBC ESG Council
 – Member of the British Infrastructure Council

Board committee membership key

 Committee Chair

A  Group Audit Committee

Ri  Group Risk Committee

R  Group Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee

 For full biographical details of our Board members, see  
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

239

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Independent non-executive Directors

Geraldine Buckingham (46) 
Ri   R   N

Rachel Duan (53)
A   R   N

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (63)
Ri   R   N

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2022 

Skills and experience: Geraldine is 
an experienced executive within the 
global financial services industry, with 
significant leadership experience  
in Asia. 

Career: Geraldine is the former Chair 
and Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock, 
where she was responsible for all 
business activities across Hong 
Kong, mainland China, Japan, 
Australia, Singapore, India and Korea. 
After stepping down from this role, 
she acted as senior adviser to the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
of BlackRock. She earlier served as 
BlackRock’s Global Head of Corporate 
Strategy, and previously was a partner 
within McKinsey & Company’s 
financial services practice. 

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director 
of Brunswick Group Partnership Ltd
 – Independent non-executive Director 

of H.R.L. Morrison & Co Limited
 – Member of the Advisory Board of
ClimateWorks Centre Australia
 – Member of the Advisory Board of
the McKinsey Health Institute

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board:  
September 2021 

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board:  
September 2021

Skills and experience: Rachel is 
an experienced business leader with 
exceptional international experience 
in the US, Japan, mainland China and 
Hong Kong.

Career: Rachel spent 24 years at 
General Electric (‘GE’), where she 
held positions including Senior Vice 
President of GE, and President and 
Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Global 
Markets where she was responsible 
for driving GE’s growth in Asia-Pacific, 
the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, 
Russia and the Commonwealth 
of Independent States. She also 
previously served as President 
and Chief Executive Officer of GE 
Advanced Materials China and then 
of the Asia-Pacific; President and CEO 
of GE Healthcare China; and President 
and CEO of GE China.

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director 

Skills and experience: Carolyn 
has significant experience across 
the media, government and finance 
sectors, and a deep understanding of 
the macroeconomic, regulatory, and 
political environment.

Career: An economist by training, 
Carolyn has served as a partner at 
McKinsey & Company, a member of 
the UK prime minister John Major’s 
Number 10 Policy Unit, and as 
Director-General of the Confederation 
of British Industry, and held senior 
executive positions at the BBC and 
ITV plc. She has extensive board 
experience, having previously 
served as non-executive Director 
of Lloyds Banking Group plc, The 
Vitec Group plc, Capita plc and BAE 
Systems plc. She has also served as 
a non-executive Director of the UK 
Competition and Markets Authority 
and the Financial Services Authority.

of Sanofi S.A.

 – Independent non-executive Director 

External appointments: 
– Independent non-executive Director 

of AXA S.A.

of Tesco plc

 – Independent non-executive Director 

of the Adecco Group AG

– Chair of Royal Mencap Society
– Honorary Fellow of Gonville and 

Caius College, Cambridge

240

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Steven Guggenheimer (58)
Ri   N  

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2020

Skills and experience: Steven brings 
extensive insight into technologies 
ranging from artificial intelligence  
to Cloud computing, through his 
experience advising businesses  
on digital transformation.

Career: Steven has more than  
25 years of experience at Microsoft, 
including more than a decade as 
Corporate Vice President, where 
he led teams focused on original 
equipment manufacturers, developers 
and independent software vendors 
and artificial intelligence solutions.

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director 

of BT Group plc

 – Independent non-executive Director 

of Leupold & Stevens, Inc

 – Independent non-executive Director 

of Forrit Holdings Limited

James Forese (60)
A   Ri   N  

Ann Godbehere (68)
R   N  

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2020

Skills and experience: Jamie has 
over 30 years of international business 
and management experience in the 
finance industry working in areas 
including global markets, investment 
and private banking.

Career: Jamie formerly served as 
President of Citigroup. He began 
his career in securities trading with 
Salomon Brothers, one of Citigroup’s 
predecessor companies, in 1985. In 
addition to his most recent role as 
Citigroup’s President, he was Chief 
Executive Officer of Citigroup’s 
Institutional Clients Group. He has held 
the positions of Chief Executive of its 
Securities and Banking division and 
Head of its Global Markets business.

External appointments: 
 – Non-executive Chair of HSBC North 

America Holdings Inc

 – Non-executive Chairman of Global 

Bamboo Technologies

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board:  
September 2023

Skills and experience: Ann brings 
deep financial acumen and extensive 
financial services experience over a 
30-year career spanning insurance, 
retail and private banking, and wealth 
management. She also provides  
global perspectives, drawing upon 
experiences and insights gained from 
a long career in international business.

Career: After joining Swiss Re in 
1996, Ann served as the company’s 
Chief Financial Officer from 2003 
to 2007. She was also Interim Chief 
Financial Officer of Northern Rock 
Bank from 2008 to 2009 in the period 
immediately after its nationalisation. 
Ann also has extensive board 
experience, including with FTSE 100 
companies, having previously served 
as non-executive Director of Prudential 
plc, British American Tobacco plc, 
UBS AG, UBS Group AG and as Senior 
Independent non-executive Director of 
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.

External appointments: 
 – Non-executive Director and  

Chair of the Audit Committee of  
Stellantis N.V.

 – Non-executive Director and Chair of 
the Audit Committee of Shell plc

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

241

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Dr José Antonio Meade  
Kuribreña (54)
R   N

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: March 2019 
Workforce engagement non-executive 
Director since: June 2022

Skills and experience: José has 
extensive experience in public 
administration, banking and  
financial policy.

Career: José has held Cabinet-level 
positions in the federal government 
of Mexico, including as Secretary of 
Finance and Public Credit, Secretary 
of Social Development, Secretary 
of Foreign Affairs and Secretary of 
Energy. Prior to his appointment to the 
Cabinet, he served as Undersecretary 
and as Chief of Staff in the Ministry of 
Finance and Public Credit. José is also 
a former Director General of Banking 
and Savings at the Ministry of Finance 
and Public Credit, and served as Chief 
Executive Officer of the National Bank 
for Rural Credit.

Kalpana Morparia (74) 
Ri   N

Eileen Murray (65) 
A   R   N

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: March 2023

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2020

Skills and experience: Kalpana is a 
skilled business leader with significant 
experience gained through a 45-
year career in banking across Asia, 
primarily in India.

Skills and experience: Eileen has 
extensive knowledge in financial 
services, technology and corporate 
strategy from a career spanning more 
than 40 years.

Career: Kalpana’s most recent 
executive role was as Chair of J.P. 
Morgan, South and Southeast Asia 
and a member of J.P. Morgan’s Asia 
executive committee, which she held 
until her retirement in 2021. Before J.P. 
Morgan, she was the Joint Managing 
Director of ICICI Bank, India’s second-
largest bank, from 2001 to 2007.

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director 

of Hindustan Unilever Limited

 – Independent non-executive Director 

of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.

 – Independent non-executive Director 

of Philip Morris International Inc
 – Governing board member of the

Career: Eileen previously served 
as co-Chief Executive Officer of 
Bridgewater Associates, LP. Before 
this, she was Chief Executive Officer 
for Investment Risk Management LLC, 
and President and co-Chief Executive 
Officer of Duff Capital Advisors. 
Eileen started her professional 
career at Morgan Stanley, where she 
held positions including Controller, 
Treasurer, and Global Head of 
Technology and Operations, as well 
as Chief Operating Officer for its 
Institutional Securities Group. She 
was also Head of Global Technology, 
Operations and Product Control at 
Credit Suisse.

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director 
of Guardian Life Insurance Company
of America

 – Independent non-executive Director 
of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc

 – Member of the Advisory Board of

Mobilize Capital Partners

External appointments: 
 – Independent non-executive Director 

of Alfa S.A.B. de C.V.

 – Independent non-executive Director 
of Grupo Comercial Chedraui, S.A.B.
de C.V.

Bharti Foundation

 – Governing board member of
Foundation for Audit Quality
 – Governing board member of the
Generation India Foundation
 – Governing council member of

 – Board member of the Global Center

Krea University

on Adaptation

 – Member of the Advisory Board of 
the University of California, Centre
for US Mexican Studies

 – Member of the UNICEF Mexico

Advisory Board

242

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Aileen Taylor (51) 
Group Company Secretary and 
Chief Governance Officer
Appointed: November 2019

Skills and experience: Aileen is a 
solicitor with significant governance 
and regulatory experience across 
various roles in the banking 
industry. She is a member of the 
European Corporate Governance 
Council, the GC100 and the 
Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Listing Authority Advisory Panel.

Career: Prior to joining HSBC, 
Aileen spent 19 years at the Royal 
Bank of Scotland Group, holding 
various legal, risk and compliance 
roles. She was appointed Group 
Secretary in 2010 and subsequently 
Chief Governance Officer and  
Board Counsel.

Brendan Nelson (74)
A   Ri   N

David Nish (63) 
A   Ri   N

Swee Lian Teo (64)
Ri   N  

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board:  
September 2023

Skills and experience: Brendan 
brings UK and international financial 
and auditing expertise, and significant 
experience in auditing and as  
audit committee chair of  
UK-listed companies.

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2016 
Senior Independent non-executive 
Director since: February 2020 

Skills and experience: David has 
international experience in financial 
services, corporate governance, 
strategy, financial reporting, and 
operational transformation. 

Career: David served as Group Chief 
Executive Officer of Standard Life 
plc between 2010 and 2015, having 
joined the company in 2006 as Group 
Finance Director. He is also a former 
Group Finance Director of Scottish 
Power plc and was a partner at Price 
Waterhouse. David has also previously 
served as a non-executive Director 
of HDFC Life (India), Northern Foods 
plc, Thus plc, London Stock Exchange 
Group plc, the UK Green Investment 
Bank plc and Zurich Insurance Group.

External appointments: 
 – Senior Independent non-executive 
Director of Vodafone Group plc and 
Chairman of the Audit and  
Risk Committee

 – Honorary Professor of University of 

Dundee Business School

Career: Brendan spent over 25 years 
as a partner at KPMG LLP, served 
on the board from 2000 and as 
Vice Chairman from 2006, until his 
retirement in 2010. Internationally, he 
held various senior positions including 
Global Chairman of the financial 
services practice. Subsequently, 
Brendan joined the boards of bp 
plc and NatWest Group plc where 
he also served as Chairman of both 
companies’ audit committees.
During his career, Brendan was 
President of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland, a member 
of the Financial Reporting Review 
Panel and a member of the Financial 
Services Authority’s Practitioner 
Panel. As current Chairman of the 
Board of BP Pension Fund Trustees 
Ltd, Brendan has received training in 
ESG considerations for investment 
decisions and helped set an ambition 
to be net zero in terms of greenhouse 
gas emissions from investments  
by 2050. 

External appointments: 
 – Chairman of BP Pension Trustees Ltd

Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: October 2023

Skills and experience: Swee Lian 
brings extensive experience within 
the international financial services 
industry, having previously spent over 
27 years with the Monetary Authority 
of Singapore (‘MAS‘).

Career: During Swee Lian’s time 
at the MAS, she worked in foreign 
reserves management, financial sector 
development, strategic planning 
and financial supervision, before 
she became the Deputy Managing 
Director for Financial Supervision. She 
retired from the MAS in 2015 after 
serving as Special Advisor, focused 
on MAS’s role in the international 
regulatory framework, in the 
Managing Director’s office. Swee Lian 
previously served as a non-executive 
Director on the boards of AIA Group 
Limited and the Dubai Financial 
Services Authority.

External appointments: 
 – Non-executive Director of Singapore 
Telecommunications Limited and 
Chair of the Risk Committee

 – Non-executive Director of Avanda 
Investment Management Pte Ltd
 – Director of Clifford Capital Pte Ltd
 – Director of Clifford Capital Holdings 

Pte Ltd

 – Chair of CapitaLand  

Integrated Commercial Trust 
Management Limited.

Former Directors who served during the year
Jackson Tai
Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023

 For full biographical details of our Board members,  
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

243

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Senior management 

Senior management, which includes 
the Group Executive Committee, 
supports the Group Chief Executive  
in the day-to-day management of the 
business and the implementation  
of strategy. 

Elaine Arden (55) 
Group Chief Human  
Resources Officer

Colin Bell (56) 
Chief Executive Officer,  
HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Europe

Elaine joined HSBC as Group Chief 
Human Resources Officer in June 
2017. Prior to joining HSBC, she was 
Group Human Resources Director at 
the Royal Bank of Scotland Group for 
six years in the aftermath of the global 
financial crisis. She has held a number 
of human resources roles throughout 
her career in financial services, 
including Head of Human Resources 
for Direct Line Group. Elaine is a 
member of the Chartered Institute of 
Personnel and Development, and a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Banking in Scotland.

Colin joined HSBC in July 2016 and 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer, 
HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Europe in 
February 2021, having previously held 
the role of Group Chief Compliance 
Officer. He is also a Director of HSBC 
Bank (Singapore) Limited. Colin 
worked at UBS as Global Head of 
Compliance and Operational Risk 
Control. He served for 16 years in the 
British Army, where he held a variety 
of command and staff positions, 
including operational tours of Iraq 
and Northern Ireland, and roles in the 
Ministry of Defence and NATO.

Jonathan Calvert-Davies (55) 
Group Head of Internal Audit

Jonathan is a standing attendee of 
the Group Executive Committee, 
having joined HSBC as Group Head 
of Internal Audit in October 2019. 
He has over 30 years of experience 
providing assurance, audit and 
advisory services to the banking and 
securities industries in the UK, the US 
and Europe. Jonathan’s previous roles 
included leading KPMG UK’s financial 
services internal audit services 
practice and PwC’s UK internal audit 
services practice. He also previously 
served as interim Group Head of 
Internal Audit at the Royal Bank of 
Scotland Group.

Greg Guyett (60) 
Chief Executive Officer,  
Global Banking and Markets

Greg joined HSBC in October 2018 as 
Head of Global Banking and became 
co-Chief Executive Officer of Global 
Banking and Markets in March 2020, 
before assuming sole responsibility in 
October 2022. Before joining HSBC, 
he was President and Chief Operating 
Officer of East West Bank. Greg began 
his career as an investment banker at 
J.P. Morgan, where positions included: 
Chief Executive Officer for Greater 
China; Chief Executive Officer, Global 
Corporate Bank; Head of Investment 
Banking for Asia-Pacific; and Co-Head 
of Banking for Asia-Pacific.

244

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Dr Celine Herweijer (46) 
Group Chief Sustainability Officer

John Hinshaw (53) 
Group Chief Operating Officer

Bob Hoyt (59) 
Group Chief Legal Officer

Celine joined HSBC as Group Chief 
Sustainability Officer in July 2021, 
and is responsible for the Group’s 
execution of its sustainability strategy. 
She was previously a partner at PwC 
for over a decade, where she held 
global leadership roles including 
acting as its global innovation and 
sustainability leader. Before joining 
PwC in 2009, Celine worked as 
Director of Climate Change and 
Consulting for Risk Management 
Solutions. She is a World Economic 
Forum Young Global Leader, a 
co-chair of the We Mean Business 
Coalition, a PhD climate scientist and 
NASA Fellow.

John became Group Chief Operating 
Officer in February 2020, having 
joined HSBC in December 2019. He 
is Chairman of HSBC Global Services 
Limited and a Director of HSBC 
Innovation Bank Limited. John was 
previously Executive Vice President of 
Technology and Operations and Chief 
Customer Officer at Hewlett Packard 
and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and 
has held senior executive positions 
at Verizon and Boeing. John serves 
on the boards of Sysco Corporation 
and Illumio, Inc., and has previously 
served on the boards of BNY Mellon, 
DocuSign and the National  
Academy Foundation. 

Bob joined HSBC as Group Chief 
Legal Officer in January 2021. He was 
previously Group General Counsel 
at Barclays from 2013 to 2020. Prior 
to that, he was General Counsel 
and Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer 
for PNC Financial Services Group. 
Bob has served as General Counsel 
and Senior Policy Adviser to the US 
Department of the Treasury under 
Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr, and 
as Special Assistant and Associate 
Counsel to the White House under 
President George W. Bush.

Steve John (50) 
Group Chief Communications and 
Brand Officer

Pam Kaur (60) 
Group Chief Risk and  
Compliance Officer

Steve joined HSBC in December 
2019 and was appointed to the 
Group Executive Committee in April 
2021. He has a wealth of senior 
communications, public policy and 
leadership experience acquired 
across a number of multinational 
and charitable organisations. Steve 
was previously a partner and Global 
Director of Communications at 
McKinsey & Company from 2014 to 
2019. He has also held roles with  
Bupa as Global Director of Corporate 
Affairs and PepsiCo as Director of 
Corporate Affairs for their UK and 
Ireland franchises.

Pam was appointed Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer in 2021, 
having been Group Chief Risk Officer 
since 2020. She is a Director of the 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited. Since joining 
HSBC in 2013, her roles included 
Group Head of Internal Audit and 
Head of Wholesale Market and 
Credit Risk. Since qualifying as a 
chartered accountant with Ernst & 
Young, Pam held various senior audit, 
compliance, finance and operations 
roles with Deutsche Bank, the Royal 
Bank of Scotland Group, Lloyds TSB 
and Citigroup. She serves as a non-
executive Director of abrdn plc. 

David Liao (51) 
Co-Chief Executive, 
The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited

David was appointed Co-Chief 
Executive of the Asia-Pacific region in 
2021. He is also a Director of the Bank 
of Communications Co., Limited, and 
Hang Seng Bank Limited. David joined 
HSBC in 1997, with previous roles 
including: Head of Global Banking 
Coverage for Asia-Pacific; President 
and Chief Executive of HSBC China; 
Head of Global Banking and Markets, 
HSBC China; and Treasurer and Head 
of Global Markets, HSBC China.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

245

Corporate governanceAdditional members of the  
Group Executive Committee

Noel Quinn

Georges Elhedery

Aileen Taylor

Biographies are provided on  
pages 239 and 243.

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Nuno Matos (56) 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Wealth and Personal Banking 

Nuno was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer of Wealth and Personal 
Banking in 2021. Since joining HSBC 
in 2015 from Santander Group, he has 
held various roles, most recently as 
Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Bank 
plc and HSBC Europe. He has also 
held the positions of Chief Executive 
Officer of HSBC Mexico and Regional 
Head of Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management for Latin America. 
He is currently the Chairman of MP 
Payments Group Limited.

Stephen Moss (57) 
Regional Chief Executive Officer, 
Middle East, North Africa  
and Türkiye

Barry O’Byrne (48) 
Chief Executive Officer,  
Global Commercial Banking 

Stephen was appointed Regional Chief 
Executive Officer for the Middle East, 
North Africa and Türkiye in 2021. He 
has held a series of roles in Asia, the 
UK and the Middle East since joining 
HSBC in 1992, including as Chief of 
Staff to the Group Chief Executive 
and overseeing the Group’s mergers 
and acquisitions, and strategy and 
planning activities. Stephen is a 
Director of HSBC Bank Middle East 
Limited, HSBC Middle East Holdings 
B.V, HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E., HSBC 
Saudi Arabia and Saudi Awwal Bank.

Barry was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer of Global Commercial Banking 
in 2020, having served in the role on 
an interim basis since August 2019. 
He joined HSBC in 2017 as Chief 
Operating Officer for Commercial 
Banking. Before joining HSBC, Barry 
worked at GE Capital for 19 years 
where he held a number of senior 
leadership roles, including Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Operating 
Officer for GE Capital International.

Michael Roberts (63) 
Chief Executive Officer,  
HSBC USA and Americas

Michael was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of HSBC USA 
when he joined HSBC in 2019. He 
became Chief Executive Officer of the 
Americas with oversight responsibility 
for Canada and Latin America in 2021. 
He is a Director of HSBC Bank Canada; 
Director, President and Chief Executive 
Officer of HSBC North America 
Holdings Inc.; and Chairman of HSBC 
Bank USA, N.A., HSBC USA Inc and 
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) 
Limited. Previously, Michael spent 
over 30 years at Citigroup in a number 
of senior leadership roles, most 
recently as Global Head of Corporate 
Banking and Capital Management and 
Chief Lending Officer.

Surendra Rosha (55) 
Co-Chief Executive, 
The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited

Surendra was appointed Co-Chief 
Executive of the Asia-Pacific region 
in 2021. He is a Director of The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited, HSBC Global 
Asset Management Limited and HSBC 
Bank Malaysia Berhad. Surendra 
joined HSBC in 1991 and has held 
several senior positions within Global 
Banking and Markets, including Head 
of Global Markets in Indonesia and 
Head of Institutional Sales, Asia-
Pacific. He previously held the position 
of Chief Executive for HSBC India and 
Head of HSBC’s financial institutions 
group for Asia-Pacific.

John David Stuart  
(known as Ian Stuart) (60) 
Chief Executive Officer,  
HSBC UK Bank plc

Ian has been Chief Executive Officer of 
HSBC UK Bank plc since 2017, having 
joined HSBC as Head of Commercial 
Banking in the UK and Europe in 2014. 
He has worked in financial services for 
over 40 years, previously holding roles 
at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group 
and Barclays. Ian holds an Honorary 
Masters and Honorary Doctorate 
degree for his services to the banking 
sector. He is a member of the UK 
Finance Board, the UK Investment 
Council and a business ambassador 
for Meningitis Now. 

246

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board and senior management diversity  
We value difference

Diversity and inclusion are embedded within the culture of HSBC. The Board remains 
committed to having an inclusive culture that recognises the importance of  
gender, social and ethnic diversity, and the benefits gained from different perspectives.

This section outlines the key diversity and inclusion metrics for Board members and executive management as at 31 December 2023. This includes 
tenure, age, skills and experience, as well as gender and ethnic representation.

Gender and ethnic diversity

The Financial Conduct Authority requires all listed companies to publish in their Annual Report 
and Accounts information on female and ethnic heritage representation on the Board and in 
senior management. The tables below outline the current gender and ethnic diversity of the HSBC 
Holdings Board and executive management reflecting data gathered through self-identification.

Board composition, 
tenure and age 
13 
2 

Executive 
Directors 

Non-executive 
Directors

Gender
Board

Board

Executive management Executive management

Male
Female

Male
Female

Non executive 
Directors 10
Executive 
Directors 2

Executive management Executive management
%

Number

Board members

Number of  
senior positions1

Executive management2

Male

Female

Other

Not specified/prefer not to say

8

7

–

–

53

47

–

–

4

0

–

–

Number

0–2 years
15
3–5 years
4
6+ years
–

–

%

79

21

–

–

Ethnic diversity
Board

Executive management Executive management

Male
Female

Male
White British or other 
Female
White (including 
minority-White groups)
Asian/Asian British
Other ethnic groups, 
including Arab

White British or other White 
(including minority-White groups)
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups
Asian/Asian British
Other ethnic groups, including Arab
Not speciﬁed/prefer not to say

Executive management Executive management

White British or other White 
(including minority-White groups)

Mixed/multiple ethnic groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/ 
Black British

Other ethnic groups,  
including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Board members

Number

10

–

3

–

2

–

%

67

–

20

–

13

–

Executive management2

Number of  
senior positions1

Number

13

1

3

–

1

1

%

69

5

16

–

5

5

4

–

–

–

–

–

1  Senior positions on the Board comprise the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial 

Officer and Senior Independent non-executive Director.

2  Executive management comprises the Group Chief Executive, his direct reports, and the Group Company 

Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. 

Tenure1

Age

0–2 years
3–5 years
6+ years

45–49
50–54
55–59
60–64
65+

1  Tenure of a non-executive Director is calculated 

by reference to the date of their election by 
shareholders following their appointment.

Skills and experience

The summary below provides an overview  
of the skills and experiences held by the 
non-executive Directors on the Board. This  
is based on the current skills matrix, which  
is reviewed annually by the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee to ensure 
that the Board has the skills and experience 
required to effectively discharge its duties 
and to support succession planning 
discussions. The skills and experiences of the 
newly appointed non-executive Directors are  
also included in the below extract.

Banking

Finance

Risk

Customer

Digital technology

Corporate social responsibility/ESG

Direct Asia market experience

Male
Global business experience

12

10

10

7

4

5

6

10

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

247

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

How we are governed

We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The 
Group has a comprehensive range of policies and procedures in place 
designed to help ensure that it is well managed, with effective 
oversight and controls.  
Board and executive governance
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible among other 
matters for:

– promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering

sustainable value to shareholders;

– establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives,

and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy and
values with the desired culture and standards;

– setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s risk

profile;

– approving and monitoring capital and financial resource plans for
achieving strategic objectives, including material transactions;

– considering and approving the Group’s technology and

environmental, social and governance strategies;

– ensuring effective engagement with, and encouraging participation

from, shareholders and other key stakeholders;

– approving the appointment and remuneration of Directors,

including Board roles;

– reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements;

and

– providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a

framework of prudent and effective controls.

The Board’s responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters 
reserved within its terms of reference, which are available on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/
board-responsibilities. The Board’s powers are subject to relevant 
laws, regulations and HSBC’s articles of association.

The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support the 
development of strategy, oversee risk, hold management to account 
and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their 
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to encourage 
constructive challenge. Further details on the independence of the 
Board can be found in the Nomination & Corporate Governance 

Committee report on page 262. Non-executive Directors also review 
the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive 
Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after Board 
meetings and otherwise, as necessary. 

The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate. 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of 
the Board by the Group Chairman, and the executive responsibility for 
day-to-day management of HSBC’s business, which is undertaken by 
the Group Chief Executive. 

The majority of Board members are independent non-executive 
Directors. At 31 December 2023, the Board comprised the Group 
Chairman, 12 non-executive Directors, and two executive Directors 
who are the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial 
Officer. As previously announced, David Nish will not stand for 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting (’AGM’) on 3 May 2024.

For further details of Board members' career backgrounds, skills, 
experience and external appointments, see their biographies on 
page 239, and for a breakdown of the diversity and skills of the Board 
and senior management, see page 247.
Operation of the Board 

The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet nine times a year. In 2023, 
the Board held 11 meetings. For further details on attendance at 
those meetings, see page 249. The Board agenda is agreed by the 
Group Chairman, working with both the Group Chief Executive and 
the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. For 
further information, see ’Board matters considered and shareholder 
engagement’ on page 254.

The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, the 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the Group Chief Legal 
Officer are regular attendees at Board meetings. The non-executive 
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited is also a regular attendee at most Board meetings. The chief 
executive officers of the three global businesses attend Board 
strategy discussions, and other senior executives attend Board 
meetings for specific items as required.

In addition, as agreed by the Board, the Board Oversight Sub-Group is 
called on an ad hoc basis where necessary. Such meetings are an 
informal mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and 
management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board 
matters. The Board Oversight Sub-Group was not convened in 2023.

248

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance

The table below sets out the Board members’ respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2023. For a 
full description of key Board members’ responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.

Roles

Group Chairman
Mark E Tucker2,3

Board 
attendance 
in 20231
12/12

Responsibilities

– Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance practices.
– Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and values.
– Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and constructive debate 

among Directors.

– Maintains internal and external relationships with key stakeholders, and communicates investors’ views to the 

Board.

– Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the performance of the 

Board, its committees and individual Directors.

– Leads on succession planning for the Board and its committees, ensuring appointments reflect diverse cultures, 

skills and experiences.

Executive Director
Group Chief Executive
Noel Quinn3

Executive Director
Group Chief Financial 
Officer
Georges Elhedery3,4

Non-executive Director
Senior Independent 
Director
David Nish3,5,6

Non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham3,5
Rachel Duan3,5
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3,5,6
James Forese3,5
Ann Godbehere4,5
Steven Guggenheimer3,5,6

Dr José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña3,5,7
Kalpana Morparia3,4,5
Eileen Murray3,5,6
Brendan Nelson4,5
Jackson Tai3,5,6,8
Swee Lian Teo4,5

Group Company 
Secretary and Chief 
Governance Officer
Aileen Taylor

12/12

– Leads and directs the implementation of the Group’s business strategy, embedding the organisation’s culture and 

values.

– Leads the Group Executive Committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group, under 

authority delegated to him from the Board.

– Maintains relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the Board, 

customers, regulators, governments and investors.

– Maintains responsibility and accountability for the Group’s and its employees’ compliance with applicable laws, 

codes, rules and regulations, good market practice and HSBC’s own standards.

12/12

– Supports the Group Chief Executive in developing and implementing the Group strategy, and recommends the 

annual budget and long-term strategic and financial resource plan.

– Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial and regulatory reporting, including the 
effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit for 
purpose.

– Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.

10/12

– Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
– Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division of 

responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.

– Listens to shareholders’ views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels.

– Develop and approve the Group strategy.
– Challenge and oversee the performance of management in achieving agreed corporate goals and objectives.
– Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
– Contribute to the assessment and monitoring of culture.
– Maintain internal and external relationships with the Group’s key stakeholders.

-

12/12

12/12

10/12

12/12

3/3

11/12
12/12

10/10

11/12

3/3

6/7

2/2

– Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
– Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and transparent 

engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.

– Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
– Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and decision 

making across the Group.

1  The total number of meetings comprised nine scheduled meetings, two ad hoc meetings and the AGM.
2  The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
3  Attended the AGM on 5 May 2023.
4  Georges Elhedery joined the Board effective 1 January 2023. Kalpana Morparia joined the Board effective 1 March 2023. Ann Godbehere and Brendan 

5 

Nelson joined the Board effective 1 September 2023. Swee Lian Teo joined the Board effective 1 October 2023. 
Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of HSBC. There are no relationships or 
circumstances that are likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their 
independence during the year.

6   Meetings held on 9 March 2023, 16 March 2023 and 8 November 2023 were called at short notice. Due to prior commitments Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 
was unable to attend on 9 March 2023, David Nish, Jackson Tai and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn were unable to attend on 16 March 2023, and David Nish 
and Steven Guggenheimer were unable to attend on 8 November 2023. Due to prior commitments Eileen Murray was unable to attend the Board 
meeting in September 2023.

7  Dr José Antonio Meade Kuribreña was appointed as the independent non-executive Director with responsibility for workforce engagement on 1 June 

2022. Further information can be found on page 257.

8  Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

249

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Relationship between the Board and senior 
management 

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and 
implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive. The Group 
Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Group by 
recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee 
(’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of senior 
management that include chief executive officers of the global 
businesses and regions, as well as functional heads. For further 
details of the senior management team, see page 244. 

All Directors are encouraged to have contact with management at all 
levels, and have full access to all relevant information. Visits to local 
business operations and meetings with local management are 
arranged for the non-executive Directors when they attend Board 
meetings in different locations, and when travelling for other reasons. 
Senior management often attend alongside Directors’ stakeholder 
engagements (see ’Board decision making and engagement with 
stakeholders’ on page 20). The workforce engagement non-executive 
Director attends the GEC on occasion to provide senior management 
with updates on workforce engagements carried out by the Board, 
including relevant Board observations. For further details, see ’Board 
stakeholder and workforce engagement’ on page 257.
Executive governance

The GEC promotes the tone from the top, set by the Board, across 
the organisation. This helps to ensure that our colleagues follow our 
values, and foster a culture that delivers against our purpose of 
opening up a world of opportunity. At its meetings, the GEC dedicates 
time to reflect on our purpose and values and how they are 
demonstrated in the day-to-day course of business.

During 2023, the GEC undertook an extensive review of the Group’s 
strategy with a view to building upon its unique strengths. For further 
details of our strategy, see page 11.

The GEC has led and overseen the delivery of a number of strategic 
projects to simplify how we get things done, by identifying operating 
efficiencies, reducing complexity and optimising costs. The GEC will 
continue to focus on simplification throughout 2024.

The GEC’s operating rhythm helps to facilitate end-to-end governance 
between senior leadership and the Board.

The operating rhythm has the following three pillars:

– regular check-in meetings to review and discuss current and 

emerging trends and issues;

– a monthly meeting to review the performance of each of the 

global businesses in principal geographical areas and legal entities, 
supported by the development and introduction of a new key 
performance indicators architecture in 2023; and

– a strategy- and governance-focused meeting, which is generally 

held two weeks in advance of each Board meeting.

Separate committees have been established to provide specialist 
oversight for matters delegated to the Group Chief Executive and 
senior management. For further details of these committees, see 
page 252.

To further support our senior management, we have dedicated 
corporate governance officers who support and advise legal entities, 
global businesses and global functions on our corporate governance 
practices. These corporate governance officers serve to strengthen 
the consistency and effectiveness of our end-to-end governance 
arrangements, and support connectivity and information sharing.

Subsidiary governance
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance throughout the Group. All subsidiary boards and their 
respective businesses are required to have in place effective 
governance arrangements with regard to the businesses’ nature, size, 
location and the sectors in which they operate.
The subsidiary accountability framework

The subsidiary accountability framework aims to balance appropriate 
governance oversight by the Group with each subsidiary’s local legal 
and regulatory duties. The framework supports the Group in 
promoting effective governance arrangements across its subsidiaries 
by: 

– setting out high level principles to enhance communications and 

connectivity; and 

– ensuring a shared and consistent understanding of the Group’s 

strategic objectives, culture and values.

The subsidiary accountability framework also focuses on ensuring that 
each subsidiary is led by an effective board with an appropriate 
balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge, having regard 
to the nature of the subsidiary’s business and local legal and 
regulatory requirements. Board composition of the Group’s 
subsidiaries is kept under review as part of succession planning.

The framework is subject to periodic review by the Board and/or the 
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and updated as 
required to ensure it is aligned to best practice. 
The role of principal subsidiaries

Certain subsidiaries are designated formally by the Board as principal 
subsidiaries. In addition to their obligations under their respective local 
laws and regulations, principal subsidiaries, supported by regional 
company secretaries, perform a critical role in ensuring effective and 
high standards of governance across the Group and in overseeing the 
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework in the 
regions for which they are responsible.

Representatives from principal subsidiaries attend the Board and its 
committee meetings for relevant topics, including when the Board 
holds meetings outside of the UK. Chairs of the principal subsidiary 
risk and audit committees also regularly attend respective Group Risk 
Committee and Group Audit Committee meetings. Attendance and 
participation at these committees enhance the subsidiary directors' 
understanding of the challenges facing the Group and help to identify 
common challenges and share lessons learned. Such committee 
participation supplements the regular reports, certifications and 
escalations from principal subsidiaries' boards and their committees 
to the Board and relevant committee(s) of the Board. 

The Group Chairman also interacts regularly with the chairs of the 
principal subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum. The 
Chairman’s Forum comprises the chairs of the principal subsidiaries 
and the chairs of the Group’s audit, risk and remuneration 
committees, and where relevant, the Group Chief Executive, other 
non-executive Directors and relevant executive management, 
advisers and/or external experts. In 2023, the Chairman’s Forum 
covered topics such as strategic business considerations, geopolitical 
issues, resolvability assessment requirements and separability, 
shareholder engagements, Group-wide connectivity of non-executive 
Directors, key regulatory themes, ESG insights, employee 
engagement and financial performance. 

The Group Remuneration Committee Chair also hosted dedicated 
forums with chairs of principal subsidiaries to share key priorities for 
2023 and the future. These sessions also provide an opportunity for 
review and input on proposed pay outcomes and allocation, before 
approval by the Group Remuneration Committee.

250

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The principal subsidiaries are:

Principal subsidiary

The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited

HSBC Bank plc

HSBC UK Bank plc

HSBC Middle East Holdings BV

HSBC North America Holdings Inc.

HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) 
Limited
HSBC Bank Canada1

Oversight responsibility

Asia-Pacific

Europe, Bermuda (excluding 
Switzerland and UK ring-fenced 
activities)

UK ring-fenced bank and its 
subsidiaries

Middle East, North Africa and 
Türkiye

US

Mexico and Latin America

Canada

1   On 29 November 2022, HSBC announced the sale of HSBC Bank 

Canada to Royal Bank of Canada, subject to regulatory and 
governmental approvals. On 21 December 2023, the Canadian Federal 
Government’s Minister of Finance approved the sale, and the 
transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2024.

Subsidiary director development

The Group is dedicated to supporting the continuing professional 
development of its subsidiary directors. In May 2023, a two-day non-
executive director summit was held in Hong Kong, which brought 
together over 100 non-executive directors from across the Group.  
Connectivity was a key theme and attendees were reminded of the 
importance of the subsidiary accountability framework in driving 
consistent governance standards and ensuring connectivity and 
engagement across our non-executive director community. The 
agenda included sessions on strategy and financial performance; Asia-
Pacific; subsidiary governance; the macroeconomic environment; 
diversity and inclusion; sustainability; technology; finance; and risk.

The Bank Director Programme, launched in 2022, continues to 
support subsidiaries with succession planning by developing and 
equipping internal talent to undertake internal non-executive director 
roles on subsidiary boards. 

Following the success of the Bank Director Programme, a Bank Chair 
Programme is being developed to ensure existing and prospective 
chairs of subsidiary boards and board committees have the requisite 
knowledge, skills and behaviours to be effective chairs.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

251

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Board and Group Executive committees and working groups
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration, 
nomination and governance matters to its committees. Each standing 
Board committee is chaired by a non-executive Director and has a 
remit to cover specific topics in accordance with their respective 
terms of reference. Only the Group Chairman and the independent 
non-executive Directors are members of Board committees. Details 
of the work carried out by each of the Board committees can be 
found in the respective committee reports from page 262.

The Chairman’s Committee provides the Board with the opportunity 
to consider ad hoc and routine matters between scheduled Board 
meetings. All Board members are invited to attend Chairman’s 
Committee meetings.

As part of its ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
governance arrangements, and in response to the findings from the 
Board evaluation in 2023, the Board has decided to establish a new 
Group Technology Committee to oversee the Group’s technology 
strategy and alignment with the overall Group strategy. The 
committee, which will be in place from 1 March 2024, will have 
responsibility for areas where technology is fundamental to strategic 
delivery, including innovation, data and cyber risk frameworks. As a 
result, the Technology Governance Working Group, which was 
established to support oversight of technology strategy, governance 

Board Chair: Mark Tucker

and emerging risks, will be demised from the same date. The terms 
of reference and membership of the Board committees are available 
at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
committees.

The GEC has established a number of committees to support the 
Group Chief Executive and senior management in their running of the 
business, and provide specialist oversight for matters delegated to 
them, including capital and liquidity, risk management, disclosure and 
financial reporting, restructuring and investment considerations, 
transformation oversight, ESG matters and talent and development. 
These committees also help fulfil their responsibilities under the 
Senior Managers and Certification Regime. 

During 2023, new committees were established including the 
Sustainability Execution Committee to provide greater oversight of 
ESG matters. In addition, the Transformation Oversight Executive 
Committee was demised and in its place the Change Prioritisation 
Oversight Committee was formed. The committee provides oversight 
of the Group's change portfolio, focusing on investment oversight and 
prioritisation, as well as delivery and execution of ongoing initiatives 
across the Group.

Chairman’s 
Committee 

Nomination & 
Corporate 
Governance 
Committee

Group Audit 
Committee

Group Risk 
Committee

Group 
Remuneration 
Committee

Informal governance

Board Oversight Sub-
Group

Chair: Mark Tucker

Chair: Mark Tucker

Chair: David Nish1

Chair: James Forese

Chair: Dame Carolyn 
Fairbairn

Chair: Mark Tucker

See page 262

See page 266

See page 274

See page 279

1   Brendan Nelson will be appointed as chair from 21 February 2024.
2   The Technology Governance Working Group will be demised on 1 March 2024. The Group Technology Committee will 

be established on the same date.

Technology 
Governance Working 
Group2

Co-Chairs:                

Eileen Murray and 
Steven Guggenheimer

Chairman’s Forum

Chair: Mark Tucker

Group Executive Committee Chair: Noel Quinn

Acquisitions and 
Disposals 
Committee

Group Disclosure 
and Controls 
Committee

Group People 
Committee

Group Risk 
Management 
Meeting

Holdings Asset 
and Liabilities 
Committee

Change 
Prioritisation and 
Oversight 
Committee

Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Committee

 Chair: Noel Quinn

Chair: Georges 
Elhedery

Chair: Elaine  
Arden

Chair: Pam Kaur

Chair: Georges 
Elhedery

Chair: Georges 
Elhedery

Co-Chairs: 

Celine Herweijer and 
Georges Elhedery

Sustainability 
Execution 
Committee

Co-Chairs:

Celine Herweijer and 
Barry O’Byrne

252

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board induction and training
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer works 
with the Group Chairman to ensure that all Board members receive 
appropriate training, both individually and collectively, throughout their 
time on the Board. On appointment, new Directors are provided with 
tailored and comprehensive induction programmes to fit with their 
individual experiences and needs, including the process for managing 
conflicts.  

During 2023, Kalpana Morparia, Ann Godbehere, Brendan Nelson and 
Swee Lian Teo were welcomed to the Board as non-executive 
Directors. Biographies for each can be found from page 239.

The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer also 
helps to arrange and deliver the induction programme through formal 
briefings and introductory sessions with other Board members, senior 
management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as 
appropriate. Topics covered in the induction programme include, but 
are not limited to: purpose and values; culture and leadership; 
governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and 
regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-money 
laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and 
strategy.

The induction process is often initiated before appointment to allow 
each new Board member to contribute meaningfully from 
appointment, such as in February 2023 when Kalpana Morparia joined 
the Board meeting as an observer before she was appointed to the 
Board the following month. The structure of the induction supports 
good information flows within the Board and its committees, as well 
as between senior management and non-executive Directors, 
providing a clear understanding of our culture and way of operating. 

In January 2023, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee 
agreed the proposed approach to Board training for the year. It was 

Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2023

agreed that the training programme would include key topics relevant 
to the Directors' respective roles and recent developments, in areas 
such as corporate governance, recovery and resolution, and 
technology. Where appropriate, the training sessions were facilitated 
by external presenters who were able to provide insights into 
geopolitical matters, macroeconomic issues and investor sentiment. 
The training sessions were held as part of scheduled Board meetings 
to allow for in-person interactions as much as possible.

Directors were also issued routine training modules that all colleagues 
must complete annually. During 2023, this training covered topics 
including risk management, cybersecurity, sustainability, health, 
safety and well-being, financial crime, and data.

Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development areas 
with the Group Chairman as part of their ongoing performance 
discussions with regard to their contributions on the Board. The 
Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer makes 
appropriate arrangements for any additional training needs identified 
using internal resources, or otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.

Members of Board committees receive relevant training as 
appropriate. Further details on any specific training commissioned by 
Board committees can be found in the respective committee reports. 
Directors may take independent professional advice at HSBC’s 
expense.

Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards receive 
training that is pertinent to circumstances and context relevant to 
those boards. Opportunities exist for the principal subsidiary 
committee chairs to share their understanding of specific areas with 
the Board Directors as part of the Chairman’s Forum. For further 
details, see ’The role of principal subsidiaries’ on page 250. 

Director

Geraldine Buckingham
Rachel Duan
Georges Elhedery
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
James Forese
Ann Godbehere6
Steven Guggenheimer
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia
Eileen Murray
Brendan Nelson6
David Nish
Swee Lian Teo6
Noel Quinn
Mark Tucker

Induction1
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
l
ô
l
ô
l
ô
ô

Strategy and 
business briefings2
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l

Risk and
control3
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l

Corporate 
governance, ESG 
and other 
reporting matters4
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l

Board global 
mandatory 
training5
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

1  The induction programme was delivered through formal briefings and introductory sessions including topic-specific deep dives, with Board members, 

senior management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered included, but were not limited to: purpose and 
values; culture and leadership; governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-
money laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and strategy.

2  Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific. Examples of 

specific sessions held in 2023 included: ’Technology and the future of artificial intelligence’, ’WPB customer-centricity improvement plan’, and 
’Investor sentiments’.

3  Directors received risk and control training and briefings. Examples of specific sessions held in 2023 included: ’Recovery and resolution’ and ’Capital 

management’.

4  Directors received training in Board meetings on: ’Board stakeholder engagement and management’ and various ESG development updates. Directors 
received additional training through their attendance at forums such as the Chairman's Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs' Forum and the Non-
Executive Director Summit.

5  Global mandatory training, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by all employees, including senior management. This included: 

management of risk under the risk management framework; cybersecurity risk; health, safety and well-being; sustainability; financial crime, including 
understanding money laundering, terrorist financing, tax transparency, sanctions, fraud and bribery and corruption risks; our values, including 
workplace harassment; and data privacy and data literacy.

6  Ann Godbehere and Brendan Nelson, who joined the Board effective 1 September 2023, and Swee Lian Teo, who joined the Board effective 

1 October 2023, only participated in training modules that were available to them since their respective joining dates.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

253

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Board matters considered and shareholder engagement

During 2023, the Board remained focused on HSBC’s strategic 
direction, overseeing performance, and risk. It considered 
performance against financial and other strategic objectives, key 
business challenges, emerging risks, business development, investor 
relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The end-
to-end governance framework facilitated discussion on strategy and 
performance by each of the global businesses and across the principal 
geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support executive 
management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Key areas of focus
The Board’s key areas of focus in 2023 are set out by theme below.
Strategy and business performance

The Group remains focused on building a sustainable platform for 
growth by increasing returns for investors, enhancing customer 
service, and creating capacity for future investment. The Board 
reviewed progress within the Group’s global businesses and regions 
against its four strategic pillars: Focus, Digitise, Energise and 
Transition. At each Board meeting in 2023, the Board discussed the 
Group’s strategic performance and opportunities to track strategic 
execution and delivery.
Environmental, social and governance

In 2020, the Group announced a climate ambition to align its financed 
emissions to net zero by 2050, and to become net zero in its own 
operations and supply chain by 2030. The Group aims to achieve this 
by supporting clients’ transition to a net zero carbon economy and 
focusing on sustainable finance opportunities, as well as by reducing 
the carbon emissions in its own operations.

The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing 
executive management in developing the approach, execution and 
associated reporting. The Board considered whether to establish a 
Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but instead decided that 
the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group’s 
climate ambition and ESG strategy was to retain governance at Board 
level. The GEC further enhanced its governance model of ESG 
matters with the introduction of a new Sustainability Execution 
Committee and supporting forums. These support senior 
management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability 
strategy, through the oversight of the sustainability execution 
programme. For further details of the Sustainability Execution 
Committee and the sustainability execution programme, see page 88. 

In 2023, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy 
through regular dashboard reports and detailed updates including: 
review and approval of the net zero transition plan, deep dives on the 
sustainability execution programme, reviews of net zero-aligned 
policies and climate-aligned financing initiatives.
Financial decisions

The Board and its dedicated committees approved key financial 
decisions throughout the year, including the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2022, the Interim Report 2023 and the first quarter and the 
third quarter Earnings Releases.

At the end of 2022, the Board approved the 2023 financial resource 
plan. The Board monitored the Group’s performance against the 
approved plan, as well as the plans of each of the global businesses. 
The Board also approved the renewal of the various debt issuance 
programmes. In January 2024, the Board approved the financial 
resource plan for 2024.  

The Board adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable 
cash dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the 
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder 
distributions, if appropriate. For the financial year 2023, the Group 

reverted to paying quarterly dividends, and achieved a dividend payout 
ratio of 50% of reported earnings per ordinary share (’EPS’),  in line 
with our published target for 2023 and 2024. EPS for this purpose 
excludes material notable items and related impacts, including the 
sale of our retail banking operations in France, the planned sale of the 
banking business in Canada and the acquisition of SVB UK. In addition 
to dividend payments, HSBC announced share buy-backs of up to 
$2bn each on 2 May 2023 and 1 August 2023, and a further share 
buy-back of up to $3bn on 30 October 2023, bringing the total 
announced for 2023 to $7bn.

On 21 February 2023, an interim dividend of $0.23 per share for the 
2022 full-year was announced, followed by interim dividends of $0.10 
each on 2 May 2023, 1 August 2023 and 30 October 2023. For further 
details of dividend payments, see page 435.
Risk, regulatory and legal considerations

The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a strong 
risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk appetite and 
supports the maintenance of a strong risk management framework, 
giving consideration to the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and 
management of risks, including emerging risks.

The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its 
regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control 
documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also 
reviewed and approved as required by the Board and/or its relevant 
committees. These included:

– the Group’s risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement;

– the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process;

– the individual capital adequacy assessment process; 

– the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and 

approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement;

– review and approval of the self-assessment to address the BoE's 

Resolvability Assessment Framework;

– review and approval of the Group’s risk data aggregation and risk 
reporting framework aligned to the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision 239 Principles;

– review of the latest PRA Operational Resilience self-assessment 

regulatory submission;

– annual review and approval of the internal controls framework; and

– the revised terms of reference for the Board and Board 

committees.

The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of 
geopolitical and macroeconomic developments during the year, both 
directly and by way of updates from the Group Risk Committee, and 
received regular updates on the Group's risk profile, including in 
relation to financial crime risk.
Technology

Throughout the year, the Board received detailed updates on 
technology and innovation from the Group Chief Operating Officer, 
including on the implementation of the technology strategy and key 
strategic business initiatives. 

Following a detailed update at the Board meeting in May 2023, at the 
Board’s request, management engaged a third party professional 
services firm to review the technology strategy and provide industry 
and peer insights. The Board received a number of updates on the 
review during the second half of 2023, and recommendations were 
presented at the December 2023 Board meeting.

Members of the Board were also closely involved in the hiring 
process for the new Group Chief Information Officer, who will join the 
Group at the end of February 2024.

254

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
In addition, the Technology Governance Working Group continued to 
oversee the Group's governance of technology, and supported 
connectivity with the principal subsidiaries on key technology 
initiatives. From 1 March 2024, the Technology Governance Working 
Group will be demised and the Group Technology Committee will be 
established on the same date.
People and culture

The Board continued to dedicate time in its meetings to discuss 
people-related and culture-related issues, with these topics remaining 
an important part of its focus. Each scheduled Board meeting begins 
with a ’culture moment’, which helps to ensure that the right cultural 
tone is set from the top, and sets the right cultural tone for Board 
discussion. To help raise its awareness of employee and other 
stakeholder perspectives, Board meetings and dedicated reports 
feature insights into behaviours within the Group, which demonstrate 
alignment to its purpose and values. Board papers highlight relevant 
stakeholder considerations, including in connection with employees. 
The Board also gains valuable cultural insights through its many 
personal interactions with the workforce and other stakeholders. For 
further details see ’Board decision making and engagement with 
stakeholders’ on page 20. 

The Board also learns of people and culture matters by way of 
presentations at the Chairman’s Forum. The principal subsidiary chairs 
report on their respective approaches to workforce engagement as 
well as what they have learned from such engagements and other 
cultural insights. The Board also receives cultural insights from the all-
employee Snapshot survey and broader reporting, which provide key 
data indicators, including on people's behaviours, sentiment and 
business outcomes. Through the work of the committees, the Board 
is also able to monitor how the Group’s culture is working in practice 
by receiving people-related reports covering whistleblowing, conduct 
and investigations.

Board engagement with management and the wider workforce 
continued to remain a strong area of attention, particularly with the 
ongoing activities carried out by the dedicated workforce engagement 
non-executive Director. For further details of the work carried out by 
the workforce engagement non-executive Director, see page 257.

Governance

The Board continued to oversee the governance, smooth operation 
and oversight of the Group and its principal and material subsidiaries, 
including monitoring compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code and the 
Companies Act 2006. Governance featured prominently in the Board 
agendas for the year and helped to shape strategic direction and 
decision taking on key issues. To see how the Board considered 
principal decisions in relation to our strategy, see ’Principal strategic 
decisions’ on pages 22 and 23.

The Board and senior management continued to support further 
improvements to various governance initiatives to encourage 
simplification and promote effective decision making in the business. 
Guidance and training for Board and committee paper templates took 
place across global businesses and functions throughout the course 
of the year to ensure a consistent approach for writing papers. In 
addition, to drive our simplification agenda, the Group-wide 
delegations of authority framework was reviewed and standardised, 
allowing for more efficient signing and execution of contracts and 
other documentation by directors and senior management across all 
entities.

In 2023, Jackson Tai retired as an independent non-executive 
Director. On 1 January 2023, Georges Elhedery joined the Board as 
Group Chief Financial Officer, and the following were appointed as 
independent non-executive Directors: Kalpana Morparia on 1 March 
2023; Ann Godbehere and Brendan Nelson on 1 September 2023; and 
Swee Lian Teo on 1 October 2023. The Board, supported by the 
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, reviews the skills 
and experience of the Board on an ongoing basis. This ensures that 
the Board and its committees comprise the necessary skills, diversity, 
experience and competencies to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. For further details of the review and changes to the Board, 
see the Nomination & Corporate Governance report on page 262. For 
further details of diversity of the Board, see page 247.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

255

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Board engagements with shareholders
In 2023, the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive held a Q&A 
session with retail shareholders as part of the Informal Shareholders’ 
Meeting in Hong Kong, and the Board held a Q&A session with 
shareholders as part of the 2023 AGM in the UK. Board members 
remained responsive to shareholder requests, and were particularly 
active following the 2023 AGM poll vote result. They continued to 
engage in constructive dialogue with top investors, including Ping An 
Asset Management Co. Ltd. The Group Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director, often with the Group Company Secretary and 
Chief Governance Officer, engaged with a number of our large 
institutional investors in 16 meetings, including a large group 
gathering held with the members of The Investor Forum. The Group 
Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer, together and 
separately, attended over 100 meetings with investors. Key topics 

Board matters considered in 2023

Main topic

Sub-topic

included our financial performance, updates on strategy and market 
presence, geopolitical risks and the macroeconomic outlook in key 
geographies. 

For further details of the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s 
engagements with key investors and proxy advisory firms, and how 
they were taken into account by the Group Remuneration Committee 
in its decision making, see the Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 279.

For further details of how the Board engaged with shareholders 
during 2023, see ’Board decision making and engagement with 
stakeholders’ on page 20.

Strategy

Business and financial 
performance

Financial

Risk

Regulatory

External
Technology
People and culture
Governance

Group strategy
Regional strategy/global business strategy
Environmental, social, governance
Region/global business
Financial performance
Results and accounts
Dividends
Group financial resource planning
Risk function
Risk appetite
Capital and liquidity adequacy
Regulatory and legal matters2 
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3
External insights
Strategic and operational
Purpose, values and engagement 
Policies and terms of reference
Board/committee effectiveness
Appointment and succession
Conflicts of interest
Stakeholder/workforce engagement
Delegation of authority
AGM and resolutions

Jan
ô
l
ô
l
l
l
l
ô
l
l
ô
l
ô
ô
l
l
ô
l
ô
ô
ô
l
l

Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Jun
l
l
l
l
l
ô
ô
l
l
ô
l
l
l
l
ô
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
ô

Feb Mar May
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
ô
l
l
l
l
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
l
ô
l
l
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
l
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
l
ô
l
l
ô
l
l
ô
l
ô
ô
l
l
l

Sep Nov
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
l
ô
l
ô
l
l
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
l
ô
l
ô
l
ô
l
ô

Jul
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
ô
l
l
ô
l
ô
ô
ô
l
l
l
l
l
l
ô
ô

Dec
l
l
l
l
l
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
l
l
ô
l
l
l
l
ô
ô

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

1  No Board meetings were held during April, August and October 2023.
2 
3  Meetings attended by members of the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.

Includes recovery and resolution planning, modern slavery and human trafficking, UK regulatory activities, and listing authority renewals.

256

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board stakeholder and workforce engagement 

The Board is committed to engaging with colleagues, which takes 
place in a two-way dialogue in a variety of forums. This helps build the 
Board’s understanding of key themes and topics that are important to 
the workforce.

Since his appointment as dedicated workforce engagement non-
executive Director in 2022, and in line with the Board's expectation of 
the role, José Meade has helped deliver a progressive programme of 
engagements throughout 2023. Outcomes from these engagements 
have helped inform discussions and decision making in the 
Boardroom, by taking into account the employee voice on related key 
themes and topics.

His dedicated role does not preclude other Board members from 
engaging with the workforce. It remains the responsibility of all 
Directors to consider diverse stakeholder views, including employees, 
across the Group.

For more examples of how the Board has engaged with the 
workforce and other stakeholders, see ‘Board decision making and 
engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20.

Workforce engagement programme

A structured workforce engagement programme has been in place 
throughout 2023 with a focus on topics aligned to the Group’s four 
strategic pillars. The programme was structured around the Board’s 
priorities and agenda in 2023. These included in-person engagements 
when the Board travelled to different regions for Board meetings, 
which were highly valued by colleagues and Board members alike. 

The engagements formed the bases of José Meade’s reports to the 
Directors, aligned to key Board agenda items including those in the 
geographies in which the Board met. Further engagement events, 
town halls and meetings with the workforce were scheduled with 
Board members based on their locality or coincidental travel 
throughout the year.

The engagement events were held both at scale and through more 
targeted dialogue in smaller groups, to accommodate the breadth of 
experience, geographical spread and range of seniority of our 
colleagues. These engagements were designed to promote open 
dialogue and two-way discussions between the Board and 
employees, allowing the Board to gain valuable insight on employee 
perspectives, and in turn inform its deliberations in decision making.

February 

March

May

June

July

September

November

December

Cost of living 
crisis support

International 
Women’s Day

Pay, reward and 
performance

Strategy and 
performance

Branch visit

HSBC graduate 
insights

Mexico town 
hall

Hyderabad 
office event 

↓

↓

↓

↓

↓

↓

↓

↓

Audience

London-based 
colleagues

Group-wide 
colleagues

Group-wide 
colleagues

Managing 
Directors

Local branch 
colleagues

US-based 
graduates

Mexico and 
Latin America-
based 
colleagues

Location

London, UK

Various global 
and local 
events

Birmingham, 
UK, 
videoconference

Videoconference

Hong Kong

New York, US, 
and 
videoconference

Mexico City, 
Mexico, and 
videoconference

Hyderabad and 
India-based 
colleagues 

In person visit to 
Hyderabad, 
India office and 
videoconference

José Meade’s connectivity with the employee resource groups 
formed part of the workforce engagement programme. He took part 
in the annual employee resource group summit in September to 
discuss his observations since taking on the workforce engagement 
role, and to hear feedback on how the Board could enhance support 
for employee resource groups. José also participated in meetings 
with the employee resource group to which he is aligned, UK Nurture. 
This helped him better understand their successes, the value of the 
network and agree how often and through which means he would 
connect with his employee resource group in 2024.

During the year, the Board acknowledged that relevant aspects of 
Board discussions on workforce engagement activities and matters, 
informed by the employee voice, needed to make their way back to 
management. In this way, relevant views could be taken into 
consideration when progressing workforce-related matters at the 
executive level. To facilitate this, José Meade committed to attending 

the GEC and the Chairman’s Forum to discuss the key themes and 
outcomes from the 2023 workforce engagements. Feedback gained 
from the GEC session attended in November 2023 re-emphasised the 
value colleagues put on the two-way dialogue with Board members. 
This feedback helped shape the 2024 workforce engagement 
programme.

The Board also regularly considers other forms of employee 
engagement to help be informed of initiatives and sentiment, and to 
plan for future engagement activities. The Chairman’s Forum, held in 
December 2023, also discussed employee feedback gained through 
the Group’s principal subsidiaries. José Meade presented to the 
Chairman’s Forum an overview of workforce engagement over the 
course of 2023 and key themes arising. He will continue to discuss 
workforce engagement with the GEC and the Chairman’s Forum 
during 2024.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

257

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Workforce engagement non-executive Director

"The value of Board-employee engagement is rooted in the Board’s openness to challenge and ability to adopt 
new approaches in response."

Q&A with José Meade

Workforce engagement non-executive Director

The value of Board-employee engagement is rooted in the 
Board’s openness to challenge and ability to adopt new 
approaches in response. The key outcomes we get from all our 
engagement events are discussed not only in the Boardroom, 
but with executive management and between our principal 
subsidiaries as well. It is this circular communication that is so 
important to make sure not only is the employee voice heard, 
but it forms a backdrop for Board and executive discussions and 
decisions. For instance, it was interesting to hear from 
graduates the importance of our hybrid working strategy to 
them, which was seen as a differentiator compared with 
competitors. Our Chairman’s Forum discussed each of our 
regions’ respective workforce engagement programmes in 
December, which was an invaluable session to understand 
regional differences in sentiment and where subsidiary 
Directors were focusing their time for 2024 activities.

Q: Where do you see opportunities for 2024?

A: We plan to build on the successes of 2023 and engage with 
more colleagues over the course of 2024. Our workforce 
engagement plan will continue to be guided by our Board 
priorities for the year and tightly aligned to our four strategic 
pillars. The plan incorporates, where possible, participation at 
colleague events already scheduled, which we will supplement 
with targeted engagement events. We also plan to enhance the 
visibility of management colleagues in critical roles or on 
executive committee succession plans to boards across the 
Group. Lastly, we will align Board member scheduled travel 
plans to workforce engagement activities in various regions, as 
well as work to identify how to engage with the workforce in 
geographies where Board travel is not envisaged.

Q: Since being appointed as the workforce engagement 
non-executive Director in 2022, what insights have you 
gained?

A: When I reflect on the Board’s engagement with the 
workforce over the year, I am proud of the evolution of our 
approach since I took on the role. Having a dedicated 
programme aligned to Board priorities over the course of the 
year has enabled me to report to the Board on the most 
pertinent matters depending on our location and agenda. The 
year 2023 was a very productive year with respect to engaging 
with our workforce. I met with a large number of our colleagues 
on a regular basis during the year, and each event has provided 
me with different and equally valuable insights. I have learnt the 
value colleagues place on having two-way dialogue with the 
Board. Linked to this is our non-executive Director engagement 
with our employee resource groups. Each non-executive 
Director is aligned to one of our employee resource groups, and 
we listened to feedback that a more structured approach to non-
executive Director engagement would be valuable during 2024. 
As a result, we held dedicated meetings for non-executive 
Directors to meet with their employee resource groups to agree 
the cadence for engagement and priorities in 2024.

Q: What are your reflections on the value of Board-
employee engagement at HSBC? 

A: Firstly, at every employee engagement event I attended 
during the year, I was able to hear directly from our colleagues – 
that is an irreplaceable and extremely valuable insight to gain as 
a non-executive Director. Having the employee voice in the 
Boardroom is crucial in equipping Directors with important 
context to better understand successes and challenges felt 
throughout the Group. It then helps empower the Board to 
make better recommendations and feedback to executive 
management with employee sentiment front-of-mind. At one of 
our branch visits, I was able to experience first-hand the level of 
care put into every single one of our clients, which was 
extraordinary. Following the visit, we got great feedback from 
the branch team that they were grateful for our time in 
recognising how our colleagues put customers at the centre of 
their work, and they said that our front-line staff were highly 
motivated by our kind words and encouragement.

Mexico Town Hall, Mexico City, November 2023

"The insight and reflections provided by the speakers was extremely 
useful as we had a mixture of local and global level input." 

258

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Engagement highlights

Workforce engagement non-executive 
Director activities during 2023

In 2023, José Meade undertook a variety of engagements in his role 
including:

Mexico

– Attended the annual Leones event in Quintana Roo, Mexico.

– Approximately 400 employees participated across

businesses and functions.

– This event recognised our top performers in HSBC Mexico.

Hong Kong

– Visited employees at the HSBC Hong Kong flagship branch

and the K11 Atelier Wealth Centre (which opened in October
2021 to provide high net worth wealth management
services) to understand their perspective on working life.

UK

Global Service Centre office visit, Hyderabad, December 2023

68

Virtual/physical sessions 
attended by non-executive 
Directors

9,571

Number of employees engaged 
virtually/physically

41

8,282

Virtual/physical sessions 
attended by workforce 
engagement non-executive 
Director

Number of employees engaged 
virtually/physically by workforce 
engagement non-executive 
Director

8

69%

Countries of engagement

Highest employee engagement 
survey response

– Participated in an in-person meeting with a small group of

local managers in London to discuss the cost of living crisis
in the UK.

– The group discussed the support that HSBC had provided to
its employees in response, and considered ideas for further
support.

US

– Met with US-based graduates both in-person and virtually to
hear the perceptions of the next generation of talent at
HSBC.

– Views were sought on topics such as expectation versus the

reality of what it is like to work at HSBC, personal
development opportunities and hybrid working successes
and challenges.

Türkiye

– Participated in an in-person meeting with a diverse group of

colleagues to share experiences and views on socio-
economic challenges, career development, and pay and
performance.

Global employee resource group summit
– Attended the virtual annual employee resource group

summit and heard about the groups' leaders‘ successes,
challenges and their respective look ahead for 2024.

– Connected with employee resource group representatives

across multiple regions in the Group.

India

– Spent a day at our Hyderabad office learning about the

history of our presence in India and the impact of our global
service centres, as well as discussing the future of the
workforce and how to create a supportive environment for
professional growth.

– Also participated alongside nearly 5,000 colleagues in a

‘Digitise’ town hall, which discussed HSBC’s digital strategy
and the role played by colleagues in India.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

259

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Board and committee effectiveness, performance and 
accountability

Board effectiveness review format
A comprehensive brief was provided to IBE by the Group Chairman 
and Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. The review 
took the form of detailed interviews with every Board member, 
regular attendees of the relevant meetings and key advisers. IBE also 
observed the Board and its committees at the September 2023 
meetings and reviewed the meeting materials.

A report was compiled by IBE based on the information and views 
supplied by those interviewed and IBE’s observations from the 
September 2023 Board and committee meetings. 

The Board and its committees are committed to regular, independent 
evaluation of their effectiveness. In 2023, the Board performance 
review comprised an externally facilitated evaluation in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 

During 2023, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee 
oversaw the process to appoint an independent service provider to 
evaluate the Board and its committees' effectiveness and 
performance. The Group Chairman led a formal tender process, with 
the support of the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance 
Officer, which included a desktop review of proposals and a panel 
interview with prospective firms to discuss their approach to the 
evaluation. The panel interviews included the Group Chairman, three 
non-executive Directors, and the Group Company Secretary and Chief 
Governance Officer. 

Following this process, and based on the recommendation of the 
panel, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee appointed 
Independent Board Evaluation (‘IBE’) to conduct the Board review in 
2023. IBE is an independent external service provider with no other 
connection with the Group or any individual Directors. 

Board and committee evaluation process 

Appointed IBE 
following 
competitive tender 
process

Evaluation brief 
provided to IBE

Board and 
committee  
meetings observed 
by IBE

Reports presented 
to the Board and 
committees and 
actions for 2024 
agreed

Observations discussed 
with the Group 
Chairman, Board and 
committee chairs

One-to-one 
interviews 
conducted

The Board made good progress against all of the action points identified during the 2022 evaluation. In particular:

– Management developed a new key performance indicator
architecture relating to performance, execution and risk
management as well as other key value drivers.

– The Sustainability Execution Committee, a management forum,
was established to provide greater focus and accountability for
progress against the Group’s ESG deliverables and milestones.

– An independent review of the Group’s technology strategy was
performed by a third party, with the outcomes, including lessons
learned, and next steps discussed and agreed by the Board.

– The Board held focused sessions on prioritisation and

simplification.

– Stakeholder engagement plans were structured around the

Board’s visits to Paris, Hong Kong, New York and India during the
year, and broader non-executive Director travel. These plans
provided the Board with the opportunity to engage with the full
spectrum of stakeholder groups, including employees. Further
details of the Board’s engagement activities are detailed on
page 21.

– Continued training and guidance was provided to key paper

authors and contributors to reinforce the importance of timely,
balanced and accurate reporting to the Board.

260

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Findings and recommendations
Overall, the review concluded that the Board was performing well as 
an engaged, global governance body. The Group Chairman is regarded 
as an excellent leader of the Board, fostering a culture of openness, 
with encouragement for Board members to speak freely on any issue. 
In particular, the effectiveness review highlighted that the Board 
performed well in various areas including: 

– Stakeholder accountability: The Board takes its responsibilities 

towards stakeholders seriously, positively and sincerely. 

– Board culture: The culture of the Board is regarded as a key 

strength. Preserving and sustaining this has been a key factor in 
considering candidates for appointment to the Board. 
Communication is open and transparent.

– Relationship with senior management: Board members value the 
openness between, and access to, the senior management team. 

– Committee chairs: Chairs of committees are well supported by the 

respective functional teams, including Risk, Finance, HR and 
Corporate Governance and Secretariat.

– Board resources and support: The Board appreciates the strategic 
advice and counsel it receives on governance issues from the 
Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and her 
team. 

IBE presented its report to the December 2023 Board meeting, and 
was present for the Board’s discussion, led by the Group Chairman, 
on the findings identified through IBE’s review. Among other 
recommendations for consideration that could strengthen the end-to-
end governance of the Board and its committees, the Board focused 
on the following three specific themes: 

– Effecting change: A need for greater focus was identified in 

relation to the prioritisation of execution, with clearer and more 
timely progress reporting to the Board, in particular around 
challenges faced.

– Board information: Reporting to the Board requires more succinct 

narrative and relevant key performance indicators. It was reiterated 
that the Board would continue to hold the Group Chief Executive 
and members of the GEC accountable for the quality of reporting 
to the Board.

– Technology governance: Strengthened governance mechanisms 
were agreed to support the Board’s review and challenge of 
technology-related deliverables and monitoring of delivery against 
the Group-wide technology strategy. 

Further details of the findings and agreed actions to be taken can be 
found in the table below. Completion of these actions will be 
monitored by the Board throughout 2024. 

The additional areas of feedback gathered from members of the 
Board and regular attendees will be taken forward at the discretion of 
the Group Chairman based on his determination of their impact on the 
overall effectiveness of the Board and its committees.

Similar discussions were led by each of the Board committee chairs in 
their respective January 2024 meetings. Progress against these 
actions will be included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

Summary of 2023 Board effectiveness findings and recommendations for action:

Findings from the evaluation

Agreed actions

Effecting change

– Although the Board is performing well, there are areas 

– Consideration will be given to the frequency and format of 

where, working with management, enhancements could 
be made to drive even greater value. 

– This would reinforce a clear understanding of priorities 

and enhanced clarity of management reporting, 
particularly in relation to areas of challenge in, or delay to, 
execution of those key deliverables.   

– Greater rigour was required in relation to the 

communication of, accountability for, and execution 
against the Board’s feedback. 

strategic updates to the Board.  

– The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer will 
support the Group Chairman and committee chairs to ensure that 
there is enhanced consolidation of related discussion and actions 
across Board and the committees, including clearer articulation of 
expected outcomes. 

– The Group Chief Executive will drive an increased focus in 

addressing the Board’s feedback within the wider management 
team. 

Board information – The volume of information provided to the Board and to 

– The Board has commissioned a training programme, to be 

committee meetings during the year was a common 
area of discussion during the review. Enhanced, dynamic 
and well-timed reporting of information to the Board is 
required. 

developed and delivered by the Group Company Secretary and 
Chief Governance Officer, to further support senior leaders and 
other subject matter experts on reporting to, and interactions 
with, the Board. 

– Although the Board welcomed the thoroughness of 

management’s review of key performance indicators, 
these required to be refined for Board purposes to 
ensure better alignment with paper narrative to ensure a 
clear, consistent basis for Board reporting.

– A condensed key performance indicators framework was approved 
by the Board at its meeting in January 2024 and will be cascaded 
throughout the Group by the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Chief Financial Officer and the Group Company Secretary and 
Chief Governance Officer.

– Although the Board welcomed the important and 

– A formal Board-level governance committee consisting of non-

valuable role of the Technology Governance Working 
Group, there is still more to do to develop a holistic 
oversight of technology at Board-level.

– It was agreed that the future approach to oversight of 

technology-related matters needed to complement the 
existing responsibilities of the Board, Group Risk 
Committee, Group Audit Committee and subsidiary 
boards. 

executive Directors – the Group Technology Committee – will be 
established to provide oversight of technology-related matters 
across the Group. This will be chaired by Eileen Murray and take 
effect from 1 March 2024. 

– The existing Technology Governance Working Group will be 

demised at that time. 

Technology 
governance

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

261

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee

"I am confident that the changes to the composition of the Board over the past year have further strengthened 
the Board’s collective knowledge and experience required to oversee, challenge and support management." 

Mark E Tucker

Chair

Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee

Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:

– overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance framework 

of the Group and ensuring that this is consistent with best 
practice;

– overseeing succession planning and leading the process for 

identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the 
Board and its committees; and

– overseeing succession planning and development for the Group 

Executive Committee and other senior executives.

We also welcomed Kalpana Morparia and Swee Lian Teo and, 
together with Ann and Brendan’s appointments, I am confident that 
the changes to the composition of the Board over the past year have 
further strengthened its collective knowledge and experience required 
to oversee, challenge and support management. 

As a result of the changes to the Board during 2023, our year-end 
2023 target of at least 40% female representation was achieved. We 
are committed to maintaining this at or above 40% going forward. 
More broadly, we remain committed to ensuring the compositions of 
the Board and senior management reflect the wider workforce and 
communities in which we operate, and you can read more on our 
efforts this year on page 313.

The annual review of the performance of the Board and its 
committees is a critical part of ensuring that our governance practices 
are aligned with best practice and are working effectively. 
Independent Board Evaluation conducted the 2023 review for the 
Board and its committees, and its findings and agreed actions can be 
found on pages 260 to 261.

Membership

Mark Tucker (Chair)

Geraldine Buckingham

Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn1
James Forese
Ann Godbehere2
Steven Guggenheimer

José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia3
Eileen Murray4
Brendan Nelson2
David Nish
Jackson Tai5
Swee Lian Teo6

Member since

Meeting attendance 
in 2023

Oct 2017

May 2022

Sep 2021

Sep 2021

May 2020

Sep 2023

May 2020

Apr 2019

Mar 2023

Jul 2020

Sep 2023

Apr 2018

Apr 2018

Oct 2023

9/9

9/9

9/9

8/9

9/9

2/2

9/9

9/9

6/6

8/9

2/2

9/9

5/5

1/1

1   Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was unable to attend the January meeting 

due to a prior commitment. 

2   Ann Godbehere and Brendan Nelson joined the Committee on their 

appointments to the Board on 1 September 2023.

3   Kalpana Morparia joined the Committee on her appointment to the 

Board on 31 March 2023.   

4   Eileen Murray was unable to attend the September meeting due to 

a prior commitment. 

5   Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023.
6   Swee Lian Teo joined the Committee on her appointment to the 

Board on 1 October 2023.

I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee report, which provides an overview of the Committee’s 
activities during 2023. 

I signalled in last year’s report that succession for key roles on the 
Board would be a priority for the Committee through 2023, and we 
announced in early December the successors for the roles of Senior 
Independent Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee. This 
represented the culmination of considerable work by the Committee 
over a number of months. 

As announced in December, David Nish confirmed his plans to retire 
from the Board at the conclusion of our AGM in May 2024. Brendan 
Nelson will succeed David as Chair of the Group Audit Committee 
with effect from 21 February 2024, and Ann Godbehere will succeed 
him as Senior Independent Director with effect from the conclusion of 
the 2024 AGM. On behalf of the Board, I want to take this opportunity 
to thank David for his significant commitment and contribution to 
HSBC, particularly in his role as Chair of the Group Audit Committee, 
and for the valuable counsel he has provided to the Board and to me 
personally. You can read more on the Committee’s work on these 
appointments later in this report. 

262

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
These actions included the decision to establish the Group 
Technology Committee, which was discussed by the Committee. 
Further information on this new Board-level committee is set out on 
page 252. In addition, the Committee reviewed the approach to the 
Group’s governance of developing areas such as ESG and AI, and will 
continue to focus on whether these remain appropriate and forward-
looking as external standards and practices develop. 

There have been numerous consultations issued over 2023, aimed at 
improving the effectiveness of the UK audit, governance and 
regulatory regimes. Given their potential impact, the Committee 
received updates on these and their potential implications on 
governance arrangements. The Committee also reviewed and 
provided input to the Group’s responses to relevant consultations, 
including the Financial Reporting Council's ('FRC') consultation on 
proposed revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code. The 
Committee continues to monitor potential future developments in the 
UK, Hong Kong and elsewhere to ensure that the impact of any 
proposed governance and regulatory changes on HSBC and its 
international operations is considered. 

As we look ahead to the remainder of 2024, the Committee will look 
to oversee and enhance the succession pipeline at Board and senior 
management level, as well as efforts to deliver consistent standards 
of governance best practice across the Group. 

Mark E Tucker

Group Chairman

Committee governance

The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Human Resources 
Officer, and the Group Head of Talent routinely and selectively 
attended Committee meetings. The Group Company Secretary and 
Chief Governance Officer attends all Committee meetings and 
supports the Group Chairman in ensuring that the Committee fulfils 
its governance responsibilities. 

Russell Reynolds Associates supported the Committee and the 
management team in relation to Board succession planning and 
appointments. It also provides support to management in relation to 
senior management succession, development and recruitment. It 
regularly and selectively attended meetings during the year, and has 
no other connection with the Group or members of the Board.
Appointment and re-election of Directors 

A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of 
Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are 
considered against objective criteria, and with regard to the benefits 
of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with HSBC 
Holdings’ Articles of Association. 

The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director or 
secretary, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional officer. The Board 
may appoint any Director or secretary to hold any employment or 
executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.

Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term 
and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an 
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Committee, are 
proposed for re-election by shareholders at each AGM. They typically 
serve two three-year terms, with any individual's appointment beyond 
six years to be for a rolling one-year term and subject to thorough 
review and challenge with reference to the needs of the Board. 
Where non-executive Directors are appointed beyond six years, an 
explanation will be provided in the Annual Report and Accounts. 

Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect 
individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
election at the 2023 AGM were elected and re-elected by 
shareholders.
Non-executive Director commitments 

The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive 
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the 
expectations of them, and the estimated time required to perform 
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are 
available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings.

Non-executive Directors serving on the Board and as a member of 
any committees are expected to serve up to 75 days per annum. The 
Senior Independent Director is expected to serve an additional 30 
days per annum. Those Directors who also chair a large committee 
are expected to commit up to 100 days per annum, with the Group 
Risk Committee Chair expected to commit up to 150 days per annum. 
Any additional time commitment required of non-executive Directors 
in connection with Board and committee activities is confirmed to 
them separately.

Board approval is required for any non-executive Director’s external 
commitments, with consideration given to their total time 
commitments, potential conflicts of interest, and regulatory and 
investor expectations.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

263

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Board composition and succession

Board diversity

During 2023, the compositions of the Board and its committees were 
reviewed, with assessments focused on the skills, knowledge and 
experience necessary to oversee, challenge and support management 
in the achievement of the Group’s strategic and business objectives. 
The assessments were focused on the Board, both collectively and as 
individual members. The Committee discussed succession planning 
for key roles on the Board and committees, including the roles of 
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee. 
The recruitment process for the new Directors provided an 
opportunity to add significant executive experience in banking. It also 
provided an opportunity to add deep business and cultural expertise 
across Asia that the Board had previously identified as a priority, and 
to meet our target for a woman to hold at least one of the senior 
Board positions by the end of 2025. In line with these objectives, a list 
of potential candidates was identified and considered by the 
Committee. Members of the Board, including the Group Chief 
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer, met with potential 
candidates and their feedback helped inform the Committee’s 
discussions and recommendations to the Board. The Board then 
approved the Committee’s recommendations to appoint Kalpana 
Morparia with effect from 1 March 2023, Ann Godbehere and 
Brendan Nelson with effect from 1 September 2023, and Swee Lian 
Teo with effect from 1 October 2023. 

Kalpana Morparia and Swee Lian Teo each bring significant banking, 
risk and regulatory experience in Asia. Ann’s deep financial acumen 
and extensive financial services experience gained over a 30-year 
career, as well as her extensive large, public-listed company board 
experience as a non-executive director, makes her the right successor 
for the role of Senior Independent Director. Brendan’s UK and 
international financial expertise and significant experience as statutory 
audit partner, and as audit committee chair at UK-listed companies, as 
well as previously being President of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland, will be particularly valuable in the leadership 
of the Group Audit Committee given the evolving audit, regulatory and 
disclosure environment in which the Group operates. Their 
biographies can be found on pages 239 to 243.

Following the annual review of the Board skills matrix, the Committee 
remains focused on identifying candidates for future appointments 
with deep business and cultural expertise across Hong Kong and 
mainland China. 

The Committee will continue to monitor the market during 2024 for 
potential candidates for appointment to the Board in both the short 
and medium term, to ensure that the Board has a pipeline of credible 
successors. 

Neither Jackson Tai, who retired from the Board during the year, nor 
David Nish, who is not offering himself for re-election at the 2024 
AGM, have raised concerns about the operation of the Board or the 
management of the company.
Committee composition

As part of the decision to establish the Group Technology Committee, 
when reviewing the Committee composition, it was agreed that 
Eileen Murray would be appointed as Chair, and Steven 
Guggenheimer, Kalpana Morparia, Swee Lian Teo and Brendan 
Nelson would be appointed as members of the Group Technology 
Committee with effect from 1 March 2024. 

The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board 
committees more broadly to ensure that these remained appropriate 
and diverse, with consideration of the Board diversity and inclusion 
policy while utilising the respective skills and expertise of the Board 
members as set out in the Board skills matrix on page 247. As a 
result, and in addition to the appointments of members to the Group 
Technology Committee, it was agreed that Ann Godbehere would be 
appointed to the Group Audit Committee with effect from 
21 February 2024. 

The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic 
diversity, and the benefits diversity brings to Board effectiveness. 
Diversity is taken into account when considering succession plans 
and appointments at both Board and senior management level, as 
well as more broadly across the Group. The Committee also 
considered the diversity and representation on Board committees 
when reviewing their composition.

At the end of 2023, the Board had 47% female representation, with 
seven female Board members out of 15, ahead of the year-end 2025 
target set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review. Ann Godbehere’s 
appointment as Senior Independent Director will mean the Board 
achieves the FTSE Women Leaders Review target that at least one of 
the senior Board positions of Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Senior 
Independent Director or Chief Financial Officer is held by a woman. In 
accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the Board is on track to be 
compliant with these diversity targets and will be fully compliant with 
effect from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM. Beyond gender, the 
Board continues to exceed the Parker Review target of having at least 
one Director of ethnic heritage. However, given the international 
nature of our business, including our heritage in Asia, the Board has 
set a target to maintain or improve the current representation of 
Directors from a diverse ethnic heritage. 

The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy was updated in December 
2023. The policy confirms our commitment to, and also details the 
approach to achieving, our diversity ambitions. Further details on 
activities to improve diversity across senior management and the 
wider workforce, together with representation statistics, can be found 
from page 76. The Board's diversity and inclusion policy is available on 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
responsibilities
Independence

Independence is a critical component of good corporate governance, 
and a principle that is applied consistently at both HSBC Holdings and 
subsidiary level. The Committee has delegated authority from the 
Board in relation to the assessment of the independence of non-
executive Directors. In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong 
Corporate Governance Codes, the Committee has reviewed and 
confirmed that all non-executive Directors who have submitted 
themselves for election and re-election at the AGM are considered to 
be independent. This conclusion was reached after consideration of 
all relevant circumstances that are likely to impair, or could appear to 
impair, independence.

In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code, the Committee also reviewed and considered the 
mechanisms in place to ensure independent views and input are 
available to the Board. These mechanisms include: 

– having the appropriate Board and committee structure in place, 
including rules on the appointment and tenure of non-executive 
Directors;

– facilitating the option of having brokers and external industry 

experts in attendance at Board meetings during 2023, as well as 
having representatives from the Group’s key regulators attend 
Board meetings in relation to specific regulatory items;

– ensuring non-executive Directors are entitled to obtain 

independent professional advice relating to their personal 
responsibilities as a Director at the Group’s expense;

– having terms of reference for each committee and the Board 

provide authority to engage independent professional advisers; 
and

– holding annual Board and committee effectiveness reviews, with 
feedback sought from members on the quality of, and access to, 
independent external advice.

264

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Senior executive succession and 
development

Following Georges Elhedery’s appointment as Group Chief Financial 
Officer from 1 January 2023, the Committee monitored and received 
updates on his induction plan.

The succession plans for the Group Executive Committee members 
were approved by the Committee in December 2023. These reflect 
continued efforts to support the development and progression of 
diverse talent and promote the long-term success of the Group, with 
the gender diversity and proportion of Asian heritage successors 
improving year on year. The approval of succession plans included 
future internal and external succession options for the Group Chief 
Executive, to ensure that the Committee has a robust and actionable 
plan when required. The Committee also reviewed longer-term 
internal succession options for the Group Chief Executive to enable 
the Committee to interact more frequently with high potential and 
diverse talent in the Group. 

The Committee continued to receive updates on the development of 
our talent programme within the Asia-Pacific region. Since its launch 
in 2020, significant progress has been made towards ensuring that 
we have a deeper and more diverse leadership bench-strength. 
Succession plans are more robust, with greater diversity and good 
succession fulfilment outcomes. 
Committee evaluation

The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and Board 
committees, including the Committee, was conducted externally by 
Independent Board Evaluation for 2023. It determined that the 
Committee continued to operate effectively, with no specific actions 
identified for the Committee. Positive feedback was received on the 
effectiveness of the recruitment processes of new Board members 
and the succession planning for senior management.

Further details of the annual review of the Board and committee 
effectiveness can be found on pages 260 to 261.

Matters considered during 2023

Subsidiary governance

In line with the subsidiary accountability framework, the Committee 
continued to oversee the corporate governance and succession 
arrangements across the principal and material subsidiary portfolio. 
The Committee also reviewed the succession plans for the principal 
subsidiary chairs to ensure future successors had the necessary skills 
and experience to effectively oversee and monitor delivery of the 
Group’s strategic and business priorities within their territory, in 
accordance with the Group’s governance expectations.  

Where a subsidiary was unable to fully comply with the subsidiary 
accountability framework, the Committee endorsed exceptions, 
where appropriate, subject to strong rationale, including consideration 
of local laws and regulations and market practice. Endorsement 
requests were also subject to thorough review and consideration by 
the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer in 
advance of consideration by the Committee.

The Committee reviewed succession plans and oversaw compliance 
with the Group’s governance expectations of principal and material 
subsidiaries. The overall quality of succession plans has improved 
markedly over the past three years, with plans demonstrating a clear 
focus on strengthening boards’ overall diversity and experience, in 
line with strategic and business objectives. 

The Committee continued to support and seek opportunities to 
enhance subsidiary connectivity, including through the Chairman’s 
Forum and Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum, which regularly 
brought together the chairs of the principal subsidiaries to discuss 
common issues, and the Non-Executive Director Summit which 
brought over 100 non-executive Directors together in Hong Kong in 
May 2023.

Subsidiaries also provided opportunities for internal talent to serve on 
their boards, following the training that they received through the 
HSBC Bank Director Programme. The Committee continues to 
support and look for opportunities to enhance subsidiary connectivity 
through Non-Executive Director Summits and other engagement 
forums. 

Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills matrices 
Approval of diversity and inclusion policy 
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession 
Approval of executive succession plans
Talent programmes
Governance 
Board and committee evaluation
Subsidiary governance 
Subsidiary and executive appointments 

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr 

May

Jun

Jul

Sep

Dec

l
ô

l
ô
ô

l
ô
l

l
ô

l
ô
ô

ô
ô
l

l
ô

ô
ô
ô

l
ô
ô

l
ô

ô
ô
ô

ô
ô
ô

l
ô

ô
ô
ô

ô
l
l

l
ô

l
ô
ô

ô
ô
ô

l
ô

l
ô
l

l
l
l

l
ô

l
ô
ô

ô
l
ô

l
l

l
l
ô

ô
l
l

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

265

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Group Audit Committee

"Given the uncertain external environment, as well as HSBC's growth ambitions, the GAC will continue to play 
an important role in monitoring the effectiveness of the control environment."

David Nish

Chair

Group Audit Committee

Membership

David Nish (Chair)
Rachel Duan2
James Forese3
Eileen Murray4
Brendan Nelson5
Jackson Tai6

Member since

May 2016

Apr 2022

May 2020

Jun 2022

Sep 2023

Dec 2018

Meeting attendance 
in 20231
10/10

9/10

7/7

8/10

4/4

3/3

1   These included two joint meetings with the Group Risk Committee 

(‘GRC’) and the Technology Governance Working Group.

2   Rachel Duan was unable to join one meeting, a joint meeting with 

the GRC and Technology Governance Working Group, due to prior a 
commitment.

3   James Forese rejoined the GAC on 5 May 2023 following his 

appointment as GRC Chair.

Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:

– monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial 

statements, formal announcements and regulatory information 
in relation to the Group’s financial performance, as well as 
significant accounting judgements;

– reviewing the effectiveness of, and ensuring that management 

has appropriate internal controls over, financial reporting;

– reviewing management’s arrangements for compliance with 

prudential regulatory financial reporting;

– reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external 
auditor and overseeing its appointment, remuneration and 
independence; 

– overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements 
for capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and 
ensuring they are operating effectively; and

4   Eileen Murray was unable to join two meetings due to prior 

– overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring and 

commitments.

5   Brendan Nelson joined the GAC upon appointment to the Board with 
effect from 1 September 2023 and has been appointed GAC Chair 
with effect from 21 February 2024.

6   Jackson Tai retired from the GAC on 5 May 2023 upon his 

retirement from the Board.

I am pleased to introduce the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) report 
setting out the key matters and issues considered in 2023. 

As well as the GAC’s usual obligations for financial reporting and the 
associated control environment, the GAC spent significant time on 
the oversight of the Group's ESG disclosures and improvement of the 
Group’s regulatory reporting, specifically assurance of the Group’s 
ESG disclosures for the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and the 
net zero transition plan and related policies, which were published in 
January 2024. 

Internal financial control also remained a key area of focus for the 
GAC during 2023. This will continue to be a priority going ahead due 
to the need for a robust control environment given the ongoing the 
volume of regulatory- and strategy-driven change across the Group. 
This included oversight of regulatory and accounting deliverables, 
such as the enhancement of Finance systems and controls and the 
progress in the implementation of Basel III.

Significant time was also spent at GAC meetings on the positioning 
and forward-looking financial guidance provided to the market as part 
of our financial reporting for both the current and prior year, notably in 
relation to returns, costs and expected credit losses (‘ECL’), including 
those associated with the Group’s exposure to the China corporate 
real estate market. 

Given the uncertain external environment, as well as HSBC’s growth 
ambitions, the GAC will continue to play an important role in 
monitoring the effectiveness of the control environment in supporting 
sustainability of these ambitions. 

assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing, 
independence and standing of the function.

The GAC continued to strengthen our relationships and understanding 
of issues at the local level through regular information sharing with 
the principal subsidiary audit committee chairs. This was 
supplemented with regular meetings with the chairs to discuss key 
issues, and through their periodic attendance at GAC meetings. I also 
joined a number of principal subsidiary audit committee meetings 
throughout the year, which supported connectivity and information 
flows across the Group.

The Group’s whistleblowing arrangements continue to satisfy 
regulatory obligations. I regularly met the whistleblowing team to 
discuss material whistleblowing cases, and the progress made in 
enhancing the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements.

The GAC’s performance and effectiveness were reviewed as part of 
the Board effectiveness review undertaken during the year. I was 
pleased that the review concluded that the GAC continued to operate 
effectively, with no material areas for improvement identified. 

Finally, as announced on 6 December, Brendan Nelson will succeed 
me as Chair of the GAC following the publication of HSBC’s Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023 on 21 February 2024. The Board has 
determined that Brendan’s previous experience, notably as audit chair 
at NatWest and bp, makes him ideally suited to chair the GAC.

David Nish

Chair of the Group Audit Committee

266

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Committee governance 
The Committee operates under delegated authority from the Board, 
and advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s financial 
reporting requirements. The Committee Chair reports on the key 
matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting, and the 
Board also receives copies of the Committee agendas and minutes. 
This supports the Board's oversight of the work carried out by 
management, Global Internal Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(‘PwC‘), as the Group’s statutory auditor. 

The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has confirmed 
that each member of the Committee is independent according to the 
criteria from the US Securities and Exchange Commission; and the 
Committee and individual members continue to possess competence 
relevant to the banking and broader financial services sector in which 
the Group operates. The Board has determined that David Nish, 
Brendan Nelson and Eileen Murray are the audit committee ‘financial 
experts’ for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
and have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of 
the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes. 

The Committee Chair continued to engage with various key 
stakeholders, including regulators such as the UK’s PRA and the 
Financial Reporting Council, to understand their views, key themes 
and areas of focus within the broader financial services sector. These 
included trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor, 
PwC, and the PRA.

The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Global 
Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer, Group Company Secretary and Chief 
Governance Officer and other members of senior management 
routinely attended meetings of the GAC. The external auditor 
attended all meetings. 

The Chair holds regular meetings with management, Global Internal 
Audit and PwC, as the external auditor, to discuss relevant items as 
they had arisen during the year outside the formal Committee 
process. The Committee also regularly meets with the internal and 
external auditors, without management present. Private discussions 
are also held with relevant members of senior management, including 
the Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer. 

Matters considered during 2023

Reporting
Financial reporting matters including: 
–  review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and understandable
–  significant accounting judgements
–  going concern assumptions and viability statement
–  supplementary regulatory information

ESG and climate reporting
Regulatory reporting-related matters including:
– oversight of the Group's engagement with PRA-requested skilled person reviews
– reports from the principal subsidiaries on progress and learnings in relation to their local 

remediation efforts

– adequacy of resources across Finance and other SME teams to deliver the Group-wide 

remediation programme

Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes
Group transformation
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit
Audit plan updates, independence and effectiveness
External audit 
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies
Corporate governance codes and listing rules
Whistleblowing 
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

Jan

Feb

Apr

Jun

Jul

Sep

Oct

Dec

l

l

l

ô

l
ô
l

l
l

l
l

ô
ô

ô

l

l

l

l

l
ô
l

l
l

l
l

l
l

l

l

l

l

ô

l
ô
l

l
l

l
l

ô
ô

ô

l

l

l

ô

l
ô
l

ô
ô

l
l

ô
ô

ô

l

l

l

l

l
l
l

l
l

l
ô

l
l

ô

l

l

l

ô

l
l
l

ô
ô

l
l

ô
ô

l

l

l

l

ô

l
ô
l

l
l

l
l

l
ô

ô

l

l

l

ô

l
ô
l

l
l

l
l

l
ô

l

How the Committee discharged its responsibilities

Financial, ESG and climate reporting

The GAC is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial reporting 
during the year, including the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim 
Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 
disclosures. 

Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported 
by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided close oversight of 
the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid 
rising stakeholder expectations. 

As part of its review, the GAC:

– reviewed the narrative commentary on our financial and non-

financial performance to ensure it remained fair, balanced and 
understandable;

– challenged and evaluated management’s application of critical 
accounting policies and material areas in which significant 
accounting judgements were applied;

– gave particular regard to the analysis and measurement of IFRS 9 
ECL, including the key judgements and management adjustments 
made in relation to the forward economic guidance, underlying 
economic scenarios and reasonableness of the weightings, as well 
as modelling and adjustments; 

– focused on preparation for disclosures to ensure these were 

consistent, appropriate and acceptable under the relevant financial 
and governance reporting requirements; 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

267

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

– tracked and monitored developments relating to the strategy and 
scope of ESG and climate disclosures, in particular the assurance 
related to the Group’s net zero transition plan, which was 
published at the end of January 2024. The GAC also focused on 
internal and external assurance within ESG reporting in line with 
wider market developments to ensure ESG and climate 
disclosures were materially accurate and consistent;

– tracked and monitored the delivery against the external audit plan;

– provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the 

long-term viability statement; and

– considered the key performance metrics related to strategic 
priorities, and ensured that the performance and outlook 
statements reflected the risks and uncertainties appropriately. 

In addition to its work on the Group’s financial disclosures, PwC also 
provided limited standalone assurance on the Group’s climate 
reporting. Further details can be found in ’Assurance relating to ESG 
data’ on page 43.

In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC considered the current position 
of the Group, along with the emerging and principal risks, and carried 
out a robust assessment of the Group’s prospects. This assessment 
informed the GAC’s recommendation to the Board on the Group’s 
long-term viability. The GAC also undertook a detailed review before 
recommending to the Board that the Group continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the annual and interim financial 
statements. Further details can be found on page 40.

Fair, balanced and understandable 

Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. These 
provided the shareholders with the necessary information to assess 
the Group’s position and performance, business model, strategy and 
risks facing the business, including in relation to the increasingly 
important ESG considerations. 

The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
and results announcements to provide feedback and challenge to 
management. It was supported by the work of the Group Disclosure 
and Controls Committee, which also reviewed and assessed the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and investor communications.

This work enables the GAC to discharge its responsibilities and 
support the Board in making the statement required under the UK and 
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.

Internal controls 

Regular updates and confirmations are provided to the GAC on the 
action management takes to remediate any failings or weaknesses 
identified through the operation of the Group’s framework of internal 
financial controls. This is supplemented by reviews of these controls 
by the second line of defence and internal audit, and the external 
auditors, who provided additional comfort to the Committee on the 
effectiveness of these controls. These reviews confirmed that there 
were no material weaknesses as at the year-end.

These updates included the Group’s work on compliance with section 
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on this work, the GAC 
recommended that the Board support its assessment of the internal 
controls over financial reporting.

The GAC continues to focus on controls over the Group's insurance 
business following the implementation of the IFRS 17 ‘Insurance 
Contracts‘ accounting standards. This will remain a focus through 
2024, with the GAC scheduled to receive further updates on the 
control environment for this business and in relation to the change 
programme more generally through the first half of 2024.

For further details of how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of 
key aspects of internal control, see page 311.  

The Committee approved the Integrity of Regulatory Reporting 
programme, management’s strategy for remediation of deficiencies in 
relation to the Group's regulatory reporting governance, process and 
controls. The Committee also provided oversight of the Group's 
engagement with PRA-requested skilled-persons reviews including 
the initiation of a review of the sustainability of the Group’s ongoing 
remediation efforts for regulatory reporting, which commenced in 
2023 for an initial period to 31 December 2025. Regular updates will 
be provided to the Committee by the skilled person throughout the 
course of their review. 

Management provided updates on the status of ongoing HSBC-
specific external reviews, and discussed the issues and themes 
identified from the increased assurance work and focus on regulatory 
reporting. The GAC also discussed root cause themes, remediation of 
known issues and new issues identified through the increased 
assurance work and focus on regulatory reporting. The Committee 
challenged management on remediation plans, to ensure there was a 
sustainable reduction in issues and that dependencies with other key 
programmes were well understood. 

The Committee Chair initiated a schedule under which certain 
principal subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers 
and chief financial officers attended GAC meetings to share progress 
and learnings in relation to their local remediation efforts. 

Further details can be found in the ‘Principal activities and significant 
issues considered during 2023’ table on page 271.

Adequacy of resources

The Committee is responsible, under the Hong Kong Listing Rules, to 
annually assess the adequacy of resources of the accounting, internal 
audit, financial reporting and ESG performance and reporting 
functions. It also monitored the legal and regulatory environment 
relevant to its responsibilities. 

The Committee determined that each of the functions provided 
thorough information with regards to people capacity and capability 
and endorsed the annual update to the Board.

In recognition that the enhancement of the Group’s regulatory 
reporting processes and controls was a priority for both the 
Committee and the Group’s regulators, the GAC also considered the 
adequacy of regulatory reporting resources as part of the year-end 
activities.

Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit committees

The Committee recognises the importance of strong connectivity and 
alignment with principal subsidiary audit committees. The 
mechanisms to support this are well established and continued to 
operate effectively during the year. 

This included information sharing and targeted collaboration between 
audit committee chairs and management to ensure there was 
appropriate focus on the local implementation of programmes. During 
2023 this included a particular focus on regulatory reporting, with the 
subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers and chief 
financial officers, attending Committee meetings to update on 
progress, share local challenges, and areas of focus with the 
Committee. 

In addition to the Chair's regular meetings with the audit chairs of the 
Group’s UK, European, US and Asian principal subsidiaries, and their 
attendance at Committee meetings for reference items, escalations 
were received by the Committee for its information and action. 

On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provided 
certifications to the GAC that regarded the preparation of their 
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation of 
any issues that required the attention of the GAC. These certifications 
also included information regarding the governance, review and 
assurance activities undertaken by principal subsidiary audit 
committees in relation to prudential regulatory reporting. 

Regulatory reporting

External auditor 

Regulatory reporting has been a key priority for the Committee over 
recent years, and will continue to be a priority for 2024. The 
Committee is focused on monitoring the programme of work to 
address the quality and reliability of regulatory reporting to meet 
regulatory expectations. 

268

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship 
with the Group’s external auditor, PwC. The GAC undertook a formal 
competitive tender process for the Group’s statutory audit during 
2022 following PwC’s appointment for the Annual Report and 

Accounts 2015. This process concluded that PwC would remain as 
the statutory auditor, which was announced in January 2023. As part 
of the tender process, PwC committed to a number of initiatives to 
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Group audit, and 
progress against these is reported to the Committee on a regular 
basis to allow these to be monitored. 

PwC completed its ninth audit, providing robust challenge to 
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on 
specific financial reporting judgements and the control environment. 
The senior audit partner is Scott Berryman who has been in the role 
since 2019. It was announced during 2023 that Matthew Falconer 
would become the senior audit partner from 2024 as part of the 
rotation of auditors. The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s 
approach and strategy for the annual audit and received regular 
updates on the audit, including observations on the control 
environment. Key audit matters discussed with PwC are set out in its 
report on page 318.

Following the publication of the Financial Reporting Council's (‘FRC’) 
Audit Committee and the External Audit: Minimum Standard (’the 
Standard’) during 2023, the Committee confirmed that all 
requirements of the standard have been complied with.

External audit plan

The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the 
materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. PwC highlighted 
the changes being made to its approach to enhance the quality and 
effectiveness of the audit. PwC’s plan supports its, and the GAC's, 
focus on audit quality through standardisation, centralisation and the 
use of technology. The GAC has questioned PwC on its plans to 
utilise more digital solutions on the HSBC audit, and updates on this 
will be provided through 2024.

Effectiveness of external audit process

The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group’s external 
auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall audit 
process, its effectiveness and the quality of output. 

In addition, the GAC Chair, certain principal subsidiary audit chairs and 
members of the Group Executive Committee met with the  Senior 
Audit Partner to discuss findings from the questionnaire and provide 
in-depth feedback on the interaction with the PwC audit team. 

PwC highlighted the actions being taken in response to the HSBC 
effectiveness review, including the development of audit quality 
indicators. These provide a balanced scorecard and transparent 
reporting to the GAC on the work of both HSBC teams and PwC 
during the course of the audit. These audit quality indicators focused 
on the following areas:

– findings from inspections across the Group and regulators on PwC 

as a firm;

There were no breaches of the policy on hiring employees or former 
employees of the external auditor during the year. The external 
auditor attended all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair 
maintains regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team 
throughout the year.

The FRC’s Quality Review team routinely monitors the quality of the 
audit work of certain UK audit firms through inspections of sample 
audits and related quality processes. PwC was reviewed on the audit 
of our financial reporting for the 2022 financial year. The Chair had 
discussions with the FRC as part of the process, and also discussed 
the outcome of the inspection with the Senior Audit Partner and the 
other members of the Committee. The Committee was pleased with 
the outcome of the inspection, which reported no key findings as well 
as a number of specific examples of good audit practice.

Independence and objectivity

The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence that 
were self-identified or reported by PwC. The GAC considered PwC to 
be independent and PwC, in accordance with professional ethical 
standards and applicable rules and regulations, provided the GAC with 
written confirmation of its independence for the duration of 2023. 

The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of The 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial statements. 

Following the recommendation to reappoint PwC as the auditor, the 
associated resolutions concerning the reappointment and the audit 
fee for 2023 were approved at the 2023 AGM by the shareholders of 
the Group.

Non-audit services

The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and monitoring 
the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy on the award of 
non-audit services to the external auditor. The non-audit services are 
carried out in accordance with the external auditor independence 
policy to ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All 
non-audit services are either approved by the GAC, or by Group 
Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the 
GAC.

The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 64 engagements 
approved during the year where the fees were over $100,000 but less 
than $1m. Global Finance, as a delegate of the GAC, considered that 
it was in the best interests of the Group to use PwC for these 
services because they were: 

– audit-related engagements that were largely carried out by 

members of the audit engagement team, with the work closely 
related to the work performed in the audit; 

– the hours of audit work delivered by senior PwC audit team 

– engagements covered under other assurance services that require 

members, the extent of specialist and expert involvement, delivery 
against agreed timetable and milestones and the use of 
technology;

– any new control deficiencies in Sarbanes-Oxley locations, 

proportion of management identified deficiencies and delivery of 
audit deliverables to agreed timelines; and

– matters occurring in PwC's global network that could be relevant 

to the audit of HSBC.

Specifically in 2023, PwC reported to the GAC on the recommended 
actions taken in response to the independent review of governance, 
culture and accountability that was undertaken by Dr Ziggy 
Switkowski AO, as well as further detail on audit quality controls 
across PwC’s global operations. 

The GAC receives regular updates from PwC and management on 
performance across the audit quality indicators, which provides wider 
visibility of ongoing and emerging issues. The GAC requested that 
these indicators included metrics in relation to PwC's IT security, 
reflecting the significant volume of information that is shared 
between HSBC and PwC as part of the audit activity.

obtaining appropriate audit evidence to express a conclusion 
designed to enhance the degree of confidence of the intended 
users other than the responsible party about the subject matter 
information; 

– other permitted services such as advisory attestation reports on 
internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for 
and used by third-party end users; or

– required or permitted by local regulators to be performed by the 

external auditor.

Eight engagements during the year were approved where the fees 
exceeded $1m. These were mainly engagements required by the 
regulator and incremental fees related to previously approved 
engagements, including the provision of independent assurance 
reports on global controls for 2023.

Auditors‘ remuneration

Total fees payable
of which fees for non-audit services
Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees1

2023
$m
155.9
46.1
 42.0% 

2022
$m
148.1
50.5
 51.7% 

1   The calculation is on a simple ratio and is not based on FRC guidance 

on non-audit fees ratio thresholds.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

269

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Whistleblowing and speak-up culture

An important part of HSBC’s values is speaking up when something 
does not feel right. HSBC remains committed to ensuring colleagues 
have confidence to speak up and acting when they do. A wide variety 
of channels are provided for colleagues to raise concerns, including 
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 94 
for further information).

The Board has delegated responsibility to the GAC to oversee the 
effectiveness of HSBC’s whistleblowing procedures. The Chair of the 
GAC is a Group Senior Manager (SMF7), and has a prescribed 
responsibility as the whistleblowers’ champion, to ensure integrity of 
HSBC’s policies on whistleblowing and protecting those who report 
concerns. As part of his responsibility, the GAC Chair reports to the 
Board on the GAC’s oversight of whistleblowing as part of his regular 
reporting updates.

The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance regularly updates the GAC 
on whistleblowing effectiveness, including controls assessments and 
internal audit findings. The Committee is briefed on culture and 
conduct risks from whistleblowing cases and actions taken.

In 2023, the GAC received updates on topics such as cultural insights 
from internal HR-led investigations relating to matters reported 
through HSBC Confidential. Reports were also provided on the 
actions taken to support different functional areas collaborate post-
investigation. The Chair met with the Group Head of Conduct, Policy 
and Whistleblowing for briefings on significant whistleblowing 
matters. In 2024, the GAC will continue to receive briefings on these 
actions and the ongoing efficiency of the HSBC Confidential channel.

Global Internal Audit

The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the 
Board and management protect the assets, reputation and 
sustainability of the Group. Global Internal Audit does this by providing 
independent and objective assurance on the design and operating 
effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk management and 
control framework and processes, prioritising the greatest areas of 
risk. The independence of Global Internal Audit from day-to-day line 
management responsibility is critical to its ability to deliver objective 
audit coverage by maintaining an independent and objective stance. 
Global Internal Audit is free from interference by any element in the 
organisation, including on matters of audit selection, scope, 
procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit report content. The 
Group Head of Internal Audit reports to, and meets frequently with, 
the Chair of the GAC. In addition, in 2023, there was more interaction 
between Global Internal Audit senior management and the members 
of the GAC, aimed at increasing knowledge and awareness of the 
audit universe and existing and emerging risks identified by Global 
Internal Audit. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ mandatory guidance.

Consistent with previous years, the 2024 audit planning process 
includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control 
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. Results 

of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis of risk 
themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are 
addressed in the annual plan. Audit coverage is achieved using a 
combination of business and functional audits of processes and 
controls, risk management frameworks and major change initiatives, 
as well as regulatory audits, investigations and special reviews. In 
addition to the ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key 
risk theme categories for 2024 audit coverage remain as: strategy, 
governance and culture; financial crime, conduct and compliance; 
financial resilience; and operational resilience. A quarterly continuous 
monitoring assessment of key risk themes will form the basis of 
thematic reporting and plan updates and will ultimately drive the 2025 
planning process. 

In 2024, Global Internal Audit’s new or heightened areas of coverage 
are: transformation including regulatory change; people capacity and 
capability; ESG; material regulatory obligations; Consumer Duty 
implementation; retail and wholesale credit risk management; 
Basel III; regulatory reporting; treasury; operational resilience; 
enterprise-wide risk management; model risk management; machine 
learning and artificial intelligence; data management and technology. 
In addition, Global Internal Audit will continue its programme of 
culture audits to assess the extent that behaviours reflect HSBC’s 
purpose, ambition, values and strategy, and expand its coverage of 
franchise audits for locally significant countries. The annual audit plan 
and material plan updates made in response to changes in the 
Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the GAC.

The results of audit work, together with an assessment of the 
Group’s overall governance, risk management and control framework 
and processes are reported to the GAC, GRC and local audit and risk 
committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key themes 
identified through audit activity, and the output from continuous 
monitoring. This includes business and regulatory developments and 
an independent view of emerging and horizon risk, together with 
details of audit coverage and any required changes to the annual audit 
plan. Based on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private 
sessions with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Global 
Professional Practices annual assessment and quarterly quality 
assurance updates, the GAC is satisfied with the effectiveness of the 
Global Internal Audit function and the appropriateness of its 
resources. 

Executive management is accountable for addressing the matters 
raised by Global Internal Audit, which must be addressed within an 
appropriate and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be 
provided to Global Internal Audit, which validates closure on a risk 
basis.

Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with 
HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept informed 
of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is afforded free 
access to all internal audit reports and supporting records.

270

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023

Areas of focus Key issues

Financial and 
regulatory 
reporting

Significant 
accounting 
judgements

Environmental, social and governance 
(‘ESG’) reporting
The Committee considered 
management’s efforts to enhance ESG 
disclosures and associated verification and 
assurance activities, with a specific focus 
on the net zero transition plan and climate-
related disclosures made in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023. 

Regulatory reporting
The GAC monitored the progress of the 
regulatory reporting assurance 
programme to enhance the Group’s 
regulatory reporting, impact on the control 
environment and oversight of regulatory 
reviews and engagement.

Expected credit losses
The measurement of expected credit 
losses involves significant judgements, 
particularly under current economic 
conditions. There remains uncertainty 
over ECL estimation due to sustained high 
inflation, a high interest rate environment 
and weaker economic growth in the 
Group’s key operating markets.

Tax-related judgements
HSBC has recognised deferred tax assets 
to the extent that they are recoverable 
through expected future taxable profits. 
Significant judgement continues to be 
exercised in assessing the probability and 
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future 
reversals of existing taxable temporary 
differences and expected outcomes 
relating to uncertain tax treatments.

Valuation of defined benefit pension 
obligations
The valuation of defined benefit pension 
obligations involves highly judgemental 
inputs and actuarial assumptions which 
includes rate, inflation rate, mortality rates 
and other demographic assumptions. 
Management considered these 
assumptions in consultation with actuarial 
experts to determine the valuation of the 
defined benefit obligations.
Valuation of financial instruments 
During 2023, management continuously 
refined its methodology and approach to 
valuing the Group’s portfolio in relation to 
investments, trading assets and liabilities 
and derivatives. 

Investment in subsidiaries
Management has reviewed investments 
in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment 
and conducted impairment reviews where 
relevant. These involve exercising 
significant judgement to assess the 
recoverable amounts of subsidiaries, by 
reference to projected future cash flows, 
discount rates and regulatory capital 
assumptions.

Conclusions and actions
The Committee considered ESG disclosures for the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 in 
detail, to ensure these were fair and balanced, and were also transparent on the 
challenges faced and aligned with the Group's progress in the embedding of sustainable 
and climate-related policies across the business.
The Committee also focused on the evolution of the control environment for ESG 
disclosures, particularly data sourcing and policy adherence. Management provided 
updates on additional assurance performed over these disclosures while the control 
environment matures and the progress of the sustainability enhancement programme (to 
upgrade our capabilities in this growing area).

The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of regulatory 
reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. The GAC reviewed management’s 
proposals on remediation efforts, and endorsed the strategy for the remediation of the 
errors in the Group’s reporting submissions to regulators globally. 
The chief executive officers, chief financial officers and audit committee chair of the US, 
UK ring-fenced bank, European and Asian subsidiaries attended Committee meetings 
during the year to report on the remediation activities and priorities with regards to 
regulatory reporting in their respective markets. 
We continue to keep the PRA and other relevant regulators informed of our progress.

The Committee reviewed economic scenarios for the key countries and territories in 
which the Group operates and challenged management’s judgements on the weightings 
assigned to the scenarios. The Committee also challenged management’s judgemental 
adjustments to account for uncertainty in specific sectors and geographies, including the 
controls underpinning the adjustments process and conditions under which the 
adjustments would be reduced or removed.  

The Committee continued to monitor management’s updates on areas of particular focus, 
including downside risk on mainland China and Hong Kong commercial real estate. 

The Committee considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in particular in the 
US, the UK and France. 
The Committee also considered management’s judgements relating to tax positions in 
respect of which the appropriate tax treatment is uncertain, open to interpretation or has 
been challenged by the tax authority.

The GAC has considered the effect of changes in key assumptions on the HSBC UK Bank 
plc section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pensions Scheme, which is the principal plan of HSBC 
Group. Details of key assumptions can be found on pages 366 to 368 of the ’Notes on the 
financial statements’.

The Committee considered the key valuation metrics and judgements involved in the 
determination of the fair value of financial instruments, and agreed with the judgements 
applied by management, which were validated through appropriate governance and 
control forums.

The Committee reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of HSBC 
Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited and the key inputs such as projected profits, underpinning 
the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

271

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)

Areas of focus Key issues

Significant 
accounting 
judgements

Investment in an associate – Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited
During the year, management performed 
impairment reviews of HSBC’s 
investment in Bank of Communications 
Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’). This included 
consideration of the potential impact of 
BoCom’s designation as a globally 
systemically important bank in November 
2023.  
The impairment reviews are complex and 
require significant judgements, such as 
the appropriateness of projected future 
cash flows, discount rate, and regulatory 
capital assumptions.

Interest rate management, including 
disposal of hold-to-collect-and-sell 
portfolio  
During 2023, management proposed a 
framework for the disposal of selected 
hold-to-collect-and-sell securities to 
improve risk management of hold-to-
collect-and-sell positions and to stabilise 
and protect net interest income over the 
medium term. 

Impairment of goodwill and non-
financial assets
During the year, management tested for 
impairment goodwill and non-financial 
assets. Key judgements in this area relate 
to long-term growth rates, discount rates 
and projected future cash flows to include 
for each cash-generating unit tested, both 
in terms of compliance with the 
accounting standards and reasonableness 
of the forecasts.
Legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters
Management has used judgement in 
relation to the recognition and 
measurement of provisions, as well as the 
existence of contingent liabilities for legal 
and regulatory matters. 

Long-term viability and going concern 
statement 
The GAC has considered a wide range of 
information relating to present and future 
projections of profitability, cash flows, 
capital requirements and capital 
resources. These considerations include 
stressed scenarios that reflect the 
implications of: 
(i) the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Middle 
East conflicts, and the consequential 
impacts on the supply chains globally; 
(ii) macroeconomic risks including 
inflationary risks, which were expected to 
remain heightened in most markets; and
(iii) climate risk, operational resilience, and 
other top and emerging risks, and the 
related impact on profitability, capital and 
liquidity.
Impact of acquisitions and disposals
HSBC engaged in a number of business 
acquisitions and disposals, notably in the 
UK, Canada, France, Greece, China, Oman 
and Russia. 
Significant judgement was involved in 
determining the timing of recognition of 
assets held-for-sale, gains or losses, and 
the measurement of assets and liabilities 
on acquisition or disposal.

Conclusions and actions
The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s judgements in relation to 
impairment reviews of HSBC’s investment in BoCom, performed using a value-in-use 
methodology. The GAC reviewed the appropriateness of key assumptions such as 
projected future cash flows, with a particular focus on the loan growth and net interest 
margin outlook, and potential impacts of the recent designation of BoCom as a globally 
systemically important bank.
The Committee held a dedicated meeting to challenge management on the impairment 
charge taken in the fourth quarter of 2023, considering sensitivity analysis of value-in-use 
to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and consistency of judgements with 
prior impairment reviews, which we have disclosed previously. 

The GAC received regular management updates on hedging strategy, including the 
repositioning of structural interest rate hedges.  

The Committee reviewed controls on, and financial outcomes of, disposals of hold-to-
collect-and-sell securities.

The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s approach and methodology used 
for the impairment testing of goodwill and non-financial assets, with a key focus on the 
projected cash flows included in the forecasts and discount rates used. The GAC also 
challenged management’s key judgements and considered the reasonableness of the 
outcomes against business forecasts and strategic objectives of HSBC.

The Committee reviewed reports from management on legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters, and challenged related accounting judgements and disclosures.

In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes, the Directors 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks of the Group and parent company. 
The GAC considered the statement to be made by the Directors and concluded that the 
Group and parent company will be able to continue in operation and meet liabilities as they 
fall due, and that it is appropriate that the long-term viability statement covers a period of 
three years.

The Committee reviewed management’s judgements related to the planned sales of our 
banking business in Canada, our retail banking operations in France and our banking 
business in Russia, such as the timing of classification as held-for-sale and the 
remeasurement of assets. 
The Committee considered the financial and accounting impacts of the merger of HSBC 
Oman with Sohar International Bank of Oman, and the acquisitions of Silicon Valley Bank 
UK Limited, Silkroad Property Partners Pte Limited and Citi’s retail wealth management 
portfolio in China. 

272

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)

Areas of focus Key issues

Sustainable control environment
The GAC will oversee the impact on the 
risk and control environment.

Control 
environment

Basel III Reform

The GAC considered the implementation 
of the Basel III Reform and the impact on 
the capital requirements and RWA 
assurance. This was considered in the 
context of the strategy and structure of 
the balance sheet.

Regulatory 
change

Conclusions and actions
The Committee received regular updates on the control environment, and broader change 
framework, to review the impact on financial reporting and tax risk within the Group, with 
particular focus on the implementation of IFRS 17 in the year. 

In these updates the Committee monitored the assessment of the financial reporting risk, 
tax risk and progress made on remediation of Sarbanes Oxley significant deficiencies. This 
oversight helped the Committee to understand the progress being made by management 
to set out strategic actions to remediate identified issues and uplift the control 
environment to enable a sustainable reduction in risk. 
Management’s updates were supplemented by further focus and assurance work from 
Global Internal Audit, including audits of significant programmes of activity during 2023.

The Committee received updates on the progress and impact of the Basel III programme 
on the Group. 

Management discussed the delayed implementation dates due to ongoing uncertainty 
over the final definition of the rules by regulators, and the work undertaken to mitigate 
delivery risks given the concentration of delivery during 2024. The discussion highlighted 
the dependencies of the Basel III programme with data and management. Management 
focus was on ensuring that the data required and evolving internal standards were 
delivered by the end of 2023 to allow for integrated testing in the first quarter of 2024. 
The Committee  reviewed the ongoing management of risks, issues and dependencies 
and challenged management to prioritise deliverables across each jurisdiction in line with 
regulatory timelines. The Committee discussed focus on ensuring, in each case,  solutions 
were delivered to the minimum required standards. 

Committee 
connectivity

Collaboration with GAC/GRC/
Technology Governance Working 
Group 
The GAC and GRC worked closely to 
ensure there were procedures to manage 
risk and oversee the internal control 
framework. The Chairs are members of 
both committees and engage on the 
agendas of each other’s committees to 
further enhance connectivity, coordination 
and flow of information. 

Given that all material remediation plans within the Group rely heavily on data, the 
committees held joint meetings to develop an understanding of the HSBC data strategy 
and execution plan. The joint meetings discussed:

–

–

–

the review undertaken of data within the Group and the associated baseline 
established as part of the review;
actions taken to prioritise execution to deliver key capabilities and remediate data 
quality, including pilots to provide clarity around scale, key milestones and expected 
execution timelines; and
the three-year Group data programme delivery roadmap including detailed plans to 
address data quality issues, improve the data control landscape, engage with 
colleagues to actively mature data culture, and build sustainable capabilities that meet 
a growing global trend towards localisation of data.

Committee evaluation and effectiveness 

Committee priorities

The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees, 
including the GAC, was conducted by IBE, Independent Board 
Evaluation during 2023. The review determined that the GAC 
continued to operate effectively. 

Positive feedback was noted on the leadership of the Committee 
Chair, the composition of the Committee and the focus and balance 
of time dedicated to discussion at Committee meetings. The review 
highlighted the continued importance of strong interaction between 
the GAC, GRC, Technology Governance Working Group and the 
Board, on key issues including ESG.

Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee 
effectiveness can be found on pages 260 to 261. 

At its meeting in December 2023, the Committee agreed a number of 
priorities for 2024. These included: 

– Regulatory reporting: Given the criticality of accurate and timely 

regulatory reporting to the Group’s licence to operate, the 
Committee will have a key focus on delivery of the Integrity of 
Regulatory Reporting  programme during 2024. 

– ESG: As competent authorities in the markets in which the Group 
operates launch market-specific disclosure requirements under 
new regulation, the Committee will continue to focus on the 
assurance of reporting and disclosure at both a Group and 
subsidiary level, as well as the effectiveness of the supporting 
control environment and governance. 

– Data: The Committee plans to monitor and provide input into the 
data strategy, remediation, and controls for the purposes of 
financial and regulatory reporting, including that data management 
strategies are embedded across the Group. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

273

Corporate governance 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Group Risk Committee

"The Committee takes continuous and active steps to safeguard the Group's capital and liquidity positions, 
keeping it secure in the face of macroeconomic headwinds, enabling it to effectively deploy capital dynamically 
to take advantage of opportunities"

James Forese

Chair

Group Risk Committee

Meeting attendance 
in 20231
10/10

Key responsibilities
The GRC has overall non-executive responsibility for the oversight 
of risk-related matters and the risks impacting the Group. The 
GRC’s key responsibilities include:

10/10

– overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters, 

Membership

James Forese (Chair)2
Geraldine Buckingham
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3
Steven Guggenheimer4
Kalpana Morparia5
Brendan Nelson6
David Nish
Jackson Tai7
Swee Lian Teo8

Member since

Jun 2022

Jun 2022

Sep 2021

May 2020

Jul 2020

Sep 2023

Feb 2020

Sep 2016

Oct 2023

7/10

9/10

7/8

3/3

10/10

4/4

2/2

1   These included six scheduled meetings, three ad hoc meetings and 

one joint meeting with the Group Audit Committee and the 
Technology Governance Working Group.

2   James Forese was appointed Chair of the Committee on 5 May 

2023.

3   Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was unable to attend three meetings due to  

prior commitments.

4   Steven Guggenheimer was unable to attend one meeting due to a 

prior commitment.

5   Kalpana Morparia joined the GRC on 1 March 2023. She was unable 

to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
6   Brendan Nelson joined the GRC on 1 September 2023.
7   Jackson Tai stepped down from the GRC on 5 May 2023. 
8   Swee Lian Teo joined the GRC on 1 October 2023.

I am pleased to present my first Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) 
report, having taken over the role of Chair of the Committee in May 
2023.  I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere 
gratitude to Jackson Tai for his service to GRC, and the Group more 
broadly, prior to stepping down as Committee Chair. I am also 
pleased to welcome Kalpana Morparia, Brendan Nelson and Swee 
Lian Teo, all of whom joined as members of the GRC during 2023, 
and each of whom brings unique skills and experience to the business 
of the Committee.

Geopolitical risks and the macroeconomic environment continued to 
dominate the landscape in 2023, with turmoil in the financial markets 
leading to the collapse of several banks in the US and Europe in the 
first half of the year. Commercial real estate in both the US and Asia  
also came under increasing pressure due to the high interest rate 
environment, inflationary trends and recessionary concerns. Central 
banks’ efforts to lower inflation by rapidly raising interest rates also 
had a wide-ranging impact on retail borrowers as the cost of living 
increased globally. The GRC has closely monitored the Group’s credit 
exposures, market risk and settlement limits in response to these 
events, and has endorsed management’s proactive execution in 
reducing high risk exposures and accelerating portfolio 
transformation. 

Oversight of financial risks has been critical against this external 
backdrop, and the GRC has paid close focus to the Group’s ongoing 
treasury, capital and liquidity risk management activities, including 
early warning indicators, delivery of the interest rate risk in the 

274

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

including financial and non-financial risks;

– advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key 

regulatory submissions;

– reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
framework and internal controls systems (other than internal 
financial controls overseen by the GAC); 

– reviewing and challenging the Group’s stress testing exercises; 

and

– overseeing the Group’s approach to conduct, fairness and 

preventing financial crime.

banking book strategy, prudential sensitivity analysis and capital and 
liquidity adequacy. Throughout the year, the GRC reviewed and 
challenged management on the Group’s regulatory submissions, 
including the Bank of England’s requirements for the Resolvability 
Assessment Framework, internal capital adequacy assessment 
process (‘ICAAP’) and internal liquidity adequacy assessment process 
(‘ILAAP’). The GRC had primary non-executive responsibility for 
reviewing the outcomes of regulatory stress tests, including the 2023 
annual cyclical scenario hybrid mortgage models update and the post-
wind-down business restructuring analysis.

Non-financial risks were also a key focus of the GRC in 2023.  The 
GRC carefully considered the Group’s regulatory remediation and 
change programmes, and worked closely with management to better 
prioritise and understand where there are key interdependencies. In 
particular, the Committee reviewed and challenged the Group’s data 
strategy and other key areas of regulatory focus, including oversight 
of the operational resilience enhancements, conduct and financial 
crime, technology and cyber risk. The GRC also provided oversight 
and support to risk transformation activities to develop stronger risk 
management capabilities and outcomes across the Group. Climate 
also continues to be a priority area of oversight with regular reports on 
areas of risk, such as greenwashing, compliance with regulatory 
requirements, and ESG policy changes.

Further details on these and other areas of GRC oversight during the 
year are set out below.

  
Committee governance
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief Financial 
Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Company Secretary and 
Chief Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, and Group Head 
of Internal Audit are standing attendees at GRC meetings. The Chair 
and members of the GRC also hold private meetings with the Group 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit 
and the external auditor, PwC, following scheduled GRC meetings.

The participation of our senior business leaders, including the Group 
Chief Executive who attended five scheduled GRC meetings in 2023, 
and the chief executive officers of the three global businesses 

reaffirmed the ownership and accountability of risks in the first line of 
defence.

The Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer, and, where appropriate, members of senior management, to 
discuss priorities and track progress on key actions. The Chair also 
meets regularly with the GRC Secretary to ensure the GRC addresses 
its governance responsibilities. A summary of coverage is set out in 
the ’Matters considered during 2023’ table.

Matters considered during 2023

Holistic enterprise risk monitoring including 
Group risk profile1
Risk framework and policies 
Treasury and traded risk
Wholesale/retail credit risk
Financial reporting risk
Resilience risk (including IT and operational risk)
Financial crime risk
People and conduct risk
Regulatory compliance risk
Legal risk
Model risk
Climate risk

Jan

Feb

Mar

May

Jun

Jul

Sep

Dec

l

l
l
l
ô
ô
l
ô
ô
ô
ô
ô

l

l
l
l
l
ô
l
ô
ô
l
ô
l

l

ô
l
ô
ô
ô
l
ô
l
ô
ô
ô

l

ô
l
l
ô
l
l
l
l
l
ô
l

l

ô
l
l
ô
l
l
l
ô
l
ô
l

l

l
l
l
l
ô
l
ô
l
l
l
ô

l

ô
l
l
ô
l
l
l
l
l
ô
l

l

ô
l
ô
ô
l
l
l
l
l
l
l

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

1   The GRC receives updates on all risk types through the Group risk profile, which is presented to the majority of meetings. The Committee also met 
with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Risk and Compliance Executive Committee members in October 2023 to review matters 
relating to risk transformation, wholesale credit risk, treasury risk, model risk, operational risk, data and climate risk. 

How the Committee discharged its responsibilities

Activities outside formal meetings

The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule to 
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of the risks impacting 
the Group. Areas covered included capital management, stress 
testing, ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, as well as briefings on the 
Resolvability Assessment Framework. Further details of these 
sessions are included in the ’Principal activities and significant issues 
considered during 2023’ table starting on page 276.

Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk committees 

During 2023, the GRC continued to actively engage with principal 
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of 
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at relevant GRC meetings, 
and through a quarterly connectivity meeting with the principal 
subsidiary risk committee chairs. This meeting is also attended by the 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. This participation and 
connectivity promoted the sharing of information and best practices 
between the GRC and principal subsidiary risk committees.

The GRC also received reports at its regular meetings on the key risks 
facing principal subsidiaries including escalations and certifications 
from the principal subsidiary risk committees. The certifications 
confirmed that the principal subsidiary risk committees had 
challenged management on the quality of the information provided, 
reviewed the actions proposed by management to address any 
emerging issues and that risk management and internal control 
systems had been operating effectively. 

These interactions furthered the GRC’s understanding of the risk 
profile of the principal subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive 
review and challenge by the GRC. 

Engagement with the Risk and Compliance Executive 
Committee 

During 2023, the GRC met with the Risk and Compliance Executive 
Committee to promote information sharing, meet and assess the 
Group Risk and Compliance function leadership team, and encourage 
active engagement with executive management.

During the engagement meeting, the GRC developed a better 
understanding of the efforts to strengthen our capabilities across the 
Group Risk and Compliance function. There were also in-depth 
discussions on the progress and remediation of key regulatory 
concerns. The engagement promoted a healthy working relationship 
between GRC members and executive management.

Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC and Technology 
Governance Working Group

The GRC worked closely with the GAC and the Technology 
Governance Working Group to address any areas of significant 
overlap, and to oversee risk more comprehensively through inter-
committee communications and joint meetings. 

The GRC, GAC and the Technology Governance Working Group 
Chairs convened on two occasions to consider the Group's data 
strategy and ambitions. Further details of these sessions can be 
found under ’Collaboration with GAC/GRC/Technology Governance 
Working Group’ in the GAC report on page 271.

The committees and working group worked closely to ensure 
appropriate alignment in the review, discussion, challenge and 
conclusions on topics including risk and control issues relating to 
digital assets and currencies, and the transition of core Finance 
capabilities to the Cloud. This ensured that the committees benefited 
from each other’s expertise and challenge. 

Coordination between the GRC, GAC and the Technology Governance 
Working Group is supported by cross-membership. The GRC and GAC 
Chairs are members of both committees, and this strengthened 
connectivity and the flow of information between the committees. 
Each of the co-chairs of the Technology Governance Working Group 
are members of the GRC and GAC, respectively. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

275

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023

Key issues
Macroeconomic, geopolitical and other emerging 
risks have the potential to present significant 
challenges to revenue growth, operational 
resilience and our commitment to serve 
customers and local markets. 

Effective risk management policies, frameworks 
and thresholds, and oversight of these, are 
essential for HSBC to safely, consistently and 
sustainably support customers and deliver 
strategic aims.

Capital and liquidity risk must be effectively 
monitored. It presents key risks to banks globally, 
as demonstrated in the first half of 2023 when 
there were a number of bank failures in the US 
and Europe. Similarly, developing action plans 
and guardrails to cover scenarios of recovery or 
resolution at a subsidiary or Group level is an 
essential part of HSBC’s prudential management.

Risk areas

Holistic 
enterprise risk 
monitoring, 
including 
Group risk 
profile

Risk 
framework and 
policies

Treasury risk

Conclusions and actions
The GRC closely monitored geopolitical and macroeconomic risks that could 
impact the Group’s strategy, business performance or operations. These risks 
were exacerbated by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and the developing Israel-
Hamas war, as well as the expected 'higher for longer' interest rate environment, 
inflation and impacts on the commercial real estate portfolio.
The GRC continued to track top and emerging risks, our risk appetite and other 
management information metrics, as well as other early warning measures to 
understand sensitivities and the likelihood of the potential impact to our 
operations, customers and stakeholders. The GRC provided oversight and 
challenge of a robust book of strategic management actions to respond to 
potential downside scenarios. 
Reflecting the Committee’s ability to travel to different jurisdictions and regions 
more frequently, the GRC requested reports on the risk profile of key business 
areas in local geographies and invited principal subsidiary chairs and relevant 
management to attend and participate in discussions.

The Group has a risk appetite statement to define risk appetite and tolerance 
thresholds, which forms the basis of the risk management procedures for the first 
and second lines of defence, the Group’s capacity and capabilities to support 
customers, and the achievement of strategic goals. The GRC maintained oversight 
of the Group’s risk management framework, reviewing changes to the Group’s risk 
appetite statements and recommending these to the Board for approval. The 
agreed risk appetite statement then provided the basis for the Committee’s 
interactive review of financial and non-financial risk management information at 
each scheduled GRC meeting. The GRC continued to promote the development of 
more dynamic and granular risk appetite statements that were both forward 
looking and dynamically responsive to emerging risk drivers, and linked to the 
Group's strategy, stress testing and financial resource plan. Changes were 
recommended by the GRC to the Group’s risk appetite statement, including in the 
areas of interest rate risk in the banking book, wholesale credit risk, climate risk, 
model risk, digital assets and currencies, resilience risk, reputational risk and 
regulatory reporting risk.    

The Group takes continuous and active steps to safeguard its capital and liquidity 
positions. It performs internal and regulatory stress tests to measure resilience and 
performance against stress, and to consider strategic management actions that 
could be applied against anticipated stress events and headwinds.
The GRC conducted its annual review and challenge of the Group’s ICAAP and 
ILAAP, and provided recommendation to the Board for approval. The GRC 
continued to evaluate the Group’s IRRBB strategy and progress made against the 
multi-year liquidity improvement programme.
The GRC reviewed the Group’s ongoing activities to identify, manage and mitigate 
treasury, capital and liquidity risks, including early warning indicators, sensitivity 
analysis, capital and liquidity reporting and adequacy. 
In relation to stress testing exercises, the GRC reviewed the Bank of England’s 
2023 annual cyclical scenario hybrid mortgage models update. The results were 
approved by the Committee in March 2023. The GRC also considered the 2024 
financial resource plan and Group-wide internal stress test overview, scenarios and 
outputs, which contribute to the Group’s commitment to regularly test the 
resilience of the balance sheet and profit and loss under multiple scenarios of 
varying severity.
In addition to oversight of capital and liquidity risk, the GRC also reviewed and 
provided challenge to ongoing plans to improve balance sheet velocity across the 
Group through better distribution enabling further, targeted origination and 
ensuring effective use of capital to support revenue growth.
As part of its regulatory obligations, the Group is required to show how its 
resolution strategy could be carried out in an orderly way and identify any risks to 
successful resolution. The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s progress in 
developing its capabilities towards the Bank of England’s requirements for 
recovery and resolvability. In February 2023, the GRC reviewed the planned 
approach for 2023 post-wind-down business restructuring analysis, prior to 
submission to the PRA. The GRC reviewed and recommended the 2023 
Resolvability Assessment Framework self-assessment to the Board for approval. 
The Chairs of the GRC and the GAC both received comprehensive briefings prior to 
the presentation of the framework.

276

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)

Risk areas

Key issues
HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses 
resulting from the failure of a counterparty to 
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. 

Wholesale/
retail credit risk

Financial 
reporting risk

HSBC is exposed to risks where controls 
supporting the reporting of its financial 
statements are not effective, resulting in material 
error or misstatement.

Resilience risks could lead to a situation where 
we may be unable to provide our customers with 
critical business services due to significant 
disruption.  
Technology risks could cause unmanaged 
disruption to any IT system within HSBC, as a 
result of malicious acts, accidental actions or 
poor IT practice, or IT system failure.

Resilience risk 
(and 
operational 
risk)

There is a risk that HSBC’s products and services 
could be exploited for criminal activity, including 
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, 
sanctions and export control violations, money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing.  

Financial crime 
risk

Conclusions and actions
The GRC reviewed updates on the strategy and approach to managing credit risk 
and credit risk capabilities. The GRC received regular updates on the Group’s 
expected credit losses and provisions, and the credit risk arising from the 
wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. Throughout the year, the GRC focused 
on oversight of management’s enhancement objectives for wholesale credit risk 
management, in particular to improve the Group’s approach to country and 
industry concentration risks. 
The GRC continued its emphasis on building even stronger credit capabilities for 
specialty sectors, the development of stronger portfolio management capabilities 
and further improving the Group’s credit risk culture. A key focus area continued to 
be offering support to our retail customers experiencing financial difficulty, by 
maintaining appropriate tools and treatments and ensuring that conduct and good 
customer outcomes was a priority. 

While the GAC maintains primary responsibility in relation to internal financial 
control systems, with further detail on pages 266 to 271, the GRC receives reports 
on entity level control assessments to enable the oversight of the effectiveness of 
such controls in support of the Group’s financial reporting. The GRC also receives 
relevant audit reports that provide an assessment of control effectiveness for 
financial reporting risks. 

The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s implementation of operational 
resilience capabilities in line with PRA and FCA policies. The GRC reviewed and 
challenged the operational resilience self-assessment against regulatory 
expectations, and worked with management to ensure that ownership and the 
delivery of resilience outcomes were embedded within the business and with 
function leaders. The GRC also received reports on system incidents and outages 
experienced across the Group, including reports on immediate actions being taken 
to enhance system continuity for, and communicate with customers, and 
measures being implemented to improve resilience-related controls to prevent 
reoccurrence.

The GRC regularly reviewed reports on the Group’s technology risk profile, as well 
as receiving bi-annual updates in relation to the risk and control environment,  as 
well as the current threat landscape and emerging risks. The GRC (working with 
the newly-created Group Technology Committee as appropriate) will consider 
further the risks and opportunities inherent in the use of AI (generative and 
advanced) in 2024.
The GRC maintained a strong focus on understanding the Group’s data risk 
landscape, its data strategy and data management programme. The GRC 
collaborated with the GAC and the Technology Governance Working Group on data 
strategy, the execution plan and timeline for data remediation, the governance 
approach and the investment model. Further details on the joint meetings are 
included in the 'Collaboration with GAC/GRC/Technology Governance Working 
Group’ section on page 275.

The GRC reviewed the Group’s approach to managing its financial crime risk 
across geographies and businesses. This included reviewing updates to the 
Group’s financial crime policy, enhancing the approach to insider risk, and 
monitoring the fraud landscape and strategies for managing fraud risk.

The ongoing Russia-Ukraine war has necessitated continued oversight of the ever-
changing and increasingly complex international sanctions landscape in which the 
Group and its customers operate, as well as the Group’s approach to managing its 
compliance with multiple and differing sanctions regimes globally.

People are central to everything HSBC does and 
it is essential to manage the risk of not having 
the right people with the right skills, and to 
ensure staff always have the customer’s interest 
at the forefront.

The GRC monitored people risk and employee conduct, with support from the 
Group Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer. The GRC considered people risk issues with a focus on the four 'c’s: 
capacity, capability, culture and conduct. It also considered remuneration risks, and 
strategies to retain talent and acquire new capabilities in key areas. 

People and 
conduct risk

Regulatory 
compliance 
risk

As a result of operating in multiple jurisdictions 
globally, HSBC is exposed to risks associated 
with inappropriate market conduct or breaching 
related financial services regulatory standards or 
expectations. 

Of key importance, the GRC placed strong emphasis on policies and practices 
relating to conduct and fairness to customers, especially vulnerable customers 
given heightened macroeconomic pressures and stress on customers across 
markets. 
The GRC met in November to review the Group’s risk and reward alignment 
framework to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and 
FCA remuneration rules and expectations.

The GRC and its members actively engage with regulators and act on feedback. 
The Committee closely monitors the progress of any regulatory remediation 
activities, with support from the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer as well 
as principal subsidiary risk committee chairs. Throughout the year, the GRC had 
oversight over reports providing feedback from regulators, including a summary of 
regulatory deliverables to ensure HSBC remains in line with regulatory standards 
and expectations.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

277

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)

Risk areas

Legal risk

Key issues
HSBC is exposed to the risk of financial loss, 
legal or regulatory action resulting from 
contractual risk, dispute management risk, 
breach of competition law or intellectual property 
risk.

Conclusions and actions
The GRC oversees and receives regular updates on key legal developments and 
material legal issues from the Group Chief Legal Officer. The updates also cover 
material litigation and regulatory enforcement matters and an overview of the legal 
risk profile of HSBC.

If models have been inadequately designed, 
implemented or used, or do not perform in line 
with expectations and predictions, then HSBC 
can face risks from inappropriate or incorrect 
business decisions arising from their use.

Model risk

The GRC continued to oversee the Group’s progress in managing model risk 
through the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer’s Group risk profile report. 
The GRC oversaw the progress in achieving our model risk vision, strengthening 
our model risk management capabilities and addressing regulatory requirements 
across global jurisdictions. In particular, the GRC reviewed the PRA Supervisory 
Statement 1/23 and the impact on the Group. The GRC reviewed the new 
guidance, potential resource implications and the planned programme of changes 
across all three lines of defence. It also noted the enhanced governance 
expectations in relation to model oversight.

Climate risk

Environmental, social and governance risks 
present significant risks to organisations both in 
terms of their own operations and how they 
engage with stakeholders and communities.

The GRC remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC 
received reports on climate risk management and energy policies, while 
maintaining oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust 
climate risk management capabilities.  

The GRC approved the 2023 internal climate scenario analysis and nature scenario 
analysis pilot in July 2023. The outcomes will be used to respond to multiple 
regional regulatory climate exercises as well as meeting regulatory expectations on 
incorporating climate change within the Group’s strategic plans and ICAAP.

Committee evaluation 

2022/2023

During 2023, the GRC implemented the recommendations of the 
2022 committee evaluation conducted by Lintstock in consultation 
with the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. This included the need for 
continued focus on the quality of reporting, the importance of 
focusing limited agenda time to the most critical issues, and further 
clarity in roles and coordination between the GRC and other Board 
committees. The outcomes of the evaluation were reported to the 
Board, and progress was tracked by the GRC through the year.

2023/2024

During the year, the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board 
committees, including the GRC, was conducted externally by 
Independent Board Evaluation. The review determined that the GRC 
continued to operate effectively. 

Areas for enhancement were identified, including the need for: 
increased focus on the most significant enterprise risks recognising 
the breadth of the risk agenda; continued close engagement with 
subsidiaries; and enhancement of induction programmes for new 
members given the complexity of much of the subject matter under 
discussion. A review of escalation parameters and filters will also be 
undertaken by the GRC in 2024.

The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and 
the GRC will track progress in implementing recommendations during 
2024.

Further details of the annual review of effectiveness can be found on 
pages 260 to 261. 

The Committee will continue to monitor progress to deliver 
enhancements in response to feedback from the evaluations in 2024.

Focus of future activities

The GRC’s focus for 2024 will include the following activities:

– oversee risk transformation activities to develop even stronger risk 
management capabilities, including the continued enhancement of 
the Group's risk appetite and risk management framework, 
especially in light of continued geopolitical and macroeconomic 
headwinds;

– continue to assess the Group’s operational resilience capability 

and the implementation of enhancements to the operating model;

– continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and 

liquidity management capabilities;

– monitor delivery against our climate ambitions and the 

development of appropriate data and model management tools 
and capabilities;

– continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning 

activities to assess our resolvability capabilities if such situation 
arises;

– continue the oversight of the delivery of technology-related 

programmes including the data remediation programme, and 
enhancement of the Group’s IT systems/platform; 

– continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of 

the financial crime control framework, including proactive 
management by the business; and

– assess our strategic opportunities and risks including exposures to 

digital currencies or assets and use of timely application of 
technology such as machine learning or artificial intelligence.

278

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Directors’ remuneration report

"The Group’s financial and strategic performance is reflected in the positive remuneration outcomes for our 
colleagues, and we remain committed to sharing the benefits of our performance with shareholders."

Membership1

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn

Chair

Group Remuneration Committee

Member 
since

Meeting attendance 
in 2023

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (Chair)

Geraldine Buckingham

Rachel Duan
James Forese2
Ann Godbehere3
José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña
Eileen Murray4

Sep 2021

May 2022

Sep 2021

May 2020

Sep 2023

May 2021

May 2023

7/7

7/7

7/7

3/3

2/2

7/7

4/4

1   All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 

Directors of HSBC Holdings plc.

2   James Forese stepped down from the Committee on 5 May 2023.
3   Ann Godbehere joined the Committee on 1 September 2023.
4   Eileen Murray joined the Committee on 5 May 2023.

Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:

– making recommendations to the Board, for approval by 

shareholders, on the Group's remuneration policy;

– setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance 

framework of the Group’s remuneration policy;

– approving the remuneration of executive Directors and other senior 

Group employees; and

– regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the remuneration policy of 
the Group and its subsidiaries in the context of consistent and 
effective risk management.

All disclosures in the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be 
considered audited in the context of financial statements taken as a whole.

Dear Shareholder

I am delighted to present our 2023 Directors’ remuneration report on 
behalf of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee.

I would like to thank Jamie Forese for the counsel he provided to us 
all as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee. We 
welcomed Eileen Murray and Ann Godbehere as members. They 
have already made valuable contributions since their respective 
appointments in 2023.

2023 was a year of good performance and positive progress for the 
Group. Our colleagues were critical to delivering those outcomes, 
remaining committed to serving our customers and clients around the 
world. Against that backdrop, the Committee’s focus in 2023 was on 
ensuring we deliver an exceptional experience to colleagues. This is 
crucial to attract, retain and energise the people we need to sustain 
our performance and grow in markets that are highly competitive.

We also spent considerable time in 2023 thinking about executive 
Director remuneration, in the context of our strategy, performance 
and the removal of the 2:1 UK regulatory cap between variable and 
fixed pay. We have started to consider policy options ahead of the 
renewal of the Directors' remuneration policy in 2025. 

The Committee reflected on feedback from investors following the 
vote on the implementation of our current policy at the Annual 
General Meeting (’AGM’) in 2023, which received 79.75% of votes 
cast in favour. 

We explained in our statements of 5 May 2023 and 3 November 2023 
that our largest shareholder voted against the Board’s 
recommendations on a number of resolutions including the Directors’ 
remuneration report, which impacted the voting results on these 
resolutions. The Board was pleased that a large majority of 
shareholders voting at the AGM supported HSBC’s approach. I have 
met with several of our large institutional investors and proxy advisory 
firms since the AGM, and there remains strong support for our 
current Directors' remuneration policy. 

We will continue to engage with our major shareholders and listen to 
their views as we develop the Directors' remuneration policy next 
year. 

Performance in 2023

Financial performance

Our financial performance in 2023 reflected the strength of our 
balance sheet in a higher interest rate environment and the good 
progress made executing our strategy over the last four years.

We delivered a reported profit before tax of $30.3bn, which was up 
$13.3bn compared with 2022. This included a favourable year-on-year 
impact of $2.5bn relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in 
France and a provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised on the acquisition 
of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (’SVB UK’), which were partly offset 
by the recognition of a $3.0bn impairment charge relating to the 
investment in our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited 
(‘BoCom’).

Reported revenue of $66.1bn grew by 30% or $15.4bn compared 
with 2022, due to good performance by all three businesses reflecting 
higher net interest income from interest rate rises.

Reported costs fell by 2% to $32.1bn, primarily due to the non-
recurrence of restructuring and other related costs. On our cost target 
basis, 2023 costs grew by 6% versus our target of approximately 3% 
compared with 2022.

Our return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘) for 2023 was 14.6%, 
compared with 10.0% in 2022. Excluding strategic transactions and 
the BoCom impairment, our RoTE was 15.6%.

This performance together with our 50% payout ratio commitment for 
2023 (excluding material notable items and related impacts) enables 
us to approve a full year dividend of $0.61 per share.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

279

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Strategic performance

In 2023, there was further good progress in executing our strategy 
across the four strategic pillars aligned to our purpose, values and 
ambition. The completion of the sale of our retail banking operations 
in France on 1 January 2024 was an important milestone in the 
turnaround of our business. However, the strategic focus has shifted 
to investing for growth. The acquisition of SVB UK, and subsequent 
launch of HSBC Innovation Banking, is a good example of this.

We continued to capitalise on our strengths, which are our two home 
markets of Hong Kong and the UK, as well as our international 
wholesale, transaction banking and wealth businesses. The 
digitisation of our services for personal and corporate customers 
helped to improve our net promoter scores in key markets and 
businesses. Meanwhile the growth of transaction banking revenue, 
fee income in Commercial Banking, and net new invested assets in 
Wealth all underlined our focus on improving our earnings 
sustainability, which remains a key priority.

Our colleagues are the driving force behind our performance and 
progress, with our 2023 employee Snapshot survey demonstrating 
that they are more engaged than ever. Our employee focus index, 
which gauges how colleagues feel about their day-to-day work, was 
76%, which was an increase of four percentage points on 2022. Our 
employee engagement index is at an all time high of 77%, which was 
also an increase of three percentage points and meant we matched or 
exceeded the global financial services benchmark in all eight of our 
indices.

We also continued to support our customers in challenging economic 
times, particularly in the UK where we supported our personal and 
business customers by enhancing our range of digital resources and 
targeting those most in need.

Rewarding our colleagues

Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to 
colleagues so that we sustain our performance in competitive 
markets. Our reward principles and commitments centre on 
rewarding colleagues responsibly, recognising their success and 
supporting them to grow.

Pay is a critical part of our proposition. We were encouraged by a nine 
percentage point improvement to 52% in colleagues' perceptions 
they are paid fairly because of actions we took through 2022. The 
Committee remains very focused on the need to improve this further. 
For 2024, we are putting more structure in place to improve 
transparency and clarity about how we make pay decisions.

Beyond pay we have a strong proposition of benefits, well-being 
support, flexible working options, and learning and career 
opportunities to support our colleagues.

In 2023, we saw the maturity of the 2020 three-year Sharesave plan, 
which had the highest take-up rate and contribution level in recent 
years. The share price at maturity was more than double the option 
price, meaning colleagues benefited from our share price growth at a 
time when they needed it most. Over 90% of colleagues have access 
to share ownership plans globally with 25% of our global population 
taking part. 

For further details, see ‘Our approach to workforce reward‘ on 
page 289.

Fixed pay

For the majority of our colleagues, fixed pay is the biggest part of their 
reward, and many continue to be impacted by the economic 
environment including inflation and cost of living challenges. Our 
focus is on ensuring that we provide financial security through fixed 
pay.

Fixed pay is primarily reviewed through our annual pay cycle. Fixed 
pay ranges were introduced for over 190,000 colleagues to improve 
clarity and transparency and simplify decision making for our people 
managers. Effective in 2024, we have awarded an overall fixed pay 
increase of 4.4%. The level of increases vary by market, depending 
on the economic situation and individual roles. The highest increases 
were made to lower paid colleagues, and then focused on middle 
management, so that we keep pace with wage inflation.

280

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

We have also established Living Wage benchmarks for every market 
and were certified as a global Living Wage employer by the Fair Wage 
Network for 2024. This is critical to give us further confidence in 
meeting our commitments to reward colleagues responsibly.

We continued to take tangible actions to address the most significant 
inflationary pressures for colleagues. For example, in Argentina and 
Türkiye, we adjusted fixed pay regularly through the year. In Egypt, 
we supported our colleagues with a one-off pay adjustment in 
response to high inflation.

Variable pay

In determining the 2023 variable pay pool, the Committee wanted to 
recognise our strong financial and strategic performance, and the 
contribution colleagues have made to that.

The Committee determined an overall variable pay pool of $3,774m, 
12% higher than $3,359m in 2022. This was determined based on a 
review of our performance against financial and non-financial metrics 
set out in the Group risk framework. The Committee considered the 
strength of our financial performance in 2023, and the ratio between 
variable pay and pre-variable pay profit before tax. The Committee 
considered the impact of margins on interest rates in our results, and 
lowered the total pool in line with our countercyclical funding 
approach. We also considered our total compensation position 
compared with the market, and the broader economic outlook.

The Committee considered in respect of all its remuneration decisions 
for 2023 the Prudential Regulation Authority's ('PRA') 29 January 
2024 Notice relating to HSBC Bank plc's and HSBC UK's compliance 
with the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme ('FSCS') and 
related Depositor Protection rules. The PRA penalty was reflected in 
the calculation of profitability used to determine the pool. The 
Committee carefully considered input from the Group Risk 
Committee ('GRC') and determined that no further discretionary 
adjustment should be made to the overall variable pay pool. The 
circumstances leading to the penalty require a more detailed review 
internally to address potential responsibility of individuals, which will 
be completed by the Committee in 2024, with any remuneration 
adjustments applied once it is complete.

Total compensation across all our businesses increased relative to 
2022, rewarding our colleagues for their contribution to our 
performance. The distribution of the pool by business considered 
relative performance against revenue, reported profit before tax and 
cost targets. Strong differentiation has meant our highest performers 
received the largest increases in variable pay compared with the 
previous year. 

Key remuneration decisions for executive Directors

Annual incentive for 2023 performance

The Group’s financial and strategic performance is reflected in the 
executive Directors’ annual scorecards. The Committee believes this 
reflects their individual leadership and contribution to delivery of the 
Group‘s performance.

At the start of the year, the Committee set the scorecards to align 
with our reported financial performance. The Committee considered 
carefully the impact of strategic transactions and one-offs on the 
Group's financial performance in 2023, including the favourable year-
on-year impact of $4.1bn relating to the sale of our retail banking 
operations in France and the provisional gain on the acquisition of 
SVB UK, balanced with the $3.0bn impairment charge relating to the 
investment in BoCom. 

Consistent with the approach in prior years, the Committee judged 
that it was appropriate to assess financial performance for the 
purpose of the annual scorecard excluding these items, to ensure that 
out-turns were not impacted by one-offs. The assessment of RoTE 
and profit before tax measures therefore excluded strategic 
transactions and the BoCom impairment.

The Committee also considered the impact of interest rates on 
performance and noted that macroeconomic fluctuations remain a 
frequent driver of the Group’s business outcomes for our executives 
to manage. In recent years these factors have not led to discretionary 
scorecard adjustments for our executive Directors, either positive or 
negative, which the Committee continues to believe is appropriate.

As part of its deliberations, the Committee reflected on the overall 
risk management in the year, and in respect of the PRA Notice: the 
nature of the failings identified; the regulator’s finding that the 
breaches identified were not deliberate or reckless; fines levied; and 
the tenure and specific responsibilities of the executive Directors in 
relation to the issues covered. 

Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery will each receive a 2024–2026 LTI 
award of 320% of base salary in respect of their performance for 
2023 (Noel Quinn: £4,275,000; Georges Elhedery: £2,496,000). 
Subject to performance over the next three years, awards will vest 
over a further five years with a one-year retention period on vesting 
shares. Further details on our targets can be found on page 286.

Taking into account inputs from the GRC and the overall accountability 
of the Group Chief Executive for the performance and risk 
management of the Group in 2023, the Committee used its 
judgement and applied a downward adjustment of 7.50% to Noel 
Quinn’s scorecard outcome.

This results in a final scorecard outcome of 70.24% of the maximum 
opportunity for Group Chief Executive Noel Quinn (2022: 75.35%) and 
an annual incentive of £2,018,000, which is 7% lower than 
£2,164,000 in 2022.

The scorecard for Group Chief Financial Officer Georges Elhedery was 
76.75%, resulting in an annual incentive of £1,287,000.

The Committee considered that these final outcomes were a 
balanced and appropriate reflection of Group and individual 
performance delivered in 2023, and appropriate in the context of the 
pay decisions made for the wider workforce.

2021–2023 long-term incentive ('LTI') vesting

Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson (the former Group Chief Financial 
Officer) participated in the 2021–2023 LTI that will vest in March 
2024. As disclosed in our 2020 Directors’ remuneration report, the 
Committee considered windfall gains at the time of award and 
determined no adjustment was appropriate.

The maximum RoTE and relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
targets were exceeded. The capital reallocation to Asia measure was 
not met and the environment and sustainability measures were 
assessed to be 100% met. Overall, 75.00% of the original award will 
vest on a pro-rata basis over the next five years. Ewen Stevenson’s 
awards have been pro-rated for time in employment.

As this is the first LTI vesting for Noel Quinn, his single figure of 
remuneration for 2023 is materially changed. The 2023 single figure of 
remuneration for Noel Quinn is £10,641,000 (compared with 
£5,562,000 for 2022). The value of the LTI award reflects the Group's 
improvement in performance, shareholder returns and share price 
over 2021 to 2023, and Noel Quinn's leadership in reshaping the 
Group to deliver more sustainable returns to shareholders.

Noel Quinn's LTI vesting also means that the pay ratio measuring the 
total pay of the Group Chief Executive against the median pay of our 
UK employees has increased to 169:1 compared with 95:1 last year. 
Excluding the LTI vesting in respect of the year, the median ratio 
remained broadly in line with prior years at 86:1. This is consistent 
with the pay and progression policies for our UK workforce, 
considering the diverse mix of employees, the pay mix for various 
roles and the differences in pay structure compared with executive 
Directors.

2024–2026 LTI awards

We have reviewed the performance measures for LTI awards 
considering the next phase of our strategy over 2024 to 2026. We will 
retain Group RoTE, relative TSR and environment targets, reflecting 
our strategic commitments, and to measure relative performance 
compared with peers. The capital reallocation to Asia measure was 
previously included to retain focus on repositioning the Group’s capital 
base through the transformation of the business. While our 
operations in Asia continue to be of significant strategic importance to 
the Group, it was the Committee’s view that this measure no longer 
appropriately incentivises the delivery of sustainable returns 
achievable across wider markets in which HSBC operates. We are 
simplifying the 2024–2026 LTI by removing this metric and increasing 
the weighting of RoTE and relative TSR.

The relative TSR peer group was amended for 2023 to include more 
Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment focus. We do 
not propose to make any changes for 2024 other than the removal of 
the Credit Suisse Group following its acquisition by UBS Group.

Fixed pay for 2024

We have increased the base salary of our executive Directors by 3%, 
effective from 1 March 2024. The increase is lower than the overall 
fixed pay increase of 4.4% for our wider workforce.

Remuneration in 2024

The Committee welcomes the change announced by the PRA and the 
Financial Conduct Authority ('FCA') to remove the existing limits on 
the ratio between fixed and variable pay.

The announcement, together with the wider considerations on the 
overall competitiveness of the UK capital markets, provides us an 
opportunity to consider the competitiveness of our remuneration 
arrangements for our executive Directors and wider workforce.

At the 2024 AGM, we will seek shareholder approval to provide the 
Committee with discretion, where regulations allow, to set an 
appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio considering all relevant factors, 
including our business activities and associated prudential and 
conduct risks.

This will improve flexibility in the structure of remuneration to 
increase the amount of pay that is variable, subject to the delivery of 
performance. It will also strengthen our ability to recruit and retain 
people in competitive markets where many of our international 
competitors do not have similar restrictions.

We remain very supportive of the use of deferral mechanisms and the 
requirements to deliver a substantial portion of variable remuneration 
in shares to ensure alignment between shareholders, good risk 
management and individual reward.

For our executive Directors, we have started early engagement with 
institutional shareholders and proxy advisory bodies ahead of the 
renewal of our Directors' remuneration policy in 2025. Over several 
years, the Committee has expressed concerns around the 
competitiveness of the executive Director remuneration opportunity 
and indicated that our preference would be to operate a policy with a 
higher proportion of the package based on variable pay linked to 
performance. The Committee continues to believe in a more 
performance-based structure, and we will seek shareholder approval 
for a new Directors' remuneration policy at the 2025 AGM in line with 
the normal three-year cycle after engaging with shareholders through 
2024.

Conclusion

On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank our shareholders 
for the time taken to engage with us during the year. We welcome 
the feedback on our approach to remuneration and I look forward to 
engaging with you further in the year ahead as we continue our 
review of the Directors’ remuneration policy, in advance of the 2025 
AGM.

As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the 2023 
Directors’ remuneration report and the resolution to remove the 2:1 
cap on variable pay for our Material Risk Takers at this year's AGM.

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn

Chair

Group Remuneration Committee

21 February 2024 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

281

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Executive remuneration at a glance
This section sets out an overview of our performance, 2023 remuneration outcomes for executive Directors and a summary of the policy 
approved by shareholders at our 2022 AGM, including how we will implement the policy in 2024.  
Our performance 

Reported profit before 
tax

$30.3bn 

(2022: $17.1bn)
Employee engagement 
index1
77% 
(2022: 74%)

Net new invested 
assets
$84bn
(2022: $80bn)

Inclusion index
78% 
(2022: 76%)

Operating expenses
$32.1bn 
(2022: $32.7bn)

Return on average 
tangible equity
14.6% 
(2022: 10.0%)

Percentage of colleagues of 
Asian heritage in senior 
leadership roles
37.8% 
(2022: 34.0%)

Percentage of women in 
senior leadership roles2
34.1%
(2022: 33.3%)

1  The 2022 employee engagement index score has been recalculated to reflect a change in the composition of questions in the 2023 index to ensure 

comparisons remain valid. In 2022 the employee engagement index was reported as 73%.

2  The percentage of women in senior leadership roles excluded the Canada business held for sale.

Remuneration outcomes for executive Directors

Summary remuneration outcomes for 2023 are set out below. Further details are set out in our annual report on Directors‘ remuneration on 
pages 284 to 286. 

Noel Quinn
Annual incentive outcome (£000)

Georges Elhedery

Georges Elhedery did not participate in the 
2021–2023 long-term incentive

Long-term incentive outcome (£000)

Single figure of remuneration (£000)

Shareholding (% of base salary)

282

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

£2,872£2,01870.24%Maximum opportunity2023 annual incentive£1,677£1,28776.75%Maximum opportunity2023 annual incentive£5,195£4,275£3,575£1,619Vesting long-term incentiveShare price appreciationon long-term incentiveMaximum opportunity2021–2023 long-term incentive£5,562     £10,641     Base salary and fixed pay allowancePension and benefitsAnnual incentiveLong-term incentiveNotional returns on deferred cashawarded in respect of prior role                           20222023£4,701£3,292Base salary and fixed pay allowancePension and benefitsAnnual incentiveLong-term incentiveNotional returns on deferred cashawarded in respect of prior roleReplacement award for forfeiture upon hire                               2022(Ewen Stevenson)2023400%797%             Shareholding requirementCurrent shareholding300%598%             Shareholding requirementCurrent shareholding 
Remuneration policy summary – executive Directors 

Our Directors' remuneration policy was approved at the AGM on 29 April 2022. The full policy can be found on pages 257 to 265 of our Annual 
Report and Accounts 2021 and in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Supplement, which is available under Group results and reporting in the 
‘Investors‘ section of www.hsbc.com.  

Elements and objectives

Operation

Base salary

– Base salary is paid in cash on a monthly basis.
– Other than in exceptional circumstances, the base salary for the current executive 

Directors will not increase by more than 15% above the level at the start of the policy 
period in total for the duration of the policy. 

Implementation in 2024

Base salary will increase by 
3% for 2024 and will be:
– Noel Quinn: £1,376,000
– Georges Elhedery: 

£803,000

Fixed pay allowance (‘FPA’)

– The FPA is granted in instalments of immediately vested shares.
– On vesting, the net number of shares delivered (after those withheld to cover any income 
tax and social security) are subject to a retention period and released annually on a pro-rata 
basis over five years, starting from the March immediately following the end of the 
financial year for which the shares are granted.

FPA will not be increased for 
2024 and will remain:
– Noel Quinn: £1,700,000
– Georges Elhedery: 

£1,085,000

– Dividends are paid on the vested shares held during the retention period.

Cash in lieu of pension

– 10% of base salary is paid on a monthly basis.
– This allowance, as a percentage of salary, is aligned with the maximum contribution rate 

– No change to percentage of 

base salary.

Annual incentive

Long-term incentive (‘LTI’)

Benefits

Shareholding guidelines

that HSBC could make for a majority of employees who are defined contribution members 
of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme.

– The maximum opportunity is up to 215% of base salary.
– Performance is measured against an individual scorecard.
– At least 50% of any award is delivered in shares, which are normally immediately vested.
– On vesting, the net number of shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any 

income tax and social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one year, 
or such period as required by regulators.

– Awards will be subject to clawback (i.e. repayment or recoupment of paid vested awards) 
for a period of seven years from the date of award, extending to 10 years in the event of 
an ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Any 
unvested awards will be subject to malus (i.e. reduction and/or cancellation) during any 
applicable deferral period.

– The maximum opportunity is up to 320% of base salary.
– The LTI award is granted if the Committee considers that there has been satisfactory 

performance over the prior year, and is subject to a forward-looking three-year 
performance period from the start of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
– At the end of the performance period, awards will vest in five equal instalments, with the 
first vesting on or around the third anniversary of the grant date and the last instalment 
vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date.

– On vesting, the net number of shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any 

income tax and social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one year, 
or such period as required by regulators.

– Awards are subject to malus provisions prior to vesting. Vested shares are subject to 

clawback on the same terms as the annual incentive.

– Awards may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, paid on vesting. 
Where awards do not receive dividend equivalents, the number of shares awarded can be 
determined using the share price discounted for the expected dividend yield.

– Benefits include the provision of medical insurance, accommodation, car, club 
membership, independent legal advice in relation to a matter arising out of the 
performance of employment duties for HSBC, tax return assistance or preparation, and 
travel assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable).

– Additional benefits may also be provided when an executive is relocated or spends a 
substantial proportion of his/her time in more than one jurisdiction for business needs.

Executive Directors are expected to satisfy the following shareholding requirement as a 
percentage of base salary within five years from the date of their appointment:
– Group Chief Executive: 400%
– Group Chief Financial Officer: 300%

All-employee share plans

Executive Directors are eligible to participate in all-employee share plans, such as HSBC 
Sharesave, on the same basis as all other employees.

– No change to opportunity.
– See page 288 for 2024 

measures.

– No change to opportunity.
– See page 287 for details of 
the 2024–2026 LTI awards.

– Benefits to be provided as 

per policy and details 
disclosed in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2024 
single figure of 
remuneration table.

– No change to percentage of 

base salary.

– Participation will be 

disclosed in the respective 
Annual Report and 
Accounts, as required.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

283

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Annual report on Directors’ remuneration 
This section sets out how our approved Directors’ remuneration policy was implemented during 2023. 
Determining executive Directors’ incentive outcomes

(Audited)  

For any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director 
must achieve a minimum standard of conduct and values-aligned 
behaviour. Both executive Directors met this requirement for 2023.

The award is determined by applying the outcome of their annual 
scorecard to the maximum opportunity, set at 215% of base salary. 

The financial measures, weightings and targets were set at the start 
of the financial year to align with our reported financial performance 
and before significant changes in the interest rate environment. They 
considered the 2023 financial plan, data from 2022, external 
commitments, scenario testing of upside and downside risks in the 
plan, and analyst consensus where relevant.

The Committee considered carefully the wider context in which 
performance was delivered and the impact of strategic transactions 
and one-offs on the Group's financial performance in 2023, including 
the favourable year-on-year impact of $4.1bn relating to the sale of 
our retail banking operations in France and the provisional gain on the 
acquisition of SVB UK, balanced with the $3.0bn impairment charge 
relating to the investment in BoCom. 

Consistent with the approach in prior years, the Committee judged 
that it was appropriate to assess financial performance for the 
purpose of the annual scorecard excluding these items, to ensure that 
out-turns were not impacted by one-offs. The assessment of RoTE 
and profit before tax measures therefore excluded strategic 
transactions and the BoCom impairment.

The Committee also considered the impact of interest rates on 
performance and noted that macroeconomic fluctuations remain a 
frequent driver of the Group’s business outcomes for our executives 
to manage. In recent years these factors have not led to discretionary 
scorecard adjustments for our executive Directors, either positive or 
negative, which the Committee continues to believe is appropriate.

Performance was above the maximum targets for Group profit before 
tax, Group RoTE and Asia RoTE. On our cost target basis, growth was 
6% versus our target of approximately 3% compared with 2022 and 
below the performance range.

For strategic measures, diversity representation targets were set 
based on a trajectory to meet our external commitments. Other 

Annual incentive scorecard assessment 

(Audited)

Summary assessment 

measures were set based on maintaining or improving when 
compared with 2022 performance and/or market benchmarks.

The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey exceeded 
target, and was significantly above the financial services benchmark. 

We met or exceeded our senior leadership diversity representation 
targets. Our customer net promoter score ('NPS') performance was 
largely positive relative to our competitors in most areas of our 
business.

The Committee considered that the scorecard outcome for personal 
measures for both Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery was appropriate 
against the targets set at the start of the year.

Overall, this resulted in a formulaic scorecard outcome of 75.93% of 
the maximum for Noel Quinn and 76.75% for Georges Elhedery.

The Committee discussed at length whether the risk and compliance 
modifier should be applied for 2023 for the Group’s performance 
against key risk metrics, including the historical failings identified by 
the PRA in its Notice of 29 January 2024.

As part of its deliberations, the Committee reflected on the overall 
risk management in the year, and in respect of the PRA Notice: the 
nature of the failings identified; the regulator’s finding that the 
breaches identified were not deliberate or reckless; fines levied; and 
the tenure and specific responsibilities of the executive Directors in 
relation to the issues covered. 

Taking into account inputs from the Group Risk Committee and Noel 
Quinn's overall accountability for the performance and risk 
management of the Group in 2023, the Committee used its 
judgement and applied a downward adjustment of 7.50% to his 
scorecard outcome.

This results in a final outcome of 70.24% of the maximum opportunity 
for Noel Quinn (2022: 75.35%) and an annual incentive of £2,018,000, 
which is 7% lower than £2,164,000 in 2022.

No risk and compliance modifier was applied for Georges Elhedery 
who was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 
2023, after all underlying issues identified by the PRA had been fully 
remediated. Georges Elhedery's scorecard outcome of 76.75% 
results in an annual incentive of £1,287,000.

Minimum 
(25.0% 
payout)

Maximum 
(100.0% 
payout)

25.8

31.0

 12.0% 
 12.8% 
11.8

36.6

58.8

30.3

30.5

 14.5% 
 15.0% 
13.1

56.8

79.0

Performance2
31.6

31.6

 15.6% 
 16.8% 
11.84

55.1

84.3

See following tables for commentary

Profit before tax1 ($bn)
Target basis operating 
expenses ($bn)
Group RoTE1
Asia RoTE1
Fee income ($bn)
Growth in 
net new 
invested 
assets ($bn)

Total

Total (ex 
Hong Kong)

Customer satisfaction
Employee experience
Personal objectives
Total
Scorecard outcome (000)
7.50% risk adjustment per 
Committee judgement (000)

Annual incentive (000)

1   Assessed excluding strategic transactions and BoCom impairment.
2   The CET1 capital ratio underpin was met.

284

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Weighting 
(%)

Noel Quinn
Assessment 
(%)

Outcome 
(%)

Weighting 
(%)

Georges Elhedery
Assessment 
(%)

Outcome 
(%)

 15.0 

 15.0 

 15.0 
 5.0 
 5.0 

 2.5 

 2.5 

 15.0 
 15.0 
 10.0 
 100.0 

 15.0 

 15.0 

 15.0 
 5.0 
 5.0 

 2.5 

 2.5 

 15.0 
 15.0 
 10.0 
 100.0 

 100.00 

 15.00 

 — 

 100.00 
 100.00 
 25.55 

 — 

 15.00 
 5.00 
 1.28 

 93.73 

 2.34 

 100.00 

 91.67 
 93.75 

 2.50 

 13.75 
 14.06 
 7.00 
 75.93 
£2,181

£(163)

£2,018

 100.00 

 15.00 

 — 

 100.00 
 100.00 
 25.55 

 — 

 15.00 
 5.00 
 1.28 

 93.73 

 2.34 

 100.00 

 91.67 
 93.75 

 2.50 

 13.75 
 14.06 
 7.81 
 76.75 
£1,287

£0

£1,287

Stakeholder measures for Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery

Customer 
satisfaction

– NPS is sourced from our strategic NPS surveys with results gathered 

15.0%

Measures Weighting (%) Assessment considerations by the Committee
Maintain and 
improve NPS 
in the UK 
and Hong 
Kong, in 
digital 
markets, and 
in key 
growth 
markets

the target in digital markets. Across other growth markets we met our 
maximum NPS target.

– In WPB, our NPS increased in five of our six key markets (Hong Kong, 

through independent third-party research agencies. The assessment is 
against quantitative targets set based on the level of improvement from the 
prior year and in rank position.

– In the UK and Hong Kong, we met our maximum NPS target and largely met 

mainland China, Mexico, India and Singapore). In the UK, the slight decline 
of our NPS was driven by mass affluent customers. We ranked among the 
top three banks in three of our six key markets. In Hong Kong, we remained 
in first place overall, leading the market with our mobile app performance. 
Our rank remained in the top three in mainland China, and rose to the top in 
India.

Assessment (%) Outcome (%)

91.67%

13.75%

Employee 
experience

Improve 
diversity and 
inclusion

15.0%

– In CMB, we ranked among the top three banks in four of our six key 

markets. We were first place in Hong Kong and within the top three in 
mainland China, Singapore and Mexico.

– In GBM, we ranked in first place globally for NPS and digital satisfaction. 
– The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey increased by two 

percentage points and exceeded the maximum target of 77%. The score is 
seven points above the external financial services benchmark.

– The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles 

increased by 0.5 percentage points to 3.0%, meeting the maximum target 
and on track to meet our external commitment of 3.4% by 2025.

– We made a 3.8 percentage point year-on-year net gain in senior leadership 
representation of colleagues with Asian heritage, against a 2022 year-end 
baseline of 34.0%

– The percentage of women in senior leadership roles increased by 

0.8 percentage points to 34.1%, meeting the target, and below the 
maximum. The targets excluded the Canada business held for sale. 
Including colleagues in HSBC Canada, gender representation in senior 
leadership is 34.2%.

93.75%

14.06%

Personal objectives for Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery

For each executive Director, personal objectives were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee against agreed targets and key performance 
indicators.

Noel Quinn

Weighting Assessment Performance achievement

Technology 
transformation

4.0%

50.00%

– Our Cloud adoption rate, which is the percentage of our technology services on the private or public Cloud, 
increased to 43% (2022: 35%). At the end of 2023, about 54% of our WPB customers were 'mobile active' 
users (2022: 49%) and the proportion of WPB sales completed digitally increased to 49% (2022: 43%).
– The Committee's assessment balanced strong progress automating our organisation at scale against the 

targets set, and progress to deliver our wider multi-year technology strategy.

Progress on 
innovation 
programmes

Simplification of 
processes and 
organisation

4.0%

100.00%

– Several strategic investments were made in Asia including Meditrust, a unicorn start-up, which will support 

HSBC Life’s Pinnacle proposition in mainland China. Investments were made in a joint venture with 
Tradeshift, an existing Ventures investment, which will support the trade finance business to deploy a range 
of technology solutions.

– In 2023, Zing, our new international payments business aimed at non-HSBC customers, was launched, and 
a digital currency capability with eHKD was piloted in Hong Kong. We became the first bank to pioneer 
quantum protection for foreign exchange trading, and were one of the first international banks to participate 
in China’s eCNY programme. 

– Progress was made on several generative AI use cases including developer productivity, knowledge 

management and content generation. Our first AI patent to be used to detect cyber threats, was filed.

2.0%

50.00%

– Strong progress was made with the completion of the exit from Greece, merger in Oman, and sale of the 

New Zealand WPB mortgage portfolio.

– The sale of our retail banking portfolio in France was completed on 1 January 2024 and we remain on track 

to sell our retail banking operations in Canada in the first quarter of 2024.

– The timing of our planned exit from our business in Russia was impacted by dependency on the regulatory 

and government approval process, which is outside of HSBC’s control.

– Exits from our WPB business in Mauritius and our hedge fund administration business were announced.

Total 

7.00% out of 10.00%

Georges Elhedery Weighting Assessment Performance achievement

Deliver activities 
relating to 
regulatory priorities

2.5%

58.33%

– The Integrity of Regulatory Reporting programme continues to remediate against known gaps to deliver 

improvements in quality of regulatory returns.

– The Bank of England Resolvability Assessment Framework self-assessment was submitted, demonstrating 

Deliver Finance 
change 
transformation and 
digitisation
More energised 
Finance workforce

Drive liquidity and 
capital management 
across the Group

2.5%

62.50%

2.5%

100.00%

2.5%

91.67%

Total

7.81% out of 10.00%

an uplift in the Group’s capabilities.

– Certain climate considerations have been assessed and incorporated into the annual financial planning cycle. 

We also enhanced our climate scenario analysis capabilities in line with plan.

– For the remediation of interest rate risk in the banking book, all 2023 targeted actions were completed from 
a first line of defence perspective, subject to second and third line of defence review and confirmation in 
early 2024 as planned.

– Identified Finance change transformation activities have been deployed in line with plans.
–   Global Finance employee engagement index increased to 79% (2022: 74%), exceeding the target set.
–   Global Finance career index increased to 69% (2022: 65%), exceeding the target set.

– The Group’s CET1 capital ratio was delivered above our target operating range.
– Planned liquidity optimisation outcomes were successfully met.
– Targets relating to earnings stabilisation were assessed as met.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

285

Corporate governance 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Single figure of remuneration

(Audited)

The following table shows the single figure of remuneration of each executive Director for 2023, together with comparative figures. This is the 
first vesting LTI for Noel Quinn since his appointment as Group Chief Executive in 2020 and so materially changes the composition of his single 
figure of remuneration for 2023. 

Single figure of remuneration

(£000)
Base salary
Fixed pay allowance (’FPA’)
Cash in lieu of pension
Taxable benefits2
Non-taxable benefits
Total fixed
Annual incentive3
Notional returns4
Replacement award
Long-term incentive5
Total variable
Total fixed and variable

Noel Quinn

Georges Elhedery1

2023
1,336
1,700
134
127
89
3,386
2,018
43
—
5,195
7,256
10,641

2022

1,329
1,700
133
119
86
3,367
2,164
31
—
—
2,195
5,562

2023
780
1,085
78
4
52
1,999
1,287
6
—
—
1,293
3,292

2022

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

1  Georges Elhedery was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer from 1 January 2023.
2  Taxable benefits include the provision of medical insurance, car benefit, accommodation and tax return assistance (including any associated tax due, 

where applicable). Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover.

3  Annual incentive awards to the executive Directors are awarded 50% in cash and 50% in shares. The shares portion of the award vests immediately 

at grant and is subject to a retention period of one year and clawback provisions.

4  Deferred cash awards granted in prior years include a right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant and vesting date. This is 

determined by reference to a rate of return specified at the time of grant and paid annually, with the amount disclosed on a paid basis.  

5  An LTI award over 1,118,554 shares was made in February 2021 (in respect of 2020) at a share price of £4.262 for which the performance period 

ended on 31 December 2023. The value has been computed based on a share price of £6.192, the average share price during the three-month period 
to 31 December 2023. The value attributable to share price appreciation is £1,619,106. See the following section for details of the assessment 
outcomes, which resulted in 75.00% vesting due to performance.

Benefits
The values of the significant benefits in the single figure table are set out in the following table. The insurance benefit for Noel Quinn has 
increased year on year because of the increase in premium at annual renewal. The car benefits for Georges Elhedery are not included in the 
table below as they were not deemed significant.

(£000)

Insurance benefit (non-taxable)
Accommodation in Hong Kong (taxable)
Car and driver in UK and Hong Kong (taxable)

Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards

(Audited)

LTI awards over 2021 to 2023 performance period 

The 2021–2023 LTI award was granted to Noel Quinn and Ewen 
Stevenson in February 2021. Georges Elhedery was in a different role 
at the time and did not receive the 2021–2023 LTI award. 

The scorecard delivered an outcome of 75.00%, reflecting a 
significant improvement in shareholder returns across the 
performance period. 

In line with the terms of his departure, Ewen Stevenson is a good 
leaver and his award has been pro-rated for time in employment. 
Based on the performance outcome, 838,915 shares will vest for 
Noel Quinn and 371,697 shares will vest for Ewen Stevenson. The 
awards will vest in five equal annual instalments commencing in 
March 2024.

The Committee is mindful of executives not experiencing ’windfall 
gains’ through the granting of LTI awards when a share price is 

Noel Quinn

Georges Elhedery

2023
84
67
47

2022

82
39
69

2023
49
—
—

2022

—
—
—

particularly low. We introduced an upfront windfall gains check for the 
2021–2023 LTI award such that if the LTI grant share price 
experienced a greater than 30% decline since the previous grant, 
then a downward adjustment would be made. The Committee 
determined that there were no windfall gains to consider for this 
award given the share price at grant (£4.26) was 24% below the 
share price at the previous LTI grant (£5.62).

The 2021–2023 LTI award is subject to a risk and compliance 
modifier. The Committee received input from the GRC who assessed 
that the performance targets were delivered with appropriate risk 
management. On this basis, the Committee considered that no 
adjustment for risk should be made to the 2021–2023 LTI award. The 
CET1 capital ratio underpin for the 2021–2023 LTI award was also 
met. 

286

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Assessment of the 2021–2023 LTI awards

Measures (weighting)1
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 
(25.0%)

Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1 
capital ratio underpin3 (25.0%)

Transition to net 
zero4 (25.0%)

Carbon reduction 
(own emissions)

Sustainable finance 
and investment

Relative TSR5 (25.0%)

Total

Minimum    
(25.0% payout)

Target        
(50.0% payout)

Maximum   
(100.0% payout)

8.0%

45.0%

42.0%

9.0%

47.0%

48.0%

10.0%

50.0%

51.0%

Actual

Assessment Outcome

14.6%

100.0%

25.00%

43.4%

0.0%

0.00%

57.3%

100.0%

12.50%

$200.0bn

$240.0bn

$260.0bn

$294.0bn

100.0%

12.50%

At median of the 
peer group

Straight-line 
vesting between 
minimum and 
maximum

At upper quartile 
of the peer group

Above upper 
quartile

100.0%

25.00%

75.00%

1   Awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set out in this table.
2   Assessed based on RoTE in the 2023 financial year. The CET1 capital ratio underpin was met.
3   Assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2023, 

which was not met.

4   Carbon reduction assessed on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2023 using 2019 as the baseline. 

Sustainable finance and investment assessed on cumulative financing provided over the performance period.

5   The peer group was: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds 

Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. Credit Suisse Group was removed from the peer group following its acquisition 
by UBS Group in June 2023.

LTI awards over 2024 to 2026 performance period 

After taking into account performance for 2023, the Committee 
decided to grant Noel Quinn an LTI award of £4,275,000 and Georges 
Elhedery an LTI award of £2,496,000 (both 320% of base salary).

– Our emissions reduction targets have been set based on meeting 
our commitments to procure 90% renewable energy by 2025 and 
halve energy consumption and travel emissions by 2030.

The awards will have a three-year performance period starting on 
1 January 2024. 

The Committee has reviewed the performance measures considering 
feedback from shareholders and the next phase of our strategy. We 
are simplifying and improving the focus on shareholder returns by 
assessing performance on three measures, including RoTE and 
relative TSR which are equally-weighted financial measures, and a 
third measure linked to our climate ambitions.

The capital reallocation to Asia measure was previously included to 
retain focus on repositioning the Group’s capital base through the 
transformation of the business. While our operations in Asia continue 
to be of significant strategic importance to the Group, it was the 
Committee’s view that this measure no longer appropriately 
incentivised the delivery of sustainable returns achievable across 
wider markets in which HSBC operates.

Targets have been set to balance stretch and achievability so that 
awards act as an effective incentive for management, and incentivise 
outperformance, aligned to our external strategic commitments.

– The minimum threshold for the RoTE measure is aligned to our 
external commitment of mid-teens RoTE over the medium term.

– The relative TSR peer group was amended for 2023 to include 
more Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment 
focus. No changes have been made for 2024 other than the 
removal of the Credit Suisse Group following its acquisition by 
UBS Group.

– Our sustainable finance and investments measure is based on our 

ambition announced in 2020 to provide $750bn to $1tn of 
financing and investment by 2030. Although the target range is 
lower than for the 2023–2025 LTI awards, we are on track to meet 
our 2030 ambition, with changing market conditions slightly 
impacting our year-on-year trajectory.

The LTI is subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which gives the 
Committee the discretion to ensure performance targets are delivered 
with appropriate risk management.

The RoTE measure is subject to a CET1 capital ratio underpin. If the 
CET1 capital ratio at the end of the performance period is below the 
CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the 
assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.

The number of shares to be awarded will be adjusted to reflect the 
expected dividend yield of the shares over the vesting period, as 
awards are not entitled to dividend equivalents in accordance with 
regulatory requirements.

To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the 
three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five equal 
annual instalments commencing from around the third anniversary of 
the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of 
shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and 
social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one 
year, or such period as required by regulators.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

287

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Performance conditions for the 2024–2026 LTI awards 

Measures (weighting)1
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (37.5%)
Carbon reduction 
(own emissions)

Environment3 (25.0%)

Sustainable finance 
and investment

Relative TSR4 (37.5%)

Minimum                 

Target                           

Maximum                     

(25.0% payout)
14.0%

(50.0% payout)
16.0%

(100.0% payout)
17.0%

66.0%

$539.0bn

70.0%

$641.0bn

74.0%

$693.0bn

At the median of the peer 
group

Straight-line vesting 
between minimum and 
maximum

At the upper quartile of the 
peer group

Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance 
factors during the performance period.

1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table. 
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin. 
3  Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2026 using 2019 as 

the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 
31 December 2026.

4  The peer group for the 2023 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, 

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. 

Annual incentive measures for 2024

The 2024 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive 
Directors have been set to incentivise the delivery of the next phase 
of our strategy.

We have reduced the number of financial measures, reflecting 
feedback from shareholders to simplify our approach and ensure 
focus on our key strategic commitments. The weighting of Group 
RoTE has increased to 25% (from 15% in 2023). The overall 
weighting of financial measures remains at 60%.

Financial measures will be assessed on a reported basis excluding 
notable items so that the outcome reflects performance excluding the 
impact of one-off and items not controlled by management.

Our first net zero transition plan was launched in January 2024 setting 
out our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking. To 
support our ambition, a sustainability measure has been added to the 
annual scorecard, which will be assessed based on the execution of 
our sustainability commitments against Board approved plans.

Personal measures have been set to ensure meaningful weighting for 
the most critical objectives for each executive Director.

The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the 
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as 
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder 
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying 
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience.

The weightings and performance measures for the 2024 annual 
incentive scorecard for executive Directors are in the adjacent table. 

The targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2024 plan, while 
considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including the interest rate 
environment and inflation. The performance targets are commercially 
sensitive and it would be detrimental to the Group’s interests to 
disclose them at the start of the financial year. Subject to commercial 
sensitivity, we will disclose the targets in the 2024 Directors’ 
remuneration report.

2024 annual incentive performance measures

Financial (all measures subject to CET1 capital ratio 
underpin, and excluding notable items)

Weighting

60.0%

15.0%
15.0%
25.0%
5.0%
30.0%

15.0%

10.0%

5.0%

10.0%

Profit before tax
Operating expenses
Group RoTE
Asia RoTE
Stakeholders

Customer satisfaction 
Improvement in NPS scores/rank

Employee experience 
Gender and ethnicity representation and Inclusion index score

Execution of our sustainability commitments against Board 
approved plans

Personal measures
– Group Chief Executive: Technology transformation and 

enhanced Board information

– Group Chief Financial Officer: Delivery of regulatory change 

programmes (including regulatory reporting), enhancement of 
external disclosures and robust liquidity and capital 
management  

Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account 
performance against risk and compliance factors during the 
performance period.

288

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our approach to workforce reward 
Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to energise 
colleagues to perform at their best. This is critical to strengthening our 
ability to attract, retain and motivate the people we need, in 
competitive markets where employee expectations continue to 
evolve. 

Our approach is centred on our purpose and values, and our reward 
principles and commitments are:

– We will reward our colleagues responsibly through fixed pay 

security and protection through core benefits, a competitive total 
compensation opportunity, pay equity, and a more inclusive and 
sustainable benefits proposition over time.

– We will recognise colleagues' success through our performance 
culture and routines, including feedback and recognition, pay for 
performance, and all employee share ownership opportunities.

– We will support our colleagues to grow through our proposition 
beyond pay, with a focus on future skills and development, 
support for well-being, and flexibility.

Pay is an important part of our overall proposition. Our focus is 
improving transparency and clarity for colleagues so they understand 
better how we make pay decisions. 

For 2024, we will introduce a new variable pay structure for over 
150,000 junior and middle management colleagues, providing more 
clarity around the variable pay levels for on-target performance, while 
retaining flexibility to differentiate outcomes for performance.

We have been certified by the Fair Wage Network as a global Living 
Wage employer for 2024. This is an important commitment to give 
colleagues confidence that our fixed pay levels are sufficient to 
provide financial security.

The section below highlights some of our achievements in 2023.

We will reward you responsibly
78% ▲ up 5% from 2022

of colleagues say pay recommendations 
determined regardless of personal 
characteristics

52%  ▲ up 9% from 2022

of colleagues say they are paid fairly for 
what they do
59%  same as 2022
of colleagues say my benefits meet my 
(and my family's) needs well

We will recognise your success
81% ▲ up 7% from 2022

of colleagues say they receive feedback 
helping them improve performance
1.4 million recognitions 
the highest since the At Our Best 
recognition platform was launched in 2015

We will support you to grow
78% ▲ up 20% from 2022

of colleagues work flexibly and split their 
time between home and the workplace

71% ▲ up 3% from 2022

our career index is higher than the 
financial services benchmark by 6%

Many of our colleagues found 2023 to be a challenging year. While inflation has 
fallen from levels seen in 2022, it remains high across many of our markets, which 
has resulted in continued pressures on the cost of living.

Fixed pay increases for 2024 were determined based on consistent principles to 
help address wage inflation in the markets where we operate. Across the Group, 
there was an overall increase in fixed pay of 4.4%. The level of increases varied by 
market, depending on the economic situation and individual roles. Increases were 
targeted towards more junior and middle management colleagues where fixed pay 
is a larger proportion of overall pay.

We continued to take action outside of our annual cycle to address inflation 
pressures for colleagues, where the local context required this. In Argentina and 
Türkiye, we gave our colleagues fixed pay increases throughout the year. In Egypt, 
we supported our colleagues with a one-off pay adjustment in response to high 
inflation.

Over 90% of colleagues have access to share ownership plans globally, with 25% 
of our global employee population taking part. In the UK, following the maturity of 
the three-year 2020 Sharesave plan with an option price of £2.627, colleagues 
benefited from significant share price growth at a time when they needed it most. 
The 2020 plan had the highest take up rate and contribution level in recent years. 

Our approach to benefits and well-being balances local market practice with global 
minimum standards. More than 95% of colleagues have private medical insurance, 
a retirement plan and life insurance.

Our well-being programme focuses on mental, physical, financial and social well-
being. In our employee Snapshot survey, 83% of colleagues said their mental 
health was positive. HSBC has been ranked top tier for mental health in the global 
CCLA Corporate Mental Health Benchmark.

We have prioritised supporting colleagues to work flexibly, balancing customer 
needs, social connection and individual flexibility. Flexible working remains one of 
the most cited reasons why colleagues would recommend HSBC as a place to 
work, and a third of new joiners say it is what attracted them to HSBC. 

We have delivered a world-class talent marketplace and learning experience 
platform, providing learning pathways, projects and networking opportunities to 
more than 200,000 colleagues. An average of 23.9 hours of training was delivered 
per FTE in 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

289

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration structure for employees

We set out below the key features of our remuneration framework, which applies on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local laws:

Remuneration 
components and 
objectives

Fixed pay
Attract and retain 
employees with market 
competitive pay for the 
role, skills and 
experience required.

Benefits
Support the physical, 
mental and financial 
health of a diverse 
workforce in 
accordance with local 
market practice.
Annual incentive
Incentivise and reward 
performance based on 
annual financial and 
non-financial measures 
consistent with the 
medium- to long-term 
strategy, stakeholder 
interests and values-
aligned behaviours.

Buy-out awards
Support recruitment of 
key individuals.

Application for Group employees

– Fixed pay may include base salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other 

cash allowances in accordance with local market practice. 

– It is based on predetermined criteria, non-discretionary, transparent and not reduced 

based on performance.

– It represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior colleagues.
– Fixed pay may change to reflect an individual’s position, role or grade, cost of living in the 

country, individual skills, capabilities and experience.

– Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.

Approach for executive Directors

– Consistent with approach for 
Group colleagues except 
fixed pay allowance paid in 
shares.

– Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical 

– Provision of medical 

insurance, life insurance, health assessment and relocation support.

insurance, life insurance, car 
and tax return assistance. 
Group Chief Executive is 
eligible to receive 
accommodation and a car 
benefit in Hong Kong.

– All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award. 

– Annual incentive is 

Individual awards are determined against objectives for performance set at the start of 
the year.    

– Variable pay represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior 

colleagues and will be more closely aligned to Group and business performance as 
seniority increases. 

– Variable pay for Group employees identified as Material Risk Takers (’MRTs’) under 

European Union Regulatory Technical Standard (’RTS’) 2021/923 is limited to 200% of 
fixed pay, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM held on 23 May 2014 (98% in 
favour).

– Awards are generally paid in cash and shares. For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are 
in shares and/or where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management 
funds.

determined based on the 
outcomes of annual 
scorecard of financial and 
non-financial measures.
– Executive Directors and 

Group Executives are also 
eligible to be considered for a 
long-term incentive award, 
which is subject to three-year 
forward-looking performance 
measures.

– Buy-out awards may be offered if an individual holds any outstanding unvested awards 

– For new hires, the approach 

that are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.

– The terms of the buy-out awards will not be more generous than the terms attached to 

the awards forfeited on cessation of employment with the previous employer.

is consistent with the 
approach taken for 
employees and policy 
approved by shareholders.

– For new hires, the approach 

is consistent with the 
approach taken for 
employees and policy 
approved by shareholders.

New hire indicative 
variable pay
Support recruitment of 
key individuals.

– New hire indicative variable pay is awarded in exceptional circumstances, and is limited to 
an individual's first year of employment only, and is subject to a number of factors (such 
as the respective performance of the Group, business unit and individual), and the final 
value paid remains at the full discretion of HSBC. 

– The exceptional circumstances would typically involve a critical new hire and depend on 

factors such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate is forfeiting 
any awards and the timing of the hire during the performance year.

290

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Remuneration 
components and 
objectives (continued)

Deferral
Align employee 
interests with the 
medium- to long-term 
strategy, stakeholder 
interests and values-
aligned behaviours.

Application for Group employees

Approach for executive Directors

– A Group-wide deferral approach is applicable to all employees. A portion of annual 

– All of the LTI award, or at 

incentive awards above a specified threshold is deferred in shares vesting annually over a 
three-year period (33% vesting on the first and second anniversaries of grant and 34% on 
the third).

– For MRTs, awards are generally subject to a minimum 40% deferral (60% for awards of 

£500,000 or more) over a minimum period of four years. 

– A deferral period of five years is applied for senior management and individuals in 

specified roles with managerial responsibilities as prescribed under the PRA and FCA 
remuneration rules and seven years for individuals in PRA-designated senior management 
functions.

– In line with the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, and in compliance with local 

regulations, the deferral requirement for MRTs is not applied to individuals where their 
total variable pay is £44,000 or less and variable pay is not more than one-third of total 
compensation. For these individuals, the Group standard deferral applies.

– Individuals based outside the UK and identified as MRTs under local regulations, would be 

subject to local requirements where necessary.

least 60% of the total variable 
award (including LTI), is 
deferred. The deferred 
awards will vest in five equal 
annual instalments, with the 
first vesting on or around the 
third anniversary of the grant 
date and the last instalment 
vesting on or around the 
seventh anniversary of the 
grant date.

– All deferred awards are in 

HSBC shares and subject to a 
post-vesting retention period 
of one year.

– All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions, subject to compliance with local 
laws. Awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 and awards granted to non-
MRTs on or after 1 January 2022 are subject to clawback.

– HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees, which prohibits employees from 

entering into any personal hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities.

– For all Group MRTs and the majority of local MRTs, excluding executive Directors, a 

minimum 50% of the deferred awards is in HSBC shares and the rest into deferred cash. 
Local regulatory requirements would also apply where necessary.

– For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the relevant 
regulations, at least 50% of the deferred award is linked to fund units reflective of funds 
managed by those entities, with the remaining portion in deferred cash awards.

– Variable pay awards made in HSBC shares or linked to relevant fund units granted to 

MRTs are generally subject to a one-year retention period post-vesting. 

– MRTs who are subject to a five-year deferral period, except senior management or 

individuals in PRA- and FCA-designated senior management functions, have a six-month 
retention period applied to their awards.

– Where an employee is subject to more than one regulation, the requirement specific to 

the sector and/or country in which the individual is working is applied.

Severance payments
Adhere to contractual 
agreements with 
involuntary leavers.

– Where an individual’s employment is terminated involuntarily for gross misconduct then, 
subject to compliance with local laws, the Group’s policy is not to make any severance 
payment and all outstanding unvested awards are forfeited. 

– Any payments will be in line 
with the policy on loss of 
office.

– For other cases of involuntary termination of employment, the determination of any 
severance will take into consideration the performance of the individual, contractual 
notice period, applicable local laws and circumstances of the case.

– Generally, for good leavers, all outstanding unvested awards will normally continue to 

vest in line with the applicable vesting dates. Where relevant, any performance conditions 
attached to the awards, and malus and clawback provisions, will remain applicable to 
those awards.

– Severance amounts awarded to MRTs are not considered as variable pay for the purpose 

of application of the deferral and variable pay cap rules under the PRA and FCA 
remuneration rules where such amounts include: (i) payments of fixed remuneration that 
would have been payable during the notice and/or consultation period; (ii) statutory 
severance payments; (iii) payments determined in accordance with any approach 
applicable in the relevant jurisdictions; and (iv) payments made to settle a potential or 
actual dispute.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

291

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Committee governance 
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer, the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, 
the Group Chief Human Resources Officer, and the Group Head of 
Performance, Reward and Employee Relations routinely and 
selectively attend Committee meetings. As detailed below, the Chair 
of the Group Remuneration Committee held regular meetings with 
management, and Committee advisers to discuss specific issues as 
they arose during the year outside the formal Committee process.

The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the 
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, to consider input 

Matters considered during 2023

from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas and track 
progress on actions and Committee priorities. The Committee 
Secretary will continue to support the Chair in ensuring that the 
Committee has fulfilled its governance responsibilities.

A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/
board-committees.

Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay pool, workforce performance and pay matters, pay gap report, and employee insights
Directors’ remuneration policy design
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group
Directors’ remuneration report
Regulatory, risk and governance
Material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved
Regulatory updates, including approach and outcomes for the identification of Material Risk Takers
Governance matters
Principal subsidiaries
Matters from subsidiary committees

Jan

Feb May

Jun

Jul

Sep

Dec

l
ô
l
l
l

l
l
l

l

l
ô
l
l
l

l
l
l

ô

l
ô
l
l
ô

l
l
l

l

l
l
ô
ô
ô

ô
l
l

l

l
l
l
l
ô

l
l
l

ô

l
l
l
ô
ô

l
l
l

l

l
l
l
l
l

l
l
l

l

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

Advisers

The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on 
specific topics during 2023. Deloitte provided independent advice to 
the Committee. Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other 
advisory services to the Group in 2023. Deloitte is a founding member 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates 
under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK.

The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on 
market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson also 
provides actuarial support to Global Finance, benchmarking data for 
the wider workforce and services related to benefits administration 
for our Group employees. The Committee was satisfied the advice 
provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective and 
independent in 2023.

For 2023, total fees of £292,800 and £51,492 were incurred in relation 
to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers 
Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees and a time-
and-materials basis.
Attendees and interaction with other Board 
committees

During the year, Noel Quinn as the Group Chief Executive provided 
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the Committee 
engaged with, and received updates from, the following:

– Mark Tucker, Group Chairman;

– Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer;

– Georges Elhedery, Group Chief Financial Officer;

– Jenny Craik, Group Head of Performance, Reward and Employee 

Relations;

– Pam Kaur, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer;

– Bob Hoyt, Group Chief Legal Officer; and

– Aileen Taylor, Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance 

Officer.

The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group Risk 
Committee and Group Audit Committee on risk, conduct and 
compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration. 

No Director is present at Committee meetings when their own 
remuneration is discussed.

In addition to the meetings above, the Chair took the opportunity to 
meet with the Chair of the Group Risk Committee and Group Audit 
Committee to consider the Group’s risk and reward alignment 
framework, which is designed to promote sound and effective risk 
management in meeting PRA and FCA remuneration rules and 
expectations. 
Committee effectiveness

In 2023, the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board 
committees, including the Group Remuneration Committee, was 
conducted externally by Ffion Hague, Independent Board Evaluation. 
The review determined that the Committee continued to operate 
effectively.

Areas for enhancement were identified, including continued focus on 
the relationship between the Group and its subsidiary entities, 
building on the efforts taken under the direction of the Committee 
Chair, which will be kept under review in 2024.

The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and 
the Committee will track the progress in implementing 
recommendations during 2024.

As highlighted in the Board effectiveness review disclosure on 
page 261, the Board considered that further improvement is required 
to ensure reporting is succinct and supported by relevant key 
performance indicators. Further details of the annual review of the 
Board effectiveness review can be found on pages 260 to 261.

292

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Additional remuneration disclosures 
This section provides further information and disclosure in relation to 
executive Director and wider workforce remuneration as required 
under the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, Hong Kong Ordinances, Hong Kong 
Listing Rules and the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures.

For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures, executive 
Directors and non-executive Directors are considered to be members 
of the management body. Members of the Group Executive 
Committee other than the executive Directors are considered as 
senior management.

Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code

The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in 
respect of the Directors' remuneration policy: 

Provision

Approach

Clarity
Remuneration arrangements should be 
transparent and promote effective engagement 
with shareholders and the workforce.

– The Committee regularly engages and consults with major shareholders to take into account 

shareholder feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
– Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and 

available to all our employees.

Simplicity

Remuneration structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation should be easy 
to understand.

– Our Directors' remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and 

transparent, while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the remuneration rules of the UK's PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our 
shareholders. The objective of each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in 
respect of each element is clearly set out.

Risk

– In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk 

Remuneration structures should identify and 
mitigate against reputational and other risks from 
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks 
that can arise from target-based incentive plans.

Predictability

The range of possible values of rewards to 
individual Directors and any other limits or 
discretions should be identified and explained at 
the time of approving the policy.

Proportionality

The link between individual awards, the delivery 
of strategy and the long-term performance of the 
Group should be clear and outcomes should not 
reward poor performance.

Alignment with culture

Incentive schemes should drive behaviours 
consistent with the Group's purpose, values and 
strategy.

management while supporting our business objectives.

– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the 

Committee on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the 
Group Risk Committee when making remuneration decisions.

– Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from 

which any executive Director variable pay is funded.

– Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-

financial measures. Financial measures are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure CET1 remains 
within risk tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the overall scorecard 
outcome is subject to a risk and compliance modifier.

– The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year 

deferral period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have 
vested are subject to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date 
(extending to 10 years where an investigation is ongoing).

– The charts set out in our shareholder approved policy report (available in our Annual Report and 

Accounts 2021) show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary under different 
performance scenarios for executive Directors.

– The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial and resource plan 

targets, as well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.

– The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the 

outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not 
appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance 
period.

– In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a 

required behaviour rating, which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.

– Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social 

strategy. These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations, 
improving customer satisfaction, diversity and inclusion.

– Each year senior employees participate in a 360 survey, which gathers feedback on values-aligned 

behaviours from peers, direct reports, skip level reports and managers.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

293

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Link between risk, performance and reward

Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk management to support our business objectives and the delivery of our strategy.

We set out below the key features of our framework, which enable us to align between risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance 
with local laws and regulations:

Framework 
elements

Variable pay 
pool

Application

– The Group variable pay pool is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial and non-financial factors. We 

use a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance 
increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling 
recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby 
limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.

– The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:

– Group and business unit financial performance, considering contextual factors driving performance, and capital requirements;
–

current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial and resourcing plan and global 
conduct outcomes; and
fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for 
determining the pool.

–

– In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group 

may determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for 
employees including unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.

Individual 
performance

– Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial objectives. Objectives 
for senior management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint; 
facilitating financing to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee diversity; and risk and compliance measures.

Control 
function staff

– A mandatory global risk and compliance objective is included for all other employees. Employees receive a behaviour rating as well 

as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.

– Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles 

are made by the global function head.

– The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance colleagues, are assessed according to 

a balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake. 

– Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
– Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
– The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of 

Internal Audit.

Variable pay 
adjustments 
and conduct 
recognition

– Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including:
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
–

involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause 
significant harm to HSBC; and

– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.

– Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to 

variable pay awards.

Malus

– Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:

– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
–
–

restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
improper or inadequate risk management.

Clawback

– Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs 
on or after 1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior 
management functions in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may 
be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
–
–

failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a 
contract of employment; and 
a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards, 
policies and procedures.

–

Sales 
incentives
Identification 
of MRTs

– Clawback can also be applied to vested or paid awards granted to designated Executive Officers as defined by the US Securities 
and Exchange Commission ('SEC') for a period of three years in the event of an accounting restatement due to material non-
compliance with any financial reporting requirement under the US securities laws.

– We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate 

safeguards to avoid incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours. 

– We identify individuals as MRTs based on qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the PRA's and FCA's Remuneration Rules. 

Our identification process is underpinned by the following key principles:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers a colleague’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and 

function that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
– We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in 

certain roles and grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the Remuneration Rules.

294

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Summary of shareholder return and Group Chief Executive remuneration

The graph shows HSBC TSR performance (based on the daily spot 
Return Index in sterling) against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for 
the 10-year period ended 31 December 2023.

The single figure remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the 
past 10 years, together with the outcomes of the respective 
annual incentive and LTI awards, are presented in the following table.

The FTSE 100 Total Return Index has been chosen as a recognised 
broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. 

HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Group Chief Executive

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Total single figure £000
Annual incentive1 (% of maximum)
Long-term incentive1,2,3 (% of maximum)

7,619
54%
44%

7,340
45%
41%

5,675
64%
–%

6,086
80%
–%

2,387
76%
100%

John 
Flint

4,582
76%
–%

John 
Flint

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

2,922
61%
–%

1,977
66%
–%

4,154
32%
–%

4,895
57%
–%

5,562
75%
–%

10,641
70%
75%

1  The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver included 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ remuneration report, which 
was deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US 
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 (’AML DPA’) as determined by the Committee. The AML DPA performance condition was met 
and the award vested in 2018. The value of the award at vesting was in the 2018 single figure of remuneration and included as long-term incentive for 
2018. 

2  Long-term incentive awards are included in the single figure of remuneration for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be 

substantially completed. For Group Performance Share Plan (’GPSP’) awards, this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant. GPSP 
awards shown in 2014 to 2015 are therefore related to awards granted in 2015 to 2016. 

3  The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made. LTI awards have a three-year 

performance period and the first LTI award was made in February 2017. The value of the LTI awards expected to vest will be included in the total 
single figure of remuneration of the year in which the performance period ends. Noel Quinn received the 2021–2023 LTI award that had a 
performance period which ended on 31 December 2023. This was the first LTI award granted to him as Group Chief Executive.

Voting results from Annual General Meeting

2023 Annual General Meeting voting results

Remuneration report (votes cast)

Remuneration policy (votes cast from 2022 Annual General Meeting)

For
79.75%

8,251,001,243

 95.73 %

7,666,488,029

Against
20.25%

2,094,952,768
 4.27 %
342,320,697

Withheld
––

32,990,533

––

7,773,468

As set out in the Committee Chair's letter, the Committee reflected 
on feedback from investors following the vote on the implementation 
of our current policy at last year’s AGM. We explained in our 
statements of 5 May 2023 and 3 November 2023 that our largest 
shareholder voted against the Board’s recommendations on a number 
of resolutions including the Directors’ remuneration report, which 
impacted the results of these resolutions. 

The Board was pleased that a large majority of shareholders voting at 
the AGM supported HSBC’s strategy. The Committee Chair has met 
with several of our large institutional investors and proxy advisory 
firms since the AGM, and there remains strong support for the 
current remuneration policy.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

295

HSBC TSRFTSE 100 Total Return IndexDec 2013Dec 2014Dec 2015Dec 2016Dec 2017Dec 2018Dec 2019Dec 2020Dec 2021Dec 2022Dec 2023100%200%Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Pay ratio

The following table shows the ratio between the total pay of the 
Group Chief Executive and the lower quartile, median and upper 
quartile pay of our UK employees.

Total pay and benefits for the Group Chief Executive is the single 
figure of remuneration for Noel Quinn. The increase in median ratio is 
primarily driven by the vesting of the 2021–2023 long-term incentive 
('LTI'), which is the first he has received as Group Chief Executive. 
Excluding the LTI vesting in respect of the year, the ratio remained 
broadly in line with prior years at 86:1 at median. 

Total pay ratio

Method

A
A
A
A
A

Lower 
quartile

291:1
167:1
154:1
139:1
169:1

Median

169:1
95:1
90:1
85:1
105:1

Upper 
quartile

88:1
49:1
46:1
43:1
52:1

2023
2022
2021
2020
2019

Total pay and benefits amounts used to calculate the ratio

Lower quartile

Median

Upper quartile

Total 
pay and 
benefits

36,528
33,284
31,727
29,833
28,920

Total 
salary

27,680
24,615
27,666
23,264
24,235

Total 
pay and 
benefits

63,000
58,257
54,678
48,703
46,593

Total 
pay and 
benefits

Total 
salary

121,223 89,506
113,778 95,000
106,951 84,000
75,000
96,386
72,840
93,365

Total 
salary

45,536
41,000
41,500
36,972
41,905

(£) Method

2023
2022
2021
2020
2019

A
A
A
A
A

The total pay and benefits for the median employee for 2023 was 
£63,000, an 8.1% increase compared with 2022.

Our UK workforce comprises a diverse mix of colleagues across 
different businesses and levels of seniority, from junior cashiers in our 
retail branches to senior executives managing our global business 
units. We aim to deliver market-competitive pay for each role, taking 
into consideration the skills and experience required for the business.

Pay structure varies across roles in order to deliver an appropriate mix 
of fixed and variable pay. Junior colleagues have a greater portion of 
their pay delivered in a fixed component, which does not vary with 
performance and allows them to predictably meet their day-to-day 
needs. Our senior management, including executive Directors, 
generally have a higher portion of their total remuneration opportunity 
structured as variable pay and linked to the performance of the Group, 
given their role and ability to influence the strategy and performance 
of the Group. Executive Directors also have a higher proportion of 
their variable pay delivered in shares, which vest over a period of 
seven years with a post-vesting retention period of one year. During 
this deferral and retention period, the awards are linked to the share 
price so the value of award realised by them after the vesting and 
retention period will be aligned to the performance of the Group.

We are satisfied that the median pay ratio is consistent with the pay 
and progression policies for our UK workforce, taking into account the 
diverse mix of our UK employees, the pay mix applicable to each role 
and our objective of delivering market competitive pay for each role 
subject to Group, business and individual performance.

Our ratios have been calculated using the option ‘A’ methodology 
prescribed under the UK Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018. Under this option, the ratios are calculated using 
full-time equivalent pay and benefits of all employees providing 
services in the UK at 31 December 2023. We believe this approach 
provides accurate information and representation of the ratios. The 

ratio has been computed taking into account the pay and benefits of 
nearly 33,000 UK employees, other than the Group Chief Executive. 
We calculated our pay quartiles and benefits information for our UK 
employees using:

– full-time equivalent annualised fixed pay, which includes base 

salary and allowances, at 31 December 2023;

– variable pay awards for 2023;

– return on deferred cash awards granted in prior years. The 

deferred cash portion of the annual incentive granted in prior years 
includes a right to receive notional returns for the period between 
the grant date and vesting date, which is determined by reference 
to a rate of return specified at the time of grant. A payment of 
notional return is made annually and the amount is disclosed on a 
paid basis in the year in which the payment is made; 

– gains realised from exercising awards from taxable employee 

share plans; and

– full-time equivalent value of taxable benefits and pension 

contributions. 

Full-time equivalent fixed pay and benefits for each employee have 
been calculated by using each employee’s data as at 31 December 
2023. Where an employee works part-time, fixed pay and benefits are 
grossed up, where appropriate, to full-time equivalent. One-off 
benefits have not been included in calculating the ratios as these are 
not permanent in nature and in some cases, depending on individual 
circumstances, may not truly reflect a benefit to the employee.

The reported ratios may not be comparable to our international and 
listed peers on the FTSE 100, given differences in business mix and 
size; employment and compensation practices; methodologies for 
computing pay ratios; and assumptions used by companies.
Relative importance of spend on pay

The following chart shows the change in:

– total employee pay between 2022 and 2023; and

– dividends and share buy-backs in respect of 2022 and 2023.

In 2023, total spend on pay was slightly higher than in 2022. The total 
return to shareholders increased by 156% compared with 2022, 
reflecting a higher dividend and $7bn of capital return to shareholders 
through share buy-backs, which included the up to $3bn buy-back 
announced at our third quarter of 2023 results. In addition, the Group 
has announced the intention to initiate a further up to $2bn buy-back. 
Dividends include an approximation of the amount payable in April 
2024 in relation to the fourth interim dividend of $0.31 per ordinary 
share.

 Relative importance of spend on pay

2023  —

$11,816m

$7,000m

$18,816m

Total return to 
shareholder

2022  —

$6,343m $1,000m $7,343m1

Employee pay

2023  —

2022  —

$18,220m

$18,003m

↑
156%

↑
1%

Employee pay

Dividends

Share buy-back

1    In our Annual Report and Accounts 2022, we disclosed that the total 
return to shareholders was $9,144m, of which $8,144m related to 
dividends in 2022. This was an error and has been corrected in the 
chart above.

296

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Comparison of Directors’ and employees’ pay

The following table compares the changes in each Director’s base 
salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive between 2020 and 2023 
with the percentage change in each of those elements of pay for UK-
based employees of HSBC Group Management Services Limited, the 
employing entity of the executive Directors. 

There were no changes to the fees or benefits of the non-executive 
Directors between 2020 and 2023. The year-on-year percentage 
change in fees noted in the table below is primarily driven by any pro-
rated fees received by the non-executive Director for 2020, 2021, 
2022 and 2023 based on time served by them on the Board and the 
relevant Board committees and any additional responsibilities taken 

Annual percentage change in remuneration

on by the non-executive Director during each year. The value of 
benefits received by the non-executive Directors reflect the taxable 
expense reimbursements claimed, and the associated gross-up tax, in 
relation to attending the Board meetings in each year. Page 301 
provides the underlying single figure of remuneration for non-
executive Directors used to calculate the figures above. 

Non-executive Directors who joined after 1 January 2023 are not 
included, which includes Ann Godbehere, Kalpana Morparia, Brendan 
Nelson and Swee Lian Teo. 

Director/employees

Executive Directors
Noel Quinn1,2
Georges Elhedery3
Non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham4
Rachel Duan5,6
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn6,7
James Forese8
Steven Guggenheimer9
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña10
Eileen Murray5
David Nish
Jackson Tai10,11
Mark Tucker
Employee group12

Base salary/fees
2021
2022

2023

2020

2023

2022

2021

2020

2023

Benefits

Annual incentive
2021
2022

2020

 0.5 
 — 

 3.2 
 — 

 1.7 
 — 

 151.7 
 — 

 6.7 
 — 

 25.3 
 — 

 (48.9) 
 — 

 353.7 
 — 

 (6.7) 
 — 

 36.1 
 — 

 57.4 
 8.4 
 5.3 
 10.2 
 0.8 
 0.8 
 10.7 
 0.4 
 (65.0) 
 — 
 5.0 

 — 
 235.8 
 231.1 
 20.5 
 4.8 
 8.5 
 (1.5) 
 (1.0) 
 7.7 
 — 
 3.1 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 257.5 
 86.6 
 10.4 
 121.7 
 0.4 
 (1.4) 
 — 
 1.0 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 28.7 
 — 
 108.7 
 (10.8) 
 — 
 2.0 

 — 
 (100.0) 
 (100.0) 
 — 
 (90.0) 
 (71.4) 
 — 
 (13.6) 
 (24.0) 
 (54.9) 
 5.7 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 120.0 
 — 
 242.4 
 7.0 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 (100.0) 
 — 
 25.0 
 (100.0) 
 (36.5) 
 1.3 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 100.0 
 — 
 (50.0) 
 (78.9) 
 (77.5) 
 2.3 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 11.7 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 3.7 

 99.0 
 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 25.2 

 20.2 
 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 (20.0) 

1  Noel Quinn succeeded John Flint as interim Group Chief Executive with effect from 5 August 2019 and was appointed permanently into the role on 

17 March 2020. The annual percentage change in 2020 for Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2019 single figure of remuneration (for 
the period 5 August 2019 to 31 December 2019) and his 2020 single figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020). 
Based on his annualised 2019 compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 2.1%, 
85.2% and -50.9%, respectively for 2020.

2  Noel Quinn voluntarily waived the cash portion of his 2020 annual incentive. The year-on-year percentage change between 2020 and 2021 would be 

-1% without this cash waiver.

3  Georges Elhedery succeeded Ewen Stevenson as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 January 2023. Year-on-year comparison for 

Georges Elhedery will be available from 2024 onwards.
4  Geraldine Buckingham joined the Board on 1 May 2022.
5  Rachel Duan and Eileen Murray were appointed members of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022.
6  Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn did not receive taxable benefits in 2023, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
7  Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee effective 29 April 2022.
8  James Forese was appointed as non-executive Chair of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc in 2021. Fees for 2021 included fees in relation to this role. 
9  Steven Guggenheimer joined the Board on 1 May 2020 and therefore received fees for only part of 2020.
10  José Antonio Meade Kuribreña and Jackson Tai did not receive taxable benefits in 2021, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
11  Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023.
12  Employee group consists of individuals employed by HSBC Group Management Services Ltd, the employing entity of the executive Directors, as no 

individuals are employed directly by HSBC Holdings.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

297

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Scheme interests awarded during 2023

(Audited)

The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2023 in respect of the 2022 performance year, as 
disclosed in the 2022 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. The below 
table includes details of immediate shares and fixed pay allowances in compliance with Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of 
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

Scheme awards in 2023

(Audited)

Noel Quinn

Type of interest 
awarded
LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary
Immediate shares2 % of base salary

Basis on which 
award made

Fixed pay allowance3 N/A

Georges Elhedery

LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary
Immediate shares2 % of base salary

Fixed pay allowance3 N/A

Face 
value
awarded
£000

Percentage
 receivable for 
minimum
performance

Number of
shares
awarded

End of
performance 
period

5,476 
1,082 
300 
300 
300 
1,599 
716 
192 
192 
192 

 25 
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
 25 
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

861,422
170,206
50,080
51,435
49,291
251,474
112,568
31,962
32,827
31,459

31 December 2025
31 December 2022
N/A
N/A
N/A
31 December 2025
31 December 2022
N/A
N/A
N/A

Date of award

27 February 2023  
27 February 2023  
15 May 2023  
21 August 2023  
7 November 2023  
27 February 2023  
27 February 2023  
15 May 2023  
21 August 2023  
7 November 2023  

1 In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of base salary for 

Noel Quinn and 160% of base salary for Georges Elhedery. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price 
of £6.357 taken on 24 February 2023, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 5% per annum for the vesting period 
(£4.963). LTI awards are conditional share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal annual 
instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. Awards are subject to malus and 
clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award and are not eligible for dividend equivalents. 

2 Immediate share awards are granted based on the previous years' performance as part of the annual incentive and are not subject to forward-looking 
performance conditions. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. The face value of the immediate share awards have been 
computed using HSBC’s closing share price of £6.357 taken on 24 February 2023. Awards are subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years 
from the date of the award. 

3 Fixed pay allowance awards are granted in instalments in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, and 

are not subject to forward-looking performance conditions. Individual tax liabilities were satisfied in cash, therefore the face value awarded represents 
the net of tax value of the shares and the number of shares awarded reflects the net of tax number of shares. The fixed pay allowance awards have 
been computed using HSBC's closing share price of £5.997 taken on 12 May 2023, £5.839 taken on 18 August 2023 and £6.093 taken on 
6 November 2023. These awards vest immediately and are subject to a retention period and released annually on pro-rata basis over five years, 
starting in March 2024.

Performance conditions for the 2023–2025 LTI awards
(Audited)

Measures (weighting)1
RoTE (with CET1 capital ratio underpin)2 (25.0%)
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1 capital ratio underpin)3 
(25.0%)

Environment and 
sustainability4 (25.0%)

Relative TSR5 (25.0%)

Carbon reduction
Sustainable finance and 
investment

Minimum
(25% payout)
13.0%

49.0%

64.0%

$588.0bn

At median of the
peer group

Target
(50% payout)
14.3%

50.5%

68.0%

$700.0bn

Maximum
(100% payout)
15.5%

52.0%

72.0%

$756.0bn

Straight-line vesting 
between minimum and 
maximum

At upper quartile of 
peer group

1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2  To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period.
3  To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 

2025.

4  Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2025 using 2019 as 

the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 
31 December 2025. 

5  The peer group for the 2022 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, 

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. 

298

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Executive Directors’ interests in shares

(Audited)

The shareholdings of executive Directors in 2023, including the 
shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2023 (or 
the date they stepped down from the Board, if earlier) are set out 
below. The following table shows the comparison of shareholdings 
with the company shareholding guidelines. There have been no 
changes in the shareholdings of the executive Directors from 
31 December 2023 to the date of this report.

Individuals have five years from their appointment date to build up the 
recommended levels of shareholding. In line with investor guidance, 
for executive Directors, unvested shares that are not subject to 
forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) can 
count towards their shareholding requirement under the shareholder-
approved policy.

The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding 
requirement, taking into account shareholder expectations and 
guidelines. The Committee also has full discretion in determining any 
penalties for non-compliance.

With regard to post-employment shareholding arrangements, we 
believe that our remuneration structure achieves the objective of 
ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors’ interests 
with shareholder experience post-cessation of their employment due 
to the following features of the policy: 

– Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the fixed pay 
allowance have a five-year retention period, which continues to 
apply following a departure of an executive Director.

– Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are subject 
to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply following 
a departure of an executive Director.

– LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year post-
vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on departure. 
The weighted average holding period of an LTI award within HSBC is 
therefore six years, in excess of the five-year holding period typically 
implemented by FTSE-listed companies. 

HSBC operates a policy under which individuals are not permitted to 
enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares 
subject to a vesting and/or retention period.

Shares

(Audited)

Executive Directors
Noel Quinn5
Georges Elhedery5

Shareholding 
guidelines
(% of salary)

Shareholding at 
31 Dec 20232 
(% of salary)

Share 
interests
(number
of shares)

At 31 December 2023

Scheme interests

Shares awarded 
subject to deferral1

Share 
options3

without
 performance 
conditions

with
performance
conditions4

400%
300%

797%  
598%  

1,721,465   
753,467   

—   
—   

308,610   
714,008   

2,963,315 
475,463 

1 The gross number of shares is disclosed. A portion will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security that falls due at the time of 

vesting.

2  The value of the shareholding is calculated using an average of the daily closing share prices in the three months to 31 December 2023 (£6.192), and 

does not include any unvested interests.

3  At 31 December 2023, Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery did not hold any options under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK).
4 LTI awards granted in February 2022 and 2023 are subject to the performance conditions as set out in the preceding sections. 
5  Executive Directors are expected to meet their shareholding guidelines within five years of the date of their appointment. Noel Quinn and Georges 

Elhedery were appointed on 5 August 2019 and 1 January 2023, respectively. 

Service contracts

Payments to past Directors

The service contracts of executive Directors do not have a fixed term. 
The notice periods of executive Directors are set at the discretion of 
the Committee, taking into account market practice, governance 
considerations, and the skills and experience of the particular 
candidate at that time.

Service agreements for each executive Director are available for 
inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. Consistent with the 
best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise 
termination payments. Directors may be eligible for a payment in 
relation to statutory rights.

Noel Quinn
Georges Elhedery

Contract date (rolling)

18 March 2020
1 January 2023

Notice period
(Director and HSBC)
12 months
12 months

Total pension entitlements 

(Audited)
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year 
have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension scheme 
for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to additional 
benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no retirement age 
set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for colleagues is 65.

(Audited)
HSBC has received a formal request from the former employer of 
Ewen Stevenson to reduce the buy-out award granted to him in 2019 
by £82,980, which will be offset against the next available vesting for 
this award. The reduction will be made in line with PRA regulations, 
acting on the decision made by Ewen Stevenson’s former employer. 
We understand the reduction was part of a collective adjustment and 
there are no concerns over Ewen Stevenson's conduct or the 
discharge of his individual accountabilities.

Payments Ewen Stevenson received after he stepped down as an 
executive Director are set out in the following section.

In line with the terms of his departure disclosed in our Annual Report 
and Accounts 2022, Ewen Stevenson was granted good leaver status 
and is therefore eligible to receive vesting of the 2021–2023 LTI 
award, which was pro-rated for time in employment. Ewen’s good 
leaver status is conditional upon satisfaction of non-compete 
provisions under which he cannot undertake a role with a defined list 
of competitor financial services firms for 12 months after his 
employment ceases with HSBC. Details of the 2021–2023 LTI 
outcome are outlined on page 286.

No other payments were made to, or in respect of, former Directors 
in the year in excess of the minimum threshold of £50,000 set for this 
purpose.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

299

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Payments for loss of office 

(Audited)
Departure terms for Ewen Stevenson

Ewen Stevenson left the Group on 30 April 2023.

In accordance with the approved Directors' remuneration policy and 
contractual terms agreed for the period between 1 January 2023 and 
25 October 2023, Ewen received payments totalling £703,519 in lieu 
of his base salary and pension allowance. Ewen also received his
Directors’ emoluments

fixed pay allowance in respect of the same period, which totalled 
£885,836 and was awarded in immediately vested shares, which are 
subject to a retention period. In accordance with the approved 
Directors' remuneration policy, Ewen received cash in lieu of unused 
holiday totalling £73,621 on expiry of his notice period. 

External appointments

During 2023, executive Directors did not receive any fees from 
external appointments.

The details of compensation paid to executive and non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2023 are set out below: 

Emoluments

Directors' base salary, allowances and benefits in kind
Non-executive Directors' fees and benefits in kind
Pension contributions
Performance-related pay paid or receivable2
Inducements to join paid or receivable
Compensation for loss of office
Notional return on deferred cash
Total
Total ($000)

Noel Quinn
2023
£000
3,386 

— 
6,293 
— 
— 
43 
9,722 
12,083 

2022
£000
3,367 

— 
6,439 
— 
— 
31 
9,837 
12,226 

Georges Elhedery

Non-executive Directors1

2023
£000
1,999 

— 
3,783 
— 
— 
6 
5,788 
7,194 

2022
£000
— 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

2023
£000

4,920 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
4,920 
6,115 

2022
£000

4,644 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
4,644 
5,772 

1 Fees and benefits in kind for 2022 reflects the population as per the single figure table for non-executive Directors, which excludes individuals who 

have stepped down from the Board during 2022. 

2 Includes the value of the deferred and LTI awards at grant. 

The aggregate amount of Directors’ emoluments (including both 
executive Directors and non-executive Directors) for the year ended 
31 December 2023 was $25,391,977. As per our policy, benefits in 
kind may include, but are not limited to, the provision of medical 
insurance, income protection insurance, health assessment, 
life assurance, club membership, tax assistance, car benefit, travel 
assistance, provision of company owned-accommodation and 
relocation costs (including any tax due, where applicable). 

Total benefits in kind of £25,304 ($31,450) were provided to Ewen 
Stevenson until he left the Group. This included income protection 
benefits valued at £16,414 ($20,401), life assurance benefits of £935 
($1,162) and other non-taxable expenses of £7,955 ($9,887).

Post-employment medical insurance benefits were provided to former 
Directors, including Douglas Flint valued at £6,721 ($8,354), Stuart 
Gulliver valued at £6,721 ($8,354), John Flint valued at £9,706 
($12,064), Marc Moses valued at £15,886 ($19,745) and Ewen 
Stevenson valued at £377 ($469). Tax return support was also 
provided to John Flint valued at £5,441 ($6,763), Marc Moses valued 
at £2,500 ($3,107) and Ewen Stevenson valued at £1,320 ($1,641).

Five highest paid employees – share awards (HSBC Share Plan 2011)

The total aggregate value of benefits provided to former executive 
Directors was £73,976 ($91,945). The aggregate value of Director 
retirement benefits for current Directors is nil. Amounts are converted  
into US dollars based on the average exchange rates for the year.

There were payments under retirement benefit arrangements with 
three former Directors of £1,381,674. The provision at 31 December 
2023 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to two former 
Directors amounted to £340,208. This relates to unfunded 
unapproved retirement benefits schemes. 

Emoluments of senior management and five highest paid 
employees

The following tables set out the emoluments paid to senior 
management, which in this case comprises executive Directors and 
members of the Group Executive Committee, for the year ended 
31 December 2023, or for the period of appointment in 2023 as a 
Director or member of the Group Executive Committee. Details of the 
remuneration paid and share awards granted to the five highest paid 
employees, comprising one executive Director and four Group 
Executives for the year ended 31 December 2023, are also presented.

Dates of award

2013 to 2022
27 Feb 20232
15 May 20233
21 Aug 20234
7 Nov 20235
1 Jan to 31 Dec 20236

Purchase
price (£)

Usually vesting

from

to
1 Mar 2023 30 Mar 2029
0
0
27 Feb 2023 30 Mar 2030
0 15 May 2023 15 May 2023
0 21 Aug 2023 21 Aug 2023
7 Nov 2023
0
7 Nov 2023
1 Mar 2023 30 Mar 2024
0

HSBC Holdings ordinary share awards

At 1 Jan 
2023
5,603,050 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5,603,050

Granted in 
period
— 
2,533,801 
50,080 
51,435 
49,291 
3,345 
2,687,952

Vested in 
period1
445,705 
687,935
50,080
51,435
49,291
982
1,285,428

Lapsed
in period
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

Cancelled in 

period At 31 Dec 2023
5,157,345 
1,845,866 
— 
— 
— 
2,363 
7,005,574 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

1   The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which the awards were vested was £5.9681.
2   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £6.3570. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 
standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period, range between £2.8390 and £6.3180. These awards include LTI 
awards and other awards which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions. LTI awards are subject to a combination of financial and non-
financial metrics that are detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report in the Annual Report and Accounts.

3   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £5.9970. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 

standard. The fair value of the award was £6.1100.

4   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £5.8390. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 

standard. The fair value of the award was £5.8330.

5   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £6.093. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 

standard. The fair value of the award was £6.0830.

300

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

6   Relates to the allocation of dividend equivalent shares in relation to eligible awards.

Emoluments

£000s

Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind
Pension contributions
Performance-related pay paid or receivable1
Inducements to join paid or receivable
Compensation for loss of office
Total
Total ($000)

1   Includes the value of deferred share awards at grant.

Five highest paid employees

13,357   
100   
24,259   
—   
—   
37,716   
46,877   

Senior management
38,960 
640 
59,286 
— 
— 
98,886 
122,906 

US dollars

Number of highest paid employees Number of senior management

Emoluments by bands

Hong Kong dollars

$19,000,001 – $19,500,000
$22,500,001 – $23,000,000
$25,000,001 – $25,500,000
$38,000,001 – $38,500,000
$41,000,001 – $41,500,000
$42,000,001 – $42,500,000
$42,500,001 – $43,000,000
$48,000,001 – $48,500,000
$49,000,001 – $49,500,000
$51,500,001 – $52,000,000
$56,000,001 – $56,500,000
$59,000,001 – $59,500,000
$61,000,001 – $61,500,000
$63,500,001 – $64,000,000
$72,500,001 – $73,000,000
$75,000,001 – $75,500,000
$94,000,001 – $94,500,000

Non-executive Directors

(Audited)

$2,426,967 – $2,490,834
$2,874,040 – $2,937,907
$3,193,377 – $3,257,245
$4,853,933 – $4,917,801
$5,237,139 – $5,301,006
$5,364,874 – $5,428,741
$5,428,741 – $5,492,609
$6,131,284 – $6,195,152
$6,259,019 – $6,322,887
$6,578,357 – $6,642,224
$7,153,165 – $7,217,032
$7,536,370 – $7,600,238
$7,791,840 – $7,855,708
$8,111,178 – $8,175,046
$9,260,794 – $9,324,661
$9,580,132 – $9,643,999
$12,007,098 – $12,070,966

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1   
1   
1   
1   
1   

The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2023, together with comparative figures for 2022.

Fees and benefits

(Audited)
(£000)

Geraldine Buckingham
Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
James Forese3
Ann Godbehere4
Steven Guggenheimer
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia5
Eileen Murray6
Brendan Nelson7
David Nish
Jackson Tai8
Swee Lian Teo9
Mark Tucker
Total (£000)
Total ($000)

Fees1

2023

244   
244   
279   
759   
68   
264   
244   
170   
290   
81   
479   
132   
51   
1,500   
4,805   
5,972

2022

155   
225   
265   
689   
—   
262   
242   
—   
262   
—   
477   
377   
—   
1,500   
4,454   
5,536

Benefits2
2023

2022

5   
—   
—   
1   
—   
1   
4   
—   
3   
12   
19   
19   
—   
51   
115   
143

—   
5   
1   
—   
—   
10   
14   
—   
—   
—   
22   
25   
—   
113   
190   
236

Total

2023

249   
244   
279   
760   
68   
265   
248   
170   
293   
93   
498   
151   
51   
1,551   
4,920   
6,115

1 Fees are in line with the Directors’ remuneration policy that was approved at the 2022 AGM. Non-executive Directors receive a pro-rata payment of 

£4,000 travel allowance per annum. 

2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC 

Holdings' registered offices. Tax for non-executive Director benefits is met by HSBC, therefore amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax 
rate of 47%, where relevant. 

3 Appointed as Chair of the Group Risk Committee on 5 May 2023. Stepped down as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee and joined the 

Group Audit Committee as a member on 5 May 2023. Includes fee of £443,000 (2022: £447,000) in relation to his role as Chair of HSBC North 
America Holdings, Inc.

4 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2023.
5 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 March 2023.
6 Appointed as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee on 5 May 2023.
7 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 September 2023.
8 Retired from the Board and retired as Chair of the Group Risk Committee and member of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Nomination 

& Corporate Governance Committee on 5 May 2023. 

9 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

301

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

2022

155 
230 
266 
689 
— 
272 
256 
— 
262 
— 
499 
402 
— 
1,613 
4,644 
5,772

Corporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares

(Audited)

The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in 
2023, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at 
31 December 2023, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are 
set out below. There have been no changes in the shareholdings of 
the non-executive Directors from 31 December 2023 to the date of 
this report.

Shares

Geraldine Buckingham 
Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
James Forese
Ann Godbehere (appointed to the Board on 1 September 2023)
Steven Guggenheimer
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia (appointed to the Board on 1 March 2023)
Eileen Murray
Brendan Nelson (appointed to the Board on 1 September 2023) 
David Nish 
Jackson Tai (retired on 5 May 2023)
Swee Lian Teo (appointed to the Board on 1 October 2023)
Mark Tucker

2024 fees for non-executive Directors

Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the shareholding 
guidelines of 15,000 shares within five years of the date of their 
appointment. All non-executive Directors who had been appointed for 
five years or more at 31 December 2023 met the guidelines.

Shareholding 
guidelines (number 
of shares)

Share interests 
(number of shares)

15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  

15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
115,000 
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
75,000 
— 
50,000 
66,515 
15,200 
307,352 

Following a review of fees during 2023, and in accordance with the shareholder approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the Company’s 
2022 Annual General Meeting, the Board approved increases to certain of the fees payable to the non-executive Directors and for roles on the 
Board Committees with effect from 1 January 2024. As a result, each non-executive Director receives a fee of £136,500 per annum. The 
separate travel allowance of £4,000 per annum has been incorporated within this fee – a separate travel allowance is no longer paid. The fees 
paid to non-executive Directors who are standing for election or re-election as members of Board Committees are set out in the table below 
(these Board Committees’ fees and Board fees are pro-rated for part year service where relevant).

Position
Non-executive Group Chairman1
Non-executive Director (base fee)
Senior Independent Director
Group Risk Committee

Group Audit Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Group Technology Committee

Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee

Designated workforce engagement non-executive Director

2024 fees
£

1,500,000
136,500
200,000
150,000
42,000
78,750
42,000
––
34,650
40,000

Chair
Member
Chair
Member
Chair
Member

1  The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.

Non-executive Director appointment and re-election

Non-executive Directors and the Chair are appointed for fixed terms 
not exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their re-
election by shareholders at AGMs. Non-executive Directors and the 
Chair do not have service contracts, but are bound by letters of 
appointment issued for and on 

behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for inspection at HSBC 
Holdings’ registered office. There are no obligations in the non-
executive Directors’ or Chair's letters of appointment that could give 
rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.

2024 AGM
James Forese
Ann Godbehere1
Steven Guggenheimer
Eileen Murray
Brendan Nelson1
Swee Lian Teo1

2025 AGM
Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña

2026 AGM
Geraldine Buckingham
Kalpana Morparia

1  Ann Godbehere, Brendan Nelson and Swee Lian Teo were appointed following the 2023 AGM and therefore their initial three-year appointment terms 
are subject to approval of their election by shareholders at the 2024 AGM. Their initial three-year term of appointment will end at the conclusion of the 
2027 AGM, subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the relevant AGMs.

302

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
MRT remuneration disclosures

The following tables set out the remuneration disclosures for 
individuals identified as MRTs for HSBC Holdings. 

Remuneration information for individuals who are only identified as 
MRTs at HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank plc or other solo-regulated 
entity levels is included, where relevant, in those entities’ disclosures.

The 2023 variable pay information included in the following tables is 
based on the market value of awards. For share awards, the market 
value is based on HSBC Holdings’ share price at the date of grant 
(unless indicated otherwise). For cash awards, it is the value of 
awards expected to be paid to the individual over the deferral period.

Remuneration awarded for the financial year (REM1)

Fixed 
remuneration

Variable 
remuneration3

Number of identified staff
Total fixed pay ($m)
–  of which: cash-based ($m)1
–  of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2
–  of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m)
–  of which: other instruments ($m)
–  of which: other forms ($m)
Number of identified staff
Total variable remuneration ($m)4
–  of which: cash-based ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: other instruments ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: other forms ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)

Total remuneration ($m)

Supervisory 
function

Management 
function

Other senior 
management

Other 
identified 
staff

13.0
5.9
5.9
—
—
—
—
13.0
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
5.9

2.0
6.7
3.2
3.5
—
—
—
2.0
15.6
2.1
—
13.5
11.5
—
—
—
—
—
—
22.3

16.9
39.8
39.8
—
—
—
—
16.9
67.4
30.5
18.3
36.9
24.7
—
—
—
—
—
—
107.2

1,238.0
690.3
690.3
—
—
—
—
1,238.0
740.2
371.2
174.5
354.6
201.6
10.1
5.6
—
—
4.3
2.7
1,430.5

1  Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
2  Paid in HSBC shares. Vested shares are subject to a retention period of up to one year.
3  Variable pay awarded in respect of 2023. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 (98% in favour), for each MRT the variable 

component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of fixed component of the total remuneration. HSBC has continued to use the 
discount rate previously published as PRA remuneration rule 15.13 for 17 individuals for the purpose of calculating the ratio between fixed and variable 
components of 2023 total remuneration. 

4  26 identified staff members were exempt from the application of the remuneration structure requirements for MRTs under the PRA and FCA 

remuneration rules. Their total remuneration is $6.2m, of which $5.1m is fixed pay and $1.1m is variable remuneration.

Special payments to staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM2)

Supervisory 
function

Management 
function

Other senior 
management

Other 
identified 
staff

Guaranteed variable remuneration awards1
Number of identified staff
Total amount ($m)
–  of which guaranteed variable remuneration awards paid during the financial year, that are not 

taken into account in the bonus cap ($m)

Severance payments awarded in previous periods, that have been paid out during the financial year2
Number of identified staff
Total amount ($m)
Severance payments awarded during the financial year2
Number of identified staff
Total amount ($m)
–  of which paid during the financial year ($m)
–  of which deferred ($m)
–  of which severance payments paid during the financial year, that are not taken into account in 

the bonus cap ($m)

–  of which highest payment that has been awarded to a single person ($m)

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

59.8
37.0
32.8
—

37.0

3.4

1  No guaranteed variable remuneration was awarded in 2023. HSBC would offer a guaranteed variable remuneration award in exceptional 

circumstances for new hires, and for the first year of employment only. It would typically involve a critical new hire, and would also depend on factors 
such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance 
year.
Includes payments such as payment in lieu of notice, statutory severance, outplacement service, legal fees, ex-gratia payments and settlements 
(excludes pre-existing benefit entitlements triggered on terminations).

2 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

303

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Deferred remuneration at 31 December1 (REM3)

Total amount 
of deferred 
remuneration 
awarded for 
previous 
performance 
periods

of which:
due to 
vest in 
the 
financial 
year

of which: 
vesting in 
subsequent 
financial 
years

Amount of 
performance 
adjustment 
made in the 
financial year 
to deferred 
remuneration 
that was due 
to vest in the 
financial year

Amount of 
performance 
adjustment 
made in the 
financial year 
to deferred 
remuneration 
that was due 
to vest in 
future 
performance 
years

Total 
amount of 
adjustment 
during the 
financial 
year due to 
ex post 
implicit 
adjustments

Total amount 
of deferred 
remuneration 
awarded 
before the 
financial year 
actually paid 
out in the 
financial year

Total amount 
of deferred 
remuneration 
awarded for 
previous 
performance 
period that 
has vested 
but is subject 
to retention 
periods

—
—
—
—
—
—
52.4
7.5
44.9
—
—
—
149.0
51.4
97.2
0.4
—
—
1,097.3
408.0
663.6
15.3
—
10.4
1,298.7

—
—
—
—
—
—
12.0
1.0
11.0
—
—
—
20.1
6.6
13.1
0.4
—
—
301.4
89.0
200.2
7.9
—
4.3
333.5

—
—
—
—
—
—
40.4
6.5
33.9
—
—
—
128.9
44.8
84.1
—
—
—
795.9
319.0
463.4
7.4
—
6.1
965.2

—
—
—
—
—
—
-2.3
—
-2.3
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
-2.3

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
3.7
—
3.7
—
—
—
12.3
—
12.3
—
—
—
63.7
—
60.7
2.0
—
1.0
79.7

—
—
—
—
—
—
6.3
1.0
5.3
—
—
—
19.7
6.5
12.8
0.4
—
—
290.5
87.7
192.9
7.7
—
2.2
316.5

—
—
—
—
—
—
4.2
—
4.2
—
—
—
5.1
—
4.9
0.2
—
—
54.9
—
50.2
3.5
—
1.2
64.2

$m

Supervisory function

Cash-based
Shares
Share-linked instruments
Other instruments
Other forms

Management function

Cash-based
Shares
Share-linked instruments
Other instruments
Other forms

Other senior management

Cash-based
Shares
Share-linked instruments
Other instruments
Other forms

Other identified staff

Cash-based
Shares
Share-linked instruments
Other instruments
Other forms
Total amount

1  This table provides details of balances and movements during performance year 2023. For details of variable pay awards granted for 2023, refer to the 
’Remuneration awarded for the financial year’ table. Deferred remuneration is made in cash and/or shares. Share-based awards are made in HSBC 
shares.

Identified staff - remuneration by band1 (REM4)

€1,000,000 – 1,500,000
€1,500,000 – 2,000,000
€2,000,000 – 2,500,000
€2,500,000 – 3,000,000
€3,000,000 – 3,500,000
€3,500,000 – 4,000,000
€4,000,000 – 4,500,000
€4,500,000 – 5,000,000
€5,000,000 – 6,000,000
€6,000,000 – 7,000,000
€7,000,000 – 8,000,000
€8,000,000 – 9,000,000
€9,000,000 – 10,000,000
€10,000,000 – 11,000,000
€11,000,000 – 12,000,000
€12,000,000 – 13,000,000

Identified staff that are high 
earners as set out in Article 
450(i) CRR
260 
125 
54 
20 
14 
6 
8 
7 
8 
3 
4 
— 
2 
— 
— 
1 

1  Table prepared in euros in accordance with Article 450 of the European Union Capital Requirements Regulation, using the exchange rates published by 

the European Commission for financial programming and budget for December of the reported year as published on its website.

304

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on remuneration of staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM5)

Management body

Business areas

Supervisory 
function

Management 

function Total

Investment 
banking

Retail 
banking

Asset 
management

Corporate 
function

Independent 
internal 
control 
function

All 
other

Total

1,269.9

13.0

2.0

15.0

1.0

2.0

506.5

298.0

—

31.0

5.9

2.0

6.0

153.0

180.9

68.6

5.9   

—   

5.9   

22.3    28.2   

712.7   

305.9   

40.9   

200.7   

141.2    136.3 

15.6    15.6   

392.0   

155.6   

21.6   

100.5   

63.8    74.1 

6.7    12.6   

320.7   

150.3   

19.3   

100.2   

77.4    62.2 

Total number of 
identified staff
–  of which members of 

the Board

–  of which senior 
management
–  of which other 
identified staff

Total remuneration of 
identified staff ($m)
–  of which variable 

remuneration ($m)1

–  of which fixed 

remuneration ($m)

1  Variable pay awarded in respect of 2023. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 (98% in favour), for each MRT the variable 

component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of fixed component of the total remuneration.

Share plan matters considered by the Group Remuneration Committee

The Group Remuneration Committee and its delegates considered 
various matters relating to the HSBC share plans during the financial 
year. 

The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan 
(‘ShareMatch’) and The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option 
Plan (UK) (‘Sharesave’) were offered in 2023. ShareMatch was 
offered in the Philippines for the first time. The HSBC variable pay 
deferral approach for the 2023 performance year was approved, for 
which certain minor updates were made to comply with legal and 
regulatory requirements. The structure and quantum of LTI awards for 
the executive Directors and members of the Group Executive 
Committee were approved for the 2023 performance year. Other 
awards with performance conditions were approved for certain 
strategically important projects during 2023. 

Certain awards were granted to executive Directors or senior 
managers with vesting periods of less than 12 months:

– Fixed pay allowance awards were granted to executive Directors 
in accordance with the approved Directors’ remuneration policy, 
which vest immediately and are subject to a retention period. 
These awards are not subject to clawback on the basis that they 
form part of the executive Directors’ fixed pay. The awards were 
granted under the HSBC Share Plan 2011.

– Immediate share awards were granted to executive Directors and 
senior managers in compliance with our regulatory requirements 
to deliver a portion of non-deferred variable pay in instruments. 
These awards vest immediately, and are subject to a retention 
period and clawback provisions.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

305

Corporate governance 
 
 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Share capital and other related governance disclosures

Share buy-back programme
On 10 May 2023, HSBC Holdings commenced a share buy-back 
programme of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each up to a maximum 
consideration of $2.0bn. This programme concluded on 27 July 2023, 
with 129,000,963 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK 
trading venues and 128,774,800 ordinary shares repurchased for 
cancellation on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (’HKEx’).

On 3 August 2023, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share buy-
back programme of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each up to a 
maximum consideration of $2.0bn. This programme concluded on 
26 October 2023, with 129,814,790 ordinary shares repurchased for 
cancellation on UK trading venues and 129,109,200 ordinary shares 
repurchased for cancellation on HKEx. 

On 1 November 2023, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share 
buy-back programme of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each up to a 
maximum consideration of $3.0bn.

As at 31 December 2023, 143,374,864 ordinary shares had been 
repurchased on UK trading venues and 100,547,200 ordinary shares 
were repurchased on HKEx.

The purpose of the buy-back programmes was to reduce HSBC’s 
number of outstanding ordinary shares. 

As at 31 December 2023, the total number of ordinary shares 
repurchased during the year was 760,621,817, representing a nominal 
value of $380,310,908.50 and an aggregate consideration paid by 
HSBC of £2,470,004,997 on UK trading venues and 
HK$21,646,177,512 on HKEx. The shares repurchased represent 
3.95% of the shares in issue. Of the repurchased shares, 44,237,528 
were awaiting cancellation as at 31 December 2023.

The table that follows outlines details of the shares repurchased and 
cancelled on a monthly basis during 2023.

First share buy-back on UK trading venues in 2023

Month shares cancelled
May 2023
Jun 2023
Jul 2023
Total

Number of shares 
repurchased and 
cancelled

Highest price
paid per share 

Lowest price
paid per share

Average price 
paid per share

Aggregate
price paid

31,169,005 
52,376,598 
45,455,360 
129,000,963 

£

6.2000
6.1900
6.4570

£

5.8710
5.8810
5.9840

£

£

6.0716
6.0754
6.2246

189,244,725
318,208,161
282,943,198
790,396,084

Number of shares 
repurchased

Highest price 
paid per share

Lowest price 
paid per share

Average price  
paid per share

Aggregate 
price paid

First share buy-back on HKEx in 2023

(HK$)

(HK$)

(HK$)

(HK$)

Month shares repurchased
May 2023
Jun 2023
Jul 2023
Total

Second share buy-back on UK trading venues in 2023

Month shares cancelled
Aug 2023
Sep 2023
Oct 2023
Total

37,500,000 
50,900,000 
40,374,800 
128,774,800 

Number of shares 
repurchased and 
cancelled

41,102,164 
48,597,672 
40,114,954 
129,814,790 

59.9500
61.4500
65.0000

57.2000
57.1000
60.3000

59.0377
60.0303
62.6018

2,213,913,666
3,055,542,282
2,527,536,243
7,796,992,191

Highest price
paid per share

Lowest price
paid per share

Average price 
paid per share

Aggregate
price paid

£

6.4470
6.4950
6.5750

£

5.7940
5.7690
5.9550

£

£

6.0941
6.1120
6.3949

250,481,897
297,030,003
256,532,508
804,044,408

Number of shares 
repurchased

Highest price 
paid per share

Lowest price 
paid per share

Average price  
paid per share

Aggregate 
price paid

Second share buy-back on HKEx in 2023

(HK$)

(HK$)

(HK$)

(HK$)

Month shares repurchased
Aug 2023
Sep 2023
Oct 2023
Total

Third share buy-back on UK trading venues in 2023

Month shares repurchased/cancelled
Nov 2023
Dec 2023
Total

46,350,400 
51,388,400 
31,370,400 
129,109,200 

Number of shares 
repurchased and 
cancelled

70,595,556 
72,779,308 
143,374,864 

64.6000
62.2000
63.6500

57.9500
56.8500
56.6500

60.7539
59.7717
61.7430

2,815,966,340
3,071,570,280
1,936,902,040
7,824,438,660

Highest price
paid per share

Lowest price
paid per share

Average price 
paid per share

Aggregate
price paid

£

6.2070
6.3640

£

5.8910
5.9000

£

£

6.0717  
6.1409  

428,636,659 
446,927,846 
875,564,505 

306

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third share buy-back on HKEx in 2023

(HK$)

(HK$)

(HK$)

(HK$)

Number of shares 
repurchased

Highest price 
paid per share

Lowest price 
paid per share

Average price  
paid per share

Aggregate 
price paid

51,083,600 
49,463,600 
100,547,200 

60.5500
63.2500

56.4500
59.1500

59.0032
60.8660

3,014,094,399 
3,010,652,262 
6,024,746,661 

Month shares repurchased
Nov 2023
Dec 2023
Total

Dividends
Dividends for 2023

First, second and third interim dividends for 2023, each of $0.10 per 
ordinary share, were paid on 23 June 2023, 21 September 2023 and 
21 December 2023. For further details of the dividends approved in 
2023, see Note 8 on the financial statements.

On 21 February 2024, the Directors approved a fourth interim 
dividend for 2023 of $0.31 per ordinary share, making a total of $0.61 
for the 2023 full-year. The fourth interim dividend for 2023 will be 
payable on 25 April 2024 in cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong 
Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 15 April 2024. 
The fourth interim dividend for 2023 of $1.55 per American 
Depositary Share, each of which represents five ordinary shares, will 
be payable by the depositary in US dollars. As the fourth interim 
dividend for 2023 was approved after 31 December 2023, it has not 
been included in the balance sheet of HSBC as a liability. The 
distributable reserves of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2023 were 
$30.9bn.

A quarterly dividend of £0.01 per Series A sterling preference share 
was paid on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September and 15 December 
2023. 
Dividends for 2024

The Group intends to pay quarterly dividends on its ordinary shares 
during 2024. 

A quarterly dividend of £0.01 per Series A sterling preference share is 
payable on 15 March, 17 June, 16 September and 16 December 2024 
for the quarter then ended at the sole and absolute discretion of the 
Board of HSBC Holdings plc. Accordingly, the Board of HSBC 
Holdings plc has approved a quarterly dividend to be payable on 
15 March 2024 to holders of record on 29 February 2024.
Share capital
Issued share capital

The nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ issued share capital paid up at 
31 December 2023 was $9,631,364,096.50 divided into 
19,262,728,193 ordinary shares of $0.50 each and one non-
cumulative preference share of £0.01, representing approximately 
100.00% and 0.00% respectively of the nominal value of HSBC 
Holdings’ total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2023. 
Rights, obligations and restrictions 
attaching to shares

The rights and obligations attaching to each class of ordinary and non-
cumulative preference shares in our share capital are set out in full in 
our Articles of Association. The Articles of Association may be 
amended by special resolution of the shareholders and can be found 
on our website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-
governance/board-responsibilities.

Ordinary shares

HSBC Holdings has one class of ordinary share, which carries no right 
to fixed income. There are no voting restrictions on the issued 
ordinary shares, all of which are fully paid. On a show of hands, each 
member present has the right to one vote at general meetings. On a 
poll, each member present or voting by proxy is entitled to one vote 
for every $0.50 nominal value of share capital held. 

There are no specific restrictions on transfers of ordinary shares, 
which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of 
Association and prevailing legislation.

Information on the policy adopted by the Board for paying interim 
dividends on the ordinary shares may be found in the ’Shareholder 
information’ section on page 435.

Dividend waivers

The Group’s employee benefit trusts, which hold shares in HSBC 
Holdings in connection with the operation of its share plans, have 
lodged standing instructions to waive dividends on shares held by 
them that have not been allocated to employees. Shares held by 
custodians in connection with the vesting of employee share awards 
also lodged instructions to waive dividends. The total amount of 
dividends waived during 2023 was $27.16m.

Preference shares

The preference shares, which have preferential rights to income and 
capital, do not, in general, confer a right to attend and vote at general 
meetings.

There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of 
HSBC Holdings: non-cumulative US dollar preference shares of $0.01 
each (‘dollar preference shares’); non-cumulative preference shares of 
£0.01 each (‘sterling preference shares’); and non-cumulative 
preference shares of €0.01 (‘euro preference shares’).

The sterling preference share in issue is a Series A sterling preference 
share. There are no dollar preference shares or euro preference 
shares in issue.

Information on dividends approved for 2022 and 2023 may be found 
in Note 8 on the financial statements on page 371.

Further details of the rights and obligations attaching to the HSBC 
Holdings’ issued share capital may be found in Note 33 on the 
financial statements.
Compliance with Hong Kong Listing Rule 
13.25A(2)

HSBC Holdings has been granted a waiver from strict compliance 
with Rule 13.25A(2) of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities 
on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

Under this waiver, HSBC’s obligation to file a Next Day Return 
following the issue of new shares, pursuant to the vesting of share 
awards granted under its share plans to persons who are not 
Directors, would only be triggered where it falls within one of the 
circumstances set out under Rule 13.25A(3).
Share capital changes in 2023

In addition to the share buy-back programme, the following events 
occurred during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of 
HSBC Holdings:

Scrip dividends

There were no scrip dividends issued during the year.

Treasury shares

On 30 October 2023, HSBC Holdings cancelled 325,273,407 ordinary 
shares which were held in treasury, and no longer holds any ordinary 
shares in treasury.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

307

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

All-employee share plans1

HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan

HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares issued

Aggregate
nominal value

179,676   

89,838   

$

Market value per share

from
£
6.386   

to
£
6.386 

1   In respect of the HSBC Holdings Savings Related Share Option Plan (UK), no new shares were issued under this plan. All exercises were satisfied by 

market purchased shares. See page 314 for details of options granted, exercised and lapsed.

HSBC share plans

Vesting of awards under the HSBC Share Plan 2011

10,598,803   

5,299,401.50   

5.421   

6.357 

HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares issued

Aggregate
nominal value
$

Market value per share

from
£

to
£

Authorities to allot and to purchase shares 
and pre-emption rights

At the AGM in 2023, shareholders renewed the general authority for 
the Directors to allot new shares up to 13,314,186,248 ordinary 
shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each, 
15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each and 
15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 each. 
Shareholders also renewed the authority for the Directors to make 
market/off-market purchases of up to 1,997,127,937 ordinary shares. 
The Directors exercised their market/off-market purchase authority 
from the 2023 AGM and repurchased 760,621,817 ordinary shares 
during the year.

In addition, shareholders gave authority for the Directors to grant 
rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, no more than 
3,994,255,874 ordinary shares in relation to any issue by HSBC 
Holdings or any member of the Group of contingent convertible 
securities that automatically convert into or are exchanged for 
ordinary shares in HSBC Holdings in prescribed circumstances. For 
further details on the issue of contingent convertible securities, see 
Note 33 on the financial statements. 

Other than as disclosed in the tables above headed ‘Share capital 
changes in 2023’, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2023.
Debt securities

In 2023, HSBC Holdings issued the equivalent of $24.5bn of debt 
securities in the public capital markets in a range of currencies and 
maturities, of which $17.2bn were in the form of senior securities to 
ensure it meets the current and proposed regulatory rules, including 
those relating to the availability of adequate total loss-absorbing 
capacity. For details of capital instruments and subordinated bail-
inable debt, see Notes 29 and 33 on pages 406 and 414.
Treasury shares

In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on 19 December 2005, HSBC 
Holdings will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK 
in relation to the holding of any shares in treasury and with the 
conditions of the waiver in connection with any shares it may hold in 
treasury. 

HSBC Holdings does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
Notifiable interests in share capital

During 2023, HSBC Holdings did not receive any notification of major 
holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (’Rule 5 of the DTRs’). 

No notifications had been received between 31 December 2023 and 
15 February 2024. Previous notifications received are as follows:

– BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 3 March 2020 that on 2 March 

2020 it had the following: an indirect interest in HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares of 1,235,558,490; qualifying financial instruments 
with 7,294,459 voting rights that may be acquired if the 
instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments 
with a similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments, 

308

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

which refer to 2,441,397 voting rights, representing 6.07%, 0.03% 
and 0.01%, respectively, of the total voting rights at 2 March 2020.

– Ping An Asset Management Co., Ltd. gave notice on 6 December 
2017 that on 4 December 2017 it had an indirect interest in HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares of 1,007,946,172, representing 5.04% of 
the total voting rights at that date.

At 31 December 2023, according to the register maintained by HSBC 
Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the Securities and Futures 
Ordinance of Hong Kong:

– BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 9 March 2022 that on 4 March 
2022 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares: a long position of 1,701,656,169 shares and a short 
position of 19,262,061 shares, representing 8.27% and 0.09%, 
respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. 

– Ping An Asset Management Co., Ltd. gave notice on 

25 September 2020 that on 23 September 2020 it had a long 
position of 1,655,479,531 in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, 
representing 8.00% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.

Sufficiency of float

In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, at least 25% of the total 
issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 
2023 and up to the date of this report.
Dealings in HSBC Holdings listed securities

The Group has policies and procedures that, except where permitted 
by statute and regulation, prohibit specified transactions in respect of 
its securities listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. 
Except for dealings as intermediaries or as trustees by subsidiaries of 
HSBC Holdings, and purchases by HSBC Holdings under the share 
buy-back programme, neither HSBC Holdings nor any of its 
subsidiaries has purchased, sold or redeemed any of its securities 
listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year 
ended 31 December 2023.  
Directors’ interests
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to 
the register of Directors’ interests maintained by HSBC Holdings 
pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of 
Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2023 
had certain interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the 
shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings and its associated 
corporations. 

Save as stated in the following table, no further interests were held 
by Directors, and no Directors or their connected persons were 
awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or 
debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year.

No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and 
Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares or debentures of 
HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations.

 
 
 
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures

HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Geraldine Buckingham1 
Rachel Duan1
Georges Elhedery2 (appointed to the Board on 1 Jan 2023)
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
James Forese1
Ann Godbehere1 (appointed to the Board on 1 Sep 2023)
Steven Guggenheimer1
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña1
Kalpana Morparia1 (appointed to the Board on 1 Mar 2023)
Eileen Murray1
Brendan Nelson (appointed to the Board on 1 Sep 2023)
David Nish 
Noel Quinn2
Jackson Tai1,3(retired on 5 May 2023)
Swee Lian Teo (appointed to the Board on 1 Oct 2023)
Mark Tucker

At 31 Dec 2023 or date of cessation, if earlier

At 1 Jan 2023, or
date of 
appointment,
if later

Beneficial
owner

Child
under 18
or spouse

Jointly 
with
another
person

Trustee

Total
interests

15,000   
15,000   
572,575   
15,000   
115,000   
15,000   
15,000   
15,000   
—   
75,000   
—   
50,000   

15,000   
15,000   
753,467   
15,000   
115,000   
—   
—   
15,000   
15,000   
75,000   
—   
—   
1,422,650    1,721,465   
32,800   
15,200   
307,352   

66,515   
—   
307,352   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
15,000   
15,000   
—   
—   
—   
—   
50,000   
—   
11,965   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
21,750   
—   
—   

15,000 
—   
15,000 
—   
753,467 
—   
15,000 
—   
115,000 
—   
15,000 
—   
15,000 
—   
15,000 
—   
15,000 
—   
75,000 
—   
— 
—   
—   
50,000 
—    1,721,465 
66,515 
—   
15,200 
—   
307,352 
—   

1 Geraldine Buckingham has an interest in 3,000, Rachel Duan has an interest in 3,000, James Forese has an interest in 23,000, Ann Godbehere has an 
interest in 3,000, Steven Guggenheimer has an interest in 3,000, José Antonio Meade Kuribreña has an interest in 3,000, Kalpana Morparia has an 
interest in 3,000, Eileen Murray has an interest in 15,000 and Jackson Tai has an interest in 13,303 listed American Depositary Shares (’ADS’), which 
are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares.

2  Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) and the 
HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279. At 31 December 2023, the aggregate 
interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee 
share plans and the interests above were: Noel Quinn – 4,993,390; and Georges Elhedery – 1,942,938, representing approximately 0.03% and 0.01% 
of the shares in issue respectively.

3  Jackson Tai has a non-beneficial interest in 11,965 shares of which he is custodian.

There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the 
current Directors from 31 December 2023 to the date of this report.

Conflicts of interest

Listing Rule 9.8.4 and other 
disclosures 
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 forms part of – 
and includes certain disclosures required – in the Report of the 
Directors incorporated by cross-reference, including under Listing 
Rule 9.8.4 and otherwise as applicable by law.

Content

Long-term incentives
Dividend waivers
Dividends
Share buy-back
Emissions
Energy efficiency
Principal activities of HSBC
Business review and future developments

Page references

286
307
307
306
45
45, 49, 51
11, 30, 110, 395
11–40, 42, 137, 145, 426

Board governance
Appointment and re-election of Directors

For details on the processes governing the appointment and re-
election of Directors, see the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee report from page 262.
Commitments

For details on the processes governing Director commitments, see 
the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee report from 
page 262.

The Board has an established policy and set of procedures to ensure 
that the Board’s management of Directors’ conflicts of interest is 
effective. The Board has the power to authorise conflicts where they 
arise, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and HSBC 
Holdings’ Articles of Association. Details of all Directors’ conflicts of 
interest are recorded in the register of conflicts. Upon appointment, 
new Directors are advised of the policy and procedures for managing 
conflicts. Directors are required to notify the Board of any actual or 
potential conflicts of interest and to update the Board with any 
changes to the facts and circumstances surrounding such conflicts. 
Directors are requested to review and confirm their own and their 
respective closely associated persons’ outside interests and 
appointments twice each year. The Board has considered, and 
authorised (with or without conditions) where appropriate, potential 
conflicts as they have arisen during the year in accordance with its 
conflicts policy and procedures. All non-executive Directors are 
subject to re-vetting by the Group's compliance team on a triennial 
basis following appointment. As part of this re-vetting process, all 
conflicts checks are refreshed.
Joint Company Secretary

Aileen Taylor is the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance 
Officer.

Hannah Ashdown (47) was appointed as Deputy Group Secretary in 
December 2021 and for administrative purposes, in October 2022, 
was appointed as Joint Company Secretary. She is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Governance Institute UK and Ireland. Hannah has over 20 
years’ governance and regulatory experience across multiple sectors 
including financial services, asset management, energy, leisure and 
retail.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

309

Corporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Directors’ indemnity

The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying 
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other 
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against 
claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.

HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to the 
Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities arising 
in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of 
any Group company. Directors are indemnified to the maximum 
extent permitted by law.

The indemnities that constitute a ’qualifying third-party indemnity 
provision’, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, 
remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the case of 
Directors appointed during 2023, from the date of their appointment). 
The deed poll is available for inspection at the registered office of 
HSBC Holdings.

Additionally, Directors and pension trustees have the benefit of both 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and pension trustees’ liability 
insurance. 

Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the 
trustees of the Group’s pension schemes, which were in force for the 
whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this 
report.
Contracts of significance 

During 2023, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly or 
indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company. 
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in 
respect of transacting in HSBC securities and following specific 
enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with 
their obligations.
Shareholder engagement and 
communication

The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to 
communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about HSBC 
and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim Reports and 
the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on www.hsbc.com.

The Board seeks to understand investor needs through ongoing 
dialogue between members of the Board and institutional investors 
throughout the year. For examples of such engagement, see 'Board 
engagement with shareholders' on page 256 and the Group 
Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter on page 279. During 2023, 
approximately 643 meetings were held with institutional investors and 
analysts globally.

Our shareholder communications policy summarises how we 
communicate with our shareholders, including through financial 
reporting, general shareholder meetings, investor and analyst 
meetings and our website. The policy is reviewed annually by the 
Board, and in 2023 the Board confirmed that it was satisfied with its 
implementation and effectiveness. The policy can be found at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
responsibilities.

We also publish our current and past financial results, investor 
presentations and shareholder information such as dividend payments 
and shareholder meeting details. Stock exchange announcements are 
also accessible on our website along with information for fixed 
income investors. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/investors.

Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of 
shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their 
shareholdings and HSBC’s business are welcomed. 

Any individual or institutional investor can make an enquiry by 
contacting the investor relations team, Group Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Company 
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior Independent 

Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that 
cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels would not be 
appropriate. They can be contacted via the Group Company Secretary 
and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. 

The results of the poll vote at the 2023 AGM were published on 
5 May 2023 and showed that on resolutions 2, 3(l), 6, 7, 14 and 15 we 
received votes of between 20.04% to 23.30% against the Board’s 
recommendations. In our statement of 5 May 2023, it was noted that 
our largest shareholder, Ping An, voted against the Board’s 
recommendations on the above resolutions and a number of others. 
Ping An’s votes accounted for approximately 18% to 19% of all votes 
cast at the 2023 AGM based on a turnout of around 50%. The Board 
was pleased that a large majority of shareholders voting at the 2023 
AGM supported HSBC’s strategy and since the AGM there have been 
no concerns expressed by shareholders regarding the above 
resolutions. As referenced in the announcement released on 3 
November 2023, we continue to have constructive dialogue and 
provide corporate access to all our institutional shareholders, including 
Ping An and respect and listen to their views.
Annual General Meeting

The AGM in 2024 is planned to be held in London, UK at 11:00am on 
Friday, 3 May 2024. Information on how to vote and participate, both 
in advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2024 
AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 22 March 2024 and be 
available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be available on 
www.hsbc.com. A recording of the proceedings will be available on 
www.hsbc.com shortly after the conclusion of the AGM. 
Shareholders should monitor our website and announcements for any 
changes to these arrangements. Shareholders may send enquiries to 
the Board in writing via the Group Company Secretary and Chief 
Governance Officer, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London 
E14 5HQ or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
General meetings and resolutions

Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting 
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A 
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members 
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings as 
carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any paid-
up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general 
nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may 
include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is 
intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general meeting 
convened on such request, no business may be transacted except 
that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. 

Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to 
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK 
Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by 
(i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC 
Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings 
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at least 
100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM 
in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which there has 
been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least £100. 

The request must be received by HSBC Holdings not later than (i) six 
weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which 
the notice of AGM is published.

A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must 
be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may 
be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, referred to in 
the paragraph above or by sending an email to 
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. 
Articles of Association

The Articles of Association were last approved at the 2022 AGM. The 
Articles of Association can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.

310

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Events after the balance sheet date
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 39 on the 
financial statements.
Change of control 
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, 
alter or terminate following a change of control of the Group. The 
Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a takeover bid. 
Branches
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services 
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
Research and development activities
During the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new 
products and services within the global businesses.
Political donations
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political 
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have no 
intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of political 
donations, political parties, political organisations and political 
expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very wide. As a 
result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal 
business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging 
with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the Group nor any of its 
subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK Companies Act 2006, 
authority is sought from shareholders at the AGM to make political 
donations. 

HSBC provides administrative support to two political action 
committees (’PACs’) in the US funded by voluntary political 
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs, and 
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are 
directed by a voluntary Board Finance Committee, which consists of 
contributing eligible employees. The PACs recorded combined 
political donations of $110,004 during 2023 (2022: $100,250).
Charitable contributions
For details of charitable contributions, see page 86.
Internal control 
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems, and for determining the level and type of risks the Group is 
willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. 

To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the 
FCA Handbook and the PRA Rulebook, procedures have been 
designed: for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or 
disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for ensuring 
the reliability and usefulness of financial information used within the 
business or for publication.

These procedures provide reasonable assurance against material 
misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide 
effective internal control within the Group and accord with the 
Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors, issued in 2014, 
on risk management, internal control and related financial and 
business reporting. The procedures have been in place throughout the 
year and up to 21 February 2024, the date of publication of the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023.

The Board, the GRC and the GAC monitored the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of risk management and internal control throughout 
the year. In particular, this focused on the Group’s regulatory 
remediation and change programmes, and involved working closely 
with management to better prioritise and understand where there are 
key interdependencies. In 2024, continued focus will be placed on 

overseeing emerging risks and potential risks arising from new 
products and offerings. 

To support the work of the Board, the GRC and the GAC in 
discharging their responsibilities in this regard, assurance was also 
provided by executive management confirming that a risk assessment 
had been undertaken and controls were in place to mitigate the risks 
arising from the Group’s key activities. Necessary actions will be 
taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified from these 
activities and included the implementation of additional assurance 
procedures including in relation to the Group's externally driven ESG 
and climate-related disclosures, change programmes and regulatory 
reporting.  

The key risk management and internal control procedures include the 
following:

Global Principles

The Group’s Global Principles set an overarching standard for all 
policies and procedures and are fundamental to the Group’s risk 
management structure. They inform and connect our purpose, values, 
strategy and risk management principles, guiding us to do the right 
thing and treat our customers and our colleagues fairly at all times. In 
2024, the Global Principles will be replaced by a more concise and 
targeted version of the document, known as the HSBC Book.

Risk management framework 

The risk management framework supports our Global Principles, and 
going forward, our HSBC Book. It outlines the key principles and 
practices that we employ in managing material risks. It applies to all 
categories of risk and supports a consistent approach in identifying, 
assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in 
our activities. 

Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board

Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group Chief 
Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers within 
which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group. A new 
delegation of authorities framework was implemented in April 2023 
with the aim of providing a simpler Group structure within which the 
Board and its subsidiaries can manage their delegated powers. These 
delegated authorities can be used for the approval, signing and 
execution of specific written agreements and documents such as 
procurement contracts.

The delegation of authorities framework is either granted via a 
separate board resolution or power of attorney or is set out in the 
relevant Group policy with clear systems of control that are 
appropriate to the business or function. Authorities to enter into credit 
and market risk exposures are delegated with limits to line 
management of Group companies in line with Group policy. Credit 
and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary company 
level and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a Group-wide 
basis.

Risk identification and monitoring

Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control and 
monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the risk 
management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and 
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks are 
captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded 
decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed and that 
information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be 
successfully managed and mitigated.

Changes in market conditions/practices

Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in 
market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could 
expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage. 

The Group employs both a top and emerging risks process to provide 
forward-looking views of issues with the potential to threaten the 
execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term. 

We remain committed to investing in the reliability and resilience of 
our IT systems and critical services, including those provided by third 
parties, that support all parts of our business. We do so to help 
protect our customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to help 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

311

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

ensure that we minimise any disruption to services that could result in 
reputational and regulatory consequences. In our approach to defend 
against these threats, we invest in business and technical controls to 
help us detect, manage and recover from issues, including data loss, 
in a timely manner.

We continue our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data used 
to inform management decisions, through measures such as early 
warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our risk 
appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board and 
other key stakeholders.

Responsibility for risk management

All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within 
the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model. 
This is an activity-based model to delineate management 
accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the 
control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy and 
guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and 
guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence 
(the risk owners) on effective risk management.

The Board delegated authority to the GAC to annually review the 
independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the Group’s policies 
and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for the 
protection of staff who raise concerns of detrimental treatment. 

Strategic plans

Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions 
and geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s overall 
strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by detailed analysis of 
risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group 
is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted 
by all major Group operating companies and set out the key business 
initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives.
Internal control over financial reporting

HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting at 31 December 2023. In 2014, the GAC endorsed 
the adoption of the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (’COSO’) 2013 
framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control 
systems to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act.

The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk 
management and internal control systems is achieved is through 
annual assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk, 
and the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk 
management and risk governance forums.

The key risk management and internal control procedures over 
financial reporting include the following:

Entity level controls

Entity level controls are a defined suite of internal controls that have a 
pervasive influence over the entity as a whole and meet the principles 
of the COSO framework. They include controls related to the control 
environment, such as the Group's values and ethics, the promotion of 
effective risk management and the overarching governance exercised 
by the Board and its non-executive committees. The design and 
operational effectiveness of entity level controls are assessed on an 
ongoing basis. If issues are significant to the Group, they are 
escalated to the GRC and also to the GAC, if concerning financial 
reporting matters. 

Process level transactional controls

Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial 
misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in accordance 
with the risk framework. This includes the identification and 
assessment of relevant control issues against which action plans are 
tracked through to remediation. Further details of HSBC’s approach to 
risk management can be found on page 136. The GAC has continued 
to receive regular updates on HSBC’s ongoing activities for improving 

312

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

the effective oversight of end-to-end business processes, and 
management continued to identify opportunities for enhancing key 
controls, such as through the use of automation technologies.

Financial reporting controls

The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using 
documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by 
detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued 
to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting 
period end. The submission of financial information from each 
reporting entity is supported by a certification by the responsible 
financial officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity 
and Group levels.

Group Disclosure and Controls Committee

Chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Disclosure 
and Controls Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s 
obligations under relevant legislation and regulation including the UK 
and Hong Kong listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US 
Securities and Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the Group 
Disclosure and Controls Committee is empowered to determine 
whether a new event or circumstance should be disclosed, including 
the form and timing of such disclosure, and review certain material 
disclosures made or to be made by the Group. The membership of 
the Group Disclosure and Controls Committee consists of senior 
management, including the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, and Group 
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. The Group’s 
brokers, external auditors and its external legal counsel also attend as 
required. The integrity of disclosures is underpinned by structures and 
processes within the Global Finance and Group Risk and Compliance 
functions that support rigorous analytical review of financial reporting 
and the maintenance of proper accounting records. As required by the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief 
Financial Officer have certified that the Group’s disclosure controls 
and procedures were effective as at the end of the period covered by 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2023.

The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control over financial reporting was 
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on 
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year 
ended 31 December 2023, the Group’s internal control over financial 
reporting was effective.

PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over 
financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion. 
Other information included in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023

We include other non-statutory information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts to enable a broader perspective of our performance for the 
period, including ESG and regulatory capital and liquidity information. 
We highlight on pages 43 and 267 that we are seeking to enhance our 
governance, process, systems and controls capabilities in both areas, 
although the scale and nature of the challenges differ between 
reporting areas. Our improvements in regulatory reporting are 
intended to strengthen our global processes, improve consistency 
and enhance controls in order to meet regulatory expectations. ESG 
reporting continues to evolve, with a lack of globally consistent 
metrics, taxonomies and best practices and a high reliance on 
external data. The GAC provides oversight to our reporting 
improvements in both areas, and is also focused on increasing the 
level of internal and external assurance in these areas, in line with 
wider market developments (set out on page 267). 
Going concern

The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the 
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations for a 
period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and it 
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
For further details, see page 40.

Employees
At 31 December 2023, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to 
221,000 full-time employees compared with 219,000 at the end of 
2022. Our main centres of employment were India with 
approximately 42,000 employees, the UK with 33,000, mainland 
China with 33,000, Hong Kong with 26,000, Mexico with 17,000 and 
France with 6,000.

Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. We 
aspire to provide a high-performing environment where our 
colleagues can fulfil their potential by building their skills and 
capabilities while focusing on the development of a diverse and 
inclusive culture. We use employee surveys to assess progress and 
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our 
colleagues feel connected and supported to speak up, and where our 
leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make organisational 
changes, we support our colleagues, in particular where there are job 
impacts. 
Employee relations

We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee 
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to 
maintain well-developed communications and consultation 
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have 
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes 
during the past five years. 

We are committed to complying with the applicable employment laws 
and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including in 
relation to working hours and rest periods. HSBC’s global 
employment practices and relations policy provides the framework 
and controls through which we seek to uphold that commitment.
Diversity and inclusion

Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and 
continents. We value difference and believe that diversity makes us 
stronger. We are dedicated to building a diverse and connected 
workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging. 
Our Group People Committee, which is made up of Group Executive 
Committee members, governs our diversity and inclusion agenda. It 
meets regularly to agree actions to improve diverse representation 
and build a more inclusive culture. Members of our Group Executive 
Committee are held to account for the actions they take on diversity 
via aspirational goals contained within their performance scorecards. 
We expect all colleagues at HSBC to treat each other with dignity and 
respect to ensure an inclusive environment. Our policies make it clear 
that we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, bullying or 
harassment on any grounds.

To align our approach to inclusion best practices, we participate in 
global diversity benchmarks that help us to identify improvement 
opportunities. We also track a large number of diversity and inclusion 
metrics, including those included in the Group executive scorecards, 
which enable us to identify inclusion barriers and take action where 
required. Our approach to diversity and inclusion is set out on page 76 
alongside our goals and progress. 
Further details of our diversity and inclusion activity, alongside our 
Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Reports 2023, can be found at 
www.hsbc.com/diversitycommitments.

Employment of people with a disability

We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for our 
employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in 
this commitment. We are committed to retaining disabled employees 
in the workplace and to providing reasonable adjustments to enable 
this. 
Employee development

We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where the best want to 
develop the skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential. 
This determines how we develop our people and recruit, identify and 
nurture talent. A range of resources bring this to life including:

– HSBC University, our platform for learning and development with 

specific business and technical academies;

– our My HSBC Career portal, which offers career development 

information and resources; and

– HSBC Talent Marketplace, our online platform that uses AI to 

provide opportunities to learn as we work.

Everyone at HSBC annually completes global mandatory training. It 
plays a critical role in shaping our culture by ensuring everyone is 
focused on issues that are fundamental to working at HSBC, from 
sustainability, to financial crime risk, to our intolerance of bullying and 
harassment. 

As the opportunities we face change, we provide development to key 
groups of colleagues through business and technical academies. This 
includes our risk academy, which helps us to develop broad 
capabilities in traditional areas of risk like financial crime but also in 
emerging risk issues like climate risk and the ethics of AI and data. 

Our approach to learning is skills based. Our academies work with our 
businesses to identify the key skills and capabilities we need in the 
future. Alongside this, we help colleagues identify, assess and 
develop the skills that match their ambition and aspirations.  

Our platform for learning content is Degreed. This helps colleagues 
identify, assess and develop key skills through internal and external 
training materials in a way that suits them. Content can range from 
quick videos, articles or podcasts to packaged programmes or 
learning pathways. 

Effective people management and impactful leadership remain critical 
to our ability to energise for growth. In 2023 we have continued to 
focus on equipping our management population with the skills they 
need to lead the organisation and energise our colleagues. We have 
continued to run our Enterprise Leadership Programme for our most 
senior leaders and developed the Managing Director Leadership 
Programme further following the launch in 2022. We have also 
refreshed our People Management Excellence programme which is 
available to leaders at all levels of the organisation to help them 
manage colleagues and nurture a productive team. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

313

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Health and safety

We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working 
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies, 
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting 
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and are 
aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety 
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance to 
ensure we are compliant with relevant laws and regulations.

Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for engendering 
a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that global policies, 
procedures and systems are put into practice locally. They also have 
responsibility for ensuring all local legal requirements are met. 

We delivered a range of programmes in 2023 to help us understand 
and manage our health and safety risks:

– We reinforced our advice and risk assessment and control 

methodology on working from home for employees adopting a 
hybrid work style, providing more awareness and best practices on 
good ergonomics and well-being.

– We delivered health and safety training and awareness to 235,000 
of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring roles and 
responsibilities were clear and understood.

– We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our buildings 

globally, to ensure we were meeting our standards and 
continuously improving our safety performance.

– We maintained measures in our workplaces globally to minimise 

the risks from the spread of respiratory disease, including through 
the provision of hand sanitiser, improved ventilation, and guidance 
on good hygiene practices.

– We continued to focus on enhancing the safety culture in our 

supply chain through our SAFER Together programme, covering 
the five key elements of best practice safety culture, including 
speaking up about safety, and recognising excellence.

– We continued to provide our guidance and training programme for 
our construction partners, focusing on our key markets globally to 
reduce the likelihood of accidents occurring by helping them 
understand and deliver industry-leading health and safety 
performance. More than 7,500 construction workers received 
safety passport training across 20 countries.

– In 2023, our Eat Well Live Well programme continued to promote 
healthier and more sustainable diets among our colleagues with 
30% of global food sales from HSBC catering outlets comprising 
healthy options. We also extended the reach of our programme 
through the launch of increased plant-based offers, monthly 
events dedicated to Eat Well Live Well, and virtual teaching 
kitchens accessible to all our employees.

– Protection of our colleagues and operations is of critical 

importance, and we have effective controls in place to protect our 
people from natural disasters (such as storms and earthquakes). In 
2023, there were 27 named storms that passed over 2,010 of our 
buildings, resulting in no injuries. Only five buildings in Mexico 
were affected with minor business impact following Storm Otis.  

Employee health and safety

Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees
Number of major injuries to employees1
All injury rate per 100,000 employees
Lost days due to work injury

2023
  — 

12   
  110   
  594   

2022

2021

—
7 
70 
485 

—
14
64
358

1  Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight 

admission to hospital.

Remuneration 

HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward 
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance 
and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender, 
ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance 
or experience with the Group, while performing their role in the long-
term interests of our stakeholders.
For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see 
page 290. 

Employee share plans

Summaries of the share options and share awards granted, exercised/
vested or lapsed during the year and other details required to be 
disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing 
of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, including 
detailed summaries of the HSBC share plans, are available on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/
remuneration and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk, or can be obtained upon request 
from the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, 8 
Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.

Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out 
on page 299.

Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based 
payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under 
HSBC share plans.

314

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Statement of compliance 

The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 
238 to 316 and the information referred to therein constitutes the 
’Corporate governance report’ and ’Report of the Directors’ of HSBC 
Holdings. The websites referred to do not form part of this report. 

Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies

UK Corporate Governance Code www.frc.org.uk

Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code (set out in 
Appendix 14 to the Rules 
Governing the Listing of 
Securities on the Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
('HKEx'))

Descriptions of the roles and 
responsibilities of the:

–  Group Chairman 

–  Group Chief Executive

–  Senior Independent Director

–  Board

Board and senior management

Roles and responsibilities of the 
Board’s committees

Board’s policies on:

–  diversity and inclusion

–  shareholder communication

–  human rights

–  remuneration practices and 

governance

Global Internal Audit Charter

www.hkex.com.hk

www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/board-
responsibilities

www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance

www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/board-
committees

www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/board-
responsibilities

www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/
corporate-governance-codes/
internal-control

HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK 
and Hong Kong. During 2023, HSBC complied with the provisions and 
requirements of both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance 
Codes.

Under the Hong Kong Code, the audit committee should be 
responsible for the oversight of all risk management and internal 
control systems. HSBC’s Group Risk Committee is responsible for 
oversight of internal control, other than internal control over financial 
reporting, and risk management systems. This is permitted under the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.

HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group 
securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market 
Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities on 
HKEx. The Group has been granted certain waivers by HKEx from 
strict compliance with the rules that take into account accepted 
practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans. 
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in 
respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities. Following specific 
enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with 
their obligations. 

The Group Audit Committee has reviewed and provided assurance to 
the HSBC Holdings Board on the publication of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023.

On behalf of the Board

Mark E Tucker

Group Chairman

HSBC Holdings plc

Registered number 617987

21 February 2024

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

315

Corporate governance 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report

Directors’ responsibility statement

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared 
the parent company (‘Company’) and the Group financial statements 
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. 
The company has also prepared financial statements in accordance 
with international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to 
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also elected 
to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS Accounting 
Standards). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group, and of the 
profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:

– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 

consistently;

– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 

and prudent; 

– state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting 
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted 
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the 
European Union and IFRS Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and

– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it 

is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will 
continue in business.

The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 as they appear on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.

The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.

Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the 
‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages 239 
to 243 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, confirms that, to the 
best of their knowledge:

– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 

accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards, 
international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to 
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union 
and IFRS Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group; 
and

– the management report represented by the Report of the 
Directors includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.

The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it from 
the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial 
reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page 266 sets out 
how the Group Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities.
Disclosure of information to auditors 
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in 
office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that:

– so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 

information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and

– they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a 

Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.

On behalf of the Board

Mark E Tucker

Group Chairman

HSBC Holdings plc

Registered number 617987

21 February 2024

316

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial  
statements

The financial statements provide detailed 
information and notes on our income, 
balance sheet, cash flows and changes  
in equity, alongside a report from our 
independent auditors.

318 

 Report of Independent Registered Public  
Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors  
and Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

329   Financial statements

341   Notes on the financial statements

Unlocking a world of travel freedom 

We have continued to build our suite of products aimed at 
internationally minded customers, with the launch of the 
TravelOne credit card. 

The card, which in May 2023 initially launched in Singapore, 
Malaysia and Vietnam, allows customers to earn extra reward 
points for travel and cross-border spending. They can then 
redeem them instantly with 17 international airline programmes 
and 20,000 hotel partners – a first in the markets where it has 
launched. 

TravelOne builds on our wealth strategy and supports our 
ambitions to grow our cross-border international customer 
franchise and unsecured lending business in south Asia.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

317

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC 
Holdings plc

Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion

In our opinion, HSBC Holdings plc’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”):

– give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the group’s and 

parent company’s profit and the group’s and parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended;

– have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards; and

– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 (the ’Annual Report’), which comprise: the 
consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2023; the consolidated and parent company income statements, the 
consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity 
and the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, 
comprising material accounting policy information and other explanatory information. Certain notes to the financial statements have been 
presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as ‘(Audited)’. The relevant disclosures are included in the Risk review section on pages 135 to 237 and the 
Directors’ remuneration report disclosures on pages 279 to 305.

Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Group Audit Committee (’GAC’).
Separate opinion in relation to international financial reporting standards 
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the 
European Union
As explained in note 1.1(a) to the financial statements, the group and parent company, in addition to applying UK-adopted international 
accounting standards, have also applied international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it 
applies in the European Union.

In our opinion, the group and parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with international financial 
reporting standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union.
Separate opinion in relation to International Financial Reporting Standards as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board
As explained in note 1.1(a) to the financial statements, the group and parent company, in addition to applying UK-adopted international 
accounting standards, have also applied international financial reporting standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(’IFRS Accounting Standards’).

In our opinion, the group and parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”), International Standards on Auditing issued by 
the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“ISAs”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) and ISAs are further 
described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence

We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in 
the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and the International Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants 
(‘IESBA Code’), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by either the FRC’s Ethical Standard or Article 5(1) of 
Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 were not provided to the parent company or its controlled undertakings.

Other than those disclosed in note 6, we have provided no non-audit services to the parent company or its controlled undertakings in the period 
under audit.

318

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our audit approach

Overview

Audit scope

– This was the fifth and final year that it has been my responsibility to form this opinion on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who you 
first appointed on 31 March 2015 in relation to that year‘s audit. In addition to forming this opinion, in this report we have also provided 
information on how we approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions that we had 
with the GAC.

Key audit matters

– Expected credit losses - Impairment of loans and advances (group)

– Impairment of investment in associate - Bank of Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom‘) (group)

– Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)

– Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations (group)

Materiality

– Overall group materiality: US$1.6bn (2022: US$1bn) based on 5% of profit before tax adjusted for notable items.

– Overall parent company materiality: US$1.5bn (2022: US$950m) based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall materiality of 

US$2.1bn and was therefore reduced below the group materiality.

– Performance materiality: US$1.2bn (2022: US$750m) (group) and US$1.1bn (2022: US$712m) (parent company).
The scope of our audit

As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) 
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; 
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.

This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.

Held for sale accounting (group), which was a key audit matter last year, is no longer included because the risk has reduced following the 
completion of the sale of the retail banking operations in France. Otherwise, the key audit matters below are consistent with last year.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

319

Financial statementsReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

Expected credit losses – Impairment of loans and advances (group)

Nature of the key audit matter

Determining expected credit losses (‘ECL’) involves management judgement and is subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty.
Management makes various assumptions when estimating ECL. The significant assumptions that we focused on in our audit included those with 
greater levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on ECL. These included assumptions made in 
determining economic scenarios and their probability weightings (specifically the central and downside scenarios given these have the most material 
impact on ECL) and estimating discounted cash flows for material credit impaired exposures in relation to the mainland China commercial real estate 
portfolio. 
The level of estimation uncertainty and judgement has remained high during 2023 as a result of the uncertainties in the macroeconomic and 
geopolitical environment, persistently high levels of inflation in some territories and the rising global interest rate environment, as well as 
developments in mainland China’s commercial real estate sector and economy more broadly.
Macroeconomic conditions vary between territories and industries, leading to uncertainty around judgements made in determining the severity and 
probability weighting of economic scenarios used in ECL models.
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed using historical experience. The impact of the prevailing macroeconomic conditions 
has resulted in certain limitations in the reliability of these methodologies to forecast the extent and timing of future customer defaults and therefore 
estimate ECL. In addition, modelling methodologies do not incorporate all factors that are relevant to estimating ECL, such as the differentiated impact 
of economic conditions on certain industry sectors. These limitations are addressed with management judgemental adjustments, the measurement of 
which is inherently judgemental and subject to estimation uncertainty.

Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee

We held discussions with the GAC covering governance and controls over ECL, with a significant focus on the uncertain prevailing macroeconomic 
conditions and developments in mainland China’s commercial real estate sector. We discussed a number of areas, including:
– the severity of economic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
– significant assumptions used to estimate the discounted cash flow projections for defaulted exposures in relation to the mainland China commercial 

real estate portfolio; 

– assumptions made in determining judgemental management adjustments; and
– the disclosures made in relation to ECL.

How our audit addressed our key audit matter

We assessed the design and effectiveness of governance and controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management’s review and challenge 
in governance forums for (1) the determination of economic scenarios and their probability weightings, and (2) the assessment of ECL for Retail and 
Wholesale portfolios, including the assessment of management judgemental adjustments.
We also tested controls over:
– model validation and monitoring;
– the identification of credit impaired triggers;
– the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment models and 

management judgemental adjustments;

– the calculation and approval of management judgemental adjustments to modelled outcomes; and
– approval of significant individual impairments.
We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant assumptions made in determining the severity and probability weighting of economic 
scenarios. These assessments considered the sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability weighting of economic scenarios. We 
involved our modelling specialists in assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and methodologies used for models and certain 
management judgemental adjustments. We independently re-performed the calculations for a sample of those models and certain management 
judgemental adjustments. In respect of the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio, we involved our business recovery experts in assessing 
the discounted cash flows for a sample of credit impaired exposures. We further considered whether the judgements made in selecting the significant 
assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible management bias.
In addition, we performed substantive testing over:
– the compliance of ECL methodologies and assumptions with the requirements of IFRS 9;
– a sample of critical data used in ECL models and to estimate management judgemental adjustments; and
– assumptions and critical data for a sample of credit impaired wholesale exposures.
We evaluated and tested the audited Credit Risk disclosures made in the Annual Report.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023

– Audited credit risk disclosures
– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(d):Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
– Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets

320

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Impairment of investment in associate – Bank of Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’) (group)

Nature of the key audit matter

At 31 December 2023, the fair value of the investment in BoCom, based on the share price, had been lower than the carrying amount for a number of 
years. This is an indicator of potential impairment. An impairment test was performed by management, with supporting sensitivity analysis, using a 
value in use (‘VIU’) model. On this basis, the investment in BoCom was impaired by US$3.0bn. The carrying value of the investment in BoCom 
amounts to US$21.2bn at 31 December 2023.
The methodology applied in the VIU model is dependent on various assumptions, both short term and long term in nature. These assumptions, which 
are subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of management’s judgement, analysts’ forecasts, market data or other relevant 
information.
The assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management judgement and subjectivity, and for which variations had 
the most significant impact on the VIU. Specifically, these significant assumptions included:
– the discount rate;
– short term assumptions for operating income growth rate, loans and advances to customers growth rate, cost-income ratio, and expected credit 

losses as a percentage of loans and advances to customers;

– long-term assumptions for profit and asset growth rates, expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to customers, and effective 

tax rates; and

– capital related assumptions (risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets and capital adequacy ratios).

Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee

We discussed the appropriateness of the methodology, its consistent application period over period and significant assumptions with the GAC. We 
also discussed the disclosures made in relation to BoCom, including the use of sensitivity analysis to explain estimation uncertainty.

How our audit addressed our key audit matter

We had oversight of the audit work performed by our component audit team in Hong Kong in relation to the impairment assessment of BoCom. This 
work included:
– testing controls in place over the significant assumptions, the methodology and its consistent application period over period used to determine the 

VIU, assessing the appropriateness of the methodology used, its application, and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations;

– challenging the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and, where relevant, their interrelationships;
– obtaining evidence to corroborate and challenge the data supporting significant assumptions, which included past experience, external market 

information, third-party sources including analyst reports, information from BoCom management and historical publicly available BoCom financial 
information;

– determining a reasonable range for the discount rate assumption, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and comparing it to the discount rate 

used by management;

– assessing whether the judgements made in determining the significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible management bias; and
– evaluating and testing the disclosures in relation to BoCom in the Annual Report.
We observed certain meetings alongside the component auditor, management and BoCom management to identify facts and circumstances impacting 
significant assumptions relevant to the determination of the VIU.
Representations were obtained from management that assumptions used were consistent with information currently available to the group.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023

– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(a): Interests in associates and joint arrangements
– Note 18: Interests in associates and joint ventures

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

321

Financial statements 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)

Nature of the key audit matter

Management reviewed investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and indicators that impairment charges recognised in prior periods may 
no longer exist or may have decreased in accordance with IAS 36 as at 31 December 2023. Where indicators have been identified management 
estimated the recoverable amount using the higher of value in use (‘VIU‘) or fair value less cost to sell. 
The methodology used to estimate the recoverable amount is dependent on various assumptions, both short term and long term in nature. These 
assumptions, which are subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of management’s judgement, experts engaged by 
management and market data. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management judgement 
and for which variations had the most significant impact on the recoverable amount. Specifically, these included:
– HSBC’s business plan for 2024 to 2028 focusing on revenue, cost and expected credit loss forecasts;
– regulatory capital requirements;
– long term growth rates; and
– discount rates.
Management’s assessment resulted in an impairment charge of US$5.5bn in relation to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited 
(‘HOHU’), which is an intermediate holding company of certain businesses in North America. This resulted in investment in subsidiaries of US$159bn 
at 31 December 2023.

Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee

We discussed the impairment charge for HOHU, the appropriateness of methodologies used and significant assumptions with the GAC, giving 
consideration to the macroeconomic outlook and HSBC’s strategy.

How our audit addressed our key audit matter

We assessed the design and tested the effectiveness of controls in place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine the 
recoverable amounts. We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, to 
estimate the recoverable amounts. 
In respect of the significant assumptions, our testing included the following:
– challenging management’s business plan and the prospects for HSBC’s businesses, as well as considering the achievement of historic forecasts;
– obtaining and evaluating evidence relating to significant assumptions, from a combination of historical experience and external market and other 

financial information;

– assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in compliance with the relevant accounting standard;
– assessing the sensitivity of the recoverable amount  to reasonable variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in aggregate; and
– determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and comparing it to the 

discount rate used by management.

We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to investment in subsidiaries.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023

– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(a): Investments in subsidiaries
– Note 19: Investments in subsidiaries

Valuation of defined benefit pensions obligations (group)

Nature of the key audit matter

The group has a defined benefit obligation of US$27.0bn, of which US$19.8bn relates to HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme (‘the principal plan’).
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation for the principal plan is dependent on a number of actuarial assumptions. Management uses an actuarial 
expert to determine the valuation of the defined benefit obligations. The valuation methodology uses a number of market based inputs and other 
financial and demographic assumptions. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management 
judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on the liability. Specifically, these included the discount rate, inflation rate and 
mortality rate.

Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee

We discussed with the GAC the methodologies and significant assumptions used by management to determine the value of the defined benefit 
obligation.

How our audit addressed our key audit matter

We assessed the design and tested the effectiveness of governance and controls in place over the methodologies and the significant assumptions, 
including those in relation to the use of management’s experts. We also evaluated the objectivity and competence of management’s expert involved in 
the valuation of the defined benefit obligation of the principal plan. 
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used, and tested the accuracy of the calculation, to estimate the liability. In respect of the 
significant assumptions, we used our actuarial experts to understand the judgements made by management and their actuarial expert in determining 
the significant assumptions and compared these assumptions to our independently compiled expected ranges based on market observable indices and 
the knowledge and opinions of our actuarial experts.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to the defined benefit pension obligation.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023

– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(k): Post-employment benefit plans
– Note 5: Employee compensation and benefits

322

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
How we tailored the audit scope

We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
they operate.

The risks that HSBC faces are diverse, with the interdependencies between them being numerous and complex. In performing our risk 
assessment we engaged with a number of stakeholders to ensure we appropriately understood and considered these risks and their 
interrelationships. This included stakeholders within HSBC and our own experts within PwC. This engagement covered external factors across 
the geopolitical, macroeconomic and regulatory and accounting landscape, the impact of climate change risk as well as the internal environment 
at HSBC, driven by strategy and transformation.

We evaluated and challenged management‘s assessment of the impact of climate change risk, which is set out on page 44, including their 
conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. In making this evaluation we considered management’s use of stress 
testing and scenario analysis to arrive at the conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. We considered 
management's assessment on the areas in the financial statements most likely to be impacted by climate risk, including:

– the impact on ECL on loans and advances to customers, for both physical and transition risk;

– the forecast cashflows from management’s five year business plan and long term growth rates used in estimating recoverable amounts as 

part of impairment assessments of investments in subsidiaries, goodwill and intangible assets;

– the impact of climate related terms on the solely payments of principal and interest test for classification and measurement of loans and 

advances to customers; and

– climate risks relating to contingent liabilities as HSBC faces increased reputational, legal and regulatory risk as it progresses towards its 

climate ambition.

HSBC’s progress on their ESG targets is not included within the scope of this audit. We were engaged separately to provide independent 
limited assurance to the Directors over the following ESG data: 

– the 2021 and 2022 on-balance sheet financed emissions for 6 sectors (page 61);

– the 2020 thermal coal financing drawn balance exposure (page 67) and the 2020 thermal coal mining on-balance sheet financed emissions 

(page 61);

– the 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 off balance facilitated emissions for 2 sectors (page 61);

– the cumulative progress made by HSBC on providing and facilitating sustainable financing and investments (page 49); and

– HSBC’s own operations scope 1, 2 and 3 (limited to business travel) greenhouse gas emissions data for 2023 (page 64); and supply chain 

greenhouse gas emissions for purchased goods and services, and capital goods for 2023 (page 64).

The work performed for a limited assurance report is substantially less than the work performed for our financial audit, which provides 
reasonable assurance.

Scoping

Through our risk assessment, we tailored our determination as to which entities and balances we needed to perform testing over to support our 
group opinion, taking into consideration the complex and disaggregated group structure, the accounting processes and controls as well as the 
industry in which they operate. The risks of material misstatement can be reduced to an acceptable level by testing the most financially 
significant entities within the group and those that drive particular significant risks identified as part of our risk assessment. This ensures that 
sufficient coverage has been obtained for each financial statement line item (’FSLI’). We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of 
our audit where necessary.

Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the ’Significant Subsidiaries’) for which we obtained audit opinions. We 
obtained full scope audit opinions for the consolidated financial position and performance of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, HSBC Bank plc, and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. We also obtained full scope audit opinions for the company financial position 
and performance of HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Mexico S.A. Banco. We obtained audit opinions over specific balances 
for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited - UAE Operations and the HSBC UK Bank plc group. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc 
were performed by other PwC teams in the UK. All other audits were performed by other PwC network firms.

Group-wide audit approach

HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the group, as well as other global and regional governance and controls 
over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant amount of IT and 
operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital Business Services (‘DBS‘). 
Whilst these operations centres are not separate components, the IT and operational processes and controls are relevant to the financial 
information of the Significant Subsidiaries. Financial reporting processes and controls are also performed centrally in HSBC‘s Group Finance 
function and finance operation centres (‘Finance Operations’), including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, held for 
sale classifications and the consolidation of the group‘s results, the preparation of financial statements, and management‘s oversight controls 
relevant to the group‘s financial reporting.

Group-wide processes or processes in DBS and Finance Operations are subject to specified audit procedures or an audit over specific FSLIs. 
These procedures primarily relate to testing of IT general controls, IT dependencies, forward looking economic scenarios for ECL, operating 
expenses, intangible assets, valuation of financial instruments, existence testing of financial instruments, intercompany eliminations, 
reconciliations and consolidation as well as payroll. For these areas, we either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided 
oversight of the audit work performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland, China, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India, Mexico and the Philippines. Some of 
this work was relied upon by the PwC teams auditing the Significant Subsidiaries. This audit work, together with analytical review procedures 
and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also mitigated the risk of material misstatement for balances in entities that were not part of 
a Significant Subsidiary.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

323

Financial statementsReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

Significant Subsidiaries audit approach

In March 2023, we held a meeting in Hong Kong with the partners and senior staff from the group audit team and certain PwC teams who 
undertake audits of the Significant Subsidiaries and the operations centres. The meeting focused primarily on our approach to auditing HSBC’s 
businesses, changes at HSBC and in our PwC teams, and how we continue to innovate and improve the quality of the audit with a focus on 
technology and our global delivery model. We also discussed our significant audit risks.

We asked the partners and teams reporting to us on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the 
operations they audited. The overall materiality levels ranged from US$107m to US$1.0bn. Certain Significant Subsidiaries were audited to a 
local statutory audit materiality that was a lower level than our allocated group materiality.

We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC's global businesses, such as lending, 
deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant Subsidiaries.

We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the component auditors of the Significant Subsidiaries, including consideration of how they 
planned and performed their work. Senior members of our team undertook at least one in-person site visit where a full scope audit was 
requested and we had oversight over certain areas of audit work performed. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the 
Significant Subsidiaries. We also attended meetings with management for each of these Significant Subsidiaries at the year end.
The audit of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited in Hong Kong relied upon work performed by other teams in Hong Kong 
and the PwC network firms in India, mainland China and Singapore. Similarly, the audit of HSBC Bank plc in the UK relied upon work performed 
by other teams in the UK and the PwC network firms in France and Germany. We considered how the audit partners and teams for the 
Significant Subsidiaries instructed and provided oversight to the work performed in these locations. Collectively, Significant Subsidiaries covered 
83% of total assets and 74% of total operating income.

Using the work of others

We have continued our use of evidence provided by others through our reliance on management assurance testing of certain controls across 
the group. This included testing of controls performed by management themselves in certain low risk areas including reconciliations and 
footnote disclosure controls. We re-performed a portion of the testing to ensure appropriate quality of testing, as well as assessing the 
competence and objectivity of those performing the testing.

We also used the work of PwC experts, for example economic experts for our work around the severity and probability weighting of 
macroeconomics variables as part of the expected credit loss allowance and actuaries on the estimates used in determining pension liabilities. 
An increasing number of controls are operated on behalf of HSBC by third parties. We obtained audit evidence from work that is scoped and 
provided by other auditors that are engaged by those third parties. For example, we obtained a report evidencing the testing of external systems 
and controls supporting HSBC's payroll and HR processes.
Materiality

The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the 
financial statements as a whole.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Financial statements – group

Financial statements – parent company

Overall materiality

US$1.6bn (2022: US$1bn).

US$1.5bn (2022: US$950m).

How we determined it

5% of profit before tax adjusted for notable items (2022: 
adjusted profit before tax).

0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall 
materiality of US$2.1bn and was therefore reduced below 
the group materiality.

Rationale for benchmark 
applied

We believe a standard benchmark of 5% of profit before 
tax adjusted for notable items is an appropriate quantitative 
indicator of materiality, although certain items could also be 
material for qualitative reasons. This benchmark is 
consistent with our approach for listed entities.

A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the parent 
company‘s primary purpose is to act as a holding parent 
company with investments in the group‘s subsidiaries, not 
to generate operating profits and therefore a profit based 
measure is not relevant.

We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature 
and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes. Our 
performance materiality was 75% (2022: 75%) of overall materiality, amounting to US$1.2bn (2022: US$750m) for the group financial 
statements and US$1.1bn (2022: US$712m) for the parent company financial statements.

In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors - the history of misstatements, risk assessment and aggregation 
risk and the effectiveness of controls - and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.

We agreed with the GAC that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$80m (group audit) (2022: US$50m) 
and US$80m (parent company audit) (2022: US$50m) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.

324

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

  
Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group's and the parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting included:

– performing a risk assessment to identify factors that could impact the going concern basis of accounting, including both internal risks (i.e. 

strategy execution) and external risks (i.e. macroeconomic conditions);

– understanding and evaluating the group’s financial forecasts;

– understanding and evaluating the group’s stress testing of liquidity and regulatory capital, including the severity of the stress scenarios that 

were used;

– understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings and actions; and

– reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements in relation to going concern.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or 
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least 
twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the group‘s and the parent 
company's ability to continue as a going concern.

In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or draw 
attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. 
The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, 
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to 
conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on 
the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 
2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and matters as 
described below.
Strategic report and Report of the Directors

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Report of the Directors 
for the year ended 31 December 2023 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal 
requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did 
not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Report of the Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration

In our opinion, the part of the Directors‘ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006.
Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the corporate 
governance statement relating to the parent company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our 
review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are described in the Reporting 
on other information section of this report.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate governance 
statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing material to 
add or draw attention to in relation to:

– The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out an appropriate assessment of the emerging and principal risks;

– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and an 

explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;

– The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 

accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s and parent company’s ability to continue to 
do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;

– The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the group's and parent company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and 

why the period is appropriate; and

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

325

Financial statementsReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

– The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the parent company will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.

Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the group and parent company was substantially less in scope than 
an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the statement is 
in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with the 
financial statements and our knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of 
the audit.

In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:

– The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the 

information necessary for the members to assess the group’s and parent company's position, performance, business model and strategy;

– The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and

– The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.

We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s compliance 
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by the 
auditors.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in 
accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such 
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors 
either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, 
outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of 
detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related 
to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and conduct of 
business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered 
those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and relevant tax legislation. 
We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override 
of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries in relation to cost targets, and 
management bias in accounting estimates. The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they 
could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team 
and/or component auditors included:

– review of correspondence with and reports from regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority (’PRA’) and Financial Conduct 

Authority (’FCA’);

– reviewed reporting to the GAC and GRC in respect of compliance and legal matters;

– enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports, insofar as they related to the financial statements;

– obtain legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters;

– assessment of matters reported on the group‘s whistleblowing programmes and the results of management‘s investigation of such matters, 

insofar as they related to the financial statements;

– challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the 

determination of expected credit losses, the impairment assessment of the investment in BoCom, valuation of defined benefit pensions 
obligations, the impairment assessment of investment in subsidiaries and valuation of financial instruments;
– obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances; and

– identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted and approved by the same individual, 

backdated journals or posted by infrequent and unexpected users.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment 
by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques. 
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to 

326

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a 
conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in accordance with ISAs (UK) is located on the FRC’s 
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.

As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:

– identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;

– obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 

circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s and parent company’s internal controls;

– evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 

management;

– conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the group’s and parent company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the group to cease to continue as a going concern;

– evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 

consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; and

– obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group and 
parent company to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the group and parent company audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit 
of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine 
that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
Other required reporting 

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

– we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 

branches not visited by us; or

– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 

accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Appointment

Following the recommendation of the GAC, we were appointed by the members on 31 March 2015 to audit the financial statements for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is nine years, covering the years 
ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

327

Financial statementsReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc

Other matter

As required by the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.14R, these financial statements form part of the 
ESEF-prepared annual financial report filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct Authority in accordance with the ESEF 
Regulatory Technical Standard (‘ESEF RTS’). This auditors’ report provides no assurance over whether the annual financial report has been 
prepared using the single electronic format specified in the ESEF RTS.

Scott Berryman (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors

London

21 February 2024

328

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial statements

Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated statement of cash flows

329
330
331
332
335
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

337
337
338
339
340

HSBC Holdings income statement
HSBC Holdings statement of comprehensive income
HSBC Holdings balance sheet
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows

Net interest income
–  interest income2,3
–  interest expense4
Net fee income
–  fee income
–  fee expense
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
Net insurance premium income
Insurance finance (expense)/income
Insurance service result
–  insurance revenue
–  insurance service expense
Gain on acquisition5
(Impairment)/reversal of impairment relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France6
Other operating (expense)/income7
Total operating income
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges8
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Net operating income
Employee compensation and benefits
General and administrative expenses
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets9
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Goodwill impairment
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Impairment of interest in associate
Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit for the year
Attributable to:
–  ordinary shareholders of the parent company
–  preference shareholders of the parent company
–  other equity holders
–  non-controlling interests
Profit for the year

Basic earnings per ordinary share
Diluted earnings per ordinary share

Notes*

2

3

3

4

5

18

18

7

9

9

2023
$m
35,796   
100,868   
(65,072)   
11,845   
15,616   
(3,771)   
16,661   

20221
$m
30,377   
52,826   
(22,449)   
11,770   
15,124   
(3,354)   
10,278   

2021
$m
26,489 
36,188 
(9,699) 
13,097 
16,788 
(3,691) 
7,744 

7,887   

(13,831)   

4,053 

—   
(7,809)   
1,078   
2,259   
(1,181)   
1,591   
150   
(1,141)   
66,058   
—   
66,058   
(3,447)   
62,611   
(18,220)   
(10,383)   
(1,640)   
(1,827)   
—   
(32,070)   
30,541   
2,807   
(3,000)   
30,348   
(5,789)   
24,559   

22,432   
—   
1,101   
1,026   
24,559   

$
1.15   
1.14   

—   
13,799   
809   
1,977   
(1,168)   
—   
(2,316)   
(266)   
50,620   
—   
50,620   
(3,584)   
47,036   
(18,003)   
(10,848)   
(2,149)   
(1,701)   
—   
(32,701)   
14,335   
2,723   
—   
17,058   
(809)   
16,249   

14,346   
—   
1,213   
690   
16,249   

$
0.72   
0.72   

10,870 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,687 
63,940 
(14,388) 
49,552 
928 
50,480 
(18,742) 
(11,592) 
(2,261) 
(1,438) 
(587) 
(34,620) 
15,860 
3,046 
— 
18,906 
(4,213) 
14,693 

12,607 
7 
1,303 
776 
14,693 
$
0.62 
0.62 

2 

*  For Notes on the financial statements, see page 341.
1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
Interest income includes $88,657m (2022: $45,994m; 2021: $30,916m) of interest recognised on financial assets measured at amortised cost and 
$12,134m (2022: $6,293m; 2021: $4,337m) of interest recognised on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Interest income is calculated using the effective interest method and comprises mainly interest recognised on financial assets measured at either 
amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Interest expense includes $62,095m (2022: $20,798m; 2021: $8,227m) of interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on debt instruments 
issued by HSBC for funding purposes that are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting mismatch and on derivatives managed in 
conjunction with those debt instruments included in interest expense. 

4 

3 

5   Provisional gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
6   In the fourth quarter of 2023, an impairment loss of $2.0bn was recognised relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France. This largely 
offset the $2.1bn recognised in the first quarter of 2023 on the reversal of the held for sale classification at that time. In 2023, a total net $0.1bn of 
credit was recognised in other operating income, reflecting the net asset value disposed under the final terms of sale. The $0.4bn impairment of 
goodwill recognised in the third quarter in 2022 has not been reversed.

7   Other operating (expense)/income includes a loss on net monetary positions of $1,667m (2022: $678m; 2021: $576m) as a result of applying IAS 29 

‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’ and the disposal losses on capitalised Markets Treasury repositioning of $977m in 2023. 

8  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges also referred to as revenue. 
9   Includes depreciation of the right-of-use assets of $663m (2022: $717m; 2021: $878m). 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

329

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met:
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income
–  fair value gains/(losses)
–  fair value losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement on disposal
–  expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in the income statement
–  income taxes
Cash flow hedges
–  fair value gains/(losses)
–  fair value (gains)/losses reclassified to the income statement
–  income taxes
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 
–  share for the year
Net finance income/(expenses) from insurance contracts
–  before income taxes
–  income taxes
Exchange differences
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Fair value gains on property revaluation
Remeasurement of defined benefit liability
–  before income taxes
–  income taxes
Changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value upon initial recognition arising from changes in 
own credit risk
–  before income taxes
–  income taxes
Equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income
–  fair value gains/(losses)
–  income taxes
Effects of hyperinflation
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Attributable to:
–  ordinary shareholders of the parent company
–  preference shareholders of the parent company
–  other equity holders
–  non-controlling interests 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

2023

$m
24,559   

2,599   
2,381   
905   
59   
(746)   
2,953   
2,534   
1,463   
(1,044)   
47   
47   
(364)   
(491)   
127   
(204)   

1   
(314)   
(413)   
99   

(1,219)   

(1,617)   
398   
(120)   
(120)   
—   
1,604   
4,983   
29,542   

27,397   
—   
1,101   
1,044   
29,542   

20221
$m

2021

$m

16,249   

14,693 

(7,232)   
(9,618)   
(18)   
56   
2,348   
(3,655)   
(4,207)   
(758)   
1,310   
(367)   
(367)   
1,775   
2,393   
(618)   
(9,918)   

280   
(1,031)   
(1,723)   
692   

1,922   

2,573   
(651)   
107   
107   
—   
877   
(17,242)   
(993)   

(2,810)   
—   
1,213   
604   
(993)   

(2,139) 
(2,270) 
(464) 
(49) 
644 
(664) 
595 
(1,514) 
255 
103 
103 
— 
— 
— 
(2,393) 

— 
(274) 
(107) 
(167) 

531 

512 
19 
(446) 
(443) 
(3) 
315 
(4,967) 
9,726 

7,765 
7 
1,303 
651 
9,726 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

330

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2023

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks
Items in the course of collection from other banks
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
Derivatives
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments
Assets held for sale
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
Current tax assets
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Goodwill and intangible assets
Deferred tax assets
Total assets
Liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Items in the course of transmission to other banks
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
Current tax liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
Provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total liabilities
Equity
Called up share capital
Share premium account
Other equity instruments
Other reserves
Retained earnings
Total shareholders’ equity
Non-controlling interests
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity

31 Dec

2023

$m

285,868   
6,342   
42,024   
289,159   
110,643   
229,714   
112,902   
938,535   
252,217   
442,763   
114,134   
165,255   
1,536   
27,344   
12,487   
7,754   
3,038,677   

42,024   
73,163   
1,611,647   
172,100   
7,295   
73,150   
141,426   
234,772   
93,917   
108,406   
136,606   
2,777   
120,851   
1,741   
1,238   
24,954   
2,846,067   

9,631   
14,738   
17,719   
(8,907)   
152,148   
185,329   
7,281   
192,610   
3,038,677   

At1
31 Dec

2022

$m

327,002   
7,297   
43,787   
218,093   
100,101   
284,159   
104,475   
923,561   
253,754   
364,726   
115,919   
156,149   
1,230   
29,254   
11,419   
8,360   
2,949,286   

43,787   
66,722   
1,570,303   
127,747   
7,864   
72,353   
127,321   
285,762   
78,149   
114,597   
134,313   
1,135   
108,816   
1,958   
972   
22,290   
2,764,089   

10,147   
14,664   
19,746   
(9,133)   
142,409   
177,833   
7,364   
185,197   
2,949,286   

1  Jan

2022

$m

403,018 
4,136 
42,578 
248,842 
110,795 
196,882 
82,567 
1,044,534 
241,648 
392,005 
3,411 
136,196 
970 
29,609 
11,169 
5,432 
2,953,792 

42,578 
101,152 
1,710,574 
126,670 
5,214 
84,904 
145,503 
191,064 
78,557 
9,005 
115,900 
699 
119,307 
2,566 
3,294 
20,487 
2,757,474 

10,316 
14,602 
22,414 
6,447 
135,236 
189,015 
7,303 
196,318 
2,953,792 

Notes*

11

14

15

16

23

22

18

21

7

24

25

15

26

23

27

4

28

7

29

33

33

19

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data and the IFRS 17 transition impact on the balance sheet at 1 January 2022.

*  For Notes on the financial statements, see page 341.

The accompanying notes on pages 341 to 434 and the audited sections in the Risk review on pages 135 to 237 (including ‘Measurement 
uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on pages 156 to 168, and ‘Directors’ remuneration report’ on pages 279 to 305 form an 
integral part of these financial statements. 

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman

Georges Elhedery
Group Chief Financial Officer

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

331

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Other reserves

Called up
share 
capital
and share
premium

Other
equity
instru-
ments

Financial
assets at
FVOCI
reserve

Cash
flow
hedging
reserve

Foreign
exchange
reserve

Merger
and 
other
reserves
1,2

Retained 
earnings
1,4

Total
share-
holders’
equity

Non-
controlling
interests

Total
equity

Insurance
finance
reserve3
$m

At 1 Jan 2023
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income 
(net of tax)
–  debt instruments at fair value 

through other 
comprehensive income

–  equity instruments 

designated at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income

–  cash flow hedges
–  changes in fair value of 

financial liabilities designated 
at fair value upon initial 
recognition arising from 
changes in own credit risk

–  property revaluation
–  remeasurement of defined 

benefit asset/liability

–  share of other 

comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures  

–  effects of hyperinflation
–  insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in 
other comprehensive income  

–  exchange differences
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
Shares issued under employee 
remuneration and share plans
Capital securities issued5
Dividends to shareholders
Redemption of securities6
Transfers7
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements
Share buy-back8
Cancellation of shares
Other movements
At 31 Dec 2023

$m

$m

24,811   19,746   
—   

—   

$m
(7,038)   
—   

$m
(3,808)   
—   

$m

$m

(32,575)    33,209   
—   

—   

$m
1,079    142,409    177,833   
23,533    23,533   

—   

$m

$m

$m

7,364   185,197 
1,026   24,559 

—   

—   

2,402   

3,030   

(211)   

1   

(371)   

114   

4,965   

18    4,983 

—   

—   

2,574   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

2,574   

25    2,599 

—   

—   

—   

—   

(93)   

—   

—   

2,919   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(93)   

2,919   

(27)   

(120) 

34    2,953 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1   

—   

—   

(1,220)   

(1,220)   

—   

1   

1    (1,219) 

—   

1 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(317)   

(317)   

3   

(314) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(79)   

—   

111   

—   

(211)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

47   

47   

1,604   

1,604   

—   

47 

—    1,604 

(364)   

(7)   

—   

—   

(364)   

(186)   

—   

(364) 

(18)   

(204) 

—   

—   

2,402   

3,030   

(211)   

1   

(371)   

23,647    28,498   

1,044   29,542 

79   

—   

—    1,996   
—   
—   
—    (4,023)   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
(5,130)   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

(79)   

—   

—    — 

—   

1,996   
(11,593)    (11,593)   
(4,003)   
—   

20   
5,130   

—    1,996 
(603)   (12,196) 
—    (4,003) 
—    — 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

482   

482   

—   

482 

—   
(521)   
—   

—   
—   
—   
24,369   17,719   

—   
—   
1,129   
(3,507)   

—   
—   
(255)   
(1,033)   

—   
—   
(967)   

—   
521   
—   
(33,753)    28,601   

—   
—   
77   

(7,025)   
(7,025)   
—   
—   
(859)   
(843)   
785    152,148    185,329   

—    (7,025) 
—    — 
(524)    (1,383) 
7,281   192,610 

332

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2022

At 31 Dec 2021 (IFRS 4)
Impact on transition to IFRS 179
At 1 Jan 2022
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income 
(net of tax)
–  debt instruments at fair value 

through other 
comprehensive income

– equity instruments 

designated at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income

–  cash flow hedges
–  changes in fair value of 

financial liabilities designated 
at fair value upon initial 
recognition arising from 
changes in own credit risk

–  property revaluation
–  remeasurement of defined 

benefit asset/liability

–  share of other 

comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures  

–  effects of hyperinflation
–  insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in 
other comprehensive income  

–  exchange differences
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
Shares issued under employee 
remuneration and share plans
Dividends to shareholders
Redemption of securities
Transfers
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements
Share buy-back
Cancellation of shares
Other movements
At 31 Dec 2022

Other reserves

Called up 
share 
capital and 
share 
premium

Other
equity
instru-
ments

Financial 
assets at 
FVOCI 
reserve

Cash 
flow
hedging
reserve

Foreign
exchange
reserve

Merger 
and 
other 
reserves
1,2

$m

$m

—   

24,918   22,414   
—   
24,918   22,414   
—   

—   

$m

(634)   
683   
49   
—   

$m

(197)   
—   
(197)   
—   

$m

$m

—   

(22,769)    30,060   
—   
(22,769)    30,060   
—   

—   

Insurance
finance
reserve3
$m

Retained
earnings
1,4

Total
share-
holders’
equity

Non- 
controlling
interests

Total
equity

$m

$m

$m

$m

—    144,458    198,250   
(696)   
(9,235)   
(9,222)   
(696)    135,236    189,015   
15,559    15,559   

—   

8,527   206,777 
(1,224)   (10,459) 
7,303   196,318 
690   16,249 

—   

—   

(7,089)   

(3,613)   

(9,806)   

174   

1,775   

1,403   

(17,156)   

(86)   (17,242) 

—   

—   

(7,181)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(7,181)   

(51)    (7,232) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

92   

—   

—   

(3,613)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

92   

15   

107 

—   

(3,613)   

(42)    (3,655) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

174   

—   

—   

1,922   

1,922   

—    1,922 

—   

174   

106   

280 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(1,029)   

(1,029)   

(2)    (1,031) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(9,806)   

— 

—   

—   

—   

(367)   

(367)   

—   

877   

877   

—   

(367) 

—   

877 

1,775   

—   

1,775   

—    1,775 

—   

—   

(9,806)   

(112)    (9,918) 

—   

—   

(7,089)   

(3,613)   

(9,806)   

174   

1,775   

16,962   

(1,597)   

604   

(993) 

67   

—   

—   
—   
—    (2,668)   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
2,499   

—   

—   
—   
—   

(67)   

—   

—    — 

(6,544)   
402   
(2,499)   

(6,544)   
(2,266)   
—   

(426)    (6,970) 
—    (2,266) 
—    — 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

400   

400   

—   

400 

—   
(174)   
—   

—   
—   
—   
24,811   19,746   

—   
—   
2   
(7,038)   

—   
—   
2   
(3,808)   

—   
—   
—   

—   
174   
302   
(32,575)    33,209   

—   
—   
—   

(1,000)   
—   
(175)   
1,079    142,409    177,833   

(1,000)   
—   
(481)   

—    (1,000) 
—    — 
(292) 
7,364   185,197 

(117)   

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

333

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements

Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2021

Other reserves

Called up
share
capital and
share
premium

Other
equity
instru-
ments

Financial
assets at
FVOCI
reserve

Cash
flow
hedging
reserve

Foreign
exchange
reserve

Merger
and 
other
reserves
1,2

$m

$m

$m

24,624   22,414   
—   

—   

1,816   
—   

$m

457   
—   

$m

$m

(20,375)    26,935   
—   

—   

Insurance
finance
reserve3
$m

Retained
earnings
1,4

Total
share-
holders’
equity

Non-
controlling
interests

Total
equity

$m

$m

$m

$m

—    140,572    196,443   
13,917    13,917   
—   

8,552   204,995 
776   14,693 

—   

—   

(2,455)   

(654)   

(2,394)   

—   

—   

661   

(4,842)   

(125)    (4,967) 

—   

—   

(2,105)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(2,105)   

(34)    (2,139) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

(350)   

—   

—   

(654)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(350)   

(654)   

(96)   

(446) 

(10)   

(664) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

531   

531   

—   

531 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(288)   

(288)   

14   

(274) 

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
(2,394)   

—   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   

103   

315   
—   

103   

315   
(2,394)   

—   

103 

—   
315 
1    (2,393) 

—   

—   

(2,455)   

(654)   

(2,394)   

—   

—   

14,578   

9,075   

651    9,726 

354   

—   

—    2,000   
—   
—   
—    (2,000)   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
3,065   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

(336)   

18   

—   

18 

(4)   
(5,790)   
—   
(3,065)   

1,996   
(5,790)   
(2,000)   
—   

—    1,996 
(593)    (6,383) 
—    (2,000) 
—    — 

—   

—   

(60)   
—   

—   
—   
24,918   22,414   

—   

—   
5   
(634)   

—   

—   
—   
(197)   

—   

—   

—   

467   

467   

—   

467 

—   
—   

60   
—   
(22,769)    30,060   

(2,004)   
(2,004)   
—   
—   
45   
40   
—    144,458    198,250   

—    (2,004) 
(38) 
(83)   
8,527   206,777 

At 1 Jan 2021
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income 
(net of tax)
–  debt instruments at fair value 

through other 
comprehensive income

–  equity instruments 

designated at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income

–  cash flow hedges
–  changes in fair value of 

financial liabilities designated 
at fair value upon initial 
recognition arising from 
changes in own credit risk
–  remeasurement of defined 

benefit asset/liability

–  share of other 

comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures  

–  effects of hyperinflation
–  exchange differences
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
Shares issued under employee 
remuneration and share plans
Capital securities issued
Dividends to shareholders
Redemption of securities
Transfers
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements
Cancellation of shares
Other movements
At 31 Dec 2021

1  Cumulative goodwill amounting to $5,138m was charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including 
$3,469m charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance of $1,669m was charged against retained 
earnings.

2  Statutory share premium relief under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, 

HSBC Continental Europe in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003, and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only. In HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements, the fair value differences of $8,290m in respect of HSBC Continental Europe and $12,768m in respect of HSBC 
Finance Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation 
subsequently became attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, following a number of intra-Group reorganisations. During 2009, pursuant to 
section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, statutory share premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and $15,796m was recognised in the 
merger reserve. 

3  The insurance finance reserve reflects the impact of the adoption of the other comprehensive income option for our insurance business in France. 
Underlying assets supporting these contracts are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Under this option, only the amount 
that matches income or expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses, resulting in the 
elimination of income statement accounting mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these insurance contracts is 
recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’). 

4  At 31 December 2023, retained earnings included 256,289,431 treasury shares (2022: 554,452,437; 2021: 558,397,704). These include treasury 
shares held within HSBC’s insurance business’s retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the 
settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Markets and 
Securities Services. 
In March 2023, HSBC Holdings issued $2,000m 8.000% contingent convertible securities on which there were $4m of external issue costs. 

5 
6 In March 2023, HSBC Holdings redeemed $2,350m 6.250% contingent convertible securities. In September 2023, HSBC Holdings further redeemed 

€1,000m 6.000% and SGD750m 5.000% contingent convertible securities.

7  At 31 December 2023, an impairment of $5,512m of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited was recognised, resulting in a permitted transfer of 
$5,130m from the merger reserve to retained earnings and a realisation of $382m shared-based payment reserve within retained earnings. 
8 In May 2023, HSBC Holdings announced a share buy-back of up to $2.0bn, which was completed in July 2023. In August 2023, HSBC Holdings 

announced another share buy-back of up to $2.0bn, which was completed in October 2023. In October 2023, HSBC Holdings further announced a 
share buy-back of up to $3.0bn, which was completed in February 2024. 

9  The impact of IFRS 17 on previously reported total equity was $(10,831)m at 31 December 2022.

334

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit before tax
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
Net loss/(gain) from investing activities
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Impairment of interest in associate
(Gain)/loss on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures
Change in expected credit losses gross of recoveries and other credit impairment charges
Provisions including pensions
Share-based payment expense
Other non-cash items included in profit before tax
Elimination of exchange differences2
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Change in net trading securities and derivatives
Change in loans and advances to banks and customers
Change in reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Change in financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
Change in other assets3
Change in deposits by banks and customer accounts
Change in repurchase agreements – non-trading
Change in debt securities in issue
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value
Change in other liabilities
Dividends received from associates
Contributions paid to defined benefit plans
Tax paid
Net cash from operating activities
Purchase of financial investments3
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments3
Net cash flows from the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment
Net cash flows from disposal of loan portfolio and customer accounts
Net investment in intangible assets
Net cash flow from (acquisition)/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures4
Net cash from investing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital and other equity instruments
Cancellation of shares
Net sales/(purchases) of own shares for market-making and investment purposes
Net cash flow from change in stake of subsidiaries
Redemption of preference shares and other equity instruments
Subordinated loan capital issued
Subordinated loan capital repaid5
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company and non-controlling interests
Net cash from financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec6

2023

$m
30,348   

3,466   
1,213   
(2,807)   
3,000   
(1,775)   
3,717   
266   
482   
(4,299)   
(10,678)   

(63,247)   
(14,145)   
(2,095)   
(9,994)   
(10,254)   
45,021   
43,366   
11,945   
10,097   
8,742   
1,067   
(208)   
(4,117)   
39,111   
(563,561)   
504,174   
(1,145)   
623   
(2,550)   
(453)   
(62,912)   
1,996   
(5,812)   
(614)   
(19)   
(4,003)   
5,237   
(2,147)   
(12,196)   
(17,558)   
(41,359)   
521,671   
10,621   
490,933   

20221
$m

2021

$m

17,058   

18,906 

3,850   
11   
(2,723)   
—   
2,554   
3,898   
638   
400   
(774)   
48,718   

20,166   
31,649   
(23,405)   
14,164   
(12,858)   
(91,194)   
4,344   
12,518   
(13,654)   
6,021   
944   
(194)   
(2,776)   
19,355   
(511,097)   
492,624   
(1,284)   
(3,530)   
(3,125)   
(989)   
(27,401)   
—   
(2,285)   
(91)   
(197)   
(2,266)   
7,300   
(1,777)   
(6,970)   
(6,286)   
(14,332)   
574,032   
(38,029)   
521,671   

4,286 
(647) 
(3,046) 
— 
— 
(519) 
1,063 
467 
510 
18,937 

(9,226) 
(11,014) 
552 
(4,254) 
19,899 
95,703 
14,769 
(16,936) 
(11,425) 
(10,935) 
808 
(509) 
(3,077) 
104,312 
(493,042) 
521,190 
(1,086) 
3,059 
(2,479) 
(106) 
27,536 
1,996 
(707) 
(1,386) 
— 
(3,450) 
— 
(864) 
(6,383) 
(10,794) 
121,054 
468,323 
(15,345) 
574,032 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

335

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements

Consolidated statement of cash flows (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
–  cash and balances at central banks
–  items in the course of collection from other banks
–  loans and advances to banks of one month or less
–  reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month or less
–  treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than three months
–  cash collateral and net settlement accounts
–  cash and cash equivalents held for sale7
–  less: items in the course of transmission to other banks
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec6

2023

$m

20221
$m

285,868   
6,342   
76,620   
64,341   
33,303   
15,819   
15,935   
(7,295)   
490,933   

327,002   
7,297   
72,295   
68,682   
26,727   
19,445   
8,087   
(7,864)   
521,671   

2021

$m

403,018 
4,136 
55,705 
76,658 
28,488 
11,241 
— 
(5,214) 
574,032 

Interest received was $98,910m (2022: $55,664m; 2021: $40,175m), interest paid was $65,980m (2022: $22,856m; 2021: $12,695m) and 
dividends received (excluding dividends received from associates, which are presented separately above) were $1,869m (2022: $1,638m; 2021: 
$1,898m).

1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2   Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details 

cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. 

3 Post adoption of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, certain assets have been reclassified from ‘Investing activities’ to ‘Operating activities’. The 

comparative data have not been re-presented.

4   The ‘Net cash flow on (acquisition)/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures’ includes $1.2bn of net cash inflows from the 

acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited in March 2023.

5   Subordinated liabilities changes during the year are attributable to repayments of $(2.1)bn (2022: $(1.8)bn; 2021: $(0.9)bn) of securities. Non-cash 
changes during the year included foreign exchange gains/(losses) of $0.6bn (2022: $(1.1)bn; 2021: $(0.3)bn) and fair value gains/(losses) of $0.8bn 
(2022: $(3.1)bn; 2021: $(1.0)bn).

6   At 31 December 2023, $61.8bn (2022: $59.3bn; 2021: $33.6bn) was not available for use by HSBC due to a range of restrictions, including currency 

exchange and other restrictions.

7   Includes $5.6bn (2022: $6.5bn) of cash and balances at central banks, $0.2bn (2022: $1.3bn) of reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one 

month or less, $10.5bn (2022: $0.2bn) of loans and advances to banks of one month or less and items in the course of transmission to other banks 
$(0.4)bn (2022: $(0.2)bn).

336

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HSBC Holdings income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Net interest expense
–  interest income
–  interest expense
Fee (expense)/income
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives1
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
Gains less losses from financial investments
Dividend income from subsidiaries
Other operating income
Total operating income
Employee compensation and benefits
General and administrative expenses
(Impairment) of subsidiaries/reversal of impairment
Total operating expenses
Profit before tax
Tax credit2
Profit for the year

Notes*

3

3

3

5

19

2023

$m
(5,339)   
2,864   
(8,203)   
2   
1,063   
(1,468)   

3,692   

45   
16,824   
332   
15,151   
(15)   
(1,327)   
(5,574)   
(6,916)   
8,235   
977   
9,212   

2022

$m

(3,074)   
937   
(4,011)   
(3)   
2,129   
2,144   

(2,409)   

58   
9,478   
91   
8,414   
(41)   
(1,586)   
2,493   
866   
9,280   
3,077   
12,357   

2021

$m

(2,367) 
380 
(2,747) 
(5) 
110 
349 

(420) 

— 
11,404 
230 
9,301 
(30) 
(1,845) 
3,065 
1,190 
10,491 
343 
10,834 

*  For Notes on the financial statements, see page 341.
1  The debt instruments, issued for funding purposes, are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting mismatch.
2  The tax credit in 2022 includes $2.2bn arising from the recognition of a deferred tax asset from historical tax losses in HSBC Holdings. This was a 

result of improved profit forecasts for the UK tax group, which accelerated the expected utilisation of these losses and reduced uncertainty regarding 
their recoverability. The amounts recorded within profit before tax with respect to dividend income from subsidiaries and reversal of impairment of 
subsidiaries are not subject to tax.

HSBC Holdings statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value upon initial recognition arising from changes 
in own credit risk
–  before income taxes
–  income taxes
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax
Total comprehensive income for the year

2023

$m
9,212   

(124)   

(166)   
42   
(124)   
9,088   

2022

$m

2021

$m

12,357   

10,834 

326   

435   
(109)   
326   
12,683   

267 

259 
8 
267 
11,101 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

337

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements

HSBC Holdings balance sheet

Assets
Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
Derivatives
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings
Financial investments
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
Current tax assets
Investments in subsidiaries
Intangible assets
Deferred tax assets
Total assets at 31 Dec
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total liabilities
Equity
Called up share capital
Share premium account
Other equity instruments
Merger and other reserves
Retained earnings
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec

*  For Notes on the financial statements, see page 341. 

31 Dec 2023

31 Dec 2022

Notes*

$m

$m

15

16

19

25

15

26

29

33

33

33

7,029   
59,879   
3,344   
27,354   
19,558   
5,341   
924   
159,478   
180   
2,082   
285,169   

168   
43,638   
6,090   
65,239   
4,289   
24,439   
143,863   

9,631   
14,738   
17,703   
35,946   
63,288   
141,306   
285,169   

3,210 
52,322 
3,801 
26,765 
19,466 
5,242 
464 
167,542 
189 
2,100 
281,101 

314 
32,123 
6,922 
66,938 
1,969 
19,727 
127,993 

10,147 
14,664 
19,746 
40,555 
67,996 
153,108 
281,101 

The accompanying notes on pages 341 to 434, the audited sections in the Risk review on pages 135 to 237 and ‘Directors’ remuneration report’ 
on pages 279 to 305 form an integral part of these financial statements.

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman

Georges Elhedery
Group Chief Financial Officer 

338

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2023

At 1 Jan 2023
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
–  changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to 

movement in own credit risk 

Total comprehensive income for the year
Shares issued under employee share plans
Capital securities issued3
Cancellation of shares4
Dividends to shareholders
Redemption of capital securities5 
Transfers6
Other movements
At 31 Dec 2023

At 1 Jan 2022
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
–  changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to 

movement in own credit risk

Total comprehensive income for the year
Shares issued under employee share plans
Capital securities issued
Cancellation of shares
Dividends to shareholders
Redemption of capital securities
Transfers6
Other movements
At 31 Dec 2022

At 1 Jan 2021
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
–  changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to 

movement in own credit risk

Total comprehensive income for the year
Shares issued under employee share plans
Capital securities issued
Cancellation of shares
Dividends to shareholders
Redemption of capital securities 
Transfers6
Other movements
At 31 Dec 2021

Called up
share
capital

Share
premium

Other
equity
instruments

$m

$m

10,147   
—   
—   

14,664   
—   
—   

—   
—   

5   
—   

(521)   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   

74   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

$m

19,746   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   
1,980   
—   
—   
(4,023)   
—   
—   

9,631   

14,738   

17,703   

10,316   
—   
—   

14,602   
—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
5   
—   
(174)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
10,147   

—   
62   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
14,664   

10,347   
—   
—   

14,277   
—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
29   
—   
(60)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
10,316   

—   
325   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
14,602   

22,414   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2,668)   
—   
—   
19,746   

22,414   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
2,000   
—   
—   
(2,000)   
—   
—   
22,414   

Other 
reserves

Merger 
and other
reserves
$m

Retained
earnings1,2
$m

Total
shareholders’
equity

67,996   
9,212   
(124)   

(124)   

9,088   
(328)   
—   
(7,025)   
(11,593)   
20   
5,130   
—   
63,288   

65,116   
12,357   
326   

326   

12,683   
(161)   
—   
(1,001)   
(6,544)   
402   
(2,499)   
—   
67,996   

65,005   
10,834   
267   

267   

11,101   
(103)   
(20)   
(2,004)   
(5,790)   
—   
(3,065)   
(8)   
65,116   

40,555   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
521   
—   
—   
(5,130)   
—   
35,946   

37,882   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
174   
—   
—   
2,499   
—   
40,555   

34,757   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
60   
—   
—   
3,065   
—   
37,882   

$m

153,108 
9,212 
(124) 

(124) 

9,088 
(249) 
1,980 
(7,025) 
(11,593) 
(4,003) 
— 
— 
141,306 

150,330 
12,357 
326 

326 

12,683 
(94) 
— 
(1,001) 
(6,544) 
(2,266) 
— 
— 
153,108 

146,800 
10,834 
267 

267 

11,101 
251 
1,980 
(2,004) 
(5,790) 
(2,000) 
— 
(8) 
150,330 

Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2023 were $0.53 (2022: $0.27; 2021: $0.22).

1   Retained earnings include unrealised profits from intercompany transactions and share-based payment reserves, which are excluded from distributable 
reserves. Distributable reserves include the distributable portions of retained earnings and the merger reserve. Distributable reserves are reduced by 
ordinary dividend payments, distributions on additional tier 1 instruments, share buy-backs and impairments in investments in subsidiaries. They are 
increased by profits and the realisation of retained earnings or merger reserves upon impairment of an associated investment in subsidiary.

2   At 31 December 2023, retained earnings included 20,018,490 ($100m) treasury shares (2022: 331,874,221 ($2,615m); 2021: 329,871,829 ($2,542m)).
3 
4 

In March 2023, HSBC Holdings issued $2,000m 8.000% contingent convertible securities, on which there were $20m of issue costs.
In May 2023, HSBC announced a share buy-back of up to $2.0bn, which was completed in July 2023. In August 2023, HSBC announced another share 
buy-back of up to $2.0bn, which was completed in October 2023. In October 2023, HSBC further announced a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn, which 
was completed in February 2024.
In March 2023, HSBC Holdings redeemed $2,350m 6.250% contingent convertible securities. In September 2023, HSBC Holdings further redeemed 
€1,000m 6.000% and SGD750m 5.000% contingent convertible securities.

5 

6  At 31 December 2023, an impairment of $5,512m of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited was recognised, resulting in a permitted transfer of 

$5,130m from the merger reserve to retained earnings, and a realisation of $382m share-based payment reserve within retained earnings. In 2022, a 
part-reversal of the impairment resulted in a transfer from retained earnings back to the merger reserve of $2,499m (2021: $3,065m).

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

339

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements

HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit before tax
Adjustments for non-cash items
–  depreciation, amortisation and impairment/expected credit losses
–  share-based payment expense
–  other non-cash items included in profit before tax
–  elimination of exchange differences1
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Change in loans to HSBC undertakings
Change in financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
Change in net trading securities and net derivatives
Change in other assets
Change in financial investments
Change in debt securities in issue
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value
Change in other liabilities
Tax received
Net cash from operating activities
Purchase of financial investments
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments 
Net cash flow from capital contribution, acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries
Net investment in intangible assets
Net cash from investing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital and other equity instruments
Redemption of preference shares and other equity instruments
Purchase of treasury shares
Cancellation of shares
Subordinated loan capital issued
Subordinated loan capital repaid
Debt securities issued
Debt securities repaid
Dividends paid on ordinary shares
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments
Net cash from financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents2
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
–  cash at bank with HSBC undertakings
–  cash collateral and net settlement accounts
–  treasury and other eligible bills

2023

$m
8,235   
5,611   
5,629   
—   
(38)   
20   

(1,267)   
(7,767)   
(529)   
363   
—   
1,964   
3,096   
1,947   
577   
12,230   
(7,803)   
20,074   
2,476   
(46)   
14,701   
2,059   
(4,003)   
(855)   
(5,812)   
5,270   
—   
17,180   
(13,047)   
(10,492)   
(1,101)   
(10,801)   
16,130   
6,756   
(72)   
22,814   

7,029   
3,422   
12,363   

2022

$m

9,280   
(2,500)   
(2,428)   
1   
(73)   
—   

(1,657)   
(914)   
4,712   
51   
196   
(5,625)   
(4,755)   
(3,394)   
215   
(4,391)   
(21,481)   
17,165   
(1,836)   
(39)   
(6,191)   
67   
(2,266)   
(438)   
(2,298)   
7,300   
—   
18,076   
(10,094)   
(5,330)   
(1,214)   
3,803   
(6,779)   
13,535   
—   
6,756   

3,210   
3,544   
2   

2021

$m

10,491 
(2,954) 
(2,976) 
2 
20 
— 

3,364 
(4,409) 
47 
(226) 
20 
(2,833) 
(1,396) 
(691) 
32 
1,445 
(16,966) 
16,074 
663 
(26) 
(255) 
2,334 
(3,450) 
(28) 
(707) 
— 
— 
19,379 
(5,569) 
(4,480) 
(1,310) 
6,169 
7,359 
6,176 
— 
13,535 

2,590 
93 
10,852 

Interest received was $5,695m (2022: $2,410m; 2021: $1,636m), interest paid was $7,754m (2022: $3,813m; 2021: $2,724m) and dividends 
received were $16,824m (2022: $9,478m; 2021: $11,404m).

1   Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details 

cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. As this change has immaterial impact, prior period comparatives have not been restated.

2   In 2023, additional disclosure has been made in respect of exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents. As this change has immaterial impact, 

prior period comparatives have not been restated.

340

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Contents
341
355

  1  Basis of preparation and material accounting policies
  2  Net fee income

356

356

363

368

368

371

372

372

375

375

382

383

384

389

390

391

395

397

399

  3  Net income/(expense) from financial instruments 
measured at fair value through profit or loss 

  4  Insurance business

  5  Employee compensation and benefits

  6  Auditor’s remuneration 

  7  Tax

  8  Dividends

  9  Earnings per share

  10  Segmental analysis

  11  Trading assets 

  12  Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 

  13  Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 

  14  Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 

measured at fair value through profit or loss

  15  Derivatives

  16  Financial investments

  17  Assets pledged, collateral received and assets 

transferred

  18  Interests in associates and joint ventures

  19  Investments in subsidiaries

20 Structured entities

  21  Goodwill and intangible assets

401

401

404

404

404

405

405

406

407

412

414

414

416

416

417

420

422
426

426

  22  Prepayments, accrued income and other assets

  23  Assets held for sale, liabilities of disposal groups held for 

sale and business acquisitions

  24  Trading liabilities

25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value

26 Debt securities in issue

27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities

28 Provisions

29 Subordinated liabilities

30 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance 

sheet commitments

31 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities

32 Interest rate benchmark reform

33 Called up share capital and other equity instruments

34 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and 

guarantees

35 Finance lease receivables

36 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters

37 Related party transactions

38 Effects of adoption of IFRS 17
39 Events after the balance sheet date

40 HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, joint ventures and 

associates

1 Basis of preparation and material accounting policies

1.1 Basis of preparation

(a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards

The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings comply with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and have also applied international financial reporting standards 
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. These financial statements are also prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting 
Standards’), including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, as there are no applicable differences from IFRS Accounting 
Standards for the periods presented. There were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2023 affecting these 
consolidated and separate financial statements. 

Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2023

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’

On 1 January 2023, the Group adopted the requirements of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ retrospectively with comparatives restated from the 
transition date, 1 January 2022. At transition, the Group’s total equity reduced by $10,459m.  

On adoption of IFRS 17, balances based on IFRS 4, including the present value of in-force long-term insurance business (‘PVIF’) asset in relation 
to the upfront recognition of future profits of in-force insurance contracts, were derecognised. Insurance contract liabilities have been 
remeasured under IFRS 17 based on groups of insurance contracts, which include the fulfilment cash flows comprising the best estimate of the 
present value of the future cash flows (for example premiums and payouts for claims, benefits and expenses), together with a risk adjustment 
for non-financial risk, as well as the contractual service margin (‘CSM’). The CSM represents the unearned profits that will be released and 
systematically recognised in insurance revenue as services are provided over the expected coverage period.

In addition, the Group has made use of the option under the standard to re-designate certain eligible financial assets held to support insurance 
contract liabilities, which were predominantly measured at amortised cost, as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, with 
comparatives restated from the transition date. The effects of adoption of IFRS 17 are set out in Note 38 with a description of the policy in Note 
1.2(j).

The key differences between IFRS 4 and IFRS 17 are summarised in the following table:

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

341

Financial statements 
Notes on the financial statements

Balance sheet

Profit emergence/ 
recognition

IFRS 4

IFRS 17

– Insurance contract liabilities for non-linked life insurance 
contracts are calculated by local actuarial principles. 
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at 
least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value, by 
reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or 
indices. Grouping requirements follow local regulations.

– Insurance contract liabilities are measured for groups of 

insurance contracts at current value, comprising the fulfilment 
cash flows and the CSM.

– The fulfilment cash flows comprise the best estimate of the 
present value of the future cash flows, together with a risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk.

– An intangible asset for the PVIF is recognised, 

representing the upfront recognition of future profits 
associated with in-force insurance contracts.

– The CSM represents the unearned profit.

– The value of new business is reported as revenue on 

– The CSM is systematically recognised in revenue as services 

Day 1 as an increase in PVIF.

– The impact of the majority of assumption changes is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.

– Variances between actual and expected cash flows are 

recognised in the period they arise.

are provided over the expected coverage period of the group of 
contracts (i.e. no Day 1 profit).

– Contracts are measured using the general measurement model 

(‘GMM’) or the variable fee approach (‘VFA’) model for 
insurance contracts with direct participation features upon 
meeting the eligibility criteria. Under the VFA model, the 
Group’s share of the investment experience and assumption 
changes are absorbed by the CSM and released over time to 
profit or loss. For contracts measured under GMM, the Group’s 
share of the investment volatility is recorded in profit or loss as 
it arises.

– Losses from onerous contracts are recognised in the income 

statement immediately.

– Under the market consistent approach, expected future 

investment spreads are not included in the investment return 
assumption. Instead, the discount rate includes an illiquidity 
premium that reflects the nature of the associated insurance 
contract liabilities.

– Projected lifetime expenses that are directly attributable costs 
are included in the insurance contract liabilities and recognised 
in the insurance service result.

– Non-attributable costs are reported in operating expenses.

Investment return 
assumptions (discount 
rate)

– PVIF is calculated based on long-term investment return 
assumptions based on assets held. It therefore includes 
investment margins expected to be earned in future.

Expenses

– Total expenses to acquire and maintain the contract over 

its lifetime are included in the PVIF calculation.

– Expenses are recognised across operating expenses and 
fee expense as incurred and the allowances for those 
expenses are released from the PVIF simultaneously.

Transition

In applying IFRS 17 for insurance contracts retrospectively, the full retrospective approach (‘FRA’) has been used unless it was impracticable. 
When the FRA is impracticable such as when there is a lack of sufficient and reliable data, an entity has an accounting policy choice to use 
either the modified retrospective approach (‘MRA’) or the fair value approach (‘FVA’). The Group has applied the FRA for new business from 
2018 at the earliest, subject to practicability, and the FVA for the majority of contracts for which the FRA is impracticable.

Under the FVA, the valuation of insurance liabilities on transition is based on the applicable requirements of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’. 
This requires consideration of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The CSM is calculated as the difference between what a market participant would 
demand for assuming the unexpired risk associated with insurance contracts, including required profit, and the fulfilment cash flows that are 
determined using IFRS 17 principles.

In determining the fair value, the Group considered the estimated profit margin that a market participant would demand in return for assuming 
the insurance liabilities with the consideration of the level of capital that a market participant would be required to hold, and the discount rate 
with an allowance for an illiquidity premium that takes into account the level of ‘matching’ between the Group’s assets and related liabilities. 
These assumptions were set taking into account the assumptions that a hypothetical market participant operating in each local jurisdiction 
would consider.

Amendments to IAS 12 ‘International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules’

On 23 May 2023, the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) issued amendments to IAS 12 ‘International Tax Reform – Pillar Two 
Model Rules’, which became effective immediately and were approved for adoption by all members of the UK Endorsement Board on 19 July 
2023 and by the European Union on 8 November 2023. On 20 June 2023, legislation was substantively enacted in the UK to introduce the 
OECD’s Pillar Two global minimum tax rules and a UK qualified domestic minimum top-up tax, with effect from 1 January 2024. The Group has 
applied the IAS 12 exception from recognising and disclosing information on associated deferred tax assets and liabilities. 

There were no other new standards or amendments to standards that had an effect on these financial statements. 

(b)    Differences between IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 

There are no significant differences between IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their 
application to HSBC, and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with 
Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The ‘Notes on the financial statements’, taken together with the ‘Report of the Directors’, include the 
aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. 

(c)

Future accounting developments

Minor amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards

The IASB has published a number of minor amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards that are effective from 1 January 2024. HSBC expects 
they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of 
HSBC Holdings. Additionally, in August 2023, the IASB published amendments to IAS 21 ‘Lack of Exchangeability’ effective from 1 January 
2025. The Group is undertaking an assessment of the potential impact, which is not expected to be significant.

342

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

(d)

Foreign currencies

HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency 
bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency because the US dollar and 
currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as 
well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at 
historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date. Exchange differences are included in other 
comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised. Except for 
subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies (see Note 1.2(p)), in the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of 
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Group’s presentation 
currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for 
the reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange 
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.

(e)  Presentation of information

Certain disclosures required by IFRS Accounting Standards have been included in the sections marked as (‘Audited’) in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023 as follows:

– Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the ‘Risk 

review’ on pages 135 to 237.

– The ‘Own funds disclosure’ is included in the ‘Risk review’ on page 207.

HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code. The UK Finance Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’ 
disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010. In line with the principles of the UK 
Finance Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters, 
and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.

(f)  Critical estimates and judgements

The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In view of the inherent 
uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the ‘critical estimates and 
judgements’ in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which management’s 
estimates are based. This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes of 
these financial statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies that contain critical estimates and judgements reflects the 
materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.

Management has considered the impact of climate-related risks on HSBC’s financial position and performance. While the effects of climate 
change are a source of uncertainty, as at 31 December 2023 management did not consider there to be a material impact on our critical 
judgements and estimates from the physical, transition and other climate-related risks in the short to medium term. In particular management 
has considered the known and observable potential impacts of climate-related risks of associated judgements and estimates in our value in use 
calculations.

(g) Going concern

The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the 
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of 
information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, liquidity, capital requirements and capital 
resources. 

These considerations include stressed scenarios that reflect the uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment following rising inflation, slower 
Chinese economic activity, and disrupted supply chains as a result of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars. They also included 
other top and emerging risks, including climate change, as well as the related impacts on profitability, capital and liquidity. 

1.2 Summary of material accounting policies

(a)  Consolidation and related policies

Investments in subsidiaries

Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass 
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, 
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or 
at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. This election is made for each business 
combination. 

HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.

Impairment testing is performed where there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment to 
its carrying amount. Indicators of impairment include both external and internal sources of information. Similarly, assessments are made as to 
whether an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer exist or may have decreased. Where this is the case, such an impairment 
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the relevant recoverable amount since the last impairment loss 
was recognised, and to the extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been previously recognised.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

343

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Critical estimates and judgements 

Investments in subsidiaries are tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired, which involves estimations of 
value in use reflecting management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the investment and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of 
which are subject to uncertain factors as follows:

Judgements

Estimates

– The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a 

– The future cash flows of each investment are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the 

high degree of uncertainty in volatile market 
conditions. Where such circumstances are 
determined to exist, management re-tests for 
impairment or reversal more frequently than once a 
year when indicators exist. This ensures that the 
assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are 
based continue to reflect current market conditions 
and management’s best estimate of future 
business prospects.

periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term 
pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance 
and verifiable economic data, but they reflect management’s view of future business 
prospects at the time of the assessment.

– The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their 

valuation, and are based on the costs of equity assigned to the investment. The cost of equity 
percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model and the market implied cost 
of equity, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, 
including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the 
business being evaluated. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates 
and economic conditions beyond management’s control.

– Key assumptions used in estimating impairment in subsidiaries and their reversal where 

relevant are described in Note 19.  

Goodwill

Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (’CGUs’) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s CGUs are based on its main legal entities subdivided by global business, 
except for Global Banking and Markets, for which goodwill is monitored on a global basis.

Impairment testing is performed at least once a year, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of 
a CGU with its carrying amount.

Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a 
CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the 
portion of the CGU retained.

Critical estimates and judgements

The review of goodwill and non-financial assets (see Note 1.2(n)) for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the 
CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows:

Judgements

Estimates

– The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to 
a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market 
conditions. Where such circumstances are 
determined to exist, management re-tests 
goodwill for impairment more frequently than 
once a year when indicators of impairment exist. 
This ensures that the assumptions on which the 
cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect 
current market conditions and management’s 
best estimate of future business prospects.

– The future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for 
which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of 
sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance and 
verifiable economic data, but they reflect management’s view of future business prospects at 
the time of the assessment.

– The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their 

valuation, and are based on the costs of equity assigned to individual CGUs. The cost of equity 
percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model and market implied cost of 
equity, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, 
including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the 
business being evaluated. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates 
and economic conditions beyond management’s control.

– Key assumptions used in estimating goodwill and non-financial asset impairment are described 

in Note 21.

The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year, 
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.

HSBC sponsored structured entities

HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or 
in bringing together relevant counterparties so the transaction that is the purpose of the entity could occur. HSBC is generally not considered a 
sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative.

Interests in associates and joint arrangements

Joint arrangements are investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control. Depending on HSBC’s rights and 
obligations, the joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture. 

HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, as 
associates.

HSBC recognises its share of the assets, liabilities and results in a joint operation. Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are 
recognised using the equity method. The attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates is included in the 
consolidated financial statements of HSBC based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for any 
material transactions or events occurring between the date the financial statements are available and 31 December.

Investments in associates and joint ventures are assessed at each reporting date and tested for impairment when there is an indication that the 
investment may be impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment to its carrying amount. Goodwill on acquisitions 
of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment, but is assessed as part of the carrying amount of the 
investment. Previously recognised impairments are assessed for reversal when there are indicators that they may no longer exist or have 

344

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
decreased. Any reversal, which may arise only from changes in estimates used to determine the prior impairment loss, is recognised to the 
extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been previously recognised. 

Critical estimates and judgements

The most significant critical estimates relate to the assessment of impairment of our investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), 
which involves estimations of value in use:

Judgements

Estimates

– The value in use calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on 

management’s best estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders 
prepared in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’.

– Key assumptions used in estimating BoCom’s value in use and the sensitivity of 
the value in use calculations to different assumptions are described in Note 18.

(b)

Income and expense

Operating income

Interest income and expense

Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, excluding those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value, are 
recognised in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. However, as an exception 
to this, interest on debt instruments issued by HSBC for funding purposes that are designated under the fair value option to reduce an 
accounting mismatch and on derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt instruments is included in interest expense.

Interest on credit-impaired financial assets is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (i.e. gross carrying amount 
of the asset less allowance for expected credit losses).

Non-interest income and expense

HSBC generates fee income from services provided at a fixed price over time, such as account service and card fees, or when HSBC delivers a 
specific transaction at a point in time, such as broking services and import/export services. With the exception of certain fund management and 
performance fees, all other fees are generated at a fixed price. Fund management and performance fees can be variable depending on the size 
of the customer portfolio and HSBC’s performance as fund manager. Variable fees are recognised when all uncertainties are resolved. Fee 
income is generally earned from short-term contracts with payment terms that do not include a significant financing component.

HSBC acts as principal in the majority of contracts with customers, with the exception of broking services. For most brokerage trades, HSBC 
acts as agent in the transaction and recognises broking income net of fees payable to other parties in the arrangement.

HSBC recognises fees earned on transaction-based arrangements at a point in time when it has fully provided the service to the customer. 
Where the contract requires services to be provided over time, income is recognised on a systematic basis over the life of the agreement.

Where HSBC offers a package of services that contains multiple non-distinct performance obligations, such as those included in account service 
packages, the promised services are treated as a single performance obligation. If a package of services contains distinct performance 
obligations, the corresponding transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated stand-alone selling prices.

Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and 
usually the date when shareholders approve the dividend for unlisted equity securities.

Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss includes the following: 

– ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’: This comprises net trading income, which includes 
all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading and other financial instruments 
managed on a fair value basis, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends, excluding the effect of changes in the 
credit risk of liabilities managed on a fair value basis. It also includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are 
managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss.

– ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit 
or loss’: This includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value, together with related interest income, expense and dividends in 
respect of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and those derivatives managed in conjunction with the 
above that can be separately identifiable from other trading derivatives.

– ‘Changes in fair value of designated debt instruments and related derivatives’: Interest paid on debt instruments and interest cash flows on 

related derivatives is presented in interest expense where doing so reduces an accounting mismatch.

– ‘Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss’: This includes interest on 

instruments that fail the solely payments of principal and interest test, see (d) below.

The accounting policies for insurance service result and insurance finance income/(expenses) are disclosed in Note 1.2(j).

(c)

Valuation of financial instruments 

All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of a financial instrument on initial 
recognition is generally its transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received). However, if there is a difference 
between the transaction price and the fair value of financial instruments whose fair value is based on a quoted price in an active market or a 
valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, HSBC recognises the difference as a trading gain or loss at inception (a ‘day 1 
gain or loss’). In all other cases, the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction 
until the transaction matures, is closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction. The fair value 
of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis. However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial assets and 
liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis but 
the underlying financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

345

Financial statements 
Notes on the financial statements

Critical estimates and judgements

The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are classified on the basis of valuation 
techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them, the measurement of fair value is more judgemental:

Judgements

Estimates

– An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable 
inputs if, in the opinion of management, greater than 5% of the instrument’s 
valuation is driven by unobservable inputs.

– ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data 
available from which to determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction 
would be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no data available 
at all upon which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data 
may, for example, be used).

(d)

Financial instruments measured at amortised cost

– Details on the Group’s Level 3 financial instruments and the 

sensitivity of their valuation to the effect of applying reasonably 
possible alternative assumptions in determining their fair value 
are set out in Note 12.

Financial assets that are held to collect the contractual cash flows and which contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Such financial assets include most loans and advances 
to banks and customers and some debt securities. In addition, most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. HSBC accounts for 
regular way amortised cost financial instruments using trade date accounting. The carrying amount of these financial assets at initial recognition 
includes any directly attributable transactions costs.

HSBC may commit to underwriting loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time. When the loan arising from the lending 
commitment is expected to be sold shortly after origination, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative. When HSBC intends to hold 
the loan, the loan commitment is included in the impairment calculations set out below.

Non-trading reverse repurchase, repurchase and similar agreements

When debt securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they remain on the balance 
sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities purchased under commitments to resell (‘reverse repos’) are 
not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid. Non-trading repos and reverse repos 
are measured at amortised cost. The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as 
interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.

Contracts that are economically equivalent to reverse repo or repo agreements (such as sales or purchases of debt securities entered into 
together with total return swaps with the same counterparty) are accounted for similarly to, and presented together with, reverse repo or repo 
agreements.

(e)

Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 

Financial assets managed within a business model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling and which contain 
contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’). These comprise primarily debt securities. They are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters 
into contractual arrangements to purchase and are generally derecognised when they are either sold or redeemed. They are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value with changes therein (except for those relating to impairment, interest income and foreign currency exchange gains 
and losses) recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are sold. Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in other 
comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as ‘Gains less losses from financial instruments’. Financial assets measured at 
FVOCI are included in the impairment calculations set out below and impairment is recognised in profit or loss.

(f)

Equity securities measured at fair value with fair value movements presented in other comprehensive income

The equity securities for which fair value movements are shown in other comprehensive income are business facilitation and other similar 
investments where HSBC holds the investments other than to generate a capital return. Dividends from such investments are recognised in 
profit or loss. Gains or losses on the derecognition of these equity securities are not transferred to profit or loss. Otherwise, equity securities are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss.

(g)

Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss

Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below and 
are so designated irrevocably at inception:

– The use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.

– A group of financial assets and liabilities or a group of financial liabilities is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in 

accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy.

– The financial liability contains one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.

Designated financial assets are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are 
normally derecognised when the rights to the cash flows expire or are transferred. Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC 
enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on settlement date, and are normally derecognised when extinguished. Subsequent 
changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair 
value basis’ or ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value 
through profit or loss’ or ‘Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives’ except for the effect of changes in the liabilities’ credit 
risk, which is presented in ‘Other comprehensive income’, unless that treatment would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or 
loss.

Under the above criteria, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are:

– Debt instruments for funding purposes that are designated to reduce an accounting mismatch: The interest and/or foreign exchange 

exposure on certain fixed-rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and/or foreign exchange exposure on certain swaps 
as part of a documented risk management strategy.

346

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
– Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts: A contract under which HSBC does not accept 
significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary 
participation features (‘DPF’), but is accounted for as a financial liability. Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment 
contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds or by a valuation 
method. The related financial assets and liabilities are managed and reported to management on a fair value basis. Designation at fair value 
of the financial assets and related liabilities allows changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same 
line.

– Financial liabilities that contain both deposit and derivative components: These financial liabilities are managed and their performance 

evaluated on a fair value basis.

(h)    Derivatives

Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, interest rates or other indices. 
Derivatives are recognised initially and are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss. Derivatives are classified as assets when 
their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. This includes embedded derivatives in financial liabilities, which are 
bifurcated from the host contract when they meet the definition of a derivative on a stand-alone basis.

Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value where doing so reduces an accounting 
mismatch, the contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together with the interest payable on the issued debt.

Hedge accounting

When derivatives are not part of fair value designated relationships, if held for risk management purposes they are designated in hedge 
accounting relationships where the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness are met. HSBC uses these derivatives or, 
where allowed, other non-derivative hedging instruments in fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign 
operations as appropriate to the risk being hedged.

Fair value hedge

Fair value hedge accounting does not change the recording of gains and losses on derivatives and other hedging instruments, but results in 
recognising changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk that would not otherwise be recognised in 
the income statement. If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued and the 
cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used is amortised to the income 
statement on a recalculated effective interest rate, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income 
statement immediately.

Cash flow hedge

The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion of 
the change in fair value of derivative hedging instruments that are part of a cash flow hedge relationship is recognised immediately in the 
income statement within ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’. The accumulated gains and 
losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged item 
affects profit or loss. When a hedge relationship is discontinued, or partially discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the 
income statement.

Net investment hedge

Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and other gains and losses are recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the 
disposal, or part-disposal, of the foreign operation.

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.

(i) 

Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets

Expected credit losses (‘ECL’) are recognised for loans and advances to banks and customers, non-trading reverse repurchase agreements, 
other financial assets held at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts. At initial recognition, an allowance (or provision in the case of some loan commitments and financial guarantees) is recognised for 
ECL resulting from possible default events within the next 12 months, or less, where the remaining life is less than 12 months (’12-month 
ECL’). In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, an allowance (or provision) is recognised for ECL resulting from all possible default 
events over the expected life of the financial instrument (‘lifetime ECL’). Financial assets where 12-month ECL is recognised are considered to 
be ‘stage 1’; financial assets which are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in ‘stage 2’; and financial assets 
for which there is objective evidence of impairment, and so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired are in ‘stage 3’. 
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets (‘POCI’) are treated differently as set out below.

Credit impaired (stage 3)

HSBC determines that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether 
contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for more than 90 days, there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely 
to pay such as that a concession has been granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial condition, 
or the loan is otherwise considered to be in default.

If such unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due. Therefore, the 
definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered defaulted or 
otherwise credit impaired.

Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (i.e. gross carrying amount less allowance for ECL).

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

347

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Write-off

Financial assets (and the related impairment allowances) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of 
recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the 
net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.

Forbearance

Loans are identified as forborne and classified as either performing or non-performing when HSBC modifies the contractual terms due to 
financial difficulty of the borrower. Non-performing forborne loans are stage 3 and classified as non-performing until they meet the curing 
criteria, as specified by applicable credit risk policy (for example, when the loan is no longer in default and no other indicators of default have 
been present for at least 12 months). Any amount written off as a result of any modification of contractual terms upon entering forbearance 
would not be reversed.

The Group applies the EBA Guidelines on the application of definition of default for our retail portfolios, which affect credit risk policies and our 
reporting in respect of the status of loans as credit impaired principally due to forbearance (or curing thereof). Further details are provided under 
‘Forborne loans and advances’ on page 148.

Performing forborne loans are initially stage 2 and remain classified as forborne until they meet applicable curing criteria (for example, they 
continue to not be in default and no other indicators of default are present for a period of at least 24 months). At this point, the loan is either 
stage 1 or stage 2 as determined by comparing the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date (based on the modified contractual terms) 
and the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition (based on the original, unmodified contractual terms).

A forborne loan is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made on substantially different terms, or if the 
terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the forborne loan is a substantially different financial instrument. Any new loans that 
arise following derecognition events in these circumstances would generally be classified as POCI and will continue to be disclosed as forborne.

Loan modifications other than forborne loans

Loan modifications that are not identified as forborne are considered to be commercial restructurings. Where a commercial restructuring results 
in a modification (whether legalised through an amendment to the existing terms or the issuance of a new loan contract) such that HSBC’s 
rights to the cash flows under the original contract have expired, the old loan is derecognised and the new loan is recognised at fair value. The 
rights to cash flows are generally considered to have expired if the commercial restructuring is at market rates and no payment-related 
concession has been provided. Modifications of certain higher credit risk wholesale loans are assessed for derecognition, having regard to 
changes in contractual terms that either individually or in combination are judged to result in a substantially different financial instrument. 
Mandatory and general offer loan modifications that are not borrower specific, for example market-wide customer relief programmes, generally 
do not result in derecognition, but their stage allocation is determined considering all available and supportable information under our ECL 
impairment policy. Changes made to these financial instruments that are economically equivalent and required by interest rate benchmark 
reform do not result in the derecognition or a change in the carrying amount of the financial instrument, but instead require the effective interest 
rate to be updated to reflect the change of the interest rate benchmark. 

Significant increase in credit risk (stage 2)

An assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed at each reporting period by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. The assessment explicitly or implicitly compares 
the risk of default occurring at the reporting date compared with that at initial recognition, taking into account reasonable and supportable 
information, including information about past events, current conditions and future economic conditions. The assessment is unbiased, 
probability-weighted, and to the extent relevant, uses forward-looking information consistent with that used in the measurement of ECL. The 
analysis of credit risk is multifactor. The determination of whether a specific factor is relevant and its weight compared with other factors 
depends on the type of product, the characteristics of the financial instrument and the borrower, and the geographical region. Therefore, it is not 
possible to provide a single set of criteria that will determine what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk, and these criteria will 
differ for different types of lending, particularly between retail and wholesale. However, unless identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets 
are deemed to have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when 30 days past due. In addition, wholesale loans that are individually 
assessed, which are typically corporate and commercial customers, and included on a watch or worry list, are included in stage 2.

For wholesale portfolios, the quantitative comparison assesses default risk using a lifetime probability of default (‘PD’), which encompasses a 
wide range of information including the obligor’s customer risk rating (‘CRR’), macroeconomic condition forecasts and credit transition 
probabilities. For origination CRRs up to 3.3, significant increase in credit risk is measured by comparing the average PD for the remaining term 
estimated at origination with the equivalent estimation at the reporting date. The quantitative measure of significance varies depending on the 
credit quality at origination as follows:

Origination CRR

0.1–1.2
2.1–3.3

Significance trigger – PD to increase by

15bps
30bps

For CRRs greater than 3.3 that are not impaired, a significant increase in credit risk is considered to have occurred when the origination PD has 
doubled. The significance of changes in PD was informed by expert credit risk judgement, referenced to historical credit migrations and to 
relative changes in external market rates.

348

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
For loans originated prior to the implementation of IFRS 9, the origination PD does not include adjustments to reflect expectations of future 
macroeconomic conditions since these are not available without the use of hindsight. In the absence of this data, origination PD must be 
approximated assuming through-the-cycle PDs and through-the-cycle migration probabilities, consistent with the instrument’s underlying 
modelling approach and the CRR at origination. For these loans, the quantitative comparison is supplemented with additional CRR deterioration-
based thresholds, as set out in the table below:

Origination CRR

0.1
1.1–4.2
4.3–5.1
5.2–7.1
7.2–8.2
8.3

Additional significance criteria – number of CRR grade notches 
deterioration required to identify as significant credit 
deterioration (stage 2) (> or equal to) 

5 notches
4 notches
3 notches
2 notches
1 notch
0 notch

Further information about the 23-grade scale used for CRR can be found on page 148. 

For retail portfolios, default risk is assessed using a reporting date 12-month PD derived from internal models, which incorporate all available 
information about the customer. This PD is adjusted for the effect of macroeconomic forecasts for periods longer than 12 months and is 
considered to be a reasonable approximation of a lifetime PD measure. Retail exposures are first segmented into homogenous portfolios, 
generally by country, product and brand. Within each portfolio, the stage 2 accounts are defined as accounts with an adjusted 12-month PD 
greater than the average 12-month PD of loans in that portfolio 12 months before they become 30 days past due. The expert credit risk 
judgement is that no prior increase in credit risk is significant. This portfolio-specific threshold therefore identifies loans with a PD higher than 
would be expected from loans that are performing as originally expected and higher than that which would have been acceptable at origination. 
It therefore approximates a comparison of origination to reporting date PDs.

We continue to refine the retail transfer criteria approach for certain portfolios as additional data becomes available, in order to utilise a more 
relative approach. These enhancements take advantage of the increase in origination-related data in the assessment of significant increases in 
credit risk by comparing remaining lifetime PD to the comparable remaining term lifetime PD at origination based on portfolio-specific origination 
segments. 

Unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk (stage 1)

ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months (‘12-month ECL’) are recognised for financial instruments that 
remain in stage 1.

Purchased or originated credit impaired 

Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount that reflects the incurred credit losses are considered to be POCI. This 
population includes new financial instruments recognised in most cases following the derecognition of forborne loans. The amount of change in 
lifetime ECL for a POCI loan is recognised in profit or loss until the POCI loan is derecognised, even if the lifetime ECL are less than the amount 
of ECL included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.

Movement between stages

Financial assets can be transferred between the different categories (other than POCI) depending on their relative increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition. Financial instruments are transferred out of stage 2 if their credit risk is no longer considered to be significantly increased 
since initial recognition based on the assessments described above. In the case of non-performing forborne loans, such financial instruments are 
transferred out of stage 3 when they no longer exhibit any evidence of credit impairment and meet the curing criteria as described above. 

Measurement of ECL

The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are unbiased and probability-weighted, and incorporate all available information which is 
relevant to the assessment including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future 
events and economic conditions at the reporting date. In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money and 
considers other factors such as climate-related risks.

In general, HSBC calculates ECL using three main components: a probability of default (‘PD’), a loss given default (’LGD’) and the exposure at 
default (‘EAD’).

The 12-month ECL is calculated by multiplying the 12-month PD, LGD and EAD. Lifetime ECL is calculated using the lifetime PD instead. The 
12-month and lifetime PDs represent the probability of default occurring over the next 12 months and the remaining maturity of the instrument 
respectively.

The EAD represents the expected balance at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to 
the default event together with any expected drawdowns of committed facilities. The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the 
event of default, taking into account, among other attributes, the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and 
the time value of money.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

349

Financial statements 
Notes on the financial statements

HSBC makes use of the IRB framework where possible, with recalibration to meet the differing IFRS 9 requirements as set out in the following 
table:

Model 

Regulatory capital

IFRS 9

PD

EAD

LGD

Other

– Through the cycle (represents long-run average PD throughout 

– Point in time (based on current conditions, adjusted to take into 

a full economic cycle)

account estimates of future conditions that will impact PD)

– The definition of default includes a backstop of 90+ days past 

– Default backstop of 90+ days past due for all portfolios

due

– Cannot be lower than current balance
– Downturn LGD (consistent losses expected to be suffered 

– Amortisation captured for term products
– Expected LGD (based on estimate of loss given default 

during a severe but plausible economic downturn)

– Regulatory floors may apply to mitigate risk of underestimating 

downturn LGD due to lack of historical data 

– Discounted using cost of capital
– All collection costs included

including the expected impact of future economic conditions 
such as changes in value of collateral)

– No floors
– Discounted using the original effective interest rate of the loan
– Only costs associated with obtaining/selling collateral included

– Discounted back from point of default to balance sheet date

While 12-month PDs are recalibrated from IRB models where possible, the lifetime PDs are determined by projecting the 12-month PD using a 
term structure. For the wholesale methodology, the lifetime PD also takes into account credit migration, i.e. a customer migrating through the 
CRR bands over its life.

The ECL for wholesale stage 3 is determined primarily on an individual basis using a discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) methodology. The expected 
future cash flows are based on estimates as of the reporting date, reflecting reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections of future 
recoveries and expected future receipts of interest. 

Collateral is taken into account if it is likely that the recovery of the outstanding amount will include realisation of collateral based on its 
estimated fair value of collateral at the time of expected realisation, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral. 

The cash flows are discounted at a reasonable approximation of the original effective interest rate. For significant cases, cash flows under up to 
four different scenarios are probability-weighted by reference to the status of the borrower, economic scenarios applied more generally by the 
Group and judgement in relation to the likelihood of the work-out strategy succeeding or receivership being required. For less significant cases 
where an individual assessment is undertaken, the effect of different economic scenarios and work-out strategies results in an ECL calculation 
based on a most likely outcome which is adjusted to capture losses resulting from less likely but possible outcomes. For certain less significant 
cases, the bank may use a LGD-based modelled approach to ECL assessment, which factors in a range of economic scenarios.

Period over which ECL is measured

Expected credit loss is measured from the initial recognition of the financial asset. The maximum period considered when measuring ECL (be it 
12-month or lifetime ECL) is the maximum contractual period over which HSBC is exposed to credit risk. However, where the financial 
instrument includes both a drawn and undrawn commitment and the contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn 
commitment does not serve to limit HSBC’s exposure to credit risk to the contractual notice period, the contractual period does not determine 
the maximum period considered. Instead, ECL is measured over the period HSBC remains exposed to credit risk that is not mitigated by credit 
risk management actions. This applies to retail overdrafts and credit cards, where the period is the average time taken for stage 2 exposures to 
default or close as performing accounts, determined on a portfolio basis and ranging from between two and six years. In addition, for these 
facilities it is not possible to identify the ECL on the loan commitment component separately from the financial asset component. As a result, 
the total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial 
asset, in which case the ECL is recognised as a provision. For wholesale overdraft facilities, credit risk management actions are taken no less 
frequently than on an annual basis.

Forward-looking economic inputs

HSBC applies multiple forward-looking global economic scenarios determined with reference to external forecast distributions representative of 
its view of forecast economic conditions. This approach is considered sufficient to calculate unbiased expected credit losses in most economic 
environments. In certain economic environments, additional analysis may be necessary and may result in additional scenarios or adjustments, to 
reflect a range of possible economic outcomes sufficient for an unbiased estimate. The detailed methodology is disclosed in ‘Measurement 
uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 156. 

Critical estimates and judgements

The calculation of the Group’s ECL under IFRS 9 requires the Group to make a number of judgements, assumptions and estimates. The most significant 
are set out below:

Judgements

– Defining what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk
– Determining the lifetime and point of initial recognition of overdrafts and credit cards
– Selecting and calibrating the PD, LGD and EAD models, which support the calculations, 

including making reasonable and supportable judgements about how models react to current 
and future economic conditions

– Selecting model inputs and economic forecasts, including determining whether sufficient and 
appropriately weighted economic forecasts are incorporated to calculate unbiased expected 
credit loss

– Making management adjustments to account for late-breaking events, model and data 

limitations and deficiencies, and expert credit judgements 

– Selecting applicable recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired loans

Estimates

– The section ‘Measurement uncertainty and 

sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’, marked as 
audited from page 156, sets out the assumptions 
used in determining ECL, and provides an 
indication of the sensitivity of the result to the 
application of different weightings being applied 
to different economic assumptions

350

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
  
(j)   Insurance contracts

A contract is classified as an insurance contract where the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to 
compensate that party if it is adversely affected by a specified uncertain future event. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but 
is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant. In addition, the Group issues investment contracts with DPF, which 
are also accounted under IFRS 17 ’Insurance Contracts’. 

Aggregation of insurance contracts

Individual insurance contracts that are managed together and subject to similar risks are identified as a portfolio. Contracts that are managed 
together usually belong to the same product group, and have similar characteristics such as being subject to a similar pricing framework or 
similar product management, and are issued by the same legal entity. If a contract is exposed to more than one risk, the dominant risk of the 
contract is used to assess whether the contract features similar risks. Each portfolio is further separated by the contract’s expected profitability. 
The portfolios are split by their profitability into: (i) contracts that are onerous at initial recognition; (ii) contracts that at initial recognition have no 
significant possibility of becoming onerous subsequently; and (iii) the remaining contracts. These profitability groups are then divided by issue 
date, with most contracts the Group issues after the transition date being grouped into calendar quarter cohorts. For multi-currency groups of 
contracts, the Group considers its groups of contracts as being denominated in a single currency.

The measurement of the insurance contract liability is based on groups of insurance contracts as established at initial recognition, and will 
include fulfilment cash flows as well as the CSM representing the unearned profit. The Group has elected to update the estimates used in the 
measurement on a year-to-date basis.

Fulfilment cash flows

The fulfilment cash flows comprise the following: 

Best estimates of future cash flows

The cash flows within the contract boundary of each contract in the Group include amounts expected to be collected from premiums and 
payouts for claims, benefits and expenses, and are projected using a range of scenarios and assumptions in an unbiased way based on the 
Group’s demographic and operating experience along with external mortality data where the Group’s own experience data is not sufficiently 
large in size to be credible.

Adjustment for the time value of money and financial risks associated with the future cash flows

The estimates of future cash flows are adjusted to reflect the time value of money (i.e. discounting) and the financial risks to derive an expected 
present value. The Group generally makes use of stochastic modelling techniques in the estimation for products with options and guarantees. 

A bottom-up approach is used to determine the discount rate to be applied to a given set of expected future cash flows. This is derived as the 
sum of the risk-free yield and an illiquidity premium. The risk-free yield is determined based on observable market data, where such markets are 
considered to be deep, liquid and transparent. When information is not available, management judgement is applied to determine the 
appropriate risk-free yield. Illiquidity premiums reflect the liquidity characteristics of the associated insurance contracts.

Risk adjustment for non-financial risk

The risk adjustment reflects the compensation required for bearing the uncertainty about the amount and timing of future cash flows that arises 
from non-financial risk. It is calculated as a 75th percentile level of stress over a one-year period. The level of the stress is determined with 
reference to external regulatory stresses and internal economic capital stresses.

For the main insurance manufacturing entity in these locations, the one-year 75th percentile level of stress corresponds to the following 
percentiles based on an ultimate view of risk over all future years:

– Asia-Pacific (Hong Kong): 60th percentile (2022: 59th percentile).

– Europe (France): 60th percentile (2022: 60th percentile).

– Latin America (Mexico): 65th percentile (2022: 66th percentile).

The Group does not disaggregate changes in the risk adjustment between insurance service result (comprising insurance revenue and insurance 
service expense) and insurance finance income or expenses. All changes are included in the insurance service result. 

Measurement models

The variable fee approach (‘VFA’) measurement model is used for most of the contracts issued by the Group, which is mandatory upon meeting 
the following eligibility criteria at inception:  

– the contractual terms specify that the policyholder participates in a share of a clearly identified pool of underlying items;

– the Group expects to pay to the policyholder a substantial share of the fair value returns on the underlying items. The Group considers that a 

substantial share is a majority of returns; and

– the Group expects a substantial proportion of any change in the amounts to be paid to the policyholder to vary with the change in fair value 
of the underlying items. The Group considers that a substantial proportion is a majority proportion of change on a present value probability-
weighted average of all scenarios.

For some contracts measured under VFA, the other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) option is used. The OCI option is applied where the 
underlying items held by the Group are not accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. Under this option, only the amount that matches 
income or expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses for these insurance contracts, 
and hence results in the elimination of accounting mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these insurance 
contracts issued for the period is recognised in OCI. In addition, the risk mitigation option is used for a number of economic offsets against the 
instruments that meet specific requirements.

The remaining contracts issued and the reinsurance contracts held are accounted for under the general measurement model (‘GMM’).

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

351

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

CSM and coverage units

The CSM represents the unearned profit and results in no income or expense at initial recognition when the group of contracts is profitable. The 
CSM is adjusted at each subsequent reporting period for changes in fulfilment cash flows relating to future service (e.g. changes in non-
economic assumptions, including mortality and morbidity rates). For initial recognition of onerous groups of contracts and when groups of 
contracts become onerous subsequently, losses are recognised in insurance service expense immediately. 

For groups of contracts measured using the VFA, changes in the Group’s share of the underlying items, and economic experience and economic 
assumption changes adjust the CSM, whereas these changes do not adjust the CSM under the GMM, but are recognised in profit or loss as 
they arise. However, under the risk mitigation option for VFA contracts, the changes in the fulfilment cash flows and the changes in the Group’s 
share in the fair value return on underlying items that the instruments mitigate are not adjusted in CSM but recognised in profit or loss. The risk 
mitigating instruments are primarily reinsurance contracts held.

The CSM is systematically recognised in insurance revenue to reflect the insurance contract services provided, based on the coverage units of 
the group of contracts. Coverage units are determined by the quantity of benefits and the expected coverage period of the contracts.

The Group identifies the quantity of the benefits provided as follows:

– Insurance coverage: This is based on the expected net policyholder insurance benefit at each period after allowance for decrements, where 

net policyholder insurance benefit refers to the amount of sum assured less the fund value or surrender value.

– Investment services (including both investment-return service and investment-related service): This is based on a constant measure basis 

which reflects the provision of access for the policyholder to the facility.

For contracts that provide both insurance coverage and investment services, coverage units are weighted according to the expected present 
value of the future cash outflows for each service. 

Insurance service result

Insurance revenue reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for the provision of coverage and other 
insurance contract services (excluding any investment components). Insurance service expenses comprise the incurred claims and other 
incurred insurance service expenses (excluding any investment components), and losses on onerous groups of contracts and reversals of such 
losses.

Insurance finance income and expenses

Insurance finance income and expenses comprise the change in the carrying amount of the group of insurance contracts arising from the 
effects of the time value of money, financial risk and changes therein. For VFA contracts, changes in the fair value of underlying items (excluding 
additions and withdrawals) are recognised in insurance finance income or expenses.

(k)

Employee compensation and benefits

Share-based payments

HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for the 
provision of their services.

The vesting period for these schemes may commence before the legal grant date if the employees have started to render services in respect of 
the award before the legal grant date, where there is a shared understanding of the terms and conditions of the arrangement. Expenses are 
recognised when the employee starts to render service to which the award relates.

Cancellations result from the failure to meet a non-vesting condition during the vesting period, and are treated as an acceleration of vesting 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Failure to meet a vesting condition by the employee is not treated as a cancellation, and the 
amount of expense recognised for the award is adjusted to reflect the number of awards expected to vest. 

Post-employment benefit plans

HSBC operates a number of pension schemes including defined benefit, defined contribution and post-employment benefit schemes.

Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as the employees render service.

Defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. The net charge to the income statement mainly 
comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability, and is presented in operating expenses. 
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets excluding interest 
and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. The net defined 
benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets (see Note 1.2(c)), 
after applying the asset ceiling test, where the net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in 
future contributions to the plan.

The costs of obligations arising from other post-employment plans are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.

Critical estimates and judgements

The most significant critical estimates relate to the determination of key assumptions applied in calculating the defined benefit pension obligation for the 
principal plan.

Judgements

Estimates

– A range of assumptions could be applied, and different assumptions could 

significantly alter the defined benefit obligation and the amounts recognised in 
profit or loss or OCI.

– The calculation of the defined benefit pension obligation includes assumptions with 

regard to the discount rate, inflation rate, pension payments and deferred 
pensions, pay and mortality. Management determines these assumptions in 
consultation with the plan’s actuaries.

– Key assumptions used in calculating the defined benefit pension obligation for the 
principal plan and the sensitivity of the calculation to different assumptions are 
described in Note 5.

352

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

(l)   Tax

Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in the same statement as the related 
item appears.

Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year and on any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and the 
amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods 
in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled.

In assessing the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profit, management considers the availability of evidence to support the recognition 
of deferred tax assets, taking into account the inherent risks in long-term forecasting, including climate change-related, and drivers of recent 
history of tax losses where applicable. Management also considers the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and tax 
planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations. 

Current and deferred tax are calculated based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.

Critical estimates and judgements

The recognition of deferred tax assets depends on judgements and estimates.

Judgements

Estimates

– Specific judgements supporting deferred tax assets are described in Note 7. – The recognition of deferred tax assets is sensitive to estimates of 

future cash flows projected for periods for which detailed forecasts 
are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of 
cash flows thereafter, on which forecasts of future taxable profit are 
based, and which affect the expected recovery periods and the 
pattern of utilisation of tax losses and tax credits. See Note 7 for 
further detail. 

The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of deferred tax assets in the next 
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.

(m)  Provisions, contingent liabilities and guarantees

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive 
obligation that has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.

Critical estimates and judgements

The recognition and measurement of provisions requires the Group to make a number of judgements, assumptions and estimates. The most significant 
are set out below:

Judgements

Estimates

– Determining whether a present obligation exists. Professional advice is 

taken on the assessment of litigation and similar obligations.

– Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a 
higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions. When matters 
are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the 
high degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a present 
obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows 
that may arise. As matters progress, management and legal advisers 
evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, 
revising previous estimates as appropriate. At more advanced stages, it is 
typically easier to make estimates around a better defined set of possible 
outcomes.

Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 

Contingent liabilities

– Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters remain very 
sensitive to the assumptions used in the estimate. There could be a 
wider range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, 
investigations or inquiries. As a result it is often not practicable to 
quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters. It is also 
not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes 
in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse 
nature and circumstances of such matters and the wide range of 
uncertainties involved.

Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, and contingent liabilities related to 
legal proceedings or regulatory matters, are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is 
remote.

Financial guarantee contracts

Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts that are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is 
generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable. 

(n) 

Impairment of non-financial assets

Software under development is tested for impairment at least annually. Other non-financial assets are property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets (excluding goodwill) and right-of-use assets. They are tested for impairment at the individual asset level when there is indication of 
impairment at that level, or at the CGU level for assets that do not have a recoverable amount at the individual asset level. In addition, 
impairment is also tested at the CGU level when there is indication of impairment at that level. For this purpose, CGUs are considered to be the 
principal operating legal entities divided by global business.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

353

Financial statements 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Impairment testing compares the carrying amount of the non-financial asset or CGU with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair 
value less costs of disposal or the value in use. The carrying amount of a CGU comprises the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities, 
including non-financial assets that are directly attributable to it and non-financial assets that can be allocated to it on a reasonable and consistent 
basis. Non-financial assets that cannot be allocated to an individual CGU are tested for impairment at an appropriate grouping of CGUs. The 
recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal of the CGU, which is determined by independent and 
qualified valuers where relevant, and the value in use, which is calculated based on appropriate inputs (see Note 21).

When the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the 
extent that the impairment can be allocated on a pro-rata basis to the non-financial assets by reducing their carrying amounts to the higher of 
their respective individual recoverable amount or nil. Impairment is not allocated to the financial assets in a CGU.

Impairment losses recognised in prior periods for non-financial assets are reversed when there has been a change in the estimate used to 
determine the recoverable amount. The impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying amount of the non-financial assets would not 
exceed the amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior 
periods.

Critical estimates and judgements

The review of goodwill and other non-financial assets for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and 
the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as described in the ‘Critical estimates and judgements’ in 
Note 1.2(a). 

The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill and non-financial assets in 
the next financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.

(o)  Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale

HSBC classifies non-current assets or disposal groups (including assets and liabilities) as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be 
recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. To be classified as held for sale, the non-current asset or disposal group 
must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (or 
disposal groups), and the sale must be highly probable. For a sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be 
committed to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group) and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been 
initiated. Further, the asset (or disposal group) must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. 
In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification and actions required to 
complete the plan should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.  

Held for sale assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except for those 
assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5. If the carrying amount of the non-current asset 
(or disposal group) is greater than the fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset or 
disposal group to fair value less costs to sell is recognised. Any such impairment loss is first allocated against the non-current assets that are in 
scope of IFRS 5 for measurement. This first reduces the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the disposal group, and then to the other 
non-current assets of the disposal group pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the disposal group. Thereafter, any 
impairment loss in excess of the carrying amount of the non-current assets in scope of IFRS 5 for measurement is recognised against the total 
assets of the disposal group. 

Critical judgements

The classification as held for sale depends on certain judgements:

Judgements

Management judgement is required in determining whether the IFRS 5 held for sale criteria are met, including whether a sale is highly probable and 
expected to complete within one year of classification. The exercise of judgement will normally consider the likelihood of successfully securing any 
necessary regulatory or governmental approvals, which are almost always required for sales of banking businesses, and sanctions risk. For large and 
complex plans, judgement will also include an assessment of the enforceability of any binding sale agreement, the nature and magnitude of any 
disincentives for non-performance, and the ability of the counterparty to undertake necessary pre-completion preparatory work, comply with conditions 
precedent, and otherwise be able to comply with contractual undertakings to achieve completion within the expected timescale. Once classified as 
held for sale, judgement is required to be applied on a continuous basis to ensure that classification remains appropriate in future accounting periods.

(p)  Hyperinflationary accounting

Hyperinflationary accounting is applied to those subsidiary operations in countries where the three-year cumulative inflation rate is approaching 
or exceeding 100%. In 2023, this affected the Group’s operations in Argentina and Türkiye. The Group applies IAS 29 to the underlying financial 
information of relevant subsidiaries to restate their local currency results and financial position so as to be stated in terms of the measuring unit 
current at the end of the reporting period. Those restated results are translated into the Group’s presentation currency of US dollars for 
consolidation at the closing rate at the balance sheet date. Group comparatives are not restated for inflation and consequential adjustments to 
the opening balance sheet in relation to hyperinflationary subsidiaries are presented in other comprehensive income. The hyperinflationary gain 
or loss in respect of the net monetary position of the relevant subsidiary is included in profit or loss.

When applying hyperinflation accounting for the first time, the underlying financial information is restated in terms of the measuring unit current 
at the end of the reporting period as if the relevant economy had always been hyperinflationary. Group comparatives are not restated for such 
historical adjustments.

354

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
2 Net fee income

Net fee income by global business

Funds under management
Cards
Credit facilities
Broking income
Account services
Unit trusts
Underwriting
Global custody
Remittances
Imports/exports
Insurance agency commission
Other
Fee income
Less: fee expense
Net fee income 

Funds under management
Cards
Credit facilities
Broking income
Account services
Unit trusts
Underwriting
Global custody
Remittances
Imports/exports
Insurance agency commission
Other
Fee income
Less: fee expense
Net fee income

Funds under management
Cards
Credit facilities
Broking income
Account services
Unit trusts
Underwriting
Global custody
Remittances
Imports/exports
Insurance agency commission
Other
Fee income
Less: fee expense
Net fee income

Wealth and
Personal
Banking

Commercial 
Banking

2023

Global 
Banking and 
Markets

Corporate 
Centre

$m
1,763   
2,385   
103   
463   
402   
727   
—   
128   
86   
—   
280   
1,433   
7,770   
(2,416)   
5,354   

$m
71   
353   
856   
22   
788   
10   
3   
6   
389   
470   
18   
1,161   
4,147   
(210)   
3,937   

$m
539   
38   
615   
592   
347   
1   
583   
730   
347   
154   
—   
2,458   
6,404   
(3,858)   
2,546   

Wealth and
Personal 
Banking

$m

1,765   
2,146   
100   
576   
337   
682   
1   
140   
72   
—   
283   
1,330   
7,432   
(2,128)   
5,304   

20221

Global
Banking and
Markets2
$m

Commercial
Banking2
$m

107   
313   
783   
40   
730   
14   
2   
19   
380   
493   
16   
1,102   
3,999   
(212)   
3,787   

500   
32   
591   
635   
344   
—   
443   
762   
346   
141   
1   
2,376   
6,171   
(3,459)   
2,712   

$m

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1   
—   
—   
(2,706)   
(2,705)   
2,713   
8   

Corporate
Centre

$m

(12)   
—   
—   
—   
1   
—   
(5)   
—   
1   
—   
—   
(2,463)   
(2,478)   
2,445   
(33)   

Wealth and
Personal 
Banking

Commercial
Banking

2021

Global
Banking and
Markets

Corporate
Centre

$m

1,984   
1,949   
103   
863   
429   
1,065   
4   
167   
75   
1   
324   
1,305   
8,269   
(2,375)   
5,894   

$m

126   
240   
833   
69   
677   
23   
6   
24   
357   
474   
17   
1,077   
3,923   
(284)   
3,639   

$m

546   
23   
690   
669   
340   
—   
1,009   
787   
343   
145   
—   
2,503   
7,055   
(3,452)   
3,603   

$m

—   
1   
1   
—   
6   
—   
(2)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2,465)   
(2,459)   
2,420   
(39)   

Total

$m
2,373 
2,776 
1,574 
1,077 
1,537 
738 
586 
864 
823 
624 
298 
2,346 
15,616 
(3,771) 
11,845 

Total

$m

2,360 
2,491 
1,474 
1,251 
1,412 
696 
441 
921 
799 
634 
300 
2,345 
15,124 
(3,354) 
11,770 

Total

$m

2,656 
2,213 
1,627 
1,601 
1,452 
1,088 
1,017 
978 
775 
620 
341 
2,420 
16,788 
(3,691) 
13,097 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 
needs, a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data 
have been re-presented accordingly. 

2 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

355

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Net fee income included $6,971m of fees earned on financial assets that were not at fair value through profit or loss, other than amounts 
included in determining the effective interest rate (2022: $6,410m; 2021: $6,742m), $1,872m of fees payable on financial liabilities that were not 
at fair value through profit or loss, other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate (2022: $1,613m; 2021: $1,520m), 
$3,452m of fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities (2022: $3,492m; 2021: $3,849m) and $333m of fees payable relating to trust and 
other fiduciary activities (2022: $370m; 2021: $305m).

3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at fair value 

through profit or loss

Net income/(expense) arising on:
Net trading activities
Other instruments managed on a fair value basis
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
Financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss

2023

$m

20,391   
(3,730)   
16,661   
8,086   
(199)   

20221
$m

2,372   
7,906   
10,278   
(14,392)   
561   

2021

$m

6,668 
1,076 
7,744 
4,134 
(81) 

7,887   

(13,831)   

4,053 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

HSBC Holdings

Net income/(expense) arising on:
–  trading activities
–  other instruments managed on a fair value basis
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
Derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings-issued debt securities
Other changes in fair value
Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
Year ended 31 Dec

4

Insurance business

Insurance service result

2023

$m

(546)   
1,609   
1,063   
426   
(1,894)   
(1,468)   
3,692   
3,287   

2022

$m

2,094   
35   
2,129   
(1,529)   
3,673   
2,144   
(2,409)   
1,864   

Insurance revenue
Amounts relating to changes in liabilities for remaining coverage
Contractual service margin recognised for services provided
Change in risk adjustment for non-financial risk for risk expired
Expected incurred claims and other insurance service expenses
Other
Recovery of insurance acquisition cash flows
Total insurance revenue
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance service expenses
Losses and reversal of losses on onerous contracts
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash flows
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred claims
Total insurance service expenses
Total insurance service results

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Year ended 31 Dec 2022¹

Life direct 
participating 
and investment 
DPF contracts2
$m

Life other 
contracts3
$m

1,626   
975   
21   
594   
36   
109   
1,735   

(615)   
(32)   
(109)   
(1)   
(757)   
978   

470   
151   
15   
304   
—   
54   
524   

(292)   
(77)   
(54)   
(1)   
(424)   
100   

Life direct 
participating and 
investment DPF 
contracts2
$m

Life other 
contracts3
$m

1,399   
781   
17   
528   
73   
102   
1,501   

(573)   
(84)   
(102)   
(2)   
(761)   
740   

446   
151   
17   
278   
—   
30   
476   

(280)   
(86)   
(30)   
(11)   
(407)   
69   

Total

$m

2,096   
1,126   
36   
898   
36   
163   
2,259   

(907)   
(109)   
(163)   
(2)   
(1,181)   
1,078   

2021

$m

87 
23 
110 
(625) 
974 
349 
(420) 
39 

Total

$m

1,845 
932 
34 
806 
73 
132 
1,977 

(853) 
(170) 
(132) 
(13) 
(1,168) 
809 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

2  ‘Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts’ are substantially measured under the variable fee approach measurement model.
3  ‘Life other contracts’ are measured under the general measurement model and excludes reinsurance contracts.

356

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net investment return

Investment return
Amounts recognised in profit or loss2
Amounts recognised in OCI3
Total investment return (memorandum)
Net finance income/(expense)
Changes in fair value of underlying items of direct participating contracts
Effect of risk mitigation option
Interest accreted
Effect of changes in interest rates and other financial assumptions
Effect of measuring changes in estimates at current rates and adjusting 
the CSM at rates on initial recognition

Total net finance income/(expense) from insurance contracts
Represented by:
Amounts recognised in profit or loss
Amounts recognised in OCI
Total net investment results
Represented by:
Amounts recognised in profit or loss
Amounts recognised in OCI

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Year ended 31 Dec 2022¹

Life direct 
participating 
and 
investment 
DPF contracts

Life other 
contracts

$m

$m

Life direct 
participating
and 
investment 
DPF contracts

Life other 
contracts

$m

$m

Total

$m

Total

$m

7,663   
493   
8,156   

(7,995)   
(35)   
—   
(12)   

214   
—   
214   

7,877   
493   
8,370   

—   
—   
(127)   
(121)   

(7,995)   
(35)   
(127)   
(133)   

(13,520)   
(2,392)   
(15,912)   

15,937   
99   
—   
—   

(181)   
—   
(181)   

(13,701) 
(2,392) 
(16,093) 

—    15,937 
99 
—   
(80) 
(80)   
233 
233   

—   

(10)   

(10)   

—   

3   

3 

(8,042)   

(258)   

(8,300)   

16,036   

156    16,192 

(7,551)   
(491)   
114   

(258)   
—   
(44)   

(7,809)   
(491)   
70   

13,643   
2,393   
124   

156    13,799 
2,393 
99 

—   
(25)   

112   
2   

(44)   
—   

68   
2   

123   
1   

(25)   
—   

98 
1 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

2   Total Group ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance business, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit 
or loss’ of $7,886m gain (2022: $13,831m loss) includes returns on assets and liabilities supporting insurance policies of $7,627m (2022: $13,949m 
loss) and on shareholder assets of $259m (2022: $118m gain). Investment returns of $7,877m (2022: $13,701m loss) include gains of $7,627m (2022: 
$13,949m loss) on underlying assets supporting insurance liabilities reported in ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance 
businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss’, $257m gains (2022: $248m gain) reported in ‘Net interest 
income’ and $7m loss (2022: nil) reported in ‘Other operating income’.  

3   ‘Amounts recognised in OCI’ gross of tax for the year ended 31 December 2023 included fair value gains of $497m (2022: $2,396m loss) and 

impairment of $4m (2022: $4m impairment reversals).

Reconciliation of amounts included in other comprehensive income for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income – assets supporting contracts measured under the modified retrospective approach

Balance at 1 Jan
Net change in fair value
Net amount reclassified to profit or loss
Related income tax
Foreign exchange and other
Balance at 31 Dec

2023

$m
(973)   
451   
(6)   
(115)   
(27)   
(670)   

2022

$m

622 
(2,099) 
(2) 
543 
(37) 
(973) 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

357

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by remaining coverage and incurred claims

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Life direct participating and investment DPF 
contracts

Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:

Excluding 
loss 
component

Loss 
component

Incurred 
claims

Life other contracts

Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:

Excluding 
loss 
component

Loss 
component

Incurred 
claims

$m

(5)   
104,676   
104,671   

(508)   

(148)   

(1,079)   
(1,735)   

$m

—   
114   
114   

—   

—   

—   
—   

109   

—   

—   

109   
(8,104)   
(9,730)   

8,042   

513   

942   

—   

32   

—   

26   
—   
26   

—   

(5)   

1   

Total

$m

$m

—   

(5)   
355    105,145   
355    105,140   

$m
(187)   
3,359   
3,172   

—   

(508)   

(196)   

—   

—   
—   

(148)   

(1,079)   
(1,735)   

(22)   

(306)   
(524)   

—   

109   

—   

32   

1   

622   
8,104   
8,726   

1   

757   
—   
(978)   

—   

54   

—   

—   

54   
(818)   
(1,288)   

—   

8,042   

254   

(214)   

6   

294   

949   

(8)   

25   

—   

(6)   

621   

615   

$m
21   
109   
130   

—   

—   

—   
—   

Total

Total

$m
$m
(136) 
(131)   
3,671    108,816 
3,540    108,680 

$m
35   
203   
238   

—   

(196)   

(704) 

—   

—   
—   

(22)   

(170) 

(306)   
(524)   

(1,385) 
(2,259) 

(24)   

316   

292   

907 

—   

77   

—   

53   
—   
53   

3   

4   

(2)   

—   

54   

163 

—   

77   

109 

1   

317   
818   
1,135   

1   

424   
—   
(100)   

2 

1,181 
— 
(1,078) 

1   

258   

8,300 

(13)   

8   

(17)   

31   

277 

980 

(233)   

22   

8,518   

8,307   

(1,017)   

58   

1,131   

172   

8,479 

12,616   

—   

—    12,616   

1,256   

—   

—   

1,256    13,872 

(15)   

—   

(8,502)   

(8,517)   

(522)   
12,079   
14   
116,531   
(15)   
116,546   
116,531   

—   
—   
(14)   
122   
1   
121   
122   

—   
(8,502)   
—   

(522)   
3,577   
—   
371    117,024   
(13)   
370    117,037   
371    117,024   

1   

1   

(282)   
975   
(9)   
3,121   
(279)   
3,400   
3,121   

—   

(1,112)   

(1,111)   

(9,628) 

—   
—   
(13)   
175   
(16)   
191   
175   

—   
(1,112)   
22   
279   
56   
223   
279   

(282)   
(137)   
—   

(804) 
3,440 
— 
3,575    120,599 
(252) 
(239)   
3,814    120,851 
3,575    120,599 

Opening assets
Opening liabilities
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 2023
Changes in the statement of profit or 
loss and other comprehensive income
Insurance revenue
Contracts under the fair value approach
Contracts under the modified 
retrospective approach
Other contracts2
Total insurance revenue
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance 
service expenses
Amortisation of insurance acquisition 
cash flows
Losses and reversal of losses on 
onerous contracts
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred 
claims

Total insurance service expenses
Investment components
Insurance service result
Net finance (income)/expense from 
insurance contracts3
Other movements recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss
Effect of movements in exchange rates
Total changes in the statement of 
profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income

Cash flows
Premiums received
Claims and other insurance service 
expenses paid, including investment 
components, and other cash flows
Insurance acquisition cash flows
Total cash flows
Other movements
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2023
Closing assets
Closing liabilities
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2023

358

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by remaining coverage and incurred claims (continued)

Year ended 31 Dec 20221

Life direct participating and investment DPF 
contracts

Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:

Loss 
component

Incurred 
claims

Life other contracts

Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:

Excluding 
loss 
component

Loss 
component

Incurred 
claims

Excluding 
loss 
component

$m

—   
114,952   
114,952   

(571)   

(147)   

(783)   
(1,501)   

$m

—   
93   
93   

—   

—   

—   
—   

Total

$m

$m

—   

—   
226    115,271   
226    115,271   

$m

(159)   
3,825   
3,666   

—   

(571)   

(234)   

—   

—   
—   

(147)   

(783)   
(1,501)   

$m

7   
67   
74   

—   

—   

—   
—   

Total

$m

Total

$m

(116)   

(116) 
4,036    119,307 
3,920    119,191 

$m

36   
144   
180   

—   

(234)   

(805) 

—   

—   
—   

(24)   

(171) 

(218)   
(476)   

(1,001) 
(1,977) 

(6)   

286   

280   

853 

—   

—   

30   

132 

86   

—   
80   
—   
80   

2   

(2)   

—   

11   
297   
549   
846   

86   

11   
407   
—   
(69)   

170 

13 
1,168 
— 
(809) 

(4)   

(3)   

(156)   

(16,192) 

(93)   

(2,267) 

(24)   

(218)   
(476)   

—   

30   

—   

—   
30   
(549)   
(995)   

(154)   

(88)   

—   

5   

568   

573   

102   

—   

—   

102   

—   

—   
102   
(5,487)   
(6,886)   

(16,038)   

(2,159)   

84   

—   
89   
—   
89   

—   

(4)   

—   

2   
570   
5,487   
6,057   

84   

2   
761   
—   
(740)   

2   

(16,036)   

(11)   

(2,174)   

(25,083)   

85   

6,048   

(18,950)   

(1,237)   

80   

839   

(318)   

(19,268) 

12,740   

—   

—    12,740   

882   

—   

—   

882    13,622 

—   

(423)   
12,317   

2,485   

104,671   
(5)   
104,676   
104,671   

—   

—   
—   

(5,783)   

(5,783)   

—   
(5,783)   

(423)   
6,534   

(64)   

114   
—   
114   
114   

(136)   

2,285   

—   

355    105,140   
(5)   
355    105,145   
355    105,140   

—   

(162)   
720   

23   

3,172   
(187)   
3,359   
3,172   

—   

—   
—   

(24)   

130   
21   
109   
130   

(880)   

—   
(880)   

99   

238   
35   
203   
238   

(880)   

(6,663) 

(162)   
(160)   

(585) 
6,374 

98   

2,383 

(131)   

3,540    108,680 
(136) 
3,671    108,816 
3,540    108,680 

Opening assets
Opening liabilities
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 2022
Changes in the statement of profit or loss 
and other comprehensive income
Insurance revenue
Contracts under the fair value approach
Contracts under the modified retrospective 
approach
Other contracts2
Total insurance revenue
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance service 
expenses
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash 
flows
Losses and reversal of losses on onerous 
contracts
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred claims
Total insurance service expenses
Investment components
Insurance service result
Net finance (income)/expense from 
insurance contracts3
Effect of movements in exchange rates
Total changes in the statement of profit or 
loss and other comprehensive income
Cash flows
Premiums received
Claims and other insurance service 
expenses paid, including investment 
components, and other cash flows
Insurance acquisition cash flows
Total cash flows
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other 
movements
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2022
Closing assets
Closing liabilities
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2022

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

2   ‘Other contracts’ are those contracts measured by applying IFRS 17 from inception of the contracts. These include contracts measured under the full 

retrospective approach at transition and contracts incepted after transition and excludes reinsurance contracts. 

3   ‘Net finance (income)/expense from insurance contracts’ expense of $8,300m (2022: $16,192m income) comprises expense of $7,809m (2022: 

$13,799m income) recognised in the statement of profit or loss and expense of $491m (2022: $2,393m income) recognised in the statement of other 
comprehensive income.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

359

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by measurement component

Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts

Life other contracts

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Contractual service margin

Contractual service margin

Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment

Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retros-
pective 
approach

Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach

$m
(18)   
96,174   

$m

3   
4,364   

Other 
contracts2
$m
10   

Total

$m

(5)   
3,815   105,145   

$m

—   
792   

Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment

Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retros-
pective 
approach 

Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach 

$m
(308)   
3,162   

$m
86   
325   

Other 
contracts2 Total
$m $m
91    (131)   

$m
(136) 
166   3,671   108,816 

Total

$m

—   
18   

96,156   

4,367   

792   

3,825   105,140   

2,854   

411   

18   

257   3,540   108,680 

—   

(188)   

(70)   

(717)   

(975)   

—   

(69)   

(6)   

(76)    (151)    (1,126) 

(21)   

21   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(21)   

21   

(15)   

(12)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(15)   

(36) 

—   

(12)   

9 

(1,606)   

—   

—   

1,619   

13   

(176)   

—   

—   

207   

31   

44 

(771)   

368   

(33)   

436   

—   

21   

26   

6   

(53)    —   

— 

19   

—   

—   

—   

19   

46   

—   

—   

—   

46   

65 

1   

—   

—   

—   

1   

1   

—   

—   

—   

1   

2 

(36)   

(2,393)   

—   

180   

—   

—   

(36)   

(103)   

1,338   

(978)   

—   

(135)   

—   

(43)   

—   

—   

—    —   

(36) 

78    (100)    (1,078) 

8,042   

—   

—   

—    8,042   

235   

11   

—   

12    258    8,300 

145   

133   

(1)   

17   

294   

(43)   

6   

—   

20   

(17)   

277 

883   

2   

27   

37   

949   

—   

12   

1   

18   

31   

980 

6,677   

315   

(77)   

1,392    8,307   

57   

(14)   

1   

128    172    8,479 

12,616   

—   

—   

—   12,616   

1,256   

—   

—   

—   1,256   13,872 

(8,517)   

(522)   

3,577   

—   

—   

—   

106,410   

(30)   
106,440   

4,682   

3   
4,679   

—   

—   

—   

715   

—   
715   

—    (8,517)   

(1,111)   

—   

(522)   

—    3,577   

5,217   117,024   

14   

(13)   
5,203   117,037   

(282)   

(137)   

2,774   

(339)   
3,113   

—   

—   

—   

397   

36   
361   

—   

—   

—   

19   

—   
19   

—   (1,111)   (9,628) 

—    (282)   

(804) 

—    (137)    3,440 

385   3,575   120,599 

64    (239)   

(252) 
321   3,814   120,851 

106,410   

4,682   

715   

5,217   117,024   

2,774   

397   

19   

385   3,575   120,599 

Opening assets
Opening liabilities
Net opening balance at 
1 Jan 2023
Changes in the 
statement of profit or 
loss and other 
comprehensive income
Changes that relate to 
current services
Contractual service 
margin recognised for 
services provided
Change in risk adjustment 
for non-financial risk 
expired
Experience adjustments
Changes that relate to 
future services
Contracts initially 
recognised in the year
Changes in estimates that 
adjust the contractual 
service margin
Changes in estimates that 
result in losses and 
reversal of losses on 
onerous contracts

Changes that relate to 
past services
Adjustments to liabilities 
for incurred claims
Other movements 
recognised in insurance 
service result
Insurance service result
Net finance (income)/
expense from insurance 
contracts3
Other movements 
recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss  
Effect of movements in 
exchange rates

Total changes in the 
statement of profit or 
loss and other 
comprehensive income

Cash flows
Premiums received 
Claims, other insurance 
service expenses paid 
(including investment 
components) and other 
cash flows

Insurance acquisition cash 
flows

Total cash flows
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2023
Closing assets
Closing liabilities
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2023

360

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by measurement component (continued)

Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts

Year ended 31 Dec 20221

Contractual service margin

Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment

Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach

$m

—   
105,861   

$m

—   
5,823   

Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retros-
pective 
approach

$m

Other 
contracts2
$m

Total

$m

—   
704   

—   

—   
2,883   115,271   

Life other contracts

Contractual service margin

Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment

Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retros-
pective 
approach 

Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach 

$m

(236)   
3,532   

$m

57   
331   

Other 
contracts2
$m

Total

Total

$m

$m

$m

—   
26   

63    (116)   

(116) 
147   4,036   119,307 

105,861   

5,823   

704   

2,883   115,271   

3,296   

388   

26   

210   3,920   119,191 

—   

(297)   

(69)   

(415)   

(781)   

—   

(69)   

(6)   

(76)    (151)   

(932) 

(17)   

45   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(17)   

45   

(17)   

2   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(17)   

—   

2   

(34) 

47 

(1,092)   

—   

—   

1,101   

9   

(110)   

—   

—   

117   

7   

16 

820   

(1,349)   

208   

321   

—   

(7)   

23   

—   

(16)    —   

— 

75   

—   

—   

—   

75   

79   

—   

—   

—   

79   

154 

2   

(73)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(240)   

(1,646)   

139   

1,007   

(740)   

—   

(73)   

—   

(42)   

—   

(46)   

—   

2   

11   

—   

(16,025)   

(10)   

—   

(1)   (16,036)   

(169)   

7   

—   

—   

(6)   

—   

—   

11   

13 

—    —   

(73) 

25   

(69)   

(809) 

6    (156)   (16,192) 

(2,082)   

(16)   

(51)   

(25)   

(2,174)   

(74)   

(17)   

(2)   

—   

(93)    (2,267) 

(18,347)   

(1,672)   

88   

981   (18,950)   

(285)   

(56)   

(8)   

31    (318)   (19,268) 

12,740   

—   

—   

—    12,740   

882   

—   

—   

—    882    13,622 

(5,783)   

(423)   

6,534   

—   

—   

—   

2,108   

216   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(5,783)   

(880)   

—   

(423)   

—    6,534   

(162)   

(160)   

—   

—   

—   

(39)    2,285   

3   

79   

96,156   

4,367   

(18)   
96,174   

3   
4,364   

792   

—   
792   

3,825   105,140   

10   

(5)   
3,815   105,145   

2,854   

(308)   
3,162   

411   

86   
325   

—   

—   

—   

—   

18   

—   
18   

—    (880)    (6,663) 

—    (162)   

(585) 

—    (160)    6,374 

16   

98    2,383 

257   3,540   108,680 

91    (131)   

(136) 
166   3,671   108,816 

96,156   

4,367   

792   

3,825   105,140   

2,854   

411   

18   

257   3,540   108,680 

Opening assets
Opening liabilities
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 
2022 
Changes in the statement of 
profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income
Changes that relate to current 
services
Contractual service margin 
recognised for services 
provided
Change in risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk expired
Experience adjustments
Changes that relate to future 
services
Contracts initially recognised 
in the year
Changes in estimates that 
adjust contractual service 
margin
Changes in estimates that 
result in losses and reversal of 
losses on onerous contracts
Changes that relate to past 
services
Adjustments to liabilities for 
incurred claims
Other movements recognised 
in insurance service result
Insurance service result
Net finance (income)/expense 
from insurance contracts3
Effect of movements in 
exchange rates
Total changes in the 
statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income
Cash flows
Premiums received 
Claims, other insurance 
service expenses paid 
(including investment 
components) and other cash 
flows

Insurance acquisition cash 
flows
Total cash flows
Acquisition of subsidiaries and 
other movements
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2022 
Closing assets
Closing liabilities
Net closing balance at
31 Dec 2022 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

2   ‘Other contracts' are those contracts measured by applying IFRS 17 from inception of the contracts. These include contracts measured under the full 

retrospective approach at transition and contracts incepted after transition and excludes reinsurance contracts. 

3   ‘Net finance (income)/expense from insurance contracts’ expense of $8,300m (2022: $16,192m income) comprises expense of $7,809m (2022: 

$13,799m income) recognised in the statement of profit or loss and expense of $491m (2022: $2,393m income) recognised in the statement of other 
comprehensive income.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

361

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Effect of contracts initially recognised in the year

Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Estimates of present value of cash outflows
–  insurance acquisition cash flows
–  claims and other insurance service expenses payable
Estimates of present value of cash inflows
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
Contractual service margin
Losses recognised on initial recognition
Life other contracts
Estimates of present value of cash outflows
–  insurance acquisition cash flows
–  claims and other insurance service expenses payable
Estimates of present value of cash inflows
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
Contractual service margin
Losses recognised on initial recognition

Year ended 31 Dec 2023

Year ended 31 Dec 20221

Profitable 
contracts 
issued

Onerous 
contracts 
issued

$m

$m

12,418   
602   
11,816   
(14,074)   
37   
1,619   
—   

1,116   
106   
1,010   
(1,350)   
27   
207   
—   

215   
21   
194   
(204)   
2   
—   
(13)   

464   
50   
414   
(438)   
5   
—   
(31)   

Profitable 
contracts 
issued

$m

Onerous 
contracts 
issued

$m

9,714   
401   
9,313   
(10,844)   
29   
1,101   
—   

640   
57   
583   
(778)   
21   
117   
—   

123   
16   
107   
(115)   
1   
—   
(9)   

111   
9   
102   
(105)   
1   
—   
(7)   

Total

$m

12,633   
623   
12,010   
(14,278)   
39   
1,619   
(13)   

1,580   
156   
1,424   
(1,788)   
32   
207   
(31)   

Total

$m

9,837 
417 
9,420 
(10,959) 
30 
1,101 
(9) 

751 
66 
685 
(883) 
22 
117 
(7) 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

Present value of expected future cash flows of insurance contract liabilities and contractual service margin

Less than 
1 year

1–2 
years

2–3 
years

3–4 
years

4–5 
years

5–10 
years

10–20 
years

Over 20 
years

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Insurance liability future cash flows
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
Insurance liability future cash flows at 31 Dec 2023
Remaining contractual service margin
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
Remaining contractual service margin at 31 Dec 2023
Insurance liability future cash flows
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
Insurance liability future cash flows at 31 Dec 20221
Remaining contractual service margin
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
Remaining contractual service margin at 31 Dec 20221

(2,620)   
1,276   
(1,344)   

(545)    2,321    2,419    3,344    11,695    23,351    65,897   105,862 
362   
1,628    3,016 
(183)    1,974    2,423    3,299    11,731    23,453    67,525   108,878 

(347)   

102   

(45)   

36   

4   

917   
172   
1,089   

848   
113   
961   

783   
84   
867   

722   
74   
796   

666    2,597    2,653   
141   
115   
727    2,738    2,768   

61   

1,428    10,614 
801 
1,469    11,415 

41   

(5,049)    (1,891)   
770   
(4,354)    (1,121)   

695   

180    1,417    1,685    9,585    30,108    59,762    95,797 
395   
859    3,098 
172   
575    1,404    1,723    9,757    30,290    60,621    98,895 

182   

(13)   

38   

757   
194   
951   

689   
64   
753   

638   
56   
694   

590   
48   
638   

547    2,177    2,293   
99   
134   
589    2,311    2,392   

42   

1,293    8,984 
686 
1,342    9,670 

49   

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

Discount rates

The discount rates applied to expected future cash flows are determined through a bottom-up approach as set out in Note 1.2(j) ‘Summary of 
material accounting policies – Insurance contracts’ on page 351. The blended average of discount rates used within our most material 
manufacturing entities are as follows:

At 31 Dec 2023
10-year discount rate (%)
20-year discount rate (%)
At 31 Dec 2022
10-year discount rate (%)
20-year discount rate (%)

HSBC Life (International) Ltd

Hang Seng Insurance Co Ltd

HSBC Assurances 
Vie (France)

HK$

4.02
4.21

4.56
4.63

US$

4.47
4.91

4.59
4.96

HK$

4.16
4.34

4.70
4.76

US$

4.62
5.06

4.80
5.17

€

2.96
2.97

3.66
3.33

362

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5

Employee compensation and benefits

Employee compensation and benefits1
Capitalised wages and salaries2
Gross employee compensation and benefits for the year ended 31 Dec

Consists of:
Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Post-employment benefits
Year ended 31 Dec

2023

$m
18,220   
1,403   
19,623   

17,359   
1,507   
757   
19,623   

2022

$m

18,003   
1,285   
19,288   

16,970   
1,403   
915   
19,288   

2021

$m

18,742 
870 
19,612 

17,072 
1,503 
1,037 
19,612 

1   In 2023 and 2022, employee compensation and benefits are presented in the income statement net of software capitalisation costs and costs included 
in the insurance contract fulfilment cash flow liabilities under IFRS 17. In 2021, employee compensation and benefits are presented net of software 
capitalisation costs in the income statement.

2   Comprises $1,043m (2022: $922m; 2021: $870m) software capitalisation costs and $360m (2022: $363m; 2021: n/a) costs included in the insurance 

contract fulfilment cash flow liabilities under IFRS 17.

Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by global business1

Wealth and Personal Banking
Commercial Banking
Global Banking and Markets
Corporate Centre
Year ended 31 Dec

2023
132,336   
46,826   
48,043   
347   
227,552   

2022

135,676   
48,004   
48,597   
365   
232,642   

2021

138,026 
44,992 
48,179 
359 
231,556 

1   Average number of persons employed represents the number of persons with contracts of service with the Group.

Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by legal entity1

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Bank Canada
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
Other trading entities2
Holding companies, shared service centres and intra-Group eliminations
Year ended 31 Dec

2023
20,415   
14,809   
54,321   
3,316   
6,046   
4,354   
14,412   
9,247   
100,632   
227,552   

1   Average number of persons employed represents the number of persons with contracts of service with the Group.
2   Other trading entities includes entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.

Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to income statement charge

Total incentive awards approved for the current year
Less: deferred bonuses awarded, expected to be recognised in future periods
Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year
Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years
Other
Income statement charge for incentive awards

Share-based payments

2023

$m
3,774   
(353)   
3,421   
375   
(56)   
3,740   

2022

20,501   
15,405   
54,792   
3,338   
6,749   
4,241   
14,484   
10,026   
103,106   
232,642   

2022

$m

3,359   
(343)   
3,016   
239   
(22)   
3,233   

‘Wages and salaries’ includes the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which $482m was equity settled (2022: $400m; 
2021: $467m), as follows:

Conditional share awards
Savings-related and other share award option plans
Year ended 31 Dec

2023

$m
499
23
522

2022

$m

402
22
424

2021

21,447 
16,823 
55,253 
3,429 
8,197 
4,369 
14,529 
10,442 
97,067 
231,556 

2021

$m

3,495 
(379) 
3,116 
270 
4 
3,390 

2021

$m

479
27
506

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

363

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

HSBC share awards

Award

Policy

Deferred share awards 
(including annual 
incentive awards, long-
term incentive (‘LTI’) 
awards delivered in 
shares) 

An assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December is used to determine the amount 
of the award to be granted.
– Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in employment over the vesting period and are generally not 
subject to performance conditions after the grant date. An exception to these are LTI awards, which are subject to 
performance conditions.

– Deferred share awards generally vest over a period of three, four, five or seven years.
– Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement post-vesting. 
– Awards are generally subject to malus and clawback provisions.

International Employee 
Share Purchase Plan 
(‘ShareMatch’)

The plan was first introduced in Hong Kong in 2013 and now includes employees based in 30 jurisdictions.
– Shares are purchased in the market each quarter up to a maximum value of £750, or the equivalent in local currency.
– Matching awards are added at a ratio of one free share for every three purchased. In mainland China, matching 

awards are settled in cash.

– Matching awards vest subject to continued employment and the retention of the purchased shares for a maximum 

period of two years and nine months.

Movement on HSBC share awards

Conditional share awards outstanding at 1 Jan
Additions during the year
Released in the year
Forfeited in the year
Conditional share awards outstanding at 31 Dec
Weighted average fair value of awards granted ($)

HSBC share option plans

Main plans

Policy

2023

Number

(000s)
126,246   
72,289   
(70,054)   
(3,458)   
125,023   
5.84   

2022

Number

(000s)

109,364 
90,190 
(67,718) 
(5,590) 
126,246 
5.60 

Savings-related share 
option plans (‘Sharesave’)

– From 2014, employees eligible for the UK plan could save up to £500 per month with the option to use the savings to 

acquire shares.

– These are generally exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversary of the 

commencement of a three-year or five-year contract, respectively.

– The exercise price is set at a 20% (2022: 20%) discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of 

invitation.

Calculation of fair values

The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the 
date of the grant. 

Movement on HSBC share option plans

Outstanding at 1 Jan 2023
Granted during the year2
Exercised during the year3
Expired during the year
Forfeited during the year
Outstanding at 31 Dec 2023
–  of which exercisable
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)

Outstanding at 1 Jan 2022
Granted during the year2
Exercised during the year3
Expired during the year
Forfeited during the year
Outstanding at 31 Dec 2022
–  of which exercisable
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)

1  Weighted average exercise price.
2  The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $1.92 (2022: $1.45).
3  The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was $7.39 (2022: $6.22).

364

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Savings-related
share option plans

Number
(000s)

WAEP1
£

115,651   
23,382   
(49,007)   
(3,832)   
(2,200)   
83,994   
7,165   
2.41

123,197   
8,928   
(3,483)   
(9,047)   
(3,944)   
115,651   
4,029   
2.26

2.89 
4.70 
2.73 
3.78 
2.88 
3.42 
2.70 

2.85 
4.24 
3.49 
3.55 
2.79 
2.89 
4.11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-employment benefit plans

The Group operates pension plans throughout the world for its employees. ‘Pension risk management processes’ on page 206 contains details 
of the policies and practices associated with these pension plans, some of which are defined benefit plans. The largest defined benefit plan is 
the HBUK section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’), created as a result of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 
being fully sectionalised in 2018 to meet the requirements of the Banking Reform Act. For further details of how the trustee of the HSBC Bank 
(UK) Pension Scheme manages climate risk, see ’Managing climate risk’ on page 65.

HSBC holds on its balance sheet the net surplus or deficit, which is the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the discounted 
value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date for each plan. Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through 
reduced contributions in the future or through potential future refunds from the schemes. In assessing whether a surplus is recoverable, HSBC 
has considered its current right to obtain a future refund or a reduction in future contributions together with the rights of third parties such as 
trustees.

The principal plan

The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section. The defined benefit section was closed to future benefit 
accrual in 2015, with defined benefits earned by employees at that date continuing to be linked to their salary while they remain employed by 
HSBC. The plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee, who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the plan. Its assets are 
held separately from the assets of the Group.

The investment strategy of the plan is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse range of investments. It also 
includes some interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk, inflation swaps to reduce inflation risk and longevity swaps to reduce the impact 
of longer life expectancy.

The principal plan is subject to the statutory funding objective requirements of the UK Pensions Act 2004, which requires that it be funded to at 
least the level of technical provisions (an actuarial estimate of the assets needed to provide for the benefits already built up under the plan). 
Where a funding valuation is carried out and identifies a deficit, the employer and trustee are required to agree to a deficit recovery plan. 

The latest funding valuation of the plan at 31 December 2019 was carried out by Colin G Singer of Willis Towers Watson Limited, who is a 
Fellow of the UK Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. At that date, the market value of the plan’s assets 
was £31.1bn ($41.1bn) and this exceeded the value placed on its liabilities on an ongoing basis by £2.5bn ($3.3bn), giving a funding level of 
109%. These figures include defined contribution assets amounting to £2.4bn ($3.2bn). The main differences between the assumptions used 
for assessing the defined benefit liabilities for this funding valuation and those used for IAS 19 are that an element of prudence is contained in 
the funding valuation assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy. The funding valuation is used to judge the amount of cash 
contributions the Group needs to put into the pension scheme. It will always be different to the IAS 19 accounting surplus, which is an 
accounting rule concerning employee benefits and shown on the balance sheet of our financial statements. The next funding valuation, with an 
effective date of 31 December 2022, is currently underway and will be concluded no later than the regulatory deadline of 31 March 2024. The 
plan is estimated to remain in a comfortable surplus relative to the funding liabilities as at the end of 2022, based on assumptions consistent 
with those used to determine the funding liabilities for the 2019 valuation.

The actuary also assessed the value of the liabilities if the plan were to have been stopped and an insurance company asked to secure all future 
pension payments. This is generally larger than the amount needed on the ongoing basis described above because an insurance company would 
use more prudent assumption, which would allow for reserves and include an explicit allowance for the future administrative expenses of the 
plan. Under this approach, the amount of assets needed was estimated to be £33bn ($44bn) at 31 December 2019.

The trust deed gives the ability for HSBC UK to take a refund of surplus assets after the plan has been run down such that no further 
beneficiaries remain. In assessing whether a surplus is recoverable, HSBC UK has considered its right to obtain a future refund together with 
the rights of third parties such as trustees. On this basis, any net surplus in the HBUK section of the plan is recognised in HSBC UK’s financial 
statements and the Group’s financial statements.

Income statement charge/(credit)

Defined benefit pension plans
Defined contribution pension plans
Pension plans
Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans
Year ended 31 Dec

2023
$m
(151)   
874   
723   
34   
757   

2022
$m

42   
845   
887   
28   
915   

Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans

Fair value of
plan assets

Present value of
defined benefit obligations

Effect of limit on plan 
surpluses

Defined benefit pension plans
Defined benefit healthcare plans
At 31 Dec 2023
Total employee benefit liabilities (within Note 27 ‘Accruals, deferred 
income and other liabilities’)

Total employee benefit assets (within Note 22 ‘Prepayments, 
accrued income and other assets’)

Defined benefit pension plans
Defined benefit healthcare plans
At 31 Dec 2022
Total employee benefit liabilities (within Note 27 ‘Accruals, deferred 
income and other liabilities’)
Total employee benefit assets (within Note 22 ‘Prepayments, 
accrued income and other assets’)

$m
33,897   
107   
34,004   

32,171   
96   
32,267   

$m
(27,011)   
(403)   
(27,414)   

(25,693)   
(388)   
(26,081)   

$m

—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   

2021
$m

243 
767 
1,010 
27 
1,037 

Total

$m
6,886 
(296) 
6,590 

(1,160) 

7,750 

6,478 
(292) 
6,186 

(1,096) 

7,282 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

365

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

HSBC Holdings
Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2023 amounted to $15m (2022: $41m). The average 
number of persons employed during 2023 was 29 (2022: 42). A small number of employees are members of defined benefit pension plans. 
These employees are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plan for its own employees 
in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the trustees of the plan and recognises these contributions as an expense as 
they fall due. 
Defined benefit pension plans

Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans 

At 1 Jan 2023
Service cost
–  current service cost
–  past service cost and gains/(losses) from settlements
Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit asset/
(liability)
Remeasurement effects recognised in other 
comprehensive income
–  return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
–  actuarial gains/(losses) financial assumptions
–  actuarial gains/(losses) demographic assumptions
–  actuarial gains/(losses) experience adjustments
–  other changes
Exchange differences
Benefits paid
Other movements2
At 31 Dec 2023

At 1 Jan 2022
Service cost
–  current service cost
–  past service cost and losses from settlements
Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit asset/
(liability)
Remeasurement effects recognised in other 
comprehensive income
–  return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
–  actuarial gains/(losses) financial assumptions
–  actuarial gains/(losses) demographic assumptions
–  actuarial gains/(losses) experience adjustments
–  other changes
Exchange differences
Benefits paid
Other movements2
At 31 Dec 2022

Fair value of plan 
assets

Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligations

Effect of the asset 
ceiling

Net defined benefit 
asset/(liability)

Principal1
plan

Other
plans

Principal1
plan

Other
plans

Principal1
plan

$m
25,121   
—   
—   

$m
7,050   
—   
—   
—   

$m
(18,787)   
(10)   
(14)   
4   

$m
(6,906)   
(150)   
(135)   
(15)   

1,247   

298   

(925)   

(286)   

(225)   

(225)   
—   
—   
—   

—   
1,472   
(1,063)   
38   
26,590   

41,384   
—   
—   
—   

110   

110   
—   
—   
—   
—   
228   
(548)   
169   
7,307   

7   

(300)   

—   
(123)   
357   
(227)   
—   
(1,098)   
1,063   
(32)   
(19,782)   

—   
(327)   
17   
10   
—   
(190)   
629   
(26)   
(7,229)   

10,047   
—   
—   
—   

(32,255)   
(30)   
(12)   
(18)   

(10,022)   
(170)   
(161)   
(9)   

703   

198   

(546)   

(202)   

(11,505)   

(2,181)   

9,532   

2,360   

(11,505)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(4,288)   
(1,222)   
49   
25,121   

(2,181)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(180)   
(616)   
(218)   
7,050   

—   
10,543   
(123)   
(888)   
—   
3,325   
1,222   
(35)   
(18,787)   

—   
2,383   
24   
(47)   
—   
35   
686   
407   
(6,906)   

$m

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

Other
plans

$m

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

(23)   
—   
—   
—   

Principal1
plan

Other
plans

$m
6,334   
(10)   
(14)   
4   

$m
144 
(150) 
(135) 
(15) 

322   

12 

(218)   

(225)   
(123)   
357   
(227)   
—   
374   
—   
6   
6,808   

9,129   
(30)   
(12)   
(18)   

(190) 

110 
(327) 
17 
10 
— 
38 
81 
143 
78 

2 
(170) 
(161) 
(9) 

(1)   

157   

(5) 

(3)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
(3)   
2   
—   
25   
—   

(1,973)   

176 

(11,505)   
10,543   
(123)   
(888)   
—   
(963)   
—   
14   
6,334   

(2,181) 
2,383 
24 
(47) 
(3) 
(143) 
70 
214 
144 

1  For further details of the principal plan, see page 365.
2  Other movements include contributions by HSBC, contributions by employees, administrative costs and taxes paid by plan.

HSBC expects to make $113m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2024, consisting of $nil for the principal plan and $113m 
for other plans. Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years 
thereafter, are as follows:

Benefits expected to be paid from plans

The principal plan1,2
Other plans1

2024

$m

1,125   
465   

2025

$m

1,160   
473   

2026

$m

1,196   
456   

2027

$m

1,234   
478   

2028

$m

1,273   
476   

2029-2033

$m

6,988 
2,403 

1  The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12.9 years for the principal plan under the disclosure assumptions adopted (2022: 13.2 years) and 10.3 

years for all other plans combined (2022: 10.2 years).
2  For further details of the principal plan, see page 365.

366

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair value of plan assets by asset classes

31 Dec 2023

Quoted
market price
in active
market

No quoted
market price
in active
market

$m

$m

Thereof
HSBC1
$m

15,006   
—   
4,739   
10,300   
—   
—   

—   
(33)   

5,361   
556   
3,623   
90   
415   
(1)   
108   
570   

11,584   
83   
523   
—   
1,061   
830   

9,087   
—   

1,946   
—   
1   
—   
32   
3   
4   
1,906   

547   
—   
—   
—   
547   
—   
—   
—   

39   
3   
5   
—   
—   
—   
—   
31   

Value

$m

26,590   
83   
5,262   
10,300   
1,061   
830   
9,087   
(33)   

7,307   
556   
3,624   
90   
447   
2   
112   
2,476   

31 Dec 2022

Quoted
market price
in active
market

No quoted
market price
in active
market

$m

$m

Thereof
HSBC1
$m

13,915   
—   
4,822   
9,479   
—   
—   
—   
(386)   

5,848   
486   
3,472   
58   
1,007   
(1)   
104   
722   

11,206   
112   
463   
—   
1,203   
842   
8,586   
—   

1,202   
153   
99   
—   
350   
5   
5   
590   

510 
— 
— 
— 
510 
— 
— 
— 

37 
2 
4 
— 
— 
— 
— 
31 

Value

$m

25,121   
112   
5,285   
9,479   
1,203   
842   
8,586   
(386)   

7,050   
639   
3,571   
58   
1,357   
4   
109   
1,312   

The principal plan2
Fair value of plan assets
–  equities3
–  bonds fixed income
–  bonds index-linked
–  derivatives
–  property
–  pooled investment vehicles
–  other
Other plans
Fair value of plan assets
–  equities
–  bonds fixed income
–  bonds index-linked
–  bonds other
–  derivatives
–  property
–  other

1  The fair value of plan assets includes derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc as detailed in Note 37. 
2  For further details of the principal plan, see page 365.
3 

Includes $83m (2022: $112m) in relation to private equities. 

Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions

HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, on the basis of current 
average yields of high-quality (AA-rated or equivalent) debt instruments with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.

Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan1

UK
At 31 Dec 2023
At 31 Dec 2022

Discount rate

Inflation rate (RPI)

Inflation rate (CPI) Rate of increase for pensions Rate of pay increase

%

 4.65 
 4.93 

%

 3.23 
 3.39 

%

 2.67 
 2.84 

%

 3.14 
 3.27 

%

 3.42 
 3.34 

1  For further details of the principal plan, see page 365.

Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 60  for the principal plan1

UK
At 31 Dec 2023
At 31 Dec 2022

Mortality
table

SAPS S32
SAPS S3

Life expectancy at age 60 for
a male member currently:

Life expectancy at age 60 for
a female member currently:

Aged 60

Aged 40

Aged 60

Aged 40

26.2
27.1

27.7
28.6

28.3
28.4

29.8
29.9

1  For further details of the principal plan, see page 365.
2  Self-administered pension scheme (‘SAPS’) S3 table, with different tables and multipliers adopted based on gender, pension amount and member 

status, reflecting the Scheme’s actual mortality experience. Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation’s 
CMI 2022 core projection model with an initial addition to improvement of 0.25% per annum, a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum, a 
0% weighting to 2020 and 2021 mortality experience, and a 25% weighting to 2022 mortality experience reflecting updated long-term view on 
mortality improvements post-pandemic.

The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan1

Discount rate – increase/decrease of 0.25%
Inflation rate (RPI and CPI) – increase/decrease of 0.25%
Pension payments and deferred pensions – increase/decrease of 0.25%
Pay – increase/decrease of 0.25%
Change in mortality – increase/decrease of 1 year

Impact on HBUK section of the 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme obligation2

Financial impact of increase

Financial impact of decrease

2023
$m
(599)   
500   
622   
8   
613   

2022
$m

(582)   
466   
551   
10   
470   

2023
$m
631   
(497)   
(590)   
(6)   
(613)   

2022
$m

612 
(446) 
(519) 
(10) 
(489) 

1  For further details of the principal plan, see page 365.
2   Sensitivities allow for HSBC UK’s convention of rounding pension assumptions during 2023 to the nearest 0.01% (2022: 0.01%).

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

367

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely 
to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to 
significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit 
method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet. The 
methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the prior period.
Directors’ emoluments

Details of Directors’ emoluments, pensions and their interests are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279.

6 Auditor’s remuneration

Audit fees payable to PwC1
Other audit fees payable
Year ended 31 Dec

Fees payable by HSBC to PwC

Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit2
Fees for other services provided to HSBC
–  audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries
–  audit-related assurance services3
–  other assurance services4,5
Year ended 31 Dec

2023
$m
109.8 
2.2
112.0 

2023

$m
24.1   
131.8   
85.7   
26.0   
20.1   
155.9   

2022
$m

97.6
1.6
99.2

2022

$m

21.9   
126.2   
75.7   
26.4   
24.1   
148.1   

2021
$m

88.1
2.0
90.1

2021

$m

19.5 
109.9 
68.6 
18.7 
22.6 
129.4 

1 Audit fees payable to PwC in 2023 included adjustments made to the prior year audit fee after finalisation of the 2022 financial statements. 
2 Fees payable to PwC for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC 

Holdings. They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, which are clearly identifiable 
as being in support of the Group audit opinion.

3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including interim reviews.
4 Including permitted services relating to attestation reports on internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for and used by third-party 

end users, including comfort letters.

5   Includes reviews of PRA regulatory reporting returns.

No fees were payable by HSBC to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services and services related to 
litigation, recruitment and remuneration.

Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to PwC

Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes
Year ended 31 Dec

2023

$000

297   
297   

2022

$000

480   
480   

2021

$000

382 
382 

No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit 
services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and 
remuneration, and information technology.

In addition to the above, the estimated fees paid to PwC by third parties associated with HSBC amounted to $12.3m (2022: $13.1m; 
2021: $6.3m). In these cases, HSBC was connected with the contracting party and may therefore have been involved in appointing PwC. These 
fees arose from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns that 
borrow from HSBC.

Fees payable for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for 
the Group.

7

Tax 

Tax expense

Current tax1
–  for this year
–  adjustments in respect of prior years
Deferred tax
–  origination and reversal of temporary differences
–  effect of changes in tax rates
–  adjustments in respect of prior years
Year ended 31 Dec2

2023

$m
5,718   
5,737   
(19)   
71   
19   
17   
35   
5,789   

2022

$m

2,984   
3,264   
(280)   
(2,175)   
(2,278)   
(293)   
396   
809   

2021

$m

3,250 
3,182 
68 
963 
874 
132 
(43) 
4,213 

1   Current tax included Hong Kong profits tax of $1,328m (2022: $604m; 2021: $813m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries 

assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2022: 16.5%; 2021: 16.5%). 

2   In addition to amounts recorded in the income statement, a tax credit of $41m (2022: credit of $145m) was recorded directly to equity.

368

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tax reconciliation

The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate 
as follows:

Profit before tax
Tax expense
Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2022: 19.0%, 2021: 19.0%)
Impact of differently taxed overseas profits in overseas locations
UK banking surcharge
Items increasing tax charge in 2023:
–  impairment of interest in associate
–  local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 
–  impacts of hyperinflation 
–  other permanent disallowables 
–  bank levy 
–  impact of changes in tax rates 
–  adjustments in respect of prior period 
–  tax impact of sale of French retail banking business 
–  impact of differences between French tax basis and IFRSs
Items reducing tax charge in 2023:
–  non-taxable income and gains
–  effect of profits in associates and joint ventures
–  movements in provisions for uncertain tax positions
–  accounting gain on acquisition of SVB UK
–  deductions for AT1 coupon payments
–  movements in unrecognised deferred tax
Year ended 31 December

2023

$m
30,348 

7,132 
(612) 
350 

705 
419 
348 
227 
112 
17 
16 
— 
— 

(1,189) 
(571) 
(472) 
(442) 
(229) 
(22) 
5,789 

%

 23.5   
 (2.0)   
 1.2   

 2.3   
 1.4   
 1.1   
 0.7   
 0.4   
 0.1   
 0.1   
 —   
 —   

 (3.9)   
 (1.9)   
 (1.6)   
 (1.5)   
 (0.7)   
 (0.1)   
 19.1   

2022

$m

17,058 

3,241 
459 
283 

— 
346 
171 
363 
59 
(293) 
116 
115 
— 

(825) 
(504) 
27 
— 
(246) 
(2,503) 
809 

%

 19.0   
 2.7   
 1.7   

 —   
 2.0   
 1.0   
 2.1   
 0.3   
 (1.7)   
 0.7   
 0.7   
 —   

 (4.8)   
 (3.1)   
 0.2   
 —   
 (1.4)   
 (14.7)   
 4.7   

2021

$m

18,906 

3,592 
280 
332 

— 
360 
68 
414 
93 
132 
25 
(434) 
434 

(641) 
(414) 
15 
— 
(270) 
227 
4,213 

%

 19.0 
 1.5 
 1.8 

 — 
 1.9 
 0.4 
 2.2 
 0.5 
 0.7 
 0.1 
 (2.3) 
 2.3 

 (3.4) 
 (2.2) 
 0.1 
 — 
 (1.4) 
 1.1 
 22.3 

The Group’s profits are taxed at different rates depending on the country or territory in which the profits arise. The key applicable tax rates for 
2023 include Hong Kong (16.5%), the US (21%) and the UK (23.5%). If the Group’s profits were taxed at the statutory rates of the countries in 
which the profits arose, then the tax rate for the year would have been 22.6% (2022: 23.3%). 

The effective tax rate for the year of 19.1% was higher than in the previous year (2022: 4.7%). The effective tax rate for the year was increased 
by 2.3% by the non-taxable impairment of the Group’s interest in BoCom, reduced by 1.6% by the release of provisions for uncertain tax 
positions and reduced by 1.5% by the non-taxable accounting gain on the acquisition of SVB UK. The effective tax rate for 2022 was reduced by 
14.7% as a result of the recognition of previously unrecognised losses in the UK of $2.2bn and France of $0.3bn, in light of improved forecast 
profitability.

On 20 June 2023, legislation was substantively enacted in the UK to introduce the ‘Pillar Two’ global minimum tax model rules of the OECD’s 
Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (’BEPS’) and a UK qualified domestic minimum top-up tax, with effect from 1 January 
2024. Under these rules, a top-up tax liability arises where the effective tax rate of the Group’s operations in a jurisdiction, calculated using 
principles set out in the Pillar Two legislation, is below 15%. Any resulting tax is payable by HSBC Holdings plc, being the Group’s ultimate 
parent, to HMRC. In response to the OECD’s Pillar Two global minimum tax rules, many national governments have announced their intention 
to introduce domestic minimum tax rules that are closely aligned to the OECD’s Pillar Two model rules. Where such qualifying domestic 
minimum tax rules are introduced, they may be expected to have the effect of increasing local tax liabilities to the 15% minimum rate, 
eliminating the top-up tax liability payable in the UK by HSBC Holdings plc in such cases. Based on the Group’s forecasts, top-up tax liabilities 
are expected to arise in approximately 10 jurisdictions as a result of low or 0% statutory tax rates, in particular in respect of the Group’s banking 
operations in Bermuda and the Channel Islands. Additionally, the application of local tax laws in Hong Kong and mainland China, particularly with 
regard to the non-taxation of dividend income and income on government bonds, has typically resulted in effective tax rates of below 15%. This 
is expected to create future top-up tax liabilities in these jurisdictions, which have statutory tax rates of 16.5% and 25%, respectively. The 
application of the Pillar Two global minimum tax rules and the introduction of new domestic minimum tax regimes are currently forecast to 
increase the Group’s annual effective tax rate by around 0.5 and 1.0 percentage points.

Accounting for taxes involves some estimation because tax law is uncertain and its application requires a degree of judgement, which 
authorities may dispute. Liabilities are recognised based on best estimates of the probable outcome, taking into account external advice where 
appropriate. Exposures relating to legacy tax cases were reassessed during 2023, resulting in a credit of $472m to the income statement. We 
do not expect significant liabilities to arise in excess of the amounts provided. HSBC only recognises current and deferred tax assets where 
recovery is probable. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

369

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities

Assets
Liabilities
At 1 Jan 2023
Income statement
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange and other adjustments
At 31 Dec 2023
Assets1
Liabilities1

Assets2
Liabilities2
At 1 Jan 2022
Income statement
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange and other adjustments
At 31 Dec 2022
Assets1
Liabilities1

Loan
impairment
provisions

Unused tax
losses and
tax credits

Financial 
assets at 
FVOCI

Cash flow 
hedges

Retirement 
obligations

$m
1,062   
—   
1,062   
(39)   
—   
135   
1,158   
1,158   
—   

1,151   
—   
1,151   
7   
—   
(96)   
1,062   
1,062   
—   

$m
4,397   
—   
4,397   
102   
—   
45   
4,544   
4,544   
—   

2,001   
—   
2,001   
2,425   
—   
(29)   
4,397   
4,397   
—   

$m
850   
—   
850   
541   
(598)   
83   
876   
876   
—   

382   
—   
382   
(1,127)   
2,281   
(686)   
850   
850   
—   

$m
1,271   
—   
1,271   
1   
(974)   
121   
419   
419   
—   

154   
—   
154   
1   
1,159   
(43)   
1,271   
1,271   
—   

$m

—   
(1,673)   
(1,673)   
(114)   
99   
(126)   
(1,814)   
—   
(1,814)   

—   
(2,819)   
(2,819)   
217   
692   
237   
(1,673)   
—   
(1,673)   

Other

$m
3,048   
(1,567)   
1,481   
(562)   
399   
15   
1,333   
2,933   
(1,600)   

1,744   
(475)   
1,269   
652   
(1,260)   
820   
1,481   
3,048   
(1,567)   

Total

$m
10,628 
(3,240) 
7,388 
(71) 
(1,074) 
273 
6,516 
9,930 
(3,414) 

5,432 
(3,294) 
2,138 
2,175 
2,872 
203 
7,388 
10,628 
(3,240) 

1  After netting off balances within countries, the balances as disclosed in the accounts are as follows: deferred tax assets of $7,754m (2022: $8,360m) 

and deferred tax liabilities of $1,238m (2022: $972m). 

2  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

In applying judgement in recognising deferred tax assets, management has assessed all relevant information, including future business profit 
projections and the track record of meeting forecasts. Management’s assessment of the likely availability of future taxable profits against which 
to recover deferred tax assets is based on the most recent financial forecasts approved by management, which cover a five-year period and are 
extrapolated where necessary, and takes into consideration the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and past business 
performance. When forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years, a number of different scenarios are considered, reflecting different downward 
risk adjustments, in order to assess the sensitivity of our recognition and measurement conclusions in the context of such longer-term 
forecasts.

The Group’s net deferred tax asset of $6.5bn (2022: $7.4bn) included $3.3bn (2022: $4.0bn) of deferred tax assets relating to the UK, $3.1bn 
(2022: $3.3bn) of deferred tax assets relating to the US and a net deferred asset of $0.9bn (2022: $1.0bn) in France. 

The UK deferred tax asset of $3.3bn excluded a $1.9bn deferred tax liability arising on the UK pension scheme surplus, the reversal of which is 
not taken into account when estimating future taxable profits. The UK deferred tax assets are supported by forecasts of taxable profit, also 
taking into consideration the history of profitability in the relevant businesses. The majority of the deferred tax asset relates to tax attributes 
which do not expire and are forecast to be recovered within four years and as such are less sensitive to changes in long-term profit forecasts. 

The net US deferred tax asset of $3.1bn included $1.3bn related to US tax losses, of which $1.0bn expire in 10 to 15 years. Management 
expects the US deferred tax asset to be substantially recovered within 14 years, with the majority recovered in the first nine years.

The net deferred tax asset in France of $0.9bn included $0.7bn related to tax losses, which are expected to be substantially recovered within 12 
years. 

Unrecognised deferred tax

The amount of gross temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance 
sheet was $10.4bn (2022: $9.2bn). This amount included unused US state tax losses of $4.0bn (2022: $4.1bn) which are forecast to expire 
before they are recovered and unused UK tax losses of $4.5bn (2022: $3.5bn), which arose prior to 1 April 2017 and can only be recovered 
against future taxable profits of HSBC Holdings. No deferred tax was recognised on these losses due to the absence of convincing evidence 
regarding the availability of sufficient future taxable profits against which to recover them. Deferred tax asset recognition is reassessed at each 
balance sheet date based on the available evidence. Of the total amounts unrecognised, $5.1bn (2022: $3.6bn) had no expiry date, $0.5bn 
(2022: $1.2bn) was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining balance is expected to expire after 10 years.

Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where HSBC is able to control the timing of 
remittance or other realisation and where remittance or realisation is not probable in the foreseeable future. The aggregate temporary 
differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax liabilities arising on investments in subsidiaries and branches was $14.4bn (2022: $11.7bn) and 
the corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability was $0.7bn (2022: $0.7bn).

370

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 Dividends

Dividends to shareholders of the parent company

Dividends paid on ordinary shares
In respect of previous year:
–  second interim dividend
In respect of current year:
–  first interim dividend
–  second interim dividend
–  third interim dividend
Total
Total dividends on preference shares classified as equity (paid quarterly)1
Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 
Dividends to shareholders 

2023

2022

2021

Per
share

$

Total

$m

Per
share

$

Total

$m

Per
share

$

Total

$m

0.23   

4,589   

0.18   

3,576   

0.15   

3,059 

0.10   
0.10   
0.10   
0.53   
—   

2,001   
1,956   
1,946   
10,492   
—   

1,101 
11,593 

0.09   
—   
—   
0.27   
—   

1,754   
—   
—   
5,330   
—   

1,214 
6,544 

0.07   
—   
—   
0.22   
4.99   

1,421 
— 
— 
4,480 
7 
1,303 
5,790 

1   HSBC Holdings called $1,450m 6.20% non-cumulative US dollar preference shares on 10 December 2020. The security was redeemed and cancelled 

on 13 January 2021.

Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 

Perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities1
$2,000m issued at 6.875%2
$2,250m issued at 6.375%
$2,450m issued at 6.375%
$3,000m issued at 6.000%
$2,350m issued at 6.250%3
$1,800m issued at 6.500%
$1,500m issued at 4.600%
$1,000m issued at 4.000%4
$1,000m issued at 4.700%5
$2,000m issued at 8.000%6
€1,500m issued at 5.250%7
€1,000m issued at 6.000%8
€1,250m issued at 4.750%
£1,000m issued at 5.875%
SGD1,000m issued at 4.700%9
SGD750m issued at 5.000%10
Total

2023

First call date

Per security

Jun 2021  
Sep 2024  
Mar 2025  
May 2027  
Mar 2023  
Mar 2028  
Dec 2030  
Mar 2026  
Mar 2031  
Mar 2028  
Sep 2022  
Sep 2023  
Jul 2029  
Sep 2026  
Jun 2022  
Sep 2023  

$68.750   
$63.750   
$63.750   
$60.000   
$62.500   
$65.000   
$46.000   
$40.000   
$47.000   
$80.000   
€52.500   
€60.000   
€47.500   
£58.750   
SGD47.000   
SGD50.000   

Total
$m

—   
143   
156   
180   
52   
117   
69   
40   
47   
80   
—   
56   
64   
72   
—   
25   
1,101   

2022
Total
$m

—   
143   
156   
180   
147   
117   
69   
40   
47   
—   
76   
63   
65   
70   
14   
27   
1,214   

2021
Total
$m

69 
143 
156 
180 
147 
117 
69 
20 
24 
— 
93 
70 
72 
80 
35 
28 
1,303 

1 Discretionary coupons are paid semi-annually, based on the denominations of each security.
2 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 15 April 2021 and was redeemed and cancelled on 1 June 2021.
3 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 30 January 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 23 March 2023. 
4 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 

9 September 2026.

5 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 

9 September 2031.

6 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 7 March 2023. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 

7 September 2028.

7 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 9 August 2022 and was redeemed and cancelled on 16 September 2022.
8 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 29 September 2023.
9 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 4 May 2022 and was redeemed and cancelled on 8 June 2022.
10 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 25 September 2023.

On 21 February 2024, the Directors approved a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 of $0.31 per 
ordinary share, a distribution of approximately $5,913m. The fourth interim dividend for 2023 will be payable on 25 April 2024 to holders on the 
Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register on 8 March 2024. No liability 
was recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2023.

On 4 January 2024, HSBC paid a coupon on its €1,250m subordinated capital securities, representing a total distribution of €30m ($33m). No 
liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2023 in respect of this coupon payment. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

371

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Earnings per share

9
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held. Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the 
basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of 
dilutive potential ordinary shares. 

Basic and diluted earnings per share

Basic2
Effect of dilutive potential 
ordinary shares
Diluted2

2023

Number 
of shares

Profit

$m (millions)

22,432   

19,478   

Per
 share

$
1.15   

2022¹

Number
of shares

(millions)

Profit

$m

Per
share

$

2021

Number
of shares

Profit

$m

(millions)

14,346   

19,849   

0.72   

12,607   

20,197   

Per
share

$

0.62 

122 

137 

105 

22,432   

19,600   

1.14   

14,346   

19,986   

0.72   

12,607   

20,302   

0.62 

1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted).

The number of anti-dilutive employee share options excluded from the weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares was 
23 million (2022: 9.4 million; 2021: 8.6 million). 

10 Segmental analysis
The Group Chief Executive, supported by the rest of the Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’), is considered the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’) for the purposes of identifying the Group’s reportable segments. Global business results are assessed by the CODM on the basis of 
constant currency performance that removes the effects of currency translation from reported results. Therefore, we disclose these results on a 
constant currency basis as required by IFRS Accounting Standards. The 2022 and 2021 income statements are converted at the average rates of 
exchange for 2023, and the balance sheets at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 at the prevailing rates of exchange on 31 December 
2023. 

Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and 
expense. These allocations include the costs of certain support services and global functions to the extent that they can be meaningfully 
attributed to global businesses. While such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they necessarily involve a degree 
of subjectivity. Costs that are not allocated to global businesses are included in Corporate Centre.

Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding along with inter-company and inter-
business line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of actual recharges. 
The intra-Group elimination items for the global businesses are presented in Corporate Centre.
Resegmentation

In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 
needs, a portfolio of our Global Banking customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from Global Banking and Markets to 
Commercial Banking for reporting purposes. Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. Similar smaller transfers from Global 
Banking and Markets to Commercial Banking were also undertaken within our entities in Australia and Indonesia, where comparative data have 
not been re-presented.

Our global businesses

We provide a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to our customers in our three global businesses. The products and 
services offered to customers are organised by these global businesses.

– Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’) provides a full range of retail banking and wealth products to our customers from personal banking to 

ultra high net worth individuals. Typically, customer offerings include retail banking products, such as current and savings accounts, 
mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and international payment services. We also provide wealth management 
services, including insurance and investment products, global asset management services, investment management and private wealth 
solutions for customers with more sophisticated and international requirements. 

– Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial customers, including small 
and medium-sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables 
finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions (payments and cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and 
investments. CMB also offers customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, such as Global Banking and 
Markets, which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services.

– Global Banking and Markets (‘GBM’) provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private 

investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities, including financing, advisory and 
transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, equities, money markets and securities 
services, and principal investment activities.

372

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
HSBC constant currency profit before tax and balance sheet data

Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment charges2
–  external
–  inter-segment
–  of which: net interest income/(expense)4
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Net operating income/(expense)
Total operating expenses
Operating profit/(loss)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures less impairment5
Constant currency profit before tax

Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio
Constant currency balance sheet data
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Total external assets
Customer accounts

Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and 
other credit impairment charges2
–  external
–  inter-segment
–  of which: net interest income/(expense)4
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Net operating income/(expense)
Total operating expenses
Operating profit/(loss)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Constant currency profit/(loss) before tax

Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio
Constant currency balance sheet data
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Total external assets
Customer accounts

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

$m

Commercial
Banking3
$m

2023

Global
Banking and
Markets3
$m

Corporate 
Centre

$m

Total

$m

27,275   

19,107   
8,168   
20,492   
(1,058)   
26,217   
(14,738)   
11,479   
65   
11,544   

%
 38.0 
 54.0 
$m
454,878   
551   
937,079   
804,863   

22,867   

24,209   
(1,342)   
17,147   
(2,062)   
20,805   
(7,524)   
13,281   
(1)   
13,280   

%
 43.8 
 32.9 
$m
309,422   
28   
632,406   
475,666   

16,115   

(199)   

66,058 

28,021   
(11,906)   
7,141   
(326)   
15,789   
(9,865)   
5,924   
—   
5,924   
%
 19.5 
 61.2 
$m
173,966   
111   
1,331,395   
330,522   

2022¹

(5,279)   
5,080   
(8,984)   
(1)   
(200)   
57   
(143)   
(257)   
(400)   
%
 (1.3) 
 28.6 
$m
269   
26,654   
137,797   
596   

66,058 
— 
35,796 
(3,447) 
62,611 
(32,070) 
30,541 
(193) 
30,348 
%
 100.0 
 48.5 
$m
938,535 
27,344 
3,038,677 
1,611,647 

20,884   

16,283   

14,602   

(1,898)   

49,871 

18,299   
2,585   
15,971   
(1,186)   
19,698   
(14,248)   
5,450   
30   
5,480   
%
 33.1 
 68.2 
$m
434,122   
514   
893,867   
793,310   

16,973   
(690)   
11,763   
(1,862)   
14,421   
(6,894)   
7,527   
—   
7,527   
%
 45.6 
 42.3 
$m
316,863   
33   
620,193   
472,424   

18,744   
(4,142)   
4,696   
(573)   
14,029   
(9,338)   
4,691   
(2)   
4,689   
%
 28.3 
 64.0 
$m
190,202   
93   
1,341,575   
332,303   

(4,145)   
2,247   
(2,668)   
(9)   
(1,907)   
(1,822)   
(3,729)   
2,574   
(1,155)   
%
 (7.0) 
 (96.0) 
$m
361   
28,143   
152,049   
458   

49,871 
— 
29,762 
(3,630) 
46,241 
(32,302) 
13,939 
2,602 
16,541 
%
 100.0 
 64.8 
$m
941,548 
28,783 
3,007,684 
1,598,495 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

373

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

HSBC constant currency profit before tax and balance sheet data (continued)

Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and 
other credit impairment charges2
–  external
–  inter-segment
–  of which: net interest income/(expense)4
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
Net operating income/(expense)
Total operating expenses
Operating profit/(loss)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Constant currency profit/(loss) before tax

Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio
Constant currency balance sheet data
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Total external assets
Customer accounts

Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking

Commercial
Banking

2021

Global
Banking and
Markets

Corporate
Centre

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

20,972   

12,699   

13,086   

(678)   

46,079 

20,787   
185   
13,445   
195   
21,167   
(15,338)   
5,829   
36   
5,865   
%
 33.7 
 73.1 
$m
473,304   
493   
905,024   
834,767   

12,685   
14   
8,467   
339   
13,038   
(6,691)   
6,347   
1   
6,348   
%
 36.5 
 52.7 
$m
340,603   
31   
605,696   
495,492   

14,533   
(1,447)   
3,419   
221   
13,307   
(9,255)   
4,052   
—   
4,052   
%
 23.3 
 70.7 
$m
196,193   
101   
1,171,909   
322,306   

(1,926)   
1,248   
(714)   
3   
(675)   
(960)   
(1,635)   
2,770   
1,135   
%
 6.5 
 (141.6) 
$m
712   
27,036   
178,074   
622   

46,079 
— 
24,617 
758 
46,837 
(32,244) 
14,593 
2,807 
17,400 
%
 100.0 
 70.0 
$m
1,010,812 
27,661 
2,860,703 
1,653,187 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

2   Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
3 

In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ respective 
needs, a portfolio of our customers within our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for reporting purposes. Comparative data 
have been re-presented accordingly.

4   Net interest expense recognised in Corporate Centre includes $8.7bn (2022: $2.5bn; 2021: undisclosed) of interest expense in relation to the internal 

cost to fund trading and fair value net assets; and the funding cost of foreign exchange swaps in our Markets Treasury function. In the second quarter 
of 2023, we implemented a consistent reporting approach across the most material entities that contribute to our trading and fair value net assets, 
which resulted in an increase to the associated funding costs reported through the intersegment elimination in Corporate Centre.

5   Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 391.

Reported external net operating income is attributed to countries and territories on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for 
reporting the results or advancing the funds:

Reported external net operating income/(expense) by country/territory2
–  UK
–  Hong Kong
–  US
–  France
–  other countries/territories

2023

$m
66,058   
11,027   
20,185   
3,816   
4,208   
26,822   

2022¹

$m

50,620   
11,710   
15,454   
3,893   
(177)   
19,740   

2021

$m

49,552 
10,909 
14,245 
3,795 
2,179 
18,424 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

2  Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

Constant currency results reconciliation

2023

Reported 
and 
constant 
currency

$m

66,058   
(3,447)   
(32,070)   

(193)   

30,348   

2022¹

2021

Constant 
currency

Currency 
translation

Reported

Constant 
currency

Currency 
translation

Reported

$m

49,871   
(3,630)   
(32,302)   

2,602   

16,541   

$m

(749)   
(46)   
399   

(121)   

(517)   

$m

50,620   
(3,584)   
(32,701)   

2,723   

17,058   

$m

46,079   
758   
(32,244)   

2,807   

17,400   

$m

(3,473)   
(170)   
2,376   

(239)   

(1,506)   

$m

49,552 
928 
(34,620) 

3,046 

18,906 

Revenue2
ECL
Operating expenses
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 
less impairment3
Profit before tax

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

2   Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
3   Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 391.

374

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constant currency balance sheet reconciliation

Loans and advances to customers (net)
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Total external assets
Customer accounts

2023

Reported and 
constant 
currency
$m

938,535   
27,344   
3,038,677   
1,611,647   

2022¹

Currency 
translation
$m

(17,987)   
471   
(58,398)   
(28,192)   

Constant 
currency
$m

941,548   
28,783   
3,007,684   
1,598,495   

Reported
$m

923,561   
29,254   
2,949,286   
1,570,303   

Constant 
currency
$m

1,010,812   
27,661   
2,860,703   
1,653,187   

2021

Currency 
translation
$m

35,002   
1,948   
97,236   
57,387   

Reported
$m

1,045,814 
29,609 
2,957,939 
1,710,574 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.

Notable items

Year ended 31 Dec
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2
Fair value movements on financial instruments3
Restructuring and other related costs
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
Impairment of non-financial items
Restructuring and other related costs4
Impairment of interests in associates5

2023

$m

2022

$m

2021

$m

1,298   
14   
—   
(977)   

(321)   
—   
136   
(3,000)   

(2,737)   
(618)   
(247)   
—   

(18)   
—   
(2,882)   
—   

— 
(221) 
(307) 
— 

— 
(587) 
(1,836) 
— 

Includes the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.

1 
2   Includes the provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3   Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4   Amounts in 2023 relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
5   Relates to an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 391.

11 Trading assets

Treasury and other eligible bills
Debt securities
Equity securities
Trading securities
Loans and advances to banks1
Loans and advances to customers1
Year ended 31 Dec

2023

$m
24,433   
106,108   
123,663   
254,204   
9,761   
25,194   
289,159   

2022

$m

22,897 
78,126 
88,026 
189,049 
8,769 
20,275 
218,093 

1  Loans and advances to banks and customers include reverse repos, stock borrowing and other accounts.

12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value
Control framework

Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the 
risk taker.

Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price 
determination or validation is used. For inactive markets, HSBC sources alternative market information, with greater weight given to information 
that is considered to be more relevant and reliable. Examples of the factors considered are price observability, instrument comparability, 
consistency of data sources, underlying data accuracy and timing of prices.

For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework includes development or validation by independent support functions 
of the model logic, inputs, model outputs and adjustments. Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence before becoming 
operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis. 

Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process and are disaggregated into high-level categories including 
portfolio changes, market movements and other fair value adjustments.

The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GBM. GBM’s fair value governance structure comprises its Finance function, 
Valuation Committees and a Valuation Committee Review Group. Finance is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and 
ensuring fair values are in compliance with accounting standards. The fair values are reviewed by the Valuation Committees, which consist of 
independent support functions. These committees are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review Group, which considers all material 
subjective valuations.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

375

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Financial liabilities measured at fair value

In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific 
instrument. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are 
either based on quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for 
similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread that is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The 
change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each 
reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer. Then, 
using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using an appropriate market discount curve. The difference in the valuations is attributable to 
the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.

Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instruments are reported as financial liabilities designated at fair value. The credit spread 
applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes. 

Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC, recorded in other comprehensive income, reverse over 
the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.

Fair value hierarchy

Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy:

– Level 1 – valuation technique using quoted market price. These are financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in 

active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.

– Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs. These are financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active 
markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all 
significant inputs are observable.

– Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs. These are financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where 

one or more significant inputs are unobservable.

Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation

Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec
Assets
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
Derivatives
Financial investments
Liabilities
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives

2023

20221

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

  202,020   

82,833   

4,306    289,159    148,592   

64,684   

4,817    218,093 

27,030   

63,825   

19,788    110,643   

23,146   

59,548   

17,407    100,101 

931    226,714   
76,591   

  215,228   

2,069    229,714   
2,618    294,437    181,659   

2,917    279,278   
71,040   

1,964    284,159 
2,961    255,660 

53,354   

19,318   
1,266    129,232   
1,918    230,285   

478   

73,150   
10,928    141,426   
2,569    234,772   

44,787   

27,092   
1,125    115,764   
2,399    280,443   

474   

72,353 
10,432    127,321 
2,920    285,762 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

The table below provides the fair value levelling of assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups that have been classified as held for sale 
in accordance with IFRS 5. For further details, see Note 23.

Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation – assets and liabilities held for sale

Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec
Assets
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
Derivatives
Financial investments
Liabilities
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives

2023

2022

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

2,403   

61   

—   

2,465   

2,932   

244   

—   

3,176 

—   

—   
9,357   

1,352   
—   
—   

15   

528   
—   

64   
2,370   
615   

49   

—   
28   

—   
—   
—   

64   

528   
9,385   

1,417   
2,370   
615   

—   

—   
11,184   

14   

866   
—   

2,572   
—   
—   

182   
3,523   
813   

47   

—   
—   

—   
—   
—   

61 

866 
11,184 

2,754 
3,523 
813 

376

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values

Financial
investments

Trading
assets

$m

$m

Assets

Designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured 

at fair value Derivatives

Liabilities
Designated
at fair 
value Derivatives

Trading
liabilities

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

13,200   
9,975   

8,066   
5,758   

4,721   
8,208   

5,284   
5,964   

1,709   
2,477   

2,565   
3,340   

—   
—   

—   
—   

54   
309   

113   
233   

—   
—   

—   
—   

— 
— 

— 
— 

At 31 Dec 2023
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1
At 31 Dec 2022
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1

Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period. Transfers into and out of 
levels of the fair value hierarchy are primarily attributable to observability of valuation inputs and price transparency.
Fair value adjustments

We adopt the use of fair value adjustments when we take into consideration additional factors not incorporated within the valuation model that 
would otherwise be considered by a market participant. We classify fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority 
of these adjustments relate to GBM. Movements in the amount of fair value adjustments do not necessarily translate in equivalent movements 
of profits or losses within the income statement, as these movements can be compensated by other related profits or loss effects. For 
example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required. Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the 
related positions are unwound, but this may not result in profit or loss.

Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments

Type of adjustment
Risk-related 
–  bid-offer 
–  uncertainty 
–  credit valuation adjustment
–  debit valuation adjustment
–  funding fair value adjustment
Model-related 
–  model limitation 
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves)
At 31 Dec

2023

GBM

$m

Corporate
Centre

$m

2022

GBM

$m

Corporate
Centre

$m

692   
414   
75   
164   
(54)   
93   
63   
63   
86   
841   

41   
—   
3   
35   
—   
3   
—   
—   
—   
41   

650   
426   
86   
245   
(175)   
68   
61   
61   
97   
808   

40 
— 
— 
35 
— 
5 
— 
— 
— 
40 

The increase in fair value adjustments was predominantly driven by the reduction in the debit valuation adjustment including a consideration of 
the overlap with the funding fair value adjustment. This was partly offset by reductions from changes to exposure, and tightening of credit and 
liquidity market spreads.

Bid-offer

IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ requires the use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value. Valuation 
models will typically generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if 
substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.

Uncertainty

Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data and/or the choice of model itself may be more subjective. In these 
circumstances, an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that market participants would adopt more conservative values for 
uncertain parameters and/or model assumptions than those used in HSBC’s valuation model.

Credit and debit valuation adjustments 

The credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) is an adjustment to the valuation of over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivative contracts to reflect the possibility 
that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions.

The debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that HSBC may 
default, and that it may not pay the full market value of the transactions. The DVA considers the overlap with the funding fair value adjustment. 

HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each legal entity, and for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure. With the exception 
of central clearing parties, all third-party counterparties are included in the CVA and DVA calculations, and these adjustments are not netted 
across Group entities. 

HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to HSBC’s 
expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC 
calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the 
counterparty to HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the 
potential exposure.

For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology, which incorporates a range of potential exposures over the life of the portfolio, to 
calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants, such as counterparty netting 
agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

377

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk is an adverse correlation between the counterparty’s 
probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction. The risk can either be general, perhaps related to the currency 
of the issuer country, or specific to the transaction concerned. When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to 
reflect this risk in the valuation.

Funding fair value adjustment

The funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’) is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of 
any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio. The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation 
methodology, where available, and is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure, such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty. 

Model limitation

Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplified set of assumptions that do not capture all current and future 
material market characteristics. In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.

Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves)

Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable 
inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed in Note 1.
Fair value valuation bases

Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – Level 3

Assets

Designated 
and otherwise 
mandatorily 
measured at 
fair value 
through profit 

or loss Derivatives

Financial 
investments

Trading 
assets

$m

$m

$m

$m

Liabilities

Trading 
liabilities

Designated 
at fair 
value Derivatives

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Total

$m

Private equity including strategic 
investments 
Asset-backed securities 
Structured notes 
Other derivatives 
Other portfolios 
At 31 Dec 2023

Private equity including strategic 
investments 
Asset-backed securities 
Structured notes 
Other derivatives 
Other portfolios 
At 31 Dec 2022

507   

309   
—   
—   
1,802   
2,618   

647   

438   
—   
—   
1,876   
2,961   

7   

128   
—   
—   
4,171   
4,306   

19   

208   
—   
—   
4,590   
4,817   

17,640   

8   
3   
—   
2,137   
19,788   

15,653   

95   
—   
—   
1,659   
17,407   

—    18,154   

—   
—   
2,069   
—   

445   
3   
2,069   
8,110   
2,069    28,781   

—    16,319   

—   
—   
1,964   
—   

741   
—   
1,964   
8,125   
1,964    27,149   

—   

—   
—   
—   
478   
478   

92   

—   
—   
—   
382   
474   

1   

—   

1 

—   
10,331   
—   
596   
10,928   

—   

—   
10,432   
—   
—   
10,432   

—   
— 
—    10,331 
2,569 
1,074 
2,569    13,975 

2,569   
—   

—   

92 

—   
— 
—    10,432 
2,920 
382 
2,920    13,826 

2,920   
—   

Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses. Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain ‘other 
derivatives’ and predominantly all Level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy positions. HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.

Private equity including strategic investments

The fair value of a private equity investment (including strategic investments) is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial 
position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors; by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market; 
the price at which similar companies have changed ownership; or from published net asset values (‘NAV’) received. If necessary, adjustments 
are made to the NAV of funds to obtain the best estimate of fair value.

Asset-backed securities

While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of the asset-backed securities (‘ABSs’), valuation models are used to 
substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required. For 
certain ABSs, such as residential mortgage-backed securities, the valuation uses an industry standard model with assumptions relating to 
prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is 
benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.

Structured notes

The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded 
derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives. These structured notes comprise principally equity-linked notes 
issued by HSBC, which provide the counterparty with a return linked to the performance of equity securities and other portfolios. 

Examples of the unobservable parameters include long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, and interest and foreign 
exchange rates.

Derivatives

OTC derivative valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no arbitrage’ principles. For many vanilla 
derivative products, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry. For more complex derivative products, there may be some 
differences in market practice. Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices 
available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but 
can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.

378

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy

Movement in Level 3 financial instruments

Assets

Designated and 
otherwise 
mandatorily 
measured at fair 
value through 

profit or loss Derivatives

Financial 
investments

Trading 
assets

Liabilities

Trading 
liabilities

Designated 
at fair 
value Derivatives

$m
2,961   
(44)   

$m
4,817   
266   

$m
17,407   
921   

$m
1,964   
692   

$m
474   
75   

$m
10,432   
97   

$m
2,920 
910 

—   

266   

—   

692   

75   

97   

910 

—   

(44)   

—   

—   

28   

108   

(44)   
72   
353   
—   
(290)   
(352)   
(662)   
624   
2,618   

—   
108   
2,276   
2   
(2,478)   
(872)   
(922)   
1,109   
4,306   

—   

(152)   

—   

(152)   

921   

—   

87   

—   
87   
3,555   
—   
(658)   
(1,886)   
(156)   
518   
19,788   

82   

—   

—   

—   

81   

—   
81   
—   
—   
—   
(1,018)   
(240)   
590   
2,069   

737   

737   

—   

—   

24   

—   
24   
291   
2   
(320)   
(74)   
(45)   
51   
478   

—   

—   

—   

—   

523   

335   
188   
—   
5,389   
(2)   
(3,258)   
(2,881)   
628   
10,928   

— 

— 

111 

— 
111 
— 
— 
— 
(1,565) 
(358) 
551 
2,569 

(433)   

(903) 

—   

(903) 

—   

—   

82   

—   

—   

(433)   

— 

3,389   
(12)   
3,377   
(4)   

2,662   
—   
2,662   
(245)   

14,238   
1,468   
15,706   
132   

2,478   
—   
2,478   
390   

785   
—   
785   
(52)   

7,880   
—   
7,880   
(1,334)   

3,088 
— 
3,088 
1,014 

—   

(245)   

—   

390   

(52)   

—   

1,014 

—   

(4)   

(325)   

(202)   
(123)   
1,048   
1   
(240)   
(464)   
(489)   
57   
2,961   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(137)   

—   
(137)   
3,436   
—   
(1,102)   
(1,273)   
(442)   
1,918   
4,817   

(100)   

(100)   

132   

—   

(217)   

—   
(217)   
4,410   
—   
(801)   
(1,883)   
(76)   
136   
17,407   

—   

—   

(219)   

—   
(219)   
—   
—   
—   
(918)   
(409)   
642   
1,964   

(158)   

707   

—   

707   

—   

(1,334)   

—   

—   

(345)   

82   
(427)   
—   
4,183   
(94)   
182   
(1,296)   
1,256   
10,432   

(11)   

—   
(11)   
178   
8   
(152)   
(644)   
(18)   
380   
474   

2   

2   

— 

— 

(226) 

— 
(226) 
— 
— 
— 
(993) 
(632) 
669 
2,920 

100   

2,779 

—   

2,779 

—   

—   

(158)   

—   

—   

100   

— 

At 1 Jan 2023
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
–  net income/(losses) from financial instruments held 

for trading or managed on a fair value basis

–  changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 
loss

–  gains less losses from financial investments at fair 

value through other comprehensive income

Total gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive 
income (‘OCI’)1
–  financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)
–  exchange differences 
Purchases 
New issuances 
Sales 
Settlements 
Transfers out 
Transfers in 
At 31 Dec 2023
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 Dec 2023
–  net income/(losses) from financial instruments held 

for trading or managed on a fair value basis

–  changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 
loss

At 1 Jan 2022
IFRS 17 impacts
At 1 Jan 2022 (as restated)
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
–  net income/(losses) from financial instruments held 

for trading or managed on a fair value basis

–  changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 
loss

–  gains less losses from financial investments at fair 

value through other comprehensive income

Total gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive 
income (‘OCI’)1 
–  financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)
–  exchange differences 
Purchases 
New issuances 
Sales 
Settlements 
Transfers out 
Transfers in 
At 31 Dec 2022
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 Dec 2022
–  net income/(losses) from financial instruments held 

for trading or managed on a fair value basis

–  changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 
loss

1 

Included in ‘financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)’ in the current year and ‘exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.

Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period. Transfers into and out of 
levels of the fair value hierarchy are primarily attributable to observability of valuation inputs and price transparency. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

379

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible 
alternatives

Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions

2023

2022

Reflected in profit or loss
Un-
favourable
changes

Favourable
changes

Reflected in OCI

Favourable
changes

Un-
favourable
changes

Reflected in profit or loss
Un-
favourable
changes

Favourable
changes

Reflected in OCI

Favourable
changes

Un-
favourable
changes

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

492   

(531)   

—   

—   

264   

(291)   

—   

1,092   

13   
1,597   

(1,100)   

(12)   
(1,643)   

—   

61   
61   

—   

(66)   
(66)   

981   

11   
1,256   

(978)   

(11)   
(1,280)   

—   

65   
65   

$m

— 

— 

(55) 
(55) 

Derivatives, trading assets and trading 
liabilities1 
Financial assets and liabilities designated 
and otherwise mandatorily measured at 
fair value through profit or loss
Financial investments
At 31 Dec

1 

‘Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities’ are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these instruments are risk-managed. 

The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval. Methodologies take 
account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.

When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most 
favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments

The following table lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments and provides the range of those inputs at 31 December 2023.

Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations 

Fair value

Assets Liabilities Key valuation
$m

techniques

$m

Key unobservable
inputs

2023
Full range
of inputs
Lower Higher

2022
Full range
of inputs
Lower Higher

Private equity including strategic 
investments 
Asset-backed securities 
–  collateralised loan/debt obligation
–  other ABSs 
Structured notes 

–  equity-linked notes 

–  Foreign exchange-linked notes 
–  other 
Derivatives 
–  interest rate derivatives
   securitisation swaps 

   long-dated swaptions 
   other 
–  Foreign exchange derivatives

   Foreign exchange options 
   other 
–  equity derivatives
   long-dated single stock options 
   other 
–  credit derivatives
Other portfolios 
–  repurchase agreements
–  bonds
–  other1
At 31 Dec 2023

  18,154   

1  See below

See below

445   
44  
401   

3   

3   

— 
—  Market proxy 
—  Market proxy

10,331 

7,054 

Model – Option model 
Model – Option model 

—   
—   

1,733  Model – Option model 
1,544 

Bid quotes 
Bid quotes

— 
— 

94  
220  

— 
— 

92
99

Equity volatility 
Equity correlation 
Foreign exchange 
volatility 

6% 154%
34% 100%

6% 142%
99%

32%

1%

34%

3%

37%

2,069   
864   
146   

57   

661   
308   

2,569   
784   
136  Model – Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 

69  Model – Option model 

Interest rate 
volatility 

5%

10%

5%

10%

11%

37%

8%

53%

579 
427 

255   

356  Model – Option model 

Foreign exchange 
volatility

1%

31%

1%

46%

53   
600   
391   
209   
297   
8,110   
1,090   
3,278   
3,742   
  28,781   

71 
981 
609  Model – Option model 
372 
377 
1,074 

Equity volatility

6% 110%

7% 153%

310  Model – Discounted cash flow Interest rate curve

1  Market proxy

Mid quotes

3%
— 

8%
101  

1%
— 

9%
102

763 
13,975 

1 

‘Other’ includes a range of smaller asset holdings.

The range of values above shows the highest and lowest unobservable inputs that have been used to value significant Level 3 exposures and 
reflects the diversity of the underlying financial instruments in scope and subsequent differentiation in pricing.

380

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private equity including strategic investments

Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each private equity holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs. 
The valuation approach includes using a range of inputs that include company-specific financials, traded comparable companies multiples, 
published net asset values and qualitative assumptions, which are not directly comparable or quantifiable.

Prepayment rates

Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date. They vary 
according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of evidence, 
such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macroeconomic modelling.

Market proxy

Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments with 
common characteristics. In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of 
instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.

Volatility

Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price. It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and 
maturity of the option. Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from observable data. The 
range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.

Correlation

Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market variables and is expressed as a number between minus one and one. It is 
used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market variable. There is a wide range of 
instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations and cross-asset correlations is 
used. In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy 
correlations and examination of historical price relationships. The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide 
variation in correlation inputs by market variable pair.

Credit spread

Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality. In a discounted cash flow 
model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset. Credit spreads may 
be implied from market prices and may not be observable in more illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs

Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other. As described above, market variables may be 
correlated. This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events. 
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables on the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBC’s net risk position in respect of each variable.
HSBC Holdings

Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value

Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2
Assets at 31 Dec
–  derivatives 
–  designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
Liabilities at 31 Dec
–  designated at fair value 
–  derivatives 

2023

$m

2022

$m

3,344   
59,879   

43,638   
6,090   

3,801 
52,322 

32,123 
6,922 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

381

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value

Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation

At 31 Dec 2023
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments – at amortised cost
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities

At 31 Dec 20221
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments – at amortised cost
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities

Fair value

Carrying
amount

Quoted market
price Level 1

Observable
inputs Level 2

Significant
unobservable
inputs Level 3

$m

$m

$m

$m

112,902   
938,535   
252,217   
148,326   

73,163   
1,611,647   
172,100   
93,917   
24,954   

104,475   
923,561   
253,754   
109,066   

66,722   
1,570,303   
127,747   
78,149   
22,290   

2   
—   
—   
115,383   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

4   
—   
—   
84,087   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

111,263   
13,258   
252,243   
30,765   

73,176   
1,611,795   
172,081   
93,196   
27,151   

103,641   
8,791   
253,668   
21,850   

66,831   
1,570,209   
127,500   
76,640   
22,723   

1,479   
911,124   
—   
440   

—   
—   
—   
706   
—   

814   
903,107   
—   
475   

—   
—   
—   
381   
—   

Total

$m

112,744 
924,382 
252,243 
146,588 

73,176 
1,611,795 
172,081 
93,902 
27,151 

104,459 
911,898 
253,668 
106,412 

66,831 
1,570,209 
127,500 
77,021 
22,723 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the year ended 31 December 2021 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis. 

Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation – assets and disposal groups held for sale

At 31 Dec 2023
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments – at amortised cost
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities

At 31 Dec 2022
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments – at amortised cost
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities

Fair value

Carrying 
amount

Quoted market 
price Level 1

Observable 
inputs Level 2

Significant 
unobservable 
inputs Level 3

$m

$m

$m

$m

10,487   
73,376   
2,723   
7,624   

78   
85,950   
2,768   
9,084   
8   

253   
80,687   
4,646   
6,165   

64   
85,274   
3,266   
12,928   
8   

—   
—   
—   
7,530   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   
6,042   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

10,487   
90   
2,723   
—   

78   
86,475   
2,768   
8,820   
7   

257   
111   
4,646   
—   

64   
85,303   
3,266   
12,575   
7   

—   
72,200   
—   
5   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
78,048   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

Total

$m

10,487 
72,290 
2,723 
7,535 

78 
86,475 
2,768 
8,820 
7 

257 
78,159 
4,646 
6,042 

64 
85,303 
3,266 
12,575 
7 

Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently. Accordingly, 
their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. They include cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of 
collection from and transmission to other banks, Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in 
circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.

382

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Valuation

Fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. This may be different from the theoretical economic value attributed from an instrument’s cash 
flows over its expected future life. Our valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market 
prices are available may differ from those of other companies.

Loans and advances to banks and customers

To determine the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers, loans are segregated into portfolios of similar characteristics. Fair 
values are based on observable market transactions, when available. When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation 
models incorporating a range of input assumptions. These assumptions may include: value estimates from third-party brokers reflecting over-
the-counter trading activity; forward-looking discounted cash flow models, taking account of expected customer prepayment rates, using 
assumptions that HSBC believes are consistent with those that would be used by market participants in valuing such loans; recent origination 
pricing for similar loans; and trading inputs from other market participants including observed primary and secondary trades. From time to time, 
we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of loans.

The fair value of loans reflects expected credit losses at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ expectations of credit 
losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date. For credit-impaired loans, 
fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.

Financial investments

The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted financial investments are 
determined using valuation techniques that incorporate the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.

Deposits by banks and customer accounts

The fair values of on-demand deposits are approximated by their carrying amount. For deposits with longer-term maturities, fair values are 
estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.

Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities

Fair values in debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where 
available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.

Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading

Fair values of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that are held on a non-trading basis provide approximate carrying amounts. This is 
due to the fact that balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings 

The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purposes of measurement and disclosure are 
described above.

Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet

Assets at 31 Dec
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 
Financial investments – at amortised cost
Liabilities at 31 Dec
Debt securities in issue 
Subordinated liabilities 

2023

Carrying amount

$m

27,354   
19,558   

65,239   
24,439   

Fair value1
$m

27,878   
19,531   

65,172   
26,651   

2022

Carrying amount

$m

26,765   
19,466   

66,938   
19,727   

Fair value1
$m

26,962 
19,314 

65,364 
20,644 

1  Fair values (other than Level 1 financial investments) were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2).

14 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair 

value through profit or loss

Securities
–  treasury and other eligible bills
–  debt securities 
–  equity securities 
Loans and advances to banks and customers
Other
At 31 Dec

Designated at 
fair value

2023

Mandatorily 
measured at 
fair value

$m
2,353   
695   
1,658   
—   
371   
—   
2,724   

$m
101,152   
724   
60,045   
40,383   
5,495   
1,272   
107,919   

Designated at 
fair value

2022¹

Mandatorily 
measured at 
fair value

$m

3,096   
649   
2,447   
—   
—   
—   
3,096   

$m

91,936   
869   
56,633   
34,434   
3,455   
1,614   
97,005   

Total

$m
103,505   
1,419   
61,703   
40,383   
5,866   
1,272   
110,643   

Total

$m

95,032 
1,518 
59,080 
34,434 
3,455 
1,614 
100,101 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

383

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

15 Derivatives

Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC

Foreign exchange 
Interest rate 
Equities 
Credit 
Commodity and other 
Gross total fair values
Offset (Note 31)
At 31 Dec 2023

Foreign exchange 
Interest rate 
Equities 
Credit 
Commodity and other 
Gross total fair values
Offset (Note 31)
At 31 Dec 2022

Notional contract amount

Fair value – Assets

Fair value – Liabilities

Trading

Hedging

Trading

Hedging

Total

Trading

Hedging

$m

9,463,768   
  14,853,397   
677,149   
153,606   
90,007   
  25,237,927   

$m
63,547   
361,312   
—   
—   
—   
424,859   

$m
99,014   
223,534   
14,427   
1,351   
1,820   
340,146   

$m
935   
5,119   
—   
—   
—   
6,054   

  25,237,927   

424,859   

340,146   

6,054   

8,434,453   
  15,213,232   
570,410   
183,995   
78,414   
  24,480,504   

38,924   
276,589   
—   
—   
—   
315,513   

122,206   
285,449   
9,325   
1,091   
1,484   
419,555   

525   
5,066   
—   
—   
—   
5,591   

  24,480,504   

315,513   

419,555   

5,591   

$m
99,949   
228,653   
14,427   
1,351   
1,820   
346,200   
(116,486) 
229,714   

122,731   
290,515   
9,325   
1,091   
1,484   
425,146   
(140,987) 
284,159   

$m
99,949   
225,443   
17,603   
1,861   
1,542   
346,398   

$m
780   
4,080   
—   
—   
—   
4,860   

346,398   

4,860   

123,088   
287,876   
9,176   
1,264   
1,678   
423,082   

166   
3,501   
—   
—   
—   
3,667   

423,082   

3,667   

Total

$m
100,729 
229,523 
17,603 
1,861 
1,542 
351,258 
(116,486) 
234,772 

123,254 
291,377 
9,176 
1,264 
1,678 
426,749 
(140,987) 
285,762 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes and derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships indicate the 
nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.

Derivative assets and liabilities decreased during 2023, driven by yield curve movements and changes in foreign exchange rates.

Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries

Foreign exchange 
Interest rate 
At 31 Dec 2023

Foreign exchange 
Interest rate 
At 31 Dec 2022

Notional contract amount

Assets

Trading

Hedging

Trading

Hedging

$m
66,711   
33,480   
100,191   

60,630   
34,322   
94,952   

$m

—   
92,268   
92,268   

—   
81,873   
81,873   

$m
486   
1,730   
2,216   

502   
2,386   
2,888   

$m

—   
1,128   
1,128   

—   
913   
913   

Total

$m
486   
2,858   
3,344   

502   
3,299   
3,801   

Liabilities

Trading

Hedging

$m
1,705   
747   
2,452   

1,683   
826   
2,509   

$m

—   
3,638   
3,638   

—   
4,413   
4,413   

Total

$m
1,705 
4,385 
6,090 

1,683 
5,239 
6,922 

Use of derivatives

For details regarding the use of derivatives, see page 220 under ‘Market risk’.
Trading derivatives

Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative 
products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities include market-making and 
risk management. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenue based 
on spread and volume. Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of 
retaining client margin. Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives.

Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with subsidiaries are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities.

384

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hedge accounting derivatives 

HSBC applies hedge accounting to manage the following risks: interest rate and foreign exchange risks. Further details of how these risks arise 
and how they are managed by the Group can be found in the ‘Risk review’.

Hedged risk components 

HSBC designates a portion of cash flows of a financial instrument or a group of financial instruments for a specific interest rate or foreign 
currency risk component in a fair value or cash flow hedge. The designated risks and portions are either contractually specified or otherwise 
separately identifiable components of the financial instrument that are reliably measurable. Risk-free or benchmark interest rates generally are 
regarded as being both separately identifiable and reliably measurable, except for the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2 transition where 
HSBC designates alternative benchmark rates as the hedged risk which may not have been separately identifiable upon initial designation, 
provided HSBC reasonably expects it will meet the requirement within 24 months from the first designation date. The designated risk 
components account for a significant portion of the overall changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged items.

HSBC uses net investment hedges to hedge the structural foreign exchange risk related to net investments in foreign operations including 
subsidiaries and branches whose functional currencies are different from that of the parent. When hedging with foreign exchange forward 
contracts, the spot rate component of the foreign exchange risk is designated for an amount of net assets as the hedged risk. 

Sources of hedge ineffectiveness may arise from basis risk, including but not limited to the discount rates used for calculating the fair value of 
derivatives, hedges using instruments with a non-zero fair value, and notional and timing differences between the hedged items and hedging 
instruments. 

Fair value hedges

HSBC enters into fixed-for-floating-interest-rate swaps to manage the exposure to changes in fair value caused by movements in market 
interest rates on certain fixed-rate financial instruments that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, including debt securities held 
and issued.

HSBC hedging instrument by hedged risk

Hedged risk
Interest rate3
At 31 Dec 2023

Interest rate3
At 31 Dec 2022

Notional amount1
$m
172,985   
172,985   

162,062   
162,062   

Hedging instrument

Carrying amount

Assets

Liabilities

$m
3,729   
3,729   

4,973   
4,973   

$m
2,965 
2,965 

2,573 
2,573 

Balance sheet 
presentation

Derivatives  

Change in fair value2
$m
(1,043) 
(1,043) 

Derivatives  

4,064 
4,064 

1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions 

outstanding at the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.

2 Used in effectiveness testing, which uses the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
3 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes inflation risk.

HSBC hedged item by hedged risk

Hedged item

Accumulated fair value 
hedge adjustments 
included in carrying 
amount1

Carrying amount

Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

Hedged risk

$m

$m

$m

$m

  82,321 

(2,282) 

Interest rate3

514 

4,701 

— 

32 

(18) 

— 

Ineffectiveness

Change in 
fair value2
$m

Recognised 
in profit 
and loss

$m

Profit and loss 
presentation

2,053 

32 

122 

15 

Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair 
value basis

5 

Balance sheet 
presentation

Financial investments - 
measured at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income  

Financial investments - 
measured at amortised 
cost  
Loans and advances to 
customers  
Reverse repurchase 
agreements – non-
trading

At 31 Dec 2023

  87,536   

64,269   

(2,268)   

64,269 
— 
— 

(2,147)  Debt securities in issue  
Deposits by banks  
Subordinated liabilities  

— 
— 
(2,147) 

(1,179) 
— 

5 

1,048   

5 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

385

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

HSBC hedged item by hedged risk (continued)

Hedged item

Accumulated fair value 
hedge adjustments 
included in carrying 
amount1

Carrying amount

Hedged risk

$m

$m

$m

$m

Balance sheet presentation

Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

Ineffectiveness

Change in fair 
value2
$m

Recognised 
in profit and 
loss

$m

Profit and loss 
presentation

Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair 
value basis

Interest rate3

82,792 

3,415 

519 

(5,100) 

(210) 

(18) 

At 31 Dec 2022

86,726   

49,263   

(5,328)   

49,180 
83 

Financial investments - 
measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income  
Loans and advances to 
customers  
Reverse repurchase 
agreements – non-trading

Debt securities in issue  
Deposits by banks  

(2,006) 
— 
(2,006) 

(8,005) 

(233) 

(17) 

4,138 
(5) 
(4,122)   

(59) 

(59) 

1 The accumulated amount of fair value adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted 

for hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $136m (2022: $252m) for FVOCI assets and liabilities of $1,256m (2022: $916m) for debt issued.

2 Used in effectiveness testing, which comprise an amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes inflation risk.

HSBC Holdings hedging instrument by hedged risk

Hedging instrument

Hedged risk
Interest rate4
At 31 Dec 2023

Interest rate4
At 31 Dec 2022

Notional amount1,2
$m
92,268   
92,268   

81,873   
81,873   

Carrying amount

Assets

Liabilities

$m
1,128   
1,128   

913   
913   

$m
3,638 
3,638 

4,413 
4,413 

Balance sheet 
presentation

Derivatives  

Change in fair value3
$m
1,426 
1,426 

Derivatives  

(5,599) 
(5,599) 

1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions 

outstanding at the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.

2 The notional amount of non-dynamic fair value hedges is equal to $92,268m (2022: $81,873m), of which the weighted-average maturity date is 

May 2029 and the weighted-average swap rate is 2.46% (2022: 2.33%). The majority of these hedges are internal to the Group. 

3 Used in effectiveness testing, comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
4 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes foreign exchange risk.

HSBC Holdings hedged item by hedged risk

Hedged item

Accumulated fair value 
hedge adjustments 
included in carrying 
amount1

Carrying amount

Assets
$m

Liabilities
$m

Assets
$m

Liabilities
$m

Balance sheet 
presentation

Change in 
fair value2
$m

80,889 

(2,971) 

in issue  

(1,716)   

Debt securities

Hedged risk

Interest rate3

At 31 Dec 2023

7,772   

80,889   

7,772 

(490) 

(490)   

(2,971) 

Loans and 

advances to banks  

319 

(1,397)   

Recognised 
in
profit and 
loss

$m

29 

29 

Ineffectiveness

Interest rate3

At 31 Dec 2022

6,812   

68,223   

6,812 

(789) 

(789)   

(3,829) 

Loans and 

advances to banks  

(693) 

5,565   

(34) 

68,223 

(3,829) 

in issue  

6,258   

(34) 

Debt securities

1 The accumulated amount of fair value adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted 

for hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $1,299m (2022: $971m) for debt issued.

2 Used in effectiveness testing, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes foreign exchange risk.

For some debt securities held, HSBC manages interest rate risk in a dynamic risk management strategy. The assets in scope of this strategy are 
high-quality fixed-rate debt securities, which may be sold to meet liquidity and funding requirements.

The interest rate risk of the HSBC fixed-rate debt securities issued is managed in a non-dynamic risk management strategy.

386

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Profit and loss
presentation

Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair value 
basis

Net income from financial 
instruments held for 
trading or managed on a 
fair value basis

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash flow hedges

HSBC’s cash flow hedging instruments consist principally of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps that are used to manage the 
variability in future interest cash flows of non-trading financial assets and liabilities, arising due to changes in market interest rates and foreign-
currency basis. 

HSBC applies macro cash flow hedging for interest rate risk exposures on portfolios of replenishing current and forecasted issuances of non-
trading assets and liabilities that bear interest at variable rates, including rolling such instruments. The amounts and timing of future cash flows, 
representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual 
terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults. The aggregate cash flows representing both principal 
balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios are used to determine the effectiveness and ineffectiveness. Macro cash flow hedges are 
considered to be dynamic hedges.

HSBC also hedges the variability in future cash flows on foreign-denominated financial assets and liabilities arising due to changes in foreign 
exchange market rates with cross-currency swaps, which are considered dynamic hedges.

Hedging instrument by hedged risk

Hedging instrument

Hedged item

Ineffectiveness

Hedged risk

Notional 
amount1
$m

Assets

Liabilities

$m

$m

Balance 
sheet 
presentation

Change in 
fair value2
$m

Change in fair 
value3
$m

Carrying amount

Foreign currency

29,772   

935   

257 

Derivatives  

977   

977   

Interest rate

  188,327   

1,390   

At 31 Dec 2023

  218,099   

2,325   

1,116 

1,373 

Derivatives  

1,542   

2,519   

1,512   

2,489   

Foreign currency

8,781   

418   

166 

Derivatives  

659   

659   

Interest rate

At 31 Dec 2022

  114,527   

  123,308   

93   

511   

950 

1,116 

Derivatives  

(4,997)   

(4,338)   

(4,973)   

(4,314)   

Recognised 
in profit and 
loss 

$m

— 

30 

30 

— 

(24) 

(24) 

Profit and loss 
presentation

Net income from
financial instruments
held for trading or
managed on a fair
value basis

Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair 
value basis

1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions 

outstanding at the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.

2 Used in effectiveness testing, comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
3 Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.

Reconciliation of equity and analysis of other comprehensive income by risk type

Interest rate

Foreign currency

Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2023
Fair value gains/(losses)
Fair value (gains)/losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of:
Hedged items that have affected profit or loss1
Income taxes
Others
Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2023

Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2022
Fair value gains/(losses)
Fair value (gains)/losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of:
Hedged items that have affected profit or loss
Income taxes
Others
Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2022

1   Hedged items that have affected profit or loss are primarily recorded within interest income.

Net investment hedges

$m
(3,387)   
1,512   

2,196   
(937)   
(285)   
(901)   

8   
(4,973)   

325   
1,123   
130   
(3,387)   

$m
(421) 
977 

(718) 
(29) 
59 
(132) 

(205) 
659 

(926) 
28 
23 
(421) 

The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain net investments in non-US dollar functional currency foreign operations for changes in 
spot exchange rates only. Hedging could be undertaken for Group structural exposure to changes in the US dollar to foreign currency exchange 
rates using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with foreign currency borrowings. An economic relationship exists between the 
hedged net investment and hedging instrument due to the shared foreign currency risk exposure. For further details of our structural foreign 
exchange exposures, see page 205.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

387

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

The aggregate positions at the reporting date and the performance indicators of both live and de-designated hedges are summarised below. 

Hedges of net investment in foreign operations

Carrying amount

Derivative
 assets

Derivative 
liabilities

Nominal
 amount

$m

$m

$m

Amounts 
recognised 
in OCI1
$m

Change in 
fair value2
$m

Hedge ineffectiveness 
recognised in income 
statement

Description of hedged risk

2023
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange
Other structural foreign exchange3
Total
2022
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange
Other structural foreign exchange3
Total

(404)   
(23)   
—   
(96)   
(523)   

—   
(21)   
(19)   
(117)   
(157)   

16,415   
526   
5,792   
11,042   
33,775   

14,000   
727   
4,597   
10,819   
30,143   

604   
49   
—   
477   
1,130   

1,447   
111   
(2)   
375   
1,931   

(843)   
(62)   
2   
102   
(801)   

1,573   
10   
(7)   
369   
1,945   

—   

264   
—   
—   
—   
264   

$m

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

1   Amount recognised in OCI for Swiss franc includes $110m (2022: $110m) related to de-designated hedge.
2   Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3   Other currencies include euro, New Taiwan dollar, Singapore dollar, Canadian dollar, Omani rial, South Korean won, UAE dirham, Indian rupee, Chinese 

renminbi, Kuwaiti dinar, Qatari riyal, Saudi riyal, Indonesian rupiah and Philippine peso.

Interest rate benchmark reform: Amendments to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’

HSBC has applied both the first set of amendments (‘Phase 1’) and the second set of amendments (‘Phase 2’) to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 applicable 
to hedge accounting. The hedge accounting relationships that are affected by Phase 1 and Phase 2 amendments are presented in the balance 
sheet as ‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through other comprehensive income’, ‘Loans and 
advances to customers’, ‘Debt securities in issue’ and ‘Deposits by banks’. The notional value of the derivatives impacted by the Ibor reform, 
including those designated in hedge accounting relationships, is disclosed in Note 32. For further details of Ibor transition, see ‘Ibor transition’  
on page 139.

For some of the Ibors included under the ‘Other’ header in the table below, judgement has been needed to establish whether a transition is 
required, since there are Ibor benchmarks that are subject to computation methodology improvements and insertion of fallback provisions 
without full clarity being provided by their administrators on whether these Ibor benchmarks will be demised.

The notional amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships do not represent the extent of the risk exposure 
managed by the Group but they are expected to be directly affected by market-wide Ibor reform and in scope of Phase 1 amendments and are 
shown in the table below. The cross-currency swaps designated in hedge accounting relationships and affected by Ibor reform are not 
significant and have not been presented below.

Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform

Fair value hedges
Cash flow hedges
At 31 Dec 2023

Fair value hedges
Cash flow hedges
At 31 Dec 2022

Hedging instrument

Impacted by Ibor reform

£
$m

—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   

$
$m

—   
—   
—   

2,015   
—   
2,015   

Other2
$m
4,384   
3,504   
7,888   

12,643   
27,830   
40,473   

€1
$m
16,907   
10,850   
27,757   

12,756   
8,865   
21,621   

Not impacted 
by Ibor 
reform

$m

151,694   
173,973   
325,667   

134,648   
77,832   
212,480   

Total
$m
21,291   
14,354   
35,645   

27,414   
36,695   
64,109   

Notional
amount3
$m

172,985 
188,327 
361,312 

162,062 
114,527 
276,589 

1 The notional contract amounts of euro interest rate derivatives impacted by Ibor reform consist of hedges with a Euribor benchmark.
2 Other benchmarks impacted by Ibor reform consist mainly of Emirates interbank offered rate, Mexican interbank equilibrium interest rate (‘TIIE’) and 
Korean won-related derivatives. In 2022, the Hong Kong interbank offered rate (‘HIBOR’) was included in ‘Other‘ given that reform in the benchmark 
was considered possible. At 31 December 2023, HIBOR was no longer expected to be directly affected by Ibor reform following the successful 
transition of all Libor settings and the HKMA’s affirmation that there are no plans to discontinue HIBOR. As a result HIBOR has been moved from 
‘Other‘ to ‘Not impacted by Ibor reform‘. 

3 The notional contract amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of 

transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date and they do not represent amounts at risk.

388

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform held by HSBC Holdings

Fair value hedges
At 31 Dec 2023

Fair value hedges
At 31 Dec 2022

Hedging instrument

Impacted by Ibor reform

£
$m

—   
—   

—   
—   

$
$m

—   
—   

2,000   
2,000   

Other
$m
583   
583   

1,336   
1,336   

€
$m
19,614   
19,614   

15,210   
15,210   

16 Financial investments

Carrying amount of financial investments

Financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
–  treasury and other eligible bills
–  debt securities
–  equity securities
–  other instruments
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost
–  treasury and other eligible bills
–  debt securities
At 31 Dec

Not impacted 
by Ibor 
reform

Total
$m
20,197   
20,197   

18,546   
18,546   

$m

72,071   
72,071   

63,327   
63,327   

2023

$m
294,437   
102,438   
190,119   
1,447   
433   
148,326   
30,733   
117,593   
442,763   

Notional 
amount

$m

92,268 
92,268 

81,873 
81,873 

2022¹

$m

255,660 
86,749 
167,107 
1,696 
108 
109,066 
34,507 
74,559 
364,726 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income

Type of equity instruments

Investments required by central institutions
Business facilitation
Others
At 31 Dec 2023

Investments required by central institutions
Business facilitation
Others
At 31 Dec 2022

Weighted average yields of investment debt securities

Debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
US Treasury 
US Government agencies 
US Government-sponsored agencies 
UK Government 
Hong Kong Government 
Other governments 
Asset-backed securities 
Corporate debt and other securities 

Debt securities measured at amortised cost
US Treasury 
US Government agencies 
US Government-sponsored agencies 
UK Government 
Hong Kong Government 
Other governments 
Asset-backed securities 
Corporate debt and other securities 

Fair value

Dividends 
recognised

$m
609   
793   
45   
1,447   

690   
954   
52   
1,696   

$m
27 
35 
2 
64 

24 
28 
2 
54 

Up to 1
 year

Yield
%

1 to 5 
years

Yield
%

5 to 10 
years

Yield
%

Over 10 
years

Yield
%

 2.1 
 3.6 
 1.0 
 0.2 
 1.0 
 3.2 
 1.4 
 5.5 

 8.9 
 7.9 
 2.3 
 — 
 — 
 2.7 
 4.7 
 2.6 

 2.0 
 3.1 
 2.6 
 2.8 
 1.4 
 3.5 
 6.6 
 3.1 

 3.7 
 7.8 
 3.7 
 — 
 2.6 
 3.5 
 — 
 2.6 

 2.0 
 3.3 
 2.1 
 0.8 
 1.6 
 3.3 
 4.8 
 3.1 

 3.7 
 5.8 
 3.4 
 0.9 
 — 
 5.3 
 7.7 
 3.5 

 2.4 
 3.0 
 1.8 
 2.5 
 — 
 2.9 
 5.3 
 2.4 

 2.1 
 4.5 
 2.9 
 4.5 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 5.2 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

389

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

The maturity distributions of ABSs are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates. The weighted average yield for 
each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2023 by the book amount of 
debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
HSBC Holdings

HSBC Holdings carrying amount of financial investments

Debt instruments measured at amortised cost
–  treasury and other eligible bills
–  debt securities
At 31 Dec

Weighted average yields of investment debt securities

Debt securities measured at amortised cost
US Treasury 

2023

$m

2022

$m

15,629   
3,929   
19,558   

12,796 
6,670 
19,466 

Up to 1
 year

Yield

%

 3.2 

1 to 5 
years

Yield

%

 4.3 

5 to 10 
years

Yield

Over 10 
years

Yield

%

 — 

%

 — 

The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 
31 December 2023 by the book amount of debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.

17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred

Assets pledged1 

Financial assets pledged as collateral

Treasury bills and other eligible securities 
Loans and advances to banks 
Loans and advances to customers 
Debt securities 
Equity securities
Other 
Assets pledged at 31 Dec

2023

$m
20,504   
13,636   
27,490   
88,367   
40,280   
61,223   
251,500   

2022

$m

18,364 
10,198 
27,627 
60,542 
26,902 
67,576 
211,209 

Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 27 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures at 
31 December 2023, except for assets held for sale.

The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral. For example, in the case of 
securitisations and covered bonds, the amount of liabilities issued plus mandatory over-collateralisation is less than the book value of the pool of 
assets available for use as collateral. This is also the case where assets are placed with a custodian or a settlement agent that has a floating 
charge over all the assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.

These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary for collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard 
securities lending and borrowing, repurchase agreements and derivative margining. HSBC places both cash and non-cash collateral in relation to 
derivative transactions.

Hong Kong currency notes in circulation are secured by the deposit of funds in respect of which the Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness are held.

Financial assets pledged as collateral which the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge

Trading assets 
Financial investments
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
77,847   
39,324   
117,171   

2022

$m

56,894 
27,841 
84,735 

Collateral received1
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral relating primarily to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements, swaps of 
securities and derivative margining that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was $495,653m (2022: $449,896m). The 
fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged was $284,108m (2022: $228,245m).

HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard 
securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining.

390

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assets transferred1
The assets pledged include transfers to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, notably secured borrowings such as debt securities 
held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements, as well as 
swaps of equity and debt securities. For secured borrowings, the transferred asset collateral continues to be recognised in full while a related 
liability, reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the assets for a fixed price at a future date, is also recognised on the balance sheet. 

Where securities are swapped, the transferred asset continues to be recognised in full. There is no associated liability as the non-cash collateral 
received is not recognised on the balance sheet. The Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the 
transaction, and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets. 

Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities

Carrying amount of:

Transferred
assets

Associated
liabilities

$m

$m

81,486   
46,663   

74,517 
3,826 

52,604   
39,134   

48,501 
4,613 

2023

$m
27,200   
144   
27,344   

2022

$m

29,127 
127 
29,254 

At 31 Dec 2023
Repurchase agreements
Securities lending agreements

At 31 Dec 2022
Repurchase agreements
Securities lending agreements

1   Excludes assets classified as held for sale.

18 Interests in associates and joint ventures

Carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in associates and joint ventures

Interests in associates
Interests in joint ventures
Interests in associates and joint ventures

Principal associates of HSBC

Bank of Communications Co., Limited
Saudi Awwal Bank

2023

Carrying amount

$m
21,210   
4,659   

Fair value1
$m
8,812   
6,438   

2022

Carrying amount

$m

23,307   
4,494   

Fair value1
$m

8,141 
6,602 

1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges. The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held (Level 1 in the 

fair value hierarchy).

Bank of Communications Co., Limited 
Saudi Awwal Bank

At 31 Dec 2023

Jurisdiction of incorporation
and principal place of
business
Mainland China
Saudi Arabia

Principal activity

Banking services
Banking services

HSBC’s interest1
%

 19.03 
 31.00 

1   There has been no percentage change in HSBC’s shareholding interest in the principal associates when compared with 2022.

Share of profit in associates and joint ventures

Bank of Communications Co., Limited
Saudi Awwal Bank
Other associates and joint ventures
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
Less: Impairment of interest in BoCom

A list of all associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 40. 

2023

$m
2,250   
538   
19   
2,807   
(3,000)   

2022

$m

2,377 
342 
4 
2,723 
— 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

391

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Bank of Communications Co., Limited

We maintain a 19.03% interest in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). The Group’s investment in BoCom is classified as an 
associate. Significant influence in BoCom was established with consideration of all relevant factors, including representation on BoCom’s Board 
of Directors and participation in a resource and experience sharing agreement (‘RES’). Under the RES, HSBC staff have been seconded to assist 
in the maintenance of BoCom’s financial and operating policies. Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method of 
accounting in accordance with IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’, whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost and 
adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Group’s share of associate’s net assets. An impairment test is required if there is any 
indication of impairment.

Impairment testing

The fair value of the Group’s investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for approximately 12 years. We have previously 
disclosed that the excess of the value in use (‘VIU’) calculation over its balance sheet value has been marginal in recent years, and that 
reasonably possible changes in assumptions could generate an impairment.

Recent macroeconomic, policy and industry-wide factors resulted in a wider range of possible VIU calculation outcomes, and our VIU calculation 
uses both historical experience and market participant views to estimate future cash flows, relevant discount rates and associated capital 
assumptions. At 31 December 2023, the Group performed an impairment test on the carrying amount, which resulted in an impairment of 
$3.0bn, as the recoverable amount as determined by a VIU calculation was lower than the carrying value.

BoCom

At 31 Dec 2023

At 31 Dec 2022

VIU
$bn
21.2   

Carrying value
$bn
21.2   

Fair value
$bn
8.8   

VIU Carrying value
$bn
$bn

Fair value
$bn

23.5   

23.3   

8.1 

The impairment test will be updated in future periods, reflecting updated assumptions in the VIU impairment calculation. Going forward, the 
carrying value will be aligned to the updated VIU calculation and capped at carrying value that would have been determined had no impairment 
loss been recognised, rather than at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Group’s share of associate’s net assets, 
and therefore there is a risk of reversals or further impairments in future periods.

The VIU may increase or decrease depending on the effect of changes to model inputs. The main model inputs are described below and are 
based on factors observed at period-end. The factors that could result in increases or reductions in the VIU include changes in BoCom’s short-
term performance, a change in regulatory capital requirements or revisions to the forecast of BoCom’s future profitability.

If the Group did not have significant influence in BoCom, the investment would be carried at fair value rather than the current carrying value.

Basis of recoverable amount

The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a VIU calculation, with its carrying value. 
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on management’s best estimates of future earnings available to ordinary 
shareholders prepared in accordance with IAS 36 ’Impairment of Assets’. Significant management judgement is required in arriving at the best 
estimate.

There are two main components to the VIU calculation. The first component is management’s best estimate of BoCom’s earnings. Forecast 
earnings growth over the short to medium term is lower than recent (within the last five years) actual growth, and reflects the impact of recent 
macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China. As a result of management‘s intent to continue to retain its investment, earnings 
beyond the short to medium term are then extrapolated into perpetuity using a long-term growth rate to derive a terminal value, which 
comprises the majority of the VIU. The second component is the capital maintenance charge (‘CMC’), which is management’s forecast of the 
earnings that need to be withheld in order for BoCom to meet capital requirements over the forecast period, meaning that CMC is deducted 
when arriving at management’s estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders. The CMC reflects the revised capital 
requirements arising from revisions of the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets assumption. The principal inputs to the CMC calculation 
include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets and the expected capital requirements. An increase in the 
CMC as a result of a change to these principal inputs would reduce VIU. Additionally, management considers other qualitative factors, to ensure 
that the inputs to the VIU calculation remain appropriate.

Key assumptions in value in use calculation

We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:

– Long-term profit growth rate: 3% (2022: 3%) for periods after 2027, which does not exceed forecast GDP growth in mainland China and is 

similar to forecasts by external analysts.

– Long-term asset growth rate: 3% (2022: 3%) for periods after 2027, which is the rate that assets are expected to grow to achieve long-term 

profit growth of 3%.

– Discount rate: 9.00% (2022: 10.04%), which is based on a capital asset pricing model (‘CAPM’), using market data. The discount rate used is 

within the range of 7.9% to 9.7% (2022: 8.4% to 10.4%) indicated by the CAPM, and decreased as a consequence of a market-driven 
reduction in beta. While the CAPM range sits at the lower end of the range adopted by selected external analysts of 8.8% to 13.5% 
(2022: 8.8% to 13.5%), we continue to regard the CAPM range as the most appropriate basis for determining this assumption.

– Expected credit losses (‘ECL’) as a percentage of loans and advances to customers: ranges from 0.80% to 0.97% (2022: 0.99% to 1.05%) in 
the short to medium term, reflecting reported credit experience in mainland China. For periods after 2027, the ratio is 0.97% (2022: 0.97%), 
which is higher than BoCom’s average ECL as a percentage of loans and advances to customers in recent years prior to the pandemic.

– Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: ranges from 62.0% to 63.7% (2022: 61.0% to 64.4%) in the short to medium term, 

reflecting higher risk-weights in the short term followed by an expected reversion to recent historical levels. For periods after 2027, the ratio 
is 62.0% (2022: 61.0%), which is similar to BoCom’s actual results in recent years.

– Loans and advances to customers growth rate: ranges from 9.0% to 10.0% (2022: 7.1% to 11.0%) in the short to medium term, reflecting 
higher growth rate in loans and advances to customers as a result of recent macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China. 
Increases in the forecast growth rate of loans and advances to customers results in higher forecast ECL.

392

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
– Operating income growth rate: ranges from -0.4% to 9.7% (2022: 1.9% to 7.7%) in the short to medium term, which is lower than BoCom’s 

actual results in recent years, and is impacted by projections of net interest income in the short term as a consequence of recent 
macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China.

– Cost-income ratio: ranges from 35.5% to 39.8% (2022: 35.5% to 36.3%) in the short to medium term. These ratios are higher than BoCom‘s 

actual results in recent years and forecasts disclosed by external analysts.

– Effective tax rate (‘ETR’): ranges from 5.3% to 15.0% (2022: 4.4% to 15.0%) in the short to medium term, reflecting BoCom’s actual results 

and an expected increase towards the long-term assumption through the forecast period. For periods after 2027, the rate is 15.0% 
(2022: 15.0%), which is higher than the recent historical average, and aligned to the minimum tax rate as proposed by the OECD/Group of 20 
(‘G20’) Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.

– Capital requirements: capital adequacy ratio of 12.5% (2022: 12.5%) and tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 9.5% (2022: 9.5%), based on 

BoCom’s capital risk appetite and capital requirements respectively.

The following table further illustrates the impact on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions. This reflects the sensitivity of the 
VIU to each key assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and/or unfavourable change may occur at the same 
time. Loans and advances to customers growth rate has been added to the list of key assumptions detailed in the table to reflect the greater 
potential variability associated with the assumption as a result of recent macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China. The 
selected rates of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions are based on external analysts’ forecasts, statutory requirements and other 
relevant external data sources, which can change period to period. Unless specified, favourable and unfavourable changes are consistently 
applied throughout short-to-medium and long-term forecast years, based on a straight-line average of the base case assumption.

Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions

At 31 Dec 2023
Long-term profit growth rate1
Long-term asset growth rate1
Discount rate
Expected credit losses as a percentage
of loans and advances to customers
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 
Loans and advances to customers growth rate
Operating income growth rate
Cost-income ratio 
Long-term effective tax rate
Capital requirements – capital adequacy ratio
Capital requirements – tier 1 capital adequacy ratio
At 31 Dec 2022
Long-term profit growth rate1
Long-term asset growth rate1
Discount rate
Expected credit losses as a percentage 
of loans and advances to customers
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets
Loans and advances to customers growth rate
Operating income growth rate
Cost-income ratio
Long-term effective tax rate
Capital requirements – capital adequacy ratio
Capital requirements – tier 1 capital adequacy ratio

Favourable change

Unfavourable change

Increase in 
VIU

bps

$bn

VIU

$bn

Decrease in 
VIU

bps

$bn

VIU

$bn

58   
(79)   
(110)   

2023 to 2027: 78
2028 onwards: 91  
(150)   
(213)   
57   
(212)   
(426)   
—   
—   

75   
(71)   
(164)   

2022 to 2026: 95
2027 onwards: 91  
(118)   
(75)   
44   
(122)   
(426)   
—   
—   

3.3   
4.5   
4.5   

24.5   
25.7   
25.7   

2.9   

24.1 

0.9   
3.2   
2.6   
0.8   
1.6   
—   
—   

3.6   
3.1   
6.9   

22.1   
24.4   
23.8   
22.0   
22.8   
21.2   
21.2   

27.1   
26.6   
30.4   

(79)   
58   
280   

2023 to 2027: 120
2028 onwards: 104  
216   
207   
(81)   
99   
1,000   
215   
248   

(71)   
75   
136   

1.9   

25.4 

0.1   
1.1   
1.3   
1.0   
1.5   
—   
—   

23.6   
24.6   
24.8   
24.5   
25.0   
23.5   
23.5   

2022 to 2026: 120
2027 onwards: 104  
239   
295   
(83)   
174   
1,000   
191   
266   

(3.4)   
(4.0)   
(6.1)   

17.8 
17.2 
15.1 

(4.4)   

16.8 

(1.6)   
(2.9)   
(2.6)   
(2.9)   
(3.5)   
(7.5)   
(3.7)   

(2.7)   
(4.1)   
(3.7)   

19.6 
18.3 
18.6 
18.3 
17.7 
13.7 
17.5 

20.8 
19.4 
19.8 

(2.9)   

20.6 

(2.3)   
(3.2)   
(2.5)   
(2.1)   
(3.6)   
(6.3)   
(3.2)   

21.2 
20.3 
21.0 
21.4 
19.9 
17.2 
20.3 

1   The favourable and unfavourable ranges of the long-term profit growth rate and long-term asset growth rate assumptions reflect the close relationship 

between these assumptions, which would result in offsetting changes to each assumption.

Considering the interrelationship of the changes set out in the table above, management estimates that the reasonably possible range of VIU is 
$13.1bn to $28.8bn (2022: $16.9bn to $28.7bn), acknowledging that the fair value of the Group’s investment has ranged from $6.8bn to $11.6bn 
over the last five years as at the date of the impairment tests. The possible range of VIU is based on impacts set out in the table above arising 
from the favourable/unfavourable change in the earnings in the short to medium term, the long-term expected credit losses as a percentage of 
loans and advances to customers, and a 50bps increase/decrease in the discount rate. All other long-term assumptions, and the basis of the 
CMC have been kept unchanged when determining the reasonably possible range of the VIU.

Selected financial information of BoCom

The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 2023, HSBC included the associate’s 
results on the basis of the financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 September 2023, taking into account any known changes in the 
subsequent period from 1 October 2023 to 31 December 2023 that would have materially affected the results.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

393

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Selected balance sheet information of BoCom

Cash and balances at central banks 
Due from and placements with banks and other financial institutions 
Loans and advances to customers 
Other financial assets 
Other assets 
Total assets 
Due to and placements from banks and other financial institutions 
Deposits from customers
Other financial liabilities 
Other liabilities 
Total liabilities 
Total equity 

At 30 Sep

At 31 Dec

2023

$m
112,800   
100,464   
1,087,613   
587,949   
59,215   
1,948,041   
292,065   
1,216,611   
251,246   
36,776   
1,796,698   
151,343   

2022

$m

116,942 
100,160 
1,035,151 
583,898 
48,796 
1,884,947 
295,205 
1,153,184 
249,230 
37,153 
1,734,772 
150,175 

Reconciliation of BoCom’s total shareholders’ equity to the carrying amount in HSBC’s consolidated financial statements

HSBC’s share of total shareholders’ equity
Goodwill originally arising on acquisition
Impairment
Carrying amount  

Selected income statement information of BoCom

Net interest income 
Net fee and commission income 
Credit and impairment losses
Depreciation and amortisation 
Tax expense 
Profit for the year 
Other comprehensive income 
Total comprehensive income 
Dividends received from BoCom 

Saudi Awwal Bank

At 30 Sep

2023

$m
23,746   
464   
(3,000)   
21,210   

2022

$m

22,828 
479 
— 
23,307 

For the 9 months ended 30 Sep

2023

$m
17,519   
4,815   
(6,836)   
(1,977)   
(552)   
9,835   
631   
10,466   
736   

2022

$m

19,004 
5,181 
(7,641) 
(1,785) 
(436) 
10,102 
(37) 
10,065 
749 

The Group’s investment in Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’) is classified as an associate. HSBC is the largest shareholder in SAB with a shareholding 
of 31%. Significant influence in SAB is established via representation on the Board of Directors. Investments in associates are recognised using 
the equity method of accounting in accordance with IAS 28, as described previously for BoCom.

Impairment testing

There were no indicators of impairment at 31 December 2023. The fair value of the Group’s investment in SAB of $6.4bn was above the 
carrying amount of $4.7bn.

394

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 Investments in subsidiaries
Main subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings1

Place of 
incorporation or 
registration

HSBC’s 
interest 
%

Europe

HSBC Bank plc 

HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC Continental Europe
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt GmbH
Asia
Hang Seng Bank Limited2 

HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited 

HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 
HSBC Life (International) Limited 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye

England and Wales

England and Wales
France
Germany

Hong Kong
People’s Republic of 
China
Malaysia
Bermuda
Hong Kong

HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 

United Arab Emirates

North America
HSBC Bank Canada 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A. 
Latin America
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple,
Grupo Financiero HSBC 

Canada
US

At 31 Dec 2023

Share class

£1 Ordinary, $0.01 Non-Cumulative Third Dollar 
Preference

£1 Ordinary
€5 Actions
€1 Ordinary

HK$5 Ordinary

CNY1 Ordinary

RM0.5 Ordinary
HK$1 Ordinary
Ordinary no par value

$1 Ordinary and $1 Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
shares 

Common no par value and Preference no par value
$100 Common and $0.01 Preference

 100 

 100 
 99.99 
 99.99 

 62.14 

 100 

 100 
 100 
 100 

 100 

 100 
 100 

Mexico

 99.99 

MXN2 Ordinary

1   Main subsidiaries are either held directly or indirectly via intermediate holding companies. There has been no material percentage change in HSBC’s 

shareholding for its main subsidiaries since 2022.

2   In addition to the strategic holding disclosed above, the Group held 0.09% (2022: 0.07%) shareholding as part of its trading books.

Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the main subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in 
Note 26 ‘Debt securities in issue’ and Note 29 ‘Subordinated liabilities’, respectively.

A list of all related undertakings is set out in Note 40. The principal countries and territories of operation are the same as the countries and 
territories of incorporation except for HSBC Life (International) Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.

HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is separately capitalised in 
accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Group’s risk appetite for the relevant 
country or region. HSBC’s capital management process is incorporated in the financial resource plan, which is approved by the Board.

HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary. 
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ issuance of equity and non-equity capital, and by profit retention. 

As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its 
investment in subsidiaries. Subject to this, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings’ ability to provide funding for such 
investments. During 2023, consistent with the Group’s capital plan, the Group’s material subsidiaries did not experience any significant 
restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned 
dividends or payments from material subsidiaries. However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings 
depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and 
financial and operating performance.

The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other Group entities is set out in Note 34.

Information on structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights is included in Note 20 
‘Structured entities’. In each of these cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.

Impairment testing of investments in subsidiaries 

At each reporting period end, HSBC Holdings reviews investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment. An impairment is recognised 
when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount for that investment. The recoverable amount is the higher of the investment’s fair 
value less costs of disposal and its VIU, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36. The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s 
cash flow projections for the investment. The cash flows represent the free cash flows based on the subsidiary’s binding capital requirements.

We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:

– Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: The cash flow projections for each investment are based on the latest approved 

plans, which include forecast capital available for distribution based on the capital requirements of the subsidiary, taking into account 
minimum and core capital requirements. For the impairment test as at 31 December 2023, cash flow projections until the end of 2028 were 
considered in line with our internal planning horizon. Our cash flow projections include known and observable climate-related opportunities 
and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. 

– Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the free cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term 

perspective of the legal entity. The growth rate reflects long-term inflation for the country or territory within which the investment operates.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

395

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

– Discount rates: The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each investment, which is derived using 
a CAPM and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including the 
risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s 
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each investment are refined to reflect the rates 
of inflation for the countries or territories within which the investment operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing investments for 
impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with cost 
of capital rates produced by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts from climate risk are included to the 
extent that they are observable in discount rates and asset prices.

As at 31 December 2023, the carrying amount of HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries was $159.5bn (2022: $167.5bn). The net year-on-
year reduction was predominantly due to the recognition of a $5.5bn impairment of HSBC Holdings’ investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings 
(UK) Limited, resulting in a cumulative impairment of $10.2bn (2022: $4.7bn), and a carrying amount of $25.8bn as at 31 December 2023 (2022: 
$32.8bn).

The recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited is assessed as the aggregate of the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries. 
During 2023, the principal subsidiaries of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited were HSBC North America Holdings Limited, HSBC Bank 
Canada and HSBC Bank Bermuda. In October 2023, HSBC Bank Bermuda was transferred to HSBC Bank plc. As at 31 December 2023, the 
adjusted net asset value of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited fell below the carrying amount therefore management assessed that 
indicators of impairment were present and an impairment test was performed. The recoverable amount reduced owing to lower projected 
profits and higher projected capital requirements for HSBC North America Holdings, the transfer of HSBC Bank Bermuda to HSBC Bank plc at 
its book value which stood below its assessed recoverable amount, and higher prevailing discount rates, as a result of which a $5.5bn 
impairment was recognised.

As HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited has entered into a sales purchase agreement with Royal Bank of Canada to dispose of our banking 
business in Canada, the sales purchase agreement has been used to support the recoverable amount of $11.0bn (2022: $10.8bn) (inclusive of 
the preferred shares) under a fair value less costs of disposal basis. The fair value less costs of disposal of HSBC Bank Canada is at a $3.7bn 
(2022: $3.7bn) premium to the book value recorded in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited. In 2024, a distribution of the proceeds from the 
planned sale of our banking business in Canada to HSBC Holdings from HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited could lead to a future 
impairment. In respect of distributable reserves, an impairment would be offset by the dividend income recognised on the distributions from 
sales proceeds.

Impairment test results

Investments

At 31 Dec 2023

HSBC North America Holdings Limited
At 31 Dec 2022
HSBC North America Holdings Limited

Recoverable 
amount

Discount 
rate

Long-term growth 
rate

$m
12,756 

18,363 

%
 10.50 

 10.00 

%
 2.17 

 2.22 

Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU 

At 31 December 2023, the recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited remained sensitive to reasonably possible changes in 
key assumptions impacting its principal subsidiary, HSBC North America Holdings Limited.

In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to 
the model. These include the external range of observable discount rates, historical performance against forecast, and risks attached to the key 
assumptions underlying cash flow.

The following table presents a summary of the key assumptions underlying the most sensitive inputs to the model for HSBC North America 
Holdings Limited, the key risks attached to each, and details of a reasonably possible change to assumptions where, in the opinion of 
management, these could result in a change in VIU.

Reasonably possible changes in key assumptions

Investment

HSBC North America Holdings 
Limited (subsidiary of HSBC 
Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited)

Input

Key assumptions

Associated risks

Reasonably possible 
change

Free cash flows projections

– Level of interest rates 

– Strategic actions 

– Free cash flow 

Discount rate

and yield curves.

– Competitors’ positions 

within the market.

– Discount rate used is a 
reasonable estimate of 
a suitable market rate 
for the profile of the 
business. 

relating to revenue 
and costs are not 
achieved.

projections decrease 
by 10%.

– External evidence 

– Discount rate 

arises to suggest that 
the rate used is not 
appropriate to the 
business.

decreases by 1%.

– Discount rate 

increases by 1%.

396

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions

In $bn (unless otherwise stated)

At 31 December 2023
VIU
Impact on VIU
100bps decrease in the discount rate – single variable1
100bps increase in the discount rate – single variable1, 2  
10% decrease in forecast profitability – single variable1, 2

HSBC North America 
Holdings Limited

12.8

1.6 
(1.2) 
(1.3) 

1   The recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited represents the aggregate of recoverable amounts of the underlying subsidiaries. 
Single variable sensitivity analysis on a single subsidiary may therefore not be representative of the aggregate impact of the change in the variable.
2   As at 31 December 2022, the impact on the VIU of HSBC North America Holdings Limited of a 100bps increase in the discount rate was $(1.7)bn and 

a 10% decrease in forecast profitability was $(1.8)bn, respectively on a single variable basis.

Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests

Hang Seng Bank Limited
Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests (%)2
Place of business

Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 
Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 
Summarised financial information: 
–  total assets
–  total liabilities 
–  net operating income before changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
–  profit for the year 
–  total comprehensive income for the year 

2023

2022¹

37.86
Hong Kong
$m
889  
6,877  
490  

214,321  
194,621  
5,210  
2,356  
2,723  

37.86
Hong Kong
$m
574 
6,513 
361 

235,630 
216,917 
4,379 
1,518 
1,428 

1   From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

2   In addition to the strategic holding disclosed above, the Group held 0.09% (2022: 0.07%) shareholding as part of its trading books.

20 Structured entities
HSBC is mainly involved with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities through the securitisation of financial assets, conduits 
and investment funds, established either by HSBC or a third party.
Consolidated structured entities

Total assets of HSBC’s consolidated structured entities, split by entity type

At 31 Dec 2023
At 31 Dec 2022

Conduits Securitisations HSBC managed funds

Other

$bn
3.6   
4.2   

$bn
7.8   
7.2   

$bn
5.5   
4.8   

$bn
8.2   
7.5   

Total

$bn
25.1 
23.7 

Conduits
HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SICs’) and multi-seller conduits.

Securities investment conduits

The SICs purchase highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.

– At 31 December 2023, Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, held $1.0bn of ABSs (2022: $1.3bn). It is currently funded entirely by commercial 

paper (‘CP’) issued to HSBC. At 31 December 2023, HSBC held $1.3bn of CP (2022: $1.5bn).

Multi-seller conduit

HSBC’s multi-seller conduit was established to provide access to flexible market-based sources of finance for its clients. Currently, HSBC bears 
risk equal to the transaction-specific facility offered to the multi-seller conduit, amounting to $6.1bn at 31 December 2023 (2022: $6.2bn). First 
loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements. A layer of 
secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities.

Securitisations

HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances it originates in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset 
origination and capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically 
through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors.

HSBC managed funds

HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds. Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent 
in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls these funds.

Other

HSBC has entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business, which include asset and structured finance transactions 
where it has control of the structured entity. In addition, HSBC is deemed to control a number of third-party managed funds through its 
involvement as a principal in the funds.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

397

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Unconsolidated structured entities
The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to all structured entities not controlled by HSBC. The Group enters into transactions with 
unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities.

Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities

Total asset values of the entities ($m)

0–500
500–2,000
2,000–5,000
5,000–25,000
25,000+
Number of entities at 31 Dec 2023

Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated 
structured entities
–  trading assets 
–  financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 

measured at fair value 

–  loans and advances to customers
–  financial investments 
–  other assets 
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the 
unconsolidated structured entities
–  other liabilities 
Other off-balance sheet commitments
HSBC’s maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2023

Total asset values of the entities ($m)
0–500
500–2,000
2,000–5,000
5,000–25,000
25,000+
Number of entities at 31 Dec 2022

Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated 
structured entities
–  trading assets 
–  financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 

measured at fair value 

–  loans and advances to customers
–  financial investments 
–  other assets 
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the 
unconsolidated structured entities
–  other liabilities 
Other off-balance sheet commitments
HSBC’s maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2022

Securitisations

HSBC managed 
funds

Non-HSBC 
managed funds

Other

120   
4   
—   
—   
—   
124   
$bn

3.2   

—   

—   

3.2   
—   
—   

—   

—   
0.1   
3.3   

85   
8   
—   
—   
—   
93   

$bn

2.5   

—   

—   

2.5   
—   
—   

—   

—   
0.2   
2.7   

337   
96   
39   
24   
3   
499   
$bn

13.9   

0.6   

12.6   

—   
0.7   
—   

—   

—   
1.9   
15.8   

338   
102   
28   
18   
5   
491   
$bn

10.7   

0.4   

9.7   

—   
0.6   
—   

—   

—   
1.5   
12.2   

1,271   
1,069   
418   
217   
11   
2,986   
$bn

20.7   

—   

19.7   

0.6   
0.4   
—   

—   

—   
5.0   
25.7   

1,321   
929   
388   
206   
24   
2,868   
$bn

19.7   

0.1   

18.7   

0.5   
0.4   
—   

—   

—   
4.6   
24.3   

42   
3   
—   
—   
—   
45   

$bn

3.3   

—   

—   

2.5   
—   
0.8   

0.3   

0.3   
1.2   
4.2   

41   
4   
—   
—   
—   
45   

$bn

2.6   

—   

—   

1.9   
—   
0.7   

0.4   

0.4   
1.8   
4   

Total

1,770 
1,172 
457 
241 
14 
3,654 
$bn

41.1 

0.6 

32.3 

6.3 
1.1 
0.8 

0.3 

0.3 
8.2 
49.0 

1,785 
1,043 
416 
224 
29 
3,497 
$bn

35.5 

0.5 

28.4 

4.9 
1 
0.7 

0.4 

0.4 
8.1 
43.2 

The maximum exposure to loss from HSBC’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss it could incur as a 
result of its involvement with these entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.

– For commitments, guarantees and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future 

losses.

– For retained and purchased investments and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying 

amount of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.

The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements that HSBC has entered into in order to 
mitigate the Group’s exposure to loss.

Securitisations

HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities. In addition, HSBC has investments 
in ABSs issued by third-party structured entities.

HSBC managed funds

HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment 
opportunities. Further information on funds under management is provided on page 118.

HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management. HSBC may 
also retain units in these funds.

Non-HSBC managed funds

HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate business and meet customer needs.

398

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other

HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business, such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide 
finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.

In addition to the interests disclosed above, HSBC enters into derivative contracts, reverse repos and stock borrowing transactions with 
structured entities. These interests arise in the normal course of business for the facilitation of third-party transactions and risk management 
solutions.
HSBC sponsored structured entities

The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored structured entities during 2023 and 2022 was not significant.

21 Goodwill and intangible assets

Goodwill
Other intangible assets2
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
4,323   
8,164   
12,487   

2022¹

$m

4,156 
7,263 
11,419 

1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

2 Included within other intangible assets is internally generated software with a net carrying amount of $6,895m (2022: $6,166m). During the year, 

capitalisation of internally generated software was $2,306m (2022: $2,663m), reversal of impairment was $285m (2022: impairment of $125m) and 
amortisation was $1,877m (2022: $1,447m).

Movement analysis of goodwill

Gross amount
At 1 Jan 
Exchange differences
Reclassified to held for sale and additions1
Other
At 31 Dec
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 Jan
Exchange differences
Reclassified to held for sale1
At 31 Dec
Net carrying amount at 31 Dec

2023

$m

18,965   
523   
73   
(1)   
19,560   

(14,809)   
(428)   
—   
(15,237)   
4,323   

2022

$m

22,215 
(776) 
(2,485) 
11 
18,965 

(17,182) 
482 
1,891 
(14,809) 
4,156 

1 Includes goodwill allocated to disposal groups as a result of the sales of our retail banking operations in France and branch operations in Greece, and 
planned sale of our banking business in Canada, offset by goodwill arising from the acquisition of L&T Investment Management Limited. For further 
details, see Note 23.

Goodwill

Impairment testing

The Group’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed at 1 October each year. A review 
for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and at 31 December 2023. No indicators of impairment were 
identified as part of these reviews.

Basis of the recoverable amount

The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at each respective testing date. 
The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for 
each individually significant CGU that is not impaired are discussed below.

Key assumptions in VIU calculation – significant CGUs at 1 October 2023

Carrying 
amount at 
1 Oct 2023

of which 
goodwill

Value in 
use at 
1 Oct 2023

Discount 
rate

Growth 
rate
beyond 
initial
cash flow

Carrying 
amount at 
1 Oct 2022

of which 
goodwill

Value in 
use at 
1 Oct 2022

$m

$m

$m

%

%

$m

$m

HSBC UK 
Bank plc – 
WPB1
Europe – 
WPB1

11,167   

2,597   

27,933 

N/A

N/A

N/A

 10.4 

N/A

 2.0 

N/A

N/A

N/A  

15,215   

2,643   

46,596 

Growth 
rate 
beyond initial 
cash flow 
projections

%

N/A

 2.0 

Discount
rate

%

N/A

 9.9 

$m

N/A

1   Following change in the Reporting Framework the Group’s CGUs are main legal entities subdivided by global business effective 1 January 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

399

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

At 1 October 2023, aggregate goodwill of $1,599m (1 October 2022: $1,464m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually 
significant. The Group’s CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than 
goodwill.

Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU

The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year, 
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on forecast profitability 
plans approved by the Board and minimum capital levels required to support the business operations of a CGU. The Board challenges and 
endorses planning assumptions in light of internal capital allocation decisions necessary to support our strategy, current market conditions and 
macroeconomic outlook. For the 1 October 2023 impairment test, cash flow projections until the end of 2028 were considered, in line with our 
internal planning horizon. Key assumptions underlying cash flow projections reflect management’s outlook on interest rates and inflation, as well 
as business strategy, including the scale of investment in technology and automation. Our cash flow projections include known and observable 
climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. As required by IFRS Accounting 
Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives 
before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. 

Discount rate

The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of equity assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing 
model (‘CAPM’) and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including 
the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s 
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of 
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management 
supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of equity rates produced 
by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable 
in discount rates and asset prices.

Long-term growth rate

The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of business 
units making up the CGUs. These growth rates reflect inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it derives 
revenue.

Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU

At 1 October 2023, given the extent by which VIU exceeds carrying amount, the HBUK WPB CGU was not sensitive to reasonably possible 
adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, 
management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates 
observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections. None of the 
remaining CGUs are individually significant.
Other intangible assets
Impairment testing

Impairment of other intangible assets is assessed in accordance with our policy explained in Note 1.2(n) by comparing the net carrying amount 
of CGUs containing intangible assets with their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts are determined by calculating an estimated VIU or 
fair value, as appropriate, for each CGU. No significant impairment was recognised during the year.

Key assumptions in VIU calculation

The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of other intangible assets in the next 
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:

– Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: We considered past business performance, current market conditions and our 
macroeconomic outlook to estimate future earnings. As required by IFRS Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude 
estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to 
carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. For some businesses, this means that the benefit 
of certain strategic actions may not be included in the impairment assessment, including capital releases. Our cash flow projections include 
known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.

– Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective 

of the businesses within the Group.

– Discount rates: Rates are based on a combination of CAPM and market-implied calculations considering market data for the businesses and 
geographies in which the Group operates. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable in discount rates 
and asset prices.

Sensitivity of estimates relating to non-financial assets 

As explained in Note 1.2(a), estimates of future cash flows for CGUs are made in the review of goodwill and non-financial assets for impairment. 
Non-financial assets include other intangible assets shown above, and owned property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets (see 
Note 22). The most significant sources of estimation uncertainty are in respect of the goodwill balances disclosed above. There are no non-
financial asset balances relating to individual CGUs which involve estimation uncertainty that represents a significant risk of resulting in a 
material adjustment to the results and financial position of the Group within the next financial year. 

Non-financial assets are widely distributed across CGUs within the legal entities of the Group, including Corporate Centre assets that cannot be 
allocated to CGUs and are therefore tested for impairment at consolidated level. The recoverable amounts of other intangible assets, owned 
property, plant and equipment, and right-of-use assets cannot be lower than individual asset fair values less costs to dispose, where relevant. At 
31 December 2023 none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable 
amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of 
each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks 
attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.

400

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets

Prepayments and accrued income
Settlement accounts
Cash collateral and margin receivables
Bullion 
Endorsements and acceptances 
Insurance contract assets (Note 4) 
Reinsurance contract assets 
Employee benefit assets (Note 5)
Right-of-use assets
Owned property, plant and equipment
Other accounts 
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
13,854   
32,853   
57,058   
13,701   
7,939   
252   
4,728   
7,750   
2,456   
10,478   
14,186   
165,255   

2022¹

$m

10,279 
19,565 
63,421 
15,752 
8,407 
136 
4,310 
7,282 
2,219 
10,365 
14,413 
156,149 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include $122,863m (2022: $112,464m) of financial assets, the majority of which are measured 
at amortised cost.

23 Assets held for sale, liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and 

business acquisitions

Held for sale at 31 Dec
Disposal groups
Unallocated impairment losses1
Non-current assets held for sale
Assets held for sale
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale

2023

$m

115,836   
(1,975)   
273   
114,134   
108,406   

2022

$m

118,055 
(2,385) 
249 
115,919 
114,597 

1   This represents impairment losses in excess of the carrying value of the non-current assets, excluded from the measurement scope of IFRS 5. 

Disposal groups and other planned disposals

Sale of our retail banking operations in France

On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale of its retail banking business in France to CCF, a subsidiary of Promontoria 
MMB SAS (‘My Money Group’). The sale also included HSBC Continental Europe’s 100% ownership interest in HSBC SFH (France) and its 3% 
ownership interest in Crédit Logement.

In the first quarter of 2023, the sale had become less certain, as a result of which we recognised a $2.1bn partial reversal of the impairment loss 
recognised in 2022, when the disposal group was classified as held for sale. In the fourth quarter of 2023, following the receipt of regulatory 
approvals and the satisfaction of other relevant conditions, we reclassified the disposal group as held for sale, and it was subsequently 
remeasured at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. This resulted in the reinstatement of a €1.8bn ($2.0bn) pre-tax 
impairment loss reflecting the final terms of the sale, giving rise to a net reversal of impairment recognised in other operating income in the year 
of $0.1bn.

Upon completion and in accordance with the terms of the sale, HSBC Continental Europe received a €0.1bn ($0.1bn) profit participation interest 
in the ultimate holding company of My Money Group. The associated impacts on initial recognition of this stake at fair value were recognised as 
part of the pre-tax loss on disposal. In addition, we recognised the reversal of a €0.4bn ($0.4bn) deferred tax liability, which had arisen as a 
consequence of the temporary difference in tax and accounting treatment in respect of the provision for loss on disposal, which was deductible 
in the French tax return in 2021.

In accordance with the terms of the sale, HSBC Continental Europe retained a portfolio of €7.1bn ($7.8bn) consisting of home and certain other 
loans, in respect of which it may consider on-sale opportunities at a suitable time, and the CCF brand, which it licensed to the buyer under a 
long-term licence agreement. Additionally, HSBC Continental Europe’s subsidiaries, HSBC Assurances Vie (France) and HSBC Global Asset 
Management (France), have entered into distribution agreements with the buyer. Ongoing costs associated with the retention of the home and 
certain other loans, net of income on distribution agreements and the brand licence, are estimated to have an after-tax loss impact of €0.1bn 
($0.1bn) in 2024 based on expected funding rates. 

Planned sale of our banking business in Canada

On 29 November 2022, HSBC Holdings plc announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, had entered 
into an agreement for the sale of its banking business in Canada to the Royal Bank of Canada. Completion of the transaction is expected to 
occur in the first quarter of 2024 and the required governmental approvals have been obtained. The majority of the estimated gain on sale of 
$5.2bn (as at 31 December 2023) will be recognised on completion, reduced by earnings recognised by the Group in the period to completion. 
There would be no tax on the gain recognised at completion. This estimated gain would also have been reduced by $0.3bn in fair value losses 
recognised on the related foreign exchange hedges in 2023. The estimated pre-tax profit on the sale will be recognised through a combination 
of the consolidation of HSBC Canada’s results into the Group’s financial statements (between the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date and 
until completion), and the remaining gain on sale recognised at completion. At 31 December 2023, total assets of $87.9bn and total liabilities of 
$81.5bn met the criteria to be classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022

401

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Planned sale of our business in Russia

On 30 June 2022, following a strategic review of our business in Russia, HSBC Europe BV (a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc) 
entered into an agreement for the sale of its wholly-owned subsidiary HSBC Bank (RR) (Limited Liability Company). In 2022, a $0.3bn 
impairment loss on the planned sale was recognised, upon classification as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. As at 31 December 2023, 
following US sanctions designation of the buyer, the outcome of the planned sale became less certain. This resulted in the reversal of $0.2bn of 
the previously recognised loss, as the business was no longer classified as held for sale. However, owing to restrictions impacting the 
recoverability of assets in Russia, we recognised charges of $0.2bn in other operating income. Completion of the planned sale remains subject 
to regulatory approval. On completion, accumulated foreign currency translation reserves will be recycled to the income statement.

Our branch operations in Greece

On 24 May 2022, HSBC Continental Europe signed a sale and purchase agreement for the sale of its branch operations in Greece to Pancreta 
Bank SA. In the second quarter of 2022, we recognised a loss of $0.1bn upon reclassification as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. At 
completion on 28 July 2023, the disposal group included $0.3bn of loans and advances to customers and $1.1bn of customer accounts. 

Merger of our business in Oman

In November 2022, HSBC Bank Oman SAOG entered into a binding merger agreement with Sohar International Bank SAOG, under which the 
two banks agreed to take the necessary steps to implement a merger by incorporation, whereby HSBC Bank Oman would merge into Sohar 
International Bank. Following regulatory and shareholder approvals, the merger was completed on 17 August 2023 by way of dissolution and 
transfer of all the assets and liabilities of HSBC Bank Oman to Sohar International Bank, with the shareholders of HSBC Bank Oman receiving 
the consideration in cash and shares in Sohar International Bank. Separately, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited is in the process of establishing a 
new wholesale banking branch in Oman subject to regulatory approvals.

Our New Zealand loan portfolio

In August 2023, the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (acting through its New Zealand branch) entered into an agreement 
with Pepper New Zealand Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pepper Money Limited, to sell its New Zealand retail mortgage loan portfolio. 
The sale was classified as held for sale in the third quarter of 2023 and was completed on 1 December 2023.

Our retail business in Mauritius

In November 2023, the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (acting through its Mauritius branch) entered into an agreement 
with ABSA Bank (Mauritius) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ABSA Bank Group Limited, to sell its Wealth and Personal Banking business. 
The sale is expected to complete in the second half of 2024 subject to regulatory approvals.

At 31 December 2023, the major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, excluding allocated impairment 
losses, were as follows:

Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Cash and balances at central banks2
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 
through profit or loss
Derivatives
Loans and advances to banks2
Loans and advances to customers  
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments3
Goodwill
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023

Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Trading liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts  
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue  
Subordinated liabilities
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023

Expected date of completion
Operating segment

Canada

$m

Retail banking 
operations in France
$m

Other1
$m

5,370   
2,465   

15   

528   
154   
56,129   
2,723   
16,978   
225   
3,318   
87,905   

1,417   
78   
63,001   
2,768   
—   
608   
7,707   
8   
5,916   
81,503   

226   
—   

49   

—   
10,333   
16,902   
—   
33 
— 
132   
27,675   

—   
—   
22,307   
—   
2,370   
7   
1,377   
—   
196   
26,257   

—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
254   
—   

2   
256   

—   
—   
642   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
4   
646   

Total

$m

5,596 
2,465 

64 

528 
10,487 
73,285 
2,723 
17,011 
225 
3,452 
115,836 

1,417 
78 
85,950 
2,768 
2,370 
615 
9,084 
8 
6,116 
108,406 

First quarter of 2024
All global businesses

1 January 2024
WPB

1   Includes balances classified as held for sale in respect of the planned sale of our retail business in Mauritius and planned sale of our global hedge fund 

administration business across several markets.

2   Under the financial terms of the sale of our retail banking operations in France, HSBC Continental Europe will transfer the business with a net asset 

value of €1.7bn ($1.8bn) for a consideration of €1. Any required increase to the net asset value of the business to achieve this will be satisfied by the 
inclusion of additional cash. Based upon the net liabilities of the disposal group at 31 December 2023, HSBC would be expected to include a cash 
contribution of $11bn, of which $10.5bn was reclassified as held for sale at 31 December 2023 (‘Loans and advances to banks’, $10.3bn, ‘Cash and 
balances at central bank’, $0.2bn).

3   Includes financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income of $9.4bn and debt instruments measured at amortised 

cost of $7.6bn.

402

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At 31 December 2022, the major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, excluding allocated impairment 
losses, were as follows:

Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 
through profit or loss
Derivatives
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers  
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments1
Goodwill
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2022

Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Trading liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts  
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue  
Subordinated liabilities
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2022

Expected date of completion
Operating segment

Canada

$m

Retail banking 
operations in France
$m

4,664   
3,168   

13   

866   
99   
55,197   
4,396   
17,243   
225   
4,245   
90,127   

2,751   
62   
60,606   
3,266   
—   
806   
11,602   
8   
5,727   
84,828   

71   
—   

47   

—   
—   
25,029   
—   
—   
—   
75   
25,222   

—   
—   
22,348   
—   
3,523   
7   
1,326   
—   
159   
27,363   

Other

$m

1,811   
8   

1   

—   
154   
350   
250   
106   
—   
26   
2,706   

3   
2   
2,320   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
81   
2,406   

Total

$m

6,546 
3,176 

61 

866 
253 
80,576 
4,646 
17,349 
225 
4,357 
118,055 

2,754 
64 
85,274 
3,266 
3,523 
813 
12,928 
8 
5,967 
114,597 

Second half of 2023
All global businesses

Second half of 2023
WPB

1   Includes financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income of $11.2bn and debt instruments measured at amortised 

cost of $6.2bn.

Business acquisitions

Acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited

In March 2023, HSBC UK Bank plc acquired Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (‘SVB UK’), and in June 2023 changed its legal entity name to HSBC 
Innovation Bank Limited. The acquisition was funded from existing resources and brought the staff, assets and liabilities of SVB UK into the 
HSBC portfolio. On acquisition, we performed a preliminary assessment of the fair value of the assets and liabilities purchased. We established 
an opening balance sheet on 13 March 2023 and applied the result of the fair value assessment, which resulted in a reduction in net assets of 
$0.2bn. The provisional gain on acquisition of $1.6bn represents the difference between the consideration paid of £1 and the net assets 
acquired. Further due diligence has been performed post-acquisition, resulting in the recognition of an additional gain of $0.1bn at 30 September 
2023, as required by IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’.

HSBC Innovation Bank Limited contributed $0.5bn of revenue and $0.2bn to the Group profit after tax for the period from 13 March 2023 to 
31 December 2023. As per the disclosure requirements set out in IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, if HSBC Innovation Bank Limited had been 
acquired on 1 January 2023, management estimates that for the 12 months to 31 December 2023, consolidated revenue would have been 
$66bn and consolidated profit after tax would have been $25bn. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the previously 
determined fair value adjustments, which arose on acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2023. 

The details of the business combination at acquisition are as follows:

Fair value of assets acquired
Fair value of liabilities acquired
Fair value of net assets acquired

Provisional gain on acquisition 
Consideration transferred settled in cash
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 
Net cash inflow on acquisition

At

13 Mar

2023

$m
11,367 
(9,776) 
1,591 

1,591 
— 
1,243 
1,243 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

403

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Acquisition of Citibank China’s wealth management portfolio

In October 2023, HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, 
entered into an agreement to acquire Citibank China’s retail wealth management portfolio in mainland China. The portfolio comprises assets 
under management and deposits and the associated wealth customers. Upon completion, the acquired business will be integrated into HSBC 
Bank China’s Wealth and Personal Banking operations. The transaction is expected to complete in the first half of 2024.

Acquisition of Silkroad Property Partners Singapore

In October 2023, HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore Limited entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Silkroad 
Property Partners Pte Ltd (‘Silkroad’) and for HSBC Global Asset Management Limited to acquire Silkroad’s affiliated General Partner entities. 
Silkroad is a Singapore headquartered Asia-Pacific-focused, real estate investment manager. The acquisition was completed on 31 January 
2024.

24 Trading liabilities

Deposits by banks1
Customer accounts1
Other debt securities in issue (Note 26)
Other liabilities – net short positions in securities
At 31 Dec

1 ‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’ include fair value repos, stock lending and other amounts.

25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value

HSBC

Deposits by banks and customer accounts2
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts
Debt securities in issue (Note 26)
Subordinated liabilities (Note 29)
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
6,779   
8,955   
27   
57,389   
73,150   

2023

$m
21,043   
5,103   
103,803   
11,477   
141,426   

2022

$m

9,332 
10,724 
978 
51,319 
72,353 

2022¹

$m

19,171 
5,374 
93,140 
9,636 
127,321 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

2  Structured deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a US government agency, up to $250,000 

per depositor.

The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $4,421m less than the contractual amount at maturity (2022: $8,124m 
less). The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $1,286m (2022: profit of $234m). 

HSBC Holdings

Debt securities in issue (Note 26)
Subordinated liabilities (Note 29)
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
35,189   
8,449   
43,638   

2022

$m

25,423 
6,700 
32,123 

The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $246m less than the contractual amount at maturity (2022: $2,405m less). 
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $682m (2022: $516m).

26 Debt securities in issue

HSBC

Bonds and medium-term notes 
Other debt securities in issue 
Total debt securities in issue
Included within:
–  trading liabilities (Note 24)
–  financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25)
At 31 Dec

404

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

$m
160,632   
37,115   
197,747   

(27)   
(103,803)   
93,917   

2022

$m

145,240 
27,027 
172,267 

(978) 
(93,140) 
78,149 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HSBC Holdings

Debt securities 
Included within:
–  financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25)
At 31 Dec

27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities

Accruals and deferred income
Settlement accounts
Cash collateral and margin payables
Endorsements and acceptances
Employee benefit liabilities (Note 5)
Reinsurance contract liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other liabilities
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
100,428   

(35,189)   
65,239   

2023

$m
16,814   
28,423   
56,832   
7,911   
1,160   
819   
2,813   
21,834   
136,606   

2022

$m

92,361 

(25,423) 
66,938 

2022

$m

12,605 
18,178 
70,298 
8,379 
1,096 
748 
2,767 
20,242 
134,313 

1   Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include $129,401m (2022: $125,957m) of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at 

amortised cost.

2  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

28 Provisions

Provisions (excluding contractual commitments)
At 1 Jan 2023
Additions
Amounts utilised
Unused amounts reversed
Exchange and other movements
At 31 Dec 2023
Contractual commitments1
At 1 Jan 2023
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements
At 31 Dec 2023
Total provisions
At 31 Dec 2022
At 31 Dec 2023

Provisions (excluding contractual commitments)
At 1 Jan 2022
Additions
Amounts utilised
Unused amounts reversed
Exchange and other movements
At 31 Dec 2022
Contractual commitments1
At 1 Jan 2022
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements
At 31 Dec 2022
Total provisions
At 31 Dec 2021
At 31 Dec 2022

Restructuring
costs

Legal 
proceedings
and regulatory
matters

Customer
remediation

Other
provisions

$m

445   
255   
(288)   
(149)   
21   
284   

$m

$m

$m

409   
236   
(231)   
(30)   
(4)   
380   

195   
37   
(69)   
(41)   
8   
130   

397   
170   
(68)   
(95)   
16   
420   

383   
434   
(288)   
(87)   
3   
445   

619   
271   
(393)   
(82)   
(6)   
409   

386   
60   
(106)   
(109)   
(36)   
195   

558   
206   
(168)   
(125)   
(74)   
397   

Total

$m

1,446 
698 
(656) 
(315) 
41 
1,214 

512 
15 
527 

1,958 
1,741 

1,946 
971 
(955) 
(403) 
(113) 
1,446 

620 
(108) 
512 

2,566 
1,958 

1  Contractual commitments include the expected credit loss provision in relation to off-balance sheet financial guarantee contracts and commitments 
where HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment, as defined under IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’; and provisions for performance and 
other guarantee contracts.

Further details of ‘Legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ are set out in Note 36. Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal 
proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim); or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in 
court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. ‘Regulatory matters’ refers to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response 
to, the actions of regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

405

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Customer remediation refers to HSBC’s activities to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with 
regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is often initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and/or industry 
developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action. 

For further details of the impact of IFRS 9 on undrawn loan commitments and financial guarantees, presented in ‘Contractual commitments’, 
see Note 34. Further analysis of the movement in the expected credit loss provision is disclosed within the ‘Reconciliation of changes in gross 
carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees‘ 
table on page 169.
Brazil PIS and COFINS tax matters

Beginning in the late 1990s, HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo (‘HSBC Brazil’) and other financial services firms brought legal proceedings 
in Brazil challenging the assessment of PIS and COFINS taxes, which are federal taxes imposed on gross revenues earned by legal entities in 
Brazil. The Supreme Court of Brazil selected three cases – one involving an insurer, in 2007, and two involving other banks, in 2011 – to set 
standards that would apply to all of these proceedings. In June 2023, the court ruled against the financial services firms in all three cases. The 
standards set by the court in this ruling have not yet been applied to HSBC Brazil’s legacy cases, liability for which remained with HSBC after 
the sale of HSBC’s operations in Brazil to Bradesco in 2016. There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes and any resulting 
financial impact for HSBC. Based upon the information currently available, a provision was recognised in respect of one legacy case. The 
remaining additional tax liability subject to challenge on all legacy PIS and COFINS cases is up to $0.4bn.

29 Subordinated liabilities

HSBC’s subordinated liabilities

At amortised cost
–  subordinated liabilities
–  preferred securities
Designated at fair value (Note 25)
–  subordinated liabilities
–  preferred securities
At 31 Dec
Issued by HSBC subsidiaries
Issued by HSBC Holdings

2023

$m
24,954   
23,149   
1,805   
11,477   
11,477   
—   
36,431   
4,154   
32,277   

2022

$m

22,290 
20,547 
1,743 
9,636 
9,636 
— 
31,926 
6,094 
25,832 

Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC. Capital securities may be called and 
redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed at 
the first call date, coupons payable may reset or become floating rate based on relevant market rates. On subordinated liabilities other than 
floating rate notes, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%.

The balance sheet amounts disclosed in the following table are presented on an IFRS basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments 
contribute to regulatory capital, principally due to regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits.

HSBC’s subordinated liabilities: subsidiaries

Additional tier 1 capital securities issued by HSBC subsidiaries 
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC subsidiaries 
–  Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc 
–  Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
–  Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA Inc 
–  Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA N.A.
–  Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Canada1
Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 
Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries at 31 Dec

1   Liability accounts for HSBC Bank Canada have been reclassified to ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’.

HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities

At amortised cost 
Designated at fair value (Note 25)
At 31 Dec

HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities in issue

Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings
Amounts owed to third parties
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings
Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC Holdings at 31 Dec

406

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

$m
1,672   

764   
—   
223   
1,449   
—   
46   
4,154   

2023

$m
24,439   
8,449   
32,888   

2023

$m

31,975   
913   
32,888   

2022

$m

1,584 

2,427 
400 
223 
1,405 
— 
55 
6,094 

2022

$m

19,727 
6,700 
26,427 

2022

$m

25,527 
900 
26,427 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc

Capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc were issued by the Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of these were 
lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. They qualified as additional tier 1 capital for 
HSBC under CRR II until 31 December 2021 by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions. The capital security guaranteed by HSBC 
Bank plc also qualified as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank plc (on a solo and a consolidated basis) under CRR II until 31 December 2021 by 
virtue of the same grandfathering process. Since 31 December 2021, these securities have no longer qualified as regulatory capital for HSBC or 
HSBC Bank plc. 

These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and 
distributions upon liquidation of the relevant issuer that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-
cumulative perpetual preference shares of the relevant issuer. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are 
prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC’s capital adequacy requirements, or 
if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc has insufficient distributable reserves (as defined).

HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank plc have individually covenanted that, if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the 
preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of their ordinary shares, or repurchase or redeem their 
ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.

If the consolidated total capital ratio of HSBC Holdings falls below the regulatory minimum required or if the Directors expect it to do so in the 
near term, provided that proceedings have not been commenced for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of HSBC Holdings, the holders’ 
interests in the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings will be exchanged for interests in preference shares issued by HSBC 
Holdings that have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to the preferred securities and their guarantee.

If the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc are outstanding in November 2048, or if the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank plc (on a 
solo or consolidated basis) falls below the regulatory minimum required, or if the Directors expect it to do so in the near term, provided that 
proceedings have not been commenced for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of HSBC Bank plc, the holders’ interests in the preferred 
security guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc will be exchanged for interests in preference shares issued by HSBC Bank plc that have economic terms 
which are in all material respects equivalent to the preferred security and its guarantee. 
Tier 2 securities

Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual or dated subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. These capital 
securities are included within HSBC’s regulatory capital base as tier 2 capital under CRR II, either as fully eligible capital or by virtue of the 
application of grandfathering provisions. In accordance with CRR II, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory 
purposes in their final five years before maturity.

30 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
The table on page 408 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual 
maturity at the balance sheet date. These balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows:

– Trading assets and liabilities (including trading derivatives but excluding reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue) are included in the 

‘Due not more than 1 month’ time bucket because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time.

– Financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. 

Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period, which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled 
to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.

– Non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.

– Financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual 

maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction.

– Liabilities under insurance contracts included in ‘other financial liabilities’ are irrespective of contractual maturity included in the ‘Due over 5 

years’ time bucket in the maturity table provided below. An analysis of the present value of expected future cash flows of insurance contract 
liabilities and contractual service margin is provided on page 411. Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with their 
contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket, although such contracts are subject 
to surrender and transfer options by the policyholders.

– Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

407

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

HSBC

Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments

Due over
1 month
but not
more 
than
3 months

Due over
3 months
but not
more 
than
6 months

Due over
6 months
but not
more 
than
9 months

Due over
9 months
but not
more 
than
1 year

Due over
1 year
but not
more 
than
2 years

Due over
2 years
but not
more 
than
5 years

Due not
more 
than
1 month

Due over
5 years

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

  285,868   

6,342   

42,024   

—   

—   

—   

  284,865   

2,010   

—   

—   

—   

637   

—   

—   

—   

363   

—   

—   

—   

555   

—   

—   

—   

165   

—   

—   

—   

564   

—    285,868 

—   

6,342 

—   

42,024 

—    289,159 

5,530   

697   

821   

753   

581   

4,839   

11,917   

85,505    110,643 

138   
18,662   
66,425   
9,558   
50,268   
6,599   
43,893   
69,816   
2,929   
6,574   

134   
  227,343   
6,487   
76,524   
52,218   
  142,803   
6,960   
44,105   
38,250   
83,281   
7,008   
15,417   
23,840   
  164,826   
44,493   
48,969   
7,041   
39,882   
  108,138   
4,404   
  1,433,114    211,144    140,075   
—   
  1,433,114    211,144    140,075   

—   

—   

71   
2,689   
40,135   
6,422   
24,685   
9,028   
6,708   
16,348   
4,176   
550   
71,793   
—   
71,793   

383   
2,756   

570   
2,328   

35   
3,281   
36,323   
6,127   
24,566   
5,630   
5,126   
18,603   
3,261   
698   

1,040    229,714 
175    112,902 
94,206    175,381    331,044    938,535 
54,365    297,512    444,655 
19,606   
30,592    419,852 
61,612    106,598   
74,028 
14,418   
12,988   
—    252,217 
1,711   
6,113   
92,293    442,763 
46,124    106,117   
7,943    115,332 
33,015   
17,085   
1,513    122,861 
764   
220   
68,463    171,891    332,367    519,513    2,948,360 
90,317 
68,463    171,891    332,367    609,830    3,038,677 

90,317   

2,940   

—   

—   

—   

39,836   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

39,836 

42,024   
52,747   

—   
2,758   
  1,343,858    138,117   
84,909   
  621,112   
43,562   
  545,207   
9,646   
  177,539   
10,311   
  158,882   

—   
2,324   
78,611   
61,286   
14,525   
2,800   
1,759   

—   
381   
20,832   
14,794   
4,605   
1,433   
300   

—   
94   
17,724   
12,465   
3,393   
1,866   
847   

7,295   

—   

66,548   

6,302   

—   

300   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   
1,458   
7,785   
5,507   
2,165   
113   
1   

—   

—   

—   
13,064   
4,616   
2,742   
1,527   
347   
—   

42,024 
—   
337   
73,163 
104    1,611,647 
2    802,817 
92    615,076 
10    193,754 
—    172,100 

—   

—   

—   

—   

7,295 

73,150 

22,080   

8,366   

7,823   

7,197   

6,239   

16,679   

39,497   

33,545    141,426 

—   
10,383   

—   
2,760   

—   
5,748   

—   
6,225   

—   
5,390   

—   
14,090   

—   
34,757   

—   

— 
23,898    103,251 

—   

1,995   

—   

—   

—   

1,471   

3,429   

4,581   

11,476 

3,611   
113   
6,664   
—   
44   
6,620   
5,231   
11,827   
13   

11,697   
  233,134   
6,891   
—   
447   
6,444   
69,868   
  104,264   
—   

2,075   
25   
10,816   
—   
62   
10,754   
5,479   
6,007   
—   
  2,107,591    189,702    113,144   
—   
  2,107,591    189,702    113,144   

—   

—   

  895,140   
  256,272   
  472,507   
  166,361   

95   
21   
74   
—   

126   
30   
26   
70   

972   
9   
6,896   
—   
58   
6,838   
6,728   
1,205   
—   
43,548   
—   
43,548   

72   
46   
26   
—   

849   
47   
6,427   
—   
55   
6,372   
6,541   
1,414   
—   
39,333   
—   
39,333   

171   
107   
64   
—   

1,118   
73   
6,317   
—   
188   
6,129   
4,730   
1,053   
1,790   
39,886   
—   
39,886   

439   
279   
160   
—   

5,066   

22,454   
—   
1,679   
20,775   

1,311   
1,223   
27,452   
1,273   
861   
25,318   
7,918   
1,491   
897   
96,158   

26,699 
148    234,772 
93,917 
1,273 
3,394 
89,250 
1,511    108,006 
2,137    129,398 
22,254   
24,954 
82,490    2,711,852 
—    134,215    134,215 
96,158    216,705    2,846,067 

807   
745   
62   
—   

300    897,150 
192    257,692 
108    473,027 
—    166,431 

Financial assets
Cash and balances at central banks
Items in the course of collection from other 
banks
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness

Trading assets
Financial assets designated or otherwise 
mandatorily measured at fair value
Derivatives
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  financial
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments
Assets held for sale2
Accrued income and other financial assets
Financial assets at 31 Dec 2023
Non-financial assets
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
Off-balance sheet commitments received
Loan and other credit-related commitments
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  financial
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Items in the course of transmission to other 
banks
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value
–  debt securities in issue: covered bonds
–  debt securities in issue: unsecured
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred 

securities

–  other
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
–  covered bonds
–  otherwise secured
–  unsecured
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale3
Accruals and other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
Non-financial liabilities
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
Off-balance sheet commitments given
Loan and other credit-related commitments
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial 
–  financial 

408

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments (continued)

Due over
1 month
but not
more 
than
3 months

Due over
3 months
but not
more 
than
6 months

Due not
more 
than
1 month

Due over
6 months
but not
more than
9 months

Due over
9 months
but not
more than
1 year

Due over
1 year
but not
more than
2 years 

Due over
2 years
but not
more than
5 years 

Due over
5 years

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

Financial assets
Cash and balances at central banks
Items in the course of collection from other 
banks
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness 
Trading assets 
Financial assets designated at fair value 
Derivatives 
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
–  personal 
–  corporate and commercial
–  financial 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments 
Assets held for sale2
Accrued income and other financial assets
Financial assets at 31 Dec 2022
Non-financial assets 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2022
Off-balance sheet commitments received
Loan and other credit-related commitments
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
–  personal 
–  corporate and commercial
–  financial 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 
Items in the course of transmission to other 
banks
Trading liabilities 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
–  debt securities in issue: covered bonds 
–  debt securities in issue: unsecured 
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred  

securities

–  other 
Derivatives 
Debt securities in issue 
–  covered bonds 
–  otherwise secured 
–  unsecured 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale3
Accruals and other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities 
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2022
Non-financial liabilities 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2022
Off-balance sheet commitments given
Loan and other credit-related commitments
–  personal
–  corporate and commercial
–  financial

  327,002   

7,297   

43,787   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1,333   
718   
132   
13,965   
75,486   
9,141   
60,067   
6,278   
51,736   
79,309   
3,755   
6,042   

  213,234   
3,282   
  281,724   
72,240   
  139,934   
41,834   
84,955   
13,145   
  171,173   
46,493   
33,781   
99,113   

1,343   
1,369   
29   
8,323   
58,951   
6,659   
45,695   
6,597   
16,164   
30,722   
3,452   
3,766   
 1,439,060    232,476    124,119   
—   
 1,439,060    232,476    124,119   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

338   
1,178   
21   
860   
35,633   
5,745   
24,430   
5,458   
5,840   
11,798   
3,044   
620   
59,332   
—   
59,332   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—    327,002 

—   

7,297 

—   

43,787 

808   
1,967   
261   
3,058   

222   
13,353   
1,052   
3,569   

425   
479   
65   
2,328   
33,730   
5,773   
22,629   
5,328   
2,776   
13,067   
3,263   
703   

390    218,093 
77,755    100,101 
875    284,159 
132    104,475 
99,933    173,076    306,818    923,561 
51,050    273,487    412,015 
18,326   
30,231    444,898 
68,473    108,418   
66,648 
13,608   
13,134   
2,066   
3,999   
—    253,754 
74,676    364,726 
67,951   
40,710   
14,697    117,378 
40,017   
15,369   
1,295    112,384 
302   
543   
56,836    166,648    301,608    476,638    2,856,717 
92,569 
56,836    166,648    301,608    569,207    2,949,286 

92,569   

3,100   

—   

—   

—   

27,340   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

27,340 

43,787   
46,994   
 1,388,297   
  657,413   
  555,539   
  175,345   
  121,193   

—   
359   
93,108   
55,252   
31,624   
6,232   
3,804   

—   
3,510   
47,712   
35,430   
10,385   
1,897   
685   

7,864   

66,027   
16,430   
—   
7,056   

—   

—   

5,668   
7,398   
—   
3,620   

281   
6,562   
—   
4,793   

—   
205   
14,244   
10,431   
3,080   
733   
170   

—   

113   
4,308   
—   
3,157   

—   
136   
17,295   
12,374   
3,824   
1,097   
645   

—   

113   
5,325   
—   
4,288   

—   
1,455   
4,719   
2,835   
1,667   
217   
1,250   

—   
13,737   
4,607   
2,351   
2,146   
110   
—   

43,787 
—   
326   
66,722 
321    1,570,303 
2    776,088 
274    608,539 
45    185,676 
—    127,747 

—   

—   

—   

7,864 

116   
19,287   
—   
16,234   

35   
34,886   
—   
29,941   

—   

72,353 
33,125    127,321 
— 
92,599 

—   
23,510   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1,971   

3,675   

3,990   

9,636 

9,374   
  284,412   
4,514   
—   
705   
3,809   
76,928   
  104,295   
—   

3,778   
73   
7,400   
—   
28   
7,372   
4,342   
9,576   
—   
 2,160,741    131,728   
—   
 2,160,741    131,728   

—   

  825,781   
  242,953   
  449,843   
  132,985   

184   
2   
176   
6   

1,769   
18   
7,476   
—   
40   
7,436   
5,374   
4,776   
11   
76,405   
—   
76,405   

75   
3   
72   
—   

1,151   
46   
4,745   
—   
38   
4,707   
6,599   
967   
160   
31,557   
—   
31,557   

59   
—   
59   
—   

1,037   
57   
3,585   
—   
36   
3,549   
8,606   
1,564   
—   
37,326   
—   
37,326   

210   
110   
84   
16   

1,082   
171   
9,198   
—   
124   
9,074   
2,343   
1,028   
—   
39,567   
—   
39,567   

242   
199   
43   
—   

5,625   

21,991   
—   
1,346   
20,645   

1,270   
849   
19,240   
601   
656   
17,983   
8,653   
2,016   
1,689   
85,712   

25,086 
136    285,762 
78,149 
601 
2,973 
74,575 
1,479    114,324 
1,725    125,947 
20,430   
22,290 
79,533    2,642,569 
—    121,520    121,520 
85,712    201,053    2,764,089 

975   
811   
163   
1   

328    827,854 
300    244,378 
28    450,468 
—    133,008 

1  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data have been restated 

accordingly.

2  Unallocated impairment losses in relation to disposal groups of $2.0bn (2022: $2.4bn) and non-financial assets of $0.9bn (2022: $1bn) that are 

presented within assets held for sale on the balance sheet have been included within non-financial assets in the table above.

3  A total of $0.4bn (2022: $0.3bn) of non-financial liabilities that are presented within liabilities of disposal groups held for sale on the balance sheet have 

been included within non-financial liabilities in the table above.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

409

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

HSBC Holdings 

Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments

Due not
more 
than
1 month

Due over
1 month
but not
more than
3 months

Due over
3 months
but not
more than
6 months

Due over
6 months
but not
more than
9 months

Due over
9 months
but not
more than
1 year

Due over
1 year
but not
more than
2 years 

Due over
2 years
but not
more than
5 years 

Due 
over
5 years

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Total

$m

7,029   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—    7,029 

—   

2,217   
—   
  10,365   
3,511   
  23,122   
—   
  23,122   

—   
—   
—   

—   

2,452   
—   
1,437   
—   
3,889   
—   
3,889   

—   

—   
—   
6,017   
860   
6,877   
—   
6,877   

168   
—   
—   

—   

209   
—   
1,599   
1,987   
3,963   
—   
3,963   

—   

—   
120   
898   
254   
1,272   
—   
1,272   

—   
—   
—   

—   

7   
816   
1,049   
—   
1,872   
—   
1,872   

—   

—   
—   
750   
229   
979   
—   
979   

—   
—   
—   

—   

59   
2,158   
127   
—   
2,344   
—   
2,344   

—   

—   
—   
757   
5   
762   
—   
762   

—   
—   
—   

—   

75   
—   
34   
—   
109   
—   
109   

3,815   

26,284    29,780    59,879 

18   
1,016   
771   
—   
5,620   
—   
5,620   

—   
5,287   
3,816   

675   

—   
—   

434    3,344 
6,783    19,435    27,354 
—    19,558 
—    4,859 
33,742    49,649   122,023 
—   163,146   163,146 
33,742   212,795   285,169 

—   

—   

168 
19,604    18,747    43,638 
16,175    15,198    35,189 

1,471   

3,429   

3,549    8,449 

558   
4,920   
—   
1,600   
12,365   
—   
12,365   

—   

1,318   

1,412    6,090 
33,735    23,610    65,239 
23    4,269 
880    19,972    24,439 
55,537    63,764   143,843 
20 
55,537    63,784   143,863 

20   

—   

3,210   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

3,210 

—   

2,889   
—   
1,517   
68   
7,684   
—   
7,684   

48   
—   
—   

—   

2,540   
—   
722   
—   
3,310   
—   
3,310   

—   

—   
2,163   
2,712   
4,147   
9,022   
—   
9,022   

266   
—   
—   

—   

—   
—   
450   
—   
716   
—   
716   

—   

—   
240   
8,870   
179   
9,289   
—   
9,289   

—   
—   
—   

—   

35   
1,972   
648   
—   
2,655   
—   
2,655   

—   

—   
—   
1,020   
90   
1,110   
—   
1,110   

—   
—   
—   

—   

—   
448   
61   
—   
509   
—   
509   

—   

9,007   

16,230   

27,085   

52,322 

—   
—   
2,194   
4   
2,198   
—   
2,198   

—   
2,035   
3,153   
—   
14,195   
—   
14,195   

116   
17,913   
—   
—   

796   
4,414   
—   
14   
21,454   

3,801 
26,765 
19,466 
4,502 
45,114    110,066 
—    171,035    171,035 
21,454    216,149    281,101 

—   
—   
—   

—   

102   
714   
35   
—   
851   
—   
851   

—   
1,447   
1,447   

—   
16,459   
12,784   

—   
14,217   
11,192   

314 
32,123 
25,423 

—   

3,675   

3,025   

6,700 

460   
11,046   
—   
1,941   
14,894   
—   
14,894   

1,638   
25,380   
14   
1,492   
44,983   
—   
44,983   

6,922 
2,147   
66,938 
27,378   
1,961 
31   
16,294   
19,727 
60,067    127,985 
8 
60,075    127,993 

8   

Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand:
–  balances with HSBC undertakings
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings 
designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value
Derivatives 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 
Financial investments
Accrued income and other financial assets
Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2023
Non-financial assets 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
–  debt securities in issue 
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred 

securities 
Derivatives 
Debt securities in issue 
Accruals and other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities 
Total financial liabilities 31 Dec 2023
Non-financial liabilities 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023

Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand:
–  balances with HSBC undertakings
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings 
designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value

Derivatives 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 
Financial investments
Accrued income and other financial assets
Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2022
Non-financial assets 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2022
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
–  debt securities in issue
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred 

securities
Derivatives 
Debt securities in issue 
Accruals and other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities 
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2022
Non-financial liabilities 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2022

410

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities

The following table shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading 
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in 
our consolidated balance sheet. Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their 
contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time 
bucket and not by contractual maturity.

In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The 
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the 
basis of the earliest date they can be called.

Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities

Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Other financial liabilities1

Loan and other credit-related commitments
Financial guarantees2
At 31 Dec 2023
Proportion of cash flows payable in period

Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Other financial liabilities1

Loan and other credit-related commitments
Financial guarantees2
At 31 Dec 2022
Proportion of cash flows payable in period

Due not 
more
than 1 
month

Due over
1 month but
not more 
than
3 months

Due over
3 months but
not more than
1 year

Due over
1 year but 
not
more than
5 years

Due over
5 years

$m
52,938   
1,345,006   
159,264   
73,150   
22,262   
232,598   
6,837   
39   
149,904   
2,041,998   
895,156   
16,966   
2,954,120   

83%

47,082   
1,387,125   
121,328   
72,353   
16,687   
283,512   
4,329   
37   
153,597   
2,086,050   
825,781   
18,696   
2,930,527   

85%

$m
2,898   
141,348   
10,457   
—   
9,156   
609   
7,407   
135   
9,752   
181,762   
95   
4   
181,861   

5%

406   
96,474   
3,852   
—   
7,859   
171   
8,217   
168   
8,670   
125,817   
184   
25   
126,026   

4%

$m
3,304   
119,660   
2,996   
—   
26,033   
1,295   
24,117   
1,465   
5,943   
184,813   
371   
39   
185,223   

5%

4,024   
80,608   
1,535   
—   
18,740   
1,181   
17,522   
1,395   
5,994   
130,999   
344   
62   
131,405   

4%

$m
17,123   
13,423   
1   
—   
63,960   
2,445   
43,513   
9,020   
2,555   
152,040   
1,437   
—   
153,477   

4%

16,050   
9,961   
1,268   
—   
63,606   
2,222   
34,283   
7,321   
3,230   
137,941   
1,217   
—   
139,158   

4%

$m
362   
109   
—   
—   
44,886   
2,910   
27,119   
34,920   
2,109   
112,415   
91   
—   
112,506   

3%

359   
346   
—   
—   
43,475   
1,059   
26,428   
32,946   
1,704   
106,317   
328   
—   
106,645   

3%

Total

$m
76,625 
1,619,546 
172,718 
73,150 
166,297 
239,857 
108,993 
45,579 
170,263 
2,673,028 
897,150 
17,009 
3,587,187 

67,921 
1,574,514 
127,983 
72,353 
150,367 
288,145 
90,779 
41,867 
173,195 
2,587,124 
827,854 
18,783 
3,433,761 

1  Excludes financial liabilities of disposal groups.
2  Excludes performance guarantee contracts to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are not applied.

HSBC Holdings 

HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of liquidity are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-Group loans and 
securities, and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises funds in the debt capital markets to meet the Group’s 
minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities and maintain an appropriate liquidity buffer. HSBC Holdings uses this liquidity to meet 
its obligations, including interest and principal repayments on external debt liabilities, operating expenses and collateral on derivative 
transactions.

HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued 
relating to its subsidiaries. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the 
commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.

HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level. During 
2023, consistent with the Group’s capital plan, the Group’s material subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying 
dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments from 
material subsidiaries. However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other 
things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating 
performance.

HSBC Holdings currently has sufficient liquidity to meet its present and forecast requirements. Liquidity risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by 
Holdings ALCO.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

411

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

The following table shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading 
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in 
HSBC Holdings balance sheet. Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their 
contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time 
bucket and not by contractual maturity.

In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The 
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the 
basis of the earliest date they can be called.

Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities

Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives 
Debt securities in issue 
Subordinated liabilities 
Other financial liabilities 

Loan commitments 
Financial guarantees1
At 31 Dec 2023

Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
Derivatives 
Debt securities in issue 
Subordinated liabilities 
Other financial liabilities 

Loan commitments 
Financial guarantees1
At 31 Dec 2022

Due not 
more
than 1 
month

Due over 1
month but 
not
more than 3
months

Due over 3
months but
not more 
than
1 year

Due over 1
year but not
more than 5
years

Due over
5 years

$m

—   
23   
1,244   
—   
46   
1,436   
2,749   
—   
—   
2,749   

48   
11   
1,182   
—   
46   
721   
2,008   
—   
—   
2,008   

$m
168   
405   
556   
680   
2,163   
1,620   
5,592   
—   
—   
5,592   

266   
72   
177   
544   
161   
458   
1,678   
—   
—   
1,678   

$m

—   
1,437   
1,651   
4,787   
1,360   
1,210   
10,445   
—   
—   
10,445   

—   
1,139   
1,089   
4,899   
1,068   
745   
8,940   
—   
—   
8,940   

$m

—   
31,050   
2,227   
46,909   
8,239   
—   
88,425   
—   
—   
88,425   

—   
22,921   
4,231   
44,608   
8,262   
14   
80,036   
—   
—   
80,036   

$m

—   
25,610   
726   
27,745   
30,862   
23   
84,966   
—   
—   
84,966   

—   
19,196   
1,321   
32,540   
27,045   
31   
80,133   
—   
—   
80,133   

Total

$m
168 
58,525 
6,404 
80,121 
42,670 
4,289 
192,177 
— 
— 
192,177 

314 
43,339 
8,000 
82,591 
36,582 
1,969 
172,795 
— 
— 
172,795 

1  Excludes performance guarantee contracts to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are not applied. Prior period comparatives have been 

restated. Refer to footnote 1 in Note 34.

31 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
In the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities, the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when the offset criteria are met. This 
is achieved when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is either an intention to settle on a net basis, or 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

In the following table, the ‘Amounts not set off in the balance sheet’ include transactions where:

– the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right to set off only in 

the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied; and 

– cash and non-cash collateral (debt securities and equities) has been received/pledged for derivatives and reverse repurchase/repurchase, 

stock borrowing/lending and similar agreements to cover net exposure in the event of a default or other predetermined events.

The effect of over-collateralisation is excluded. 

‘Amounts not subject to enforceable netting agreements’ include contracts executed in jurisdictions where the rights of offset may not be 
upheld under the local bankruptcy laws, and transactions where a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset may not have 
been sought, or may have been unable to obtain.

For risk management purposes, the net amounts of loans and advances to customers are subject to limits, which are monitored and the 
relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure the legal right to set off remains appropriate.

412

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities

Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements

Amounts not set off in the 
balance sheet

Gross
amounts

Amounts
offset

Net
amounts 
in the 
balance
sheet

Financial 
instruments, 
including 
non-cash 
collateral

Cash
collateral

Net
amount

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

Amounts not
subject to
enforceable
netting
arrangements1
$m

Total

$m

341,473   

(116,486)   

224,987   

(198,743)   

(22,926)   

3,318   

4,727    229,714 

29,152   
365,922   
34,173   
770,720   

(602)   
(135,210)   
(15,792)   
(268,090)   

28,550   
230,712   
18,381   
502,630   

(28,513)   
(230,240)   
(15,613)   
(473,109)   

(34)   
(80)   
(93)   
(23,133)   

3   
392   
2,675   
6,388   

2,633   

31,183 
21,653    252,365 
18,383 
29,015    531,645 

2   

419,020   

(140,987)   

278,033   

(236,372)   

(36,486)   

5,175   

6,126    284,159 

24,370   
335,193   
28,336   
806,919   

(236)   
(102,888)   
(12,384)   
(256,495)   

24,134   
232,305   
15,952   
550,424   

(24,105)   
(231,432)   
(13,166)   
(505,075)   

(29)   
(449)   
—   
(36,964)   

—   
424   
2,786   
8,385   

1,369   

25,503 
21,689    253,994 
16,219 
29,451    579,875 

267   

344,799   

(116,486)   

228,313   

(198,640)   

(23,748)   

5,925   

6,459    234,772 

15,686   
270,493   
42,522   
673,500   

(172)   
(135,640)   
(15,792)   
(268,090)   

15,514   
134,853   
26,730   
405,410   

(15,453)   
(134,095)   
(15,613)   
(363,801)   

—   
(669)   
(93)   
(24,510)   

61   
89   
11,024   
17,099   

6   

15,520 
37,247    172,100 
26,743 
43,725    449,135 

13   

419,992   

(140,987)   

279,005   

(239,234)   

(29,276)   

10,495   

6,757    285,762 

20,026   
206,827   
37,164   
684,009   

(236)   
(102,888)   
(12,384)   
(256,495)   

19,790   
103,939   
24,780   
427,514   

(19,790)   
(103,296)   
(13,166)   
(375,486)   

—   
(249)   
—   
(29,525)   

—   
394   
11,614   
22,503   

5   

19,795 
23,809    127,748 
24,794 
30,585    458,099 

14   

Financial assets
Derivatives (Note 15)2
Reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar 
agreements classified as:3
–  trading assets
–  non-trading assets 
Loans and advances to customers4
At 31 Dec 2023

Derivatives (Note 15)2
Reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar 
agreements classified as:3
–  trading assets 
–  non-trading assets
Loans and advances to customers4
At 31 Dec 20226

Financial liabilities
Derivatives (Note 15)2
Repos, stock lending and similar 
agreements classified as:3
–  trading liabilities
–  non-trading liabilities 
Customer accounts6
At 31 Dec 2023

Derivatives (Note 15)2
Repos, stock lending and similar 
agreements classified as:3
–  trading liabilities 
–  non-trading liabilities
Customer accounts6
At 31 Dec 20226

1  These exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but we may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing 

enforceability of the right of offset.

2   At 31 December 2023, the amount of cash margin received that had been offset against the gross derivatives assets was $5,105m (2022 $8,357m). 

The amount of cash margin paid that had been offset against the gross derivatives liabilities was $7,142m (2022: $10,918m).

3  For the amount of repos, reverse repos, stock lending, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised on the balance sheet within ‘Trading 

assets’ of $31,183m (2022: $25,503m) and ‘Trading liabilities’ of $15,520m (2022: $19,795m), see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 211.

4  At 31 December 2023, the total amount of ‘Loans and advances to customers’ was $938,535m (2022: $923,561m), of which $18,381m (2022: 

$15,952m) was subject to offsetting.

5  From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. We have restated 2022 comparative 

data.

6  At 31 December 2023, the total amount of ‘Customer accounts’ was $1,611,647m (2022: $1,570,303m), of which $26,730m (2022: $24,780m) was 

subject to offsetting.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

413

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

32 Interest rate benchmark reform

At 31 Dec 2023
Non-derivative financial assets2
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Derivative notional contract amount

At 31 Dec 2022
Non-derivative financial assets2
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Derivative notional contract amount

Financial instruments yet to transition to alternative benchmarks, by main 
benchmark

USD Libor GBP Libor3
$m
45   
2,054   
—   

$m
2,644   
905   
12,013   

JPY Libor

CDOR

$m

—   
558   
—   

$m
2,132   
181   
134,636   

TIIE

$m
3,961   
1,323   
32,836   

Others1
$m
1,941 
9 
11,821 

54,348   
25,564   
2,348,412   

304   
1,804   
68   

—   
1,179   
—   

1,695   
176   
119,832   

3,635   
—   
17,698   

4,144 
— 
56,759 

1  Comprises financial instruments referencing other significant benchmark rates yet to transition to alternative benchmarks (euro Libor, SOR, THBFIX, 

MIFOR, Sibor and Johannesburg interbank average rate (‘JIBAR’)). An announcement was made by the South African regulator during the first half of 
2023 on the cessation of the JIBAR. Therefore, JIBAR is also included in ‘Others‘ during the current period.

2  Gross carrying amount excluding allowances for expected credit losses.
3   Non-derivative assets exposure relates to contracts for clients requiring additional time for loan restructuring or repayment. The limited number of 

remaining contracts are expected to be transitioned prior to cessation of ‘synthetic’ GBP Libor from 31 March 2024. Non-derivative financial liabilities 
relate to MREL instruments that include references to GBP Libor in their contractual terms but are currently using a fixed interest rate. HSBC remains 
committed to seeking to remediate and/or mitigate the risks associated with these contracts by the relevant interest rate calculation dates.

The amounts in the above table relate to HSBC’s main operating entities where HSBC has material exposures impacted by Ibor reform, 
including in the UK, Hong Kong, France, the US, Mexico, Canada, Singapore, the UAE, Bermuda, Australia, Qatar, Germany, Thailand, India and 
Japan. The amounts provide an indication of the extent of the Group’s exposure to the Ibor benchmarks that are due to be replaced. Amounts 
are in respect of financial instruments that:

– contractually reference an interest rate benchmark that is planned to transition to an alternative benchmark;

– have a contractual maturity date beyond the date by which the reference interest rate benchmark is expected to cease; and

– are recognised on HSBC’s consolidated balance sheet.

33 Called up share capital and other equity instruments
Called up share capital and share premium

HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid

At 1 Jan
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans
Shares issued in lieu of dividends
Less: shares repurchased and cancelled
Less: treasury shares cancelled
At 31 Dec1

HSBC Holdings share premium

At 31 Dec

Total called up share capital and share premium

2023

Number

20,293,607,410   
10,778,479   
—   
716,384,289   
325,273,407   
19,262,728,193   

$m
10,147   
5   
—   
358   
163   
9,631   

2022

Number

20,631,520,439   
10,226,221   
—   
348,139,250   
—   
20,293,607,410   

$m

10,316 
5 
— 
174 
— 
10,147 

2022

$m

14,664 

2022

$m

24,811 

2023

$m
14,738   

2023

$m
24,369   

At 31 Dec

1  All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.

HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of £0.01 

The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held 
by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share 
carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no right to attend or vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings. 
These securities can be redeemed by HSBC Holdings at any time, subject to prior approval by the PRA.

414

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other equity instruments

HSBC Holdings has included two types of additional tier 1 capital securities in its tier 1 capital, including the contingent convertible securities 
described below. These are accounted for as equity because HSBC does not have an obligation to transfer cash or a variable number of its own 
ordinary shares to holders under any circumstances outside its control. See Note 29 for additional tier 1 securities accounted for as liabilities.

Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities

HSBC Holdings continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1 
capital securities on an end point basis. These securities are marketed principally and subsequently allotted to corporate investors and fund 
managers. The net proceeds of the issuances are typically used for HSBC Holdings’ general corporate purposes and to further strengthen its 
capital base to meet requirements under CRR II. These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates. After the initial call 
dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on credit 
spreads, fixed at issuance, above prevailing market rates. Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the 
sole discretion of HSBC Holdings, and HSBC Holdings has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason (in whole or part) any 
interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date. Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK banking 
regulations or if the Group has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities’ terms.

The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable at the option of HSBC Holdings in whole typically at the initial call date or on 
any fifth anniversary after this date. In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons. 
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA. These securities rank pari passu with HSBC Holdings’ sterling preference shares and 
therefore rank ahead of ordinary shares. The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings 
at a predetermined price, should HSBC’s consolidated non-transitional CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%. Therefore, in accordance with the terms of 
the securities, if the non-transitional CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at fixed contractual 
conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, subject to anti-dilution adjustments.

HSBC’s additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity

Original nominal 
amount (LCY)
$2,250m

$2,450m

$3,000m

$2,350m

$1,800m

$1,500m

€1,000m

$1,000m

$2,000m

€1,000m

€1,250m

S$750m

€1,000m

At 31 Dec

6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities
6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities
6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities
6.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities1
6.500% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities
4.600% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities2
4.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securitiess3
4.700% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities4
8.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities5
6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities6
4.750% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities
5.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities7
5.875% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities

First call
date

Sep 2024
Mar 2025
May 2027
Mar 2023
Mar 2028
Dec 2030
Mar 2026
Mar 2031
Mar 2028
Sep 2023
Jul 2029
Sep 2023
Sep 2026

2023
$m

2,250   
2,450   
3,000   
—   
1,800   
1,500   
1,000   
1,000   
1,980   
—   
1,422   
—   
1,301   
17,703   

2022
$m

2,250 
2,450 
3,000 
2,350 
1,800 
1,500 
1,000 
1,000 
— 
1,123 
1,422 
550 
1,301 
19,746 

1   This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 30 January 2023 and redeemed and cancelled on 23 March 2023. 
2   This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 17 December 2020. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 17 June 2031.
3   This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 9 September 2026.
4   This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 9 September 2031.
5   This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 7 March 2023. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 7 September 2028. 

This security has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.

6   This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 29 September 2023.
7   This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 25 September 2023.

Shares under option

For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option 
Plan (UK), see Note 5.

Aggregate options outstanding under these plans

31 Dec 2023

Number of
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares
83,993,678 

Usual period of 
exercise

Exercise price 

Number of
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares

2022 to 2029

£2.6270–£5.4490  

115,650,723 

31 Dec 2022

Usual period of 
exercise

2021 to 2028

Exercise price

£2.6270–5.9640

Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares

At 31 December 2023, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements and the 
HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan, together with long-term incentive awards and deferred share awards granted under the 
HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 208,539,316 (2022: 240,612,019). The total number of shares at 31 December 2023 held by employee benefit 
trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 20,902,218 (2022: 12,315,711).

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

415

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

34 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees

Guarantees and other contingent liabilities:
–  financial guarantees
–  performance and other guarantees
–  other contingent liabilities
At 31 Dec
Commitments:2
–  documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 
–  forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed
–  standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend
At 31 Dec

HSBC

2023

$m

17,009   
94,277   
636   
111,922   

7,818   
78,535   
810,797   
897,150   

2022

$m

18,783   
88,240   
676   
107,699   

8,241   
50,852   
768,761   
827,854   

HSBC Holdings1

2023

$m

—   
7,723   
—   

7,723 

—   
—   
—   
—   

2022

$m

— 
17,707 
90 
17,797

— 
— 
— 
— 

1   Guarantees by HSBC Holdings are in favour of other Group entities. These include contracts that provide protection against credit risk on a specified 
exposure but do not meet the definition of financial guarantees, which have been reclassified to ‘performance and other guarantees’. Prior period 
comparatives have been restated and the full balance reclassified.
Includes $661,015m of commitments at 31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: $618,788m), to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are 
applied where HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment.

2 

The preceding table discloses the nominal principal amounts of off-balance sheet liabilities and commitments for the Group, which represent the 
maximum amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and the clients default. As a significant portion of guarantees and 
commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity 
requirements. The expected credit loss provision relating to guarantees and commitments under IFRS 9 is disclosed in Note 28.

The majority of the guarantees have a term of less than one year, while guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBC’s 
annual credit review process.

Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are excluded from this note but are 
disclosed in Notes 28 and 36.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme

The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) provides compensation, up to certain limits, to eligible customers of financial services 
firms that are unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against them. The FSCS may impose a further levy on the Group to the extent the 
industry levies imposed to date are not sufficient to cover the compensation due to customers in any future possible collapse. The ultimate 
FSCS levy to the industry as a result of a collapse cannot be estimated reliably. It is dependent on various uncertain factors including the 
potential recovery of assets by the FSCS, changes in the level of protected products (including deposits and investments) and the population of 
FSCS members at the time.
Associates

HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees amounted to $69.9bn at 31 December 2023 (2022: 
$64.8bn). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.

35 Finance lease receivables
HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), property and general plant and 
machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms. Rentals are calculated to recover the cost 
of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. 

The table below excludes finance lease receivables reclassified on the balance sheet to ‘Assets held for sale’ in accordance with IFRS 5. Net 
investment in finance leases of $1,595m (2022: $1,502m) was reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ as a result of the planned sale of our banking 
business in Canada.

Lease receivables:
No later than one year 
One to two years
Two to three years
Three to four years
Four to five years
Later than one year and no later than five years 
Later than five years 
At 31 Dec

Total future
minimum
payments

2023

Unearned
finance
income

$m

$m

Total future
minimum
payments

2022
Unearned
finance
income

$m

$m

Present
value

$m

2,355   
1,954   
1,380   
930   
593   
4,857   
4,116   
11,328   

(308)   
(249)   
(189)   
(153)   
(132)   
(723)   
(838)   
(1,869)   

2,047   
1,705   
1,191   
777   
461   
4,134   
3,278   
9,459   

2,159   
1,652   
1,391   
906   
613   
4,562   
4,064   
10,785   

(236)   
(201)   
(161)   
(131)   
(112)   
(605)   
(736)   
(1,577)   

Present
value

$m

1,923 
1,451 
1,230 
775 
501 
3,957 
3,328 
9,208 

416

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations. Apart from 
the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material. The recognition of provisions is determined in 
accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 1. While the outcomes of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are inherently 
uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these 
matters as at 31 December 2023 (see Note 28). Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and 
quantified, except to the extent that doing so would be seriously prejudicial. Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of 
wrongdoing or legal liability. It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC

Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US 
whose assets were invested with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’). Based on information provided by Madoff 
Securities as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was $8.4bn, including fictitious profits reported by Madoff. 
Based on information available to HSBC, the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities 
during the time HSBC serviced the funds are estimated to have totalled approximately $4bn. Various HSBC companies have been named as 
defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities’ fraud.

US litigation: The Madoff Securities Trustee has brought lawsuits against various HSBC companies and others, seeking recovery of alleged 
transfers from Madoff Securities to HSBC in the amount of $543m (plus interest), and these lawsuits remain pending in the US Bankruptcy 
Court for the Southern District of New York (the ‘US Bankruptcy Court’).

Certain Fairfield entities (together, ‘Fairfield’) (in liquidation) have brought a lawsuit in the US against fund shareholders, including HSBC 
companies that acted as nominees for clients, seeking restitution of redemption payments in the amount of $382m (plus interest). Fairfield’s 
claims against most of the HSBC companies have been dismissed by the US Bankruptcy Court and the US District Court for the Southern 
District of New York, but remain pending on appeal before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Fairfield’s claims against HSBC 
Private Bank (Suisse) SA and HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg (‘HSSL’) have not been dismissed and their appeals are also pending 
before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Meanwhile, proceedings before the US Bankruptcy Court with respect to the claims 
against HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA and HSSL are ongoing.

UK litigation: The Madoff Securities Trustee has filed a claim against various HSBC companies in the High Court of England and Wales, 
seeking recovery of transfers from Madoff Securities to HSBC. The claim has not yet been served and the amount claimed has not been 
specified.

Cayman Islands litigation: In February 2013, Primeo Fund (‘Primeo’) (in liquidation) brought an action against HSSL and Bank of Bermuda 
(Cayman) Limited (now known as HSBC Cayman Limited), alleging breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty and claiming damages. 
Following dismissal of Primeo’s action by the Grand Court and Court of Appeal of the Cayman Islands, in 2019, Primeo appealed to the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council. In November 2023, the Privy Council issued a judgment upholding the dismissal of Primeo’s claims. This matter 
is now closed.

Luxembourg litigation: In 2009, Herald Fund SPC (‘Herald’) (in liquidation) brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District 
Court, seeking restitution of cash and securities in the amount of $2.5bn (plus interest), or damages in the amount of $2bn (plus interest). In 
2018, HSBC Bank plc was added to the claim and Herald increased the amount of the alleged damages claim to $5.6bn (plus interest). The 
Luxembourg District Court has dismissed Herald’s securities restitution claim, but reserved Herald’s cash restitution and damages claims. 
Herald has appealed this dismissal to the Luxembourg Court of Appeal, where the matter is pending. 

Beginning in 2009, various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in a number of actions brought by Alpha Prime Fund Limited 
(‘Alpha Prime’) in the Luxembourg District Court seeking damages for alleged breach of contract and negligence in the amount of $1.16bn (plus 
interest). These matters are currently pending before the Luxembourg District Court.

Beginning in 2014, HSSL and the Luxembourg branch of HSBC Bank plc have been named as defendants in a number of actions brought by 
Senator Fund SPC (‘Senator’) before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities in the amount of $625m (plus interest), or 
damages in the amount of $188m (plus interest). These matters are currently pending before the Luxembourg District Court.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the pending matters, including the 
timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
US Anti-Terrorism Act litigation
Since November 2014, a number of lawsuits have been filed in federal courts in the US against various HSBC companies and others on behalf 
of plaintiffs who are, or are related to, alleged victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East. In each case, it is alleged that the defendants aided 
and abetted the unlawful conduct of various sanctioned parties in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act, or provided banking services to 
customers alleged to have connections to terrorism financing. Seven actions, which seek damages for unspecified amounts, remain pending 
and HSBC’s motions to dismiss have been granted in three of these cases. These dismissals are subject to appeals and/or the plaintiffs re-
pleading their claims. The four other actions are at an early stage.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant. 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

417

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Interbank offered rates investigation and litigation

Euro interest rate derivatives: In December 2016, the European Commission (‘EC’) issued a decision finding that HSBC, among other banks, 
engaged in anti-competitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives, and the EC imposed a fine on HSBC based 
on a one-month infringement in 2007. The fine was annulled in 2019 and a lower fine was imposed in 2021. In January 2023, the European 
Court of Justice dismissed an appeal by HSBC and upheld the EC’s findings on HSBC’s liability. A separate appeal by HSBC concerning the 
amount of the fine remains pending before the General Court of the European Union. 

US dollar Libor: Beginning in 2011, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of individual and putative class 
action lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor. The complaints assert claims under 
various US federal and state laws, including antitrust and racketeering laws and the Commodity Exchange Act (‘US CEA’). HSBC has concluded 
class settlements with five groups of plaintiffs, and several class action lawsuits brought by other groups of plaintiffs have been voluntarily 
dismissed. A number of individual US dollar Libor-related actions seeking damages for unspecified amounts remain pending.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the pending matters, including the 
timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Foreign exchange-related investigations and litigation 

In December 2016, Brazil’s Administrative Council of Economic Defense initiated an investigation into the onshore foreign exchange market and 
identified a number of banks, including HSBC, as subjects of its investigation, which remains ongoing. 

Since 2017, HSBC Bank plc, among other financial institutions, has been defending a complaint filed by the Competition Commission of South 
Africa before the South African Competition Tribunal for alleged anti-competitive behaviour in the South African foreign exchange market. In 
2020, a revised complaint was filed which also named HSBC Bank USA N.A. (‘HSBC Bank USA’) as a defendant. In January 2024, the South 
African Competition Appeal Court dismissed HSBC Bank USA from the revised complaint, but denied HSBC Bank plc’s application to dismiss. 
The Competition Commission has appealed the dismissal of HSBC Bank USA to the Constitutional Court of South Africa.

Since 2015, various HSBC companies and other banks have been named as defendants in a putative class action in the US District Court for the 
Southern District of New York filed by a group of retail customers who dealt in foreign exchange products. The plaintiffs allege that the 
defendants conspired to manipulate foreign exchange rates and seek damages for unspecified amounts. This action has been dismissed but 
remains pending on appeal.

In January 2023, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Holdings reached a settlement-in-principle with plaintiffs in Israel to resolve a class action filed in the 
local courts alleging foreign exchange-related misconduct. The settlement remains subject to court approval. Lawsuits alleging foreign 
exchange-related misconduct remain pending against HSBC and other banks in courts in Brazil.

In February 2024, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Holdings were joined to an existing claim brought in the UK Competition Appeals Tribunal against 
various other banks alleging historical anti-competitive behaviour in the foreign exchange market and seeking damages for unspecified amounts. 
This matter is at an early stage. It is possible that additional civil actions will be initiated against HSBC in relation to its historical foreign 
exchange activities.

There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the pending matters, which could be 
significant.
Precious metals fix-related litigation

US litigation: HSBC and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Limited are defending a class action pending in the US District 
Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that, from January 2007 to December 2013, the defendants conspired to manipulate the 
price of silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law. In May 
2023, this action, which seeks damages for unspecified amounts, was dismissed but remains pending on appeal.

HSBC and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited are defending a class action pending in the US 
District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that, from January 2008 to November 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate 
the price of platinum group metals and related financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the US CEA. In 
February 2023, the court reversed an earlier dismissal of the plaintiffs’ third amended complaint and this action, which seeks damages for 
unspecified amounts, is proceeding.

Canada litigation: HSBC and other financial institutions are defending putative class actions filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of 
Justice alleging that the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver, gold and related derivatives in violation of the Canadian 
Competition Act and common law. These actions each seek CA$1bn in damages plus CA$250m in punitive damages. Two of the actions are 
proceeding and the others have been stayed.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Tax-related investigations 

Various tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world are conducting investigations in connection with 
allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering and unlawful cross-border banking solicitation. HSBC continues to cooperate with 
these investigations.

In March 2023, the French National Financial Prosecutor announced an investigation into a number of banks, including HSBC Continental Europe 
and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc, in connection with alleged tax fraud related to the dividend withholding tax treatment of certain trading 
activities. HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Germany also continue to cooperate with investigations by the German public prosecutor into numerous 
financial institutions and their employees, in connection with the dividend withholding tax treatment of certain trading activities.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant. 

418

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Gilts trading investigation and litigation  

Since 2018, the UK Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) has been investigating HSBC and four other banks for suspected anti-
competitive conduct in relation to the historical trading of gilts and related derivatives. In May 2023, the CMA announced its case against HSBC 
Bank plc and HSBC Holdings; both HSBC companies are contesting the CMA’s allegations. 

In June 2023, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., among other banks, were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in 
the US District Court for the Southern District of New York by plaintiffs alleging anti-competitive conduct in the gilts market and seeking 
damages for unspecified amounts. In September 2023, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss which remains pending. It is possible that 
additional civil actions will be initiated against HSBC in relation to its historical gilts trading activities.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
UK depositor protection arrangements investigation

In January 2022, the UK Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) commenced an investigation into HSBC Bank plc’s and HSBC UK Bank plc’s 
compliance with depositor protection arrangements under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme in the UK. In January 2024, the PRA 
concluded its investigation and imposed a £57m fine on HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc, which has been paid, and this matter is now 
closed.
UK collections and recoveries investigation

Since 2019, the FCA has been investigating HSBC Bank plc’s, HSBC UK Bank plc’s and Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc’s compliance 
with regulatory standards relating to collections and recoveries operations in the UK between 2017 and 2018. HSBC continues to cooperate 
with this investigation.

There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of this matter, which could be significant.
Korean short selling investigation

In December 2023, the Korean Securities and Futures Commission issued a decision to impose a fine on The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited in connection with trades in breach of Korean short selling rules and to refer the case to the Korean Prosecutors’ Office for 
investigation. 

There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of this matter, which could be significant.
Silicon Valley Bank (‘SVB’) litigation

In May 2023, First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company (‘First Citizens’) brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of 
California against various HSBC companies and seven US-based HSBC employees who had previously worked for SVB. The lawsuit seeks $1bn 
in damages and alleges, among other things, that the various HSBC companies conspired with the individual defendants to solicit employees 
from First Citizens and that the individual defendants took confidential information belonging to SVB and/or First Citizens. In January 2024, the 
court denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss in part and granted it in part, and directed the plaintiff to amend its complaint to specify its 
allegations as to each defendant. In February 2024, First Citizens filed its amended complaint. This action is ongoing. 

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any 
possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Film Finance litigation

In June 2020, two separate investor groups issued claims against HSBC UK Bank plc (as successor to HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited (‘PBGB’)) 
in the High Court of England and Wales seeking damages for unspecified amounts in connection with PBGB’s role in the development of 
Eclipse film finance schemes. These actions are ongoing.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
US mortgage securitisation litigation

Beginning in 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in various state and federal courts in the US against HSBC Bank USA, as a trustee of more 
than 280 mortgage securitisation trusts, seeking unspecified damages for losses in collateral value allegedly sustained by the trusts. HSBC Bank 
USA has reached settlements with a number of plaintiffs to resolve nearly all of these lawsuits. The remaining two actions are pending in a New 
York state court. HSBC Bank USA and certain of its affiliates continue to defend a mortgage loan repurchase action seeking unspecified 
damages and specific performance brought by the trustee of a mortgage securitisation trust in New York state court. 

There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the pending matters, which could be 
significant.
Mexican government bond litigation

HSBC Mexico S.A. and other banks are named as defendants in a consolidated putative class action pending in the US District Court for the 
Southern District of New York alleging anti-competitive conduct in the Mexican government bond market between 2006 and 2017 and seeking 
damages for unspecified amounts. In February 2024, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed an earlier dismissal of this lawsuit 
and this matter is proceeding.

Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any 
possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Stanford litigation

Since 2009, HSBC Bank plc has been named as a defendant in numerous claims filed in courts in the UK and the US arising from the collapse of 
Stanford International Bank Ltd, for which it was a correspondent bank from 2003 to 2009. In February 2023, HSBC Bank plc reached 
settlements with the plaintiffs to resolve these claims. The US settlement is subject to court approval and the UK settlement has concluded.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

419

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Other regulatory investigations, reviews and litigation

HSBC Holdings and/or certain of its affiliates are also subject to a number of other enquiries and examinations, requests for information, 
investigations and reviews by various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities, as well as legal proceedings including 
litigation, arbitration and other contentious proceedings, in connection with various matters arising out of their ordinary course businesses and 
operations.

At the present time, HSBC does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these matters to be material to the Group’s financial position; 
however, given the uncertainties involved in legal proceedings and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance regarding the eventual 
outcome of a particular matter or matters.

37 Related party transactions          
Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC 
employees, Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’) as defined by IAS 24, close family members of KMP and entities that are controlled or jointly 
controlled by KMP or their close family members. KMP are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing 
and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings. These individuals also constitute ‘senior management’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong 
Listing Rules. In applying IAS 24, it was determined that for this financial reporting period all KMP included Directors, former Directors and 
senior management listed on pages 239 to 246 except for the roles of Group Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief 
Human Resources Officer, Group Chief Sustainability Officer, Group Head of Strategy, Group Chief Communications and Brand Officer, and 
Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer who do not meet the criteria for KMP as provided for in the standard.

Particulars of transactions with related parties are tabulated below. The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding 
during the year is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and outstanding balances 
during the year.
Key Management Personnel

Details of Directors’ remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the ‘Directors’ remuneration report’ on pages 279 to 305. 
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ requires the following additional information for key management compensation.

Compensation of Key Management Personnel

Short-term employee benefits 
Post-employment benefits 
Other long-term employee benefits 
Share-based payments 
Year ended 31 Dec

Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel

Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 
Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 
Number of other HSBC securities held
At 31 Dec

2023

$m
51   
1   
10   
29   
91   

2022

$m

52   
1   
8   
26   
87   

2023
(000s)

32   
20,409   
228   
20,669   

2021

$m

50 
— 
6 
27 
83 

2022
(000s)

35 
18,185 
228 
18,448 

Advances and credits, guarantees and deposit balances during the year with Key Management Personnel

2023

2022

Key Management Personnel
Advances and credits1
Deposits

11   
60   

Highest amounts
outstanding
during year

Balance at
31 Dec

$m

Highest amounts
outstanding
during year

Balance at
31 Dec

$m

$m

16   
130   

$m

25 
123 

16   
53   

1  Advances and credits entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings plc during 2023 with Directors and former Directors, disclosed pursuant to 

section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, totalled $2.6m (2022: $2.5m). 

Some of the transactions were connected transactions as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited, but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules. The above transactions were made 
in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with 
persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees. The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of 
repayment or present other unfavourable features.

420

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Associates and joint ventures

The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest 
bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 18.

Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures

Unsubordinated amounts due from joint ventures
Unsubordinated amounts due from associates
Amounts due to associates 
Amounts due to joint ventures
Fair value of derivative assets with associates 
Fair value of derivative liabilities with associates
Guarantees and commitments

2023

2022

Highest balance 
during the year

Balance at
31 Dec

Highest balance
during the year

Balance at
31 Dec

$m
98   
7,907   
3,002   
95   
1,514   
4,388   
503   

$m
94   
5,910   
1,668   
61   
795   
2,962   
331   

$m

140   
7,378   
2,548   
57   
1,205   
4,319   
513   

$m

90 
6,594 
1,295 
53 
841 
3,648 
293 

The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and 
security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans

At 31 December 2023, $3.1bn (2022: $2.9bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies, 
earning management fees of $13m in 2023 (2022: $13m). At 31 December 2023, HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits 
of $402m (2022: $369m) with its banking subsidiaries, earning interest payable to the schemes of $2m (2022: nil). The above outstanding 
balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for 
comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.

The combined HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme enters into swap transactions with HSBC to manage inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its 
liabilities and selected assets. At 31 December 2023, the gross notional value of the swaps was $7.1bn (2022: $6.6bn). These swaps had a 
positive fair value to the scheme of $0.5bn (2022: $0.5bn); and HSBC had delivered collateral of $0.6bn (2022: $0.5bn) to the scheme in respect 
of these arrangements. All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads.
HSBC Holdings

Details of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries are shown in Note 40.

Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries

Assets 
Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value
Derivatives 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
Investments in subsidiaries 
Total related party assets at 31 Dec
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
Derivatives 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total related party liabilities at 31 Dec
Guarantees and commitments

2023

2022

Highest balance
during the year

Balance at
31 Dec

Highest balance
during the year

$m

$m

$m

Balance at
31 Dec

$m

8,396   

7,029   

7,421   

3,210 

60,309   

4,010   
28,213   
7,417   
167,542   
275,887   

179   
9,309   
505   
927   
10,920   
7,723   

59,879   

3,344   
27,354   
5,145   
159,478   
262,229   

168   
6,090   
341   
913   
7,512   
7,723   

52,322   

5,380   
26,765   
4,893   
167,542   
264,323   

314   
8,318   
1,375   
900   
10,907   
17,707   

52,322 

3,801 
26,765 
4,803 
167,542 
258,443 

314 
6,922 
429 
900 
8,565 
17,707 

The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and 
security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.

Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company. 
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to the 
scheme is made in Note 5.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

421

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

38 Effects of adoption of IFRS 17
On 1 January 2023, the Group adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, and as required by the standard applied the requirements retrospectively, 
with comparatives restated from the transition date, 1 January 2022. The tables below provide the transition restatement impact on the Group’s 
consolidated balance sheet as at 1 January 2022, as well as the Group consolidated income statement and the Group consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2022.

Further information about the effect of the adoption of IFRS 17 is provided in Note 1 ‘Basis of preparation and material accounting policies’ on 
page 341. 

IFRS 17 transition impact on the Group consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2022

Removal of 
PVIF and  
IFRS 4 
balances

Remeasure-
ment effect 
of IFRS 9 re-
designations

Recognition 
of IFRS 17
fulfilment 
cash flows

Recognition 
of IFRS 17 
contractual 
service 
margin Tax effect

Under 
IFRS 17

Total 
movements

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

$m

—   

—   
—   
—   
(9,453)   
—   
(4,468)   
(13,921)   

(112,745)   
—   
78   
(112,667)   
92,738   
6,008   
98,746   
(13,921)   

60,991   

(569)   
(1,280)   
(54,269)   
—   
—   
—   
4,873   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
4,198   
4,198   

—   
—   
—   
—   
4,558   
315   
4,873   
4,873   

109,393   
—   
1,102   
110,495   
(99,631)   
(6,666)   
(106,297)   
4,198   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(105)   
(105)   

9,914   
—   
(51)   
9,863   
(8,847)   
(1,121)   
(9,968)   
(105)   

—    110,795   

60,991 

—   
82,567   
—    1,044,534   
—    392,005   
11,169   
—   
5,432   
808   
—    1,307,290   
808    2,953,792   

(1,379)   

—    119,307   
3,294   
—    2,634,873   
(1,379)    2,757,474   
1,947    189,015   
7,303   
2,187    196,318   
808    2,953,792   

240   

(569) 
(1,280) 
(54,269) 
(9,453) 
808 
(375) 
(4,147) 

6,562 
(1,379) 
1,129 
6,312 
(9,235) 
(1,224) 
(10,459) 
(4,147) 

Assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise 
mandatorily measured at fair value through 
profit or loss
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Financial investments
Goodwill and intangible assets
Deferred tax assets
All other assets
Total assets
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities 
Deferred tax liabilities 
All other liabilities
Total liabilities
Total shareholders’ equity
Non-controlling interests 
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity

Under 
IFRS 4 

$m

  49,804   

  83,136   
 1,045,814   
  446,274   
  20,622   
4,624   
 1,307,665   
 2,957,939   

  112,745   
4,673   
 2,633,744   
 2,751,162   
  198,250   
8,527   
  206,777   
 2,957,939   

Transition drivers

Removal of PVIF and IFRS 4 balances

The PVIF intangible asset of $9,453m previously reported under IFRS 4 within ‘Goodwill and intangible assets’ arose from the upfront 
recognition of future profits associated with in-force insurance contracts. The PVIF intangible asset is no longer reported following the transition 
to IFRS 17, as future profits are deferred within the CSM. Other IFRS 4 insurance contract assets (shown above within ‘All other assets’) and 
insurance contract liabilities are removed on transition, to be replaced with IFRS 17 balances.

Remeasurement effect of IFRS 9 re-designations

Loans and advances of $1,849m and debt securities of $53,201m, both supporting associated insurance liabilities, were re-designated from an 
amortised cost classification to fair value through profit and loss. Debt securities supporting the associated insurance liabilities of $1,068m were 
reclassified from fair value through other comprehensive income to fair value through profit or loss. The re-designations were made in order to 
more closely align the asset accounting with the valuation of the associated insurance liabilities. The re-designation of amortised cost assets 
generated a net increase to assets of $4,873m because the fair value measurement on transition was higher than the previous amortised cost 
carrying amount. 

Recognition of the IFRS 17 fulfilment cash flows

The measurement of the insurance contracts liabilities under IFRS 17 is based on groups of insurance contracts and includes a liability for 
fulfilling the insurance contracts, such as premiums, directly attributable expenses, insurance benefits and claims including policyholder returns 
and the cost of guarantees. These are recorded within the fulfilment cash flow component of the insurance contract liability, together with the 
risk adjustment for non-financial risk. 

Recognition of the IFRS 17 contractual service margin

The CSM is a component of the insurance contract liability and represents the future unearned profit associated with insurance contracts that 
will be released to the profit and loss over the expected coverage period. 

Tax effect

The removal of deferred tax liabilities primarily results from the removal of the associated PVIF intangible asset, and new deferred tax assets are 
reported, where appropriate, on temporary differences between the new IFRS 17 accounting balances and their associated tax bases.

422

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
IFRS 17 transition impact on the reported Group consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2022

Removal 
of PVIF 
and  
IFRS 4 
balances

Under 
IFRS 4 

Remeasure-
ment effect 
of IFRS 9 re-
designations

Insurance 
finance 
income/
expense

Contrac
- tual 
service 
margin

Onerous 
contracts

Experience 
variance 
and other

Attribut-
able 
expenses

Tax 
effect

Under 
IFRS 17

$m
 32,610   
 11,451   

$m

—   
—   

$m
(2,233)   
—   

$m

$m

—   
—   

—   
—   

$m

—   
—   

$m

—   
—   

$m

—   
319   

$m

$m
—    30,377 
—    11,770 

 10,469   

—   

(191)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—    10,278 

  (3,394)   

 12,825   
—   
—   
—   
—   
  (2,365)   
 61,596   

—   

(12,825)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(265)   
(13,090)   

(10,437)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(12,861)   

—   

—   
13,799   
—   
—   
—   
48   
13,847   

—   

—   
—   
965   
965   
—   
—   
965   

—   

—   
—   
(186)   
—   
(186)   
—   
(186)   

—   

—   
—   
30   
1,012   
(982)   
—   
30   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
319   

—    (13,831) 

—   
— 
—    13,799 
809 
—   
1,977 
—   
(1,168) 
—   
—   
(2,582) 
—    50,620 

  (9,869)   

9,869   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

— 

 51,727   

(3,221)   

(12,861)   

13,847   

965   

(186)   

30   

319   

—    50,620 

  (3,592)   

 48,135   
 (33,330)   
 14,805   

  2,723   

 17,528   
(858)   
 16,670   

—   

(3,221)   
—   
(3,221)   

—   

(3,221)   
—   
(3,221)   

8   

—   

(12,853)   
—   
(12,853)   

13,847   
—   
13,847   

—   

—   

(12,853)   
—   
(12,853)   

13,847   
—   
13,847   

—   

965   
—   
965   

—   

965   
—   
965   

—   

(186)   
—   
(186)   

—   

(186)   
—   
(186)   

—   

30   
—   
30   

—   

30   
—   
30   

—   

319   
629   
948   

—   

948   
—   
948   

—   

(3,584) 

—    47,036 
—    (32,701) 
—    14,335 

—   

2,723 

—    17,058 
49   
(809) 
49    16,249 

Net interest income
Net fee income
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
Net expense from assets and 
liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit 
or loss

Net insurance premium income
Insurance finance income/(expense)
Insurance service result
–  insurance revenue
–  insurance service expense
Other operating income/(loss)
Total operating income
Net insurance claims and benefits 
paid and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders
Net operating income before 
change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment 
charges
Change in expected credit losses and 
other credit impairment charges

Net operating income
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures

Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit for the period

Transition drivers

Removal of IFRS 4-based revenue items

As a result of the removal of the PVIF intangible asset and IFRS 4 results, the associated revenue of $265m for the year ended 31 December 
2022 that was previously reported within ‘Other operating income/(loss)’ is no longer reported under IFRS 17. This includes the removal of the 
value of new business and changes to PVIF intangible asset from valuation adjustments and experience variances. 

On the implementation of IFRS 17, new income statement line items associated with insurance contract accounting were introduced. 
Consequently, the previously reported IFRS 4 line items ‘Net insurance premium income’ and ‘Net insurance claims and benefits paid and 
movement in liabilities to policyholders’ were also removed. 

Remeasurement effect of IFRS 9 re-designations

Following the re-designation of financial assets supporting associated insurance liabilities to fair value through profit or loss classification, the 
related income statement reporting also changed. Under our previous IFRS 4-based reporting convention, these assets generated interest 
income of $2,233m for the year ended 31 December 2022, which is no longer reported in ‘Net interest income’ under IFRS 17. To the extent 
that this interest income was shared with policyholders, the corresponding policyholder sharing obligation was previously included within the 
‘net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders’ line. 

Following re-designation to fair value through profit or loss, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of underlying assets, together with 
interest income earned, are both reported within ‘Net expense from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss’. Similar to an IFRS 4 basis, IFRS 17 accounting provides for an offset. While this offset was 
reported within the claims line under IFRS 4, under IFRS 17 it is reported within the ‘Insurance finance income/(expense)’ line described below.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

423

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

Introduction of IFRS 17 income statement 

Insurance finance income/(expense)

Insurance finance income/(expense) of $13,799m for the year ended 31 December 2022 represents the change in the carrying amount of 
insurance contracts arising from the effect of, and changes in, the time value of money and financial risk. For variable fee approach contracts, 
which represent more than 90% of HSBC’s insurance contracts, the insurance finance income/(expense) includes the changes in the fair value 
of underlying items (excluding additions and withdrawals). It therefore has an offsetting impact to investment income earned on underlying 
assets supporting insurance contracts. This includes an offsetting impact to the gains and losses on assets re-designated on transition to fair 
value through profit or loss, and which is now included in ‘Net expense from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related 
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss’.

Contractual service margin

Revenue is recognised for the release of the CSM associated with the in-force business, which was allocated at a rate of approximately 9% 
during 2022. The CSM release is largely impacted by the constant measure allocation approach for investment services, but may vary over time 
primarily due to changes in the total amount of CSM reported on the balance sheet from factors such as new business written, the Group’s 
share of investment experience, or changes to assumptions. 

Onerous contracts

Losses on onerous contracts are taken to the income statement as incurred. 

Experience variance and other

‘Experience variance and other’ represents the expected expenses, claims and recovery of acquisition cash flows, which are reported as part of 
the insurance revenue. This is offset with the actual expenses and claims incurred in the year and amortisation of acquisition cash flows, which 
are reported as part of insurance service expense. 

Attributable expenses

Directly attributable expenses are the costs associated with originating and fulfilling an identified portfolio of insurance contracts. These costs 
include distribution fees paid to third parties as part of originating insurance contracts together with appropriate allocations of fixed and variable 
overheads, which are included within the fulfilment cash flows and are no longer shown on the operating expenses line, whereas non-
attributable expenses remain in the operating expenses.

IFRS 17 transition impact on the Group comprehensive income

Total equity at 1 Jan
of which
–  retained earnings
–  financial assets at FVOCI reserve
–  insurance finance reserve
Profit for the period
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income
Equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income
Insurance finance income recognised in other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive expense for the period, net of tax
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the period
Other movements
Total equity at 31 Dec

Transition drivers

Insurance finance reserve 

Year ended 31 Dec 2022

Under 
IFRS 17

$m
196,318   

135,236   
49   
(696)   
16,249   
(7,232)   
107   
1,775   
(11,892)   
(993)   
(10,128)   
185,197   

Under 
IFRS 4

$m

206,777 

144,458 
(634) 
— 
16,670 
(5,468) 
107 
— 
(11,940) 
(631) 
(10,118) 
196,028 

The insurance finance reserve reflects the impact of the adoption of the other comprehensive income option for our insurance business in 
France. Underlying assets supporting these contracts are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Under this option, only 
the amount that matches income or expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses, 
resulting in the elimination of income statement accounting mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these 
insurance contracts is recognised in OCI. At the transition date an insurance finance reserve of $696m was recognised and following transition, 
gains net of tax of $1,775m were recorded in the year ended 31 December 2022. An offsetting fair value through other comprehensive income 
reserve of $683m recorded on transition represents the accumulated fair value movements on assets supporting these insurance contract 
liabilities, with associated losses net of tax of $1,898m recorded within the fair value through other comprehensive income reserve for the year 
ended 31 December 2022. 

424

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group‘s consolidated balance sheet at the transition date and at 31 December 2022

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks
Items in the course of collection from other banks
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
Trading assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 
Derivatives
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Financial investments
Assets held for sale
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
Current tax assets
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Goodwill and intangible assets
Deferred tax assets 
Total assets 
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
Items in the course of transmission to other banks
Trading liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Derivatives
Debt securities in issue
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
Current tax liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
Provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total liabilities 
Equity
Called up share capital  
Share premium account
Other equity instruments
Other reserves
Retained earnings
Total shareholders‘ equity
Non-controlling interests
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity

Under IFRS 17

Under IFRS 4

31 Dec

2022

$m

1 Jan

2022

$m

31 Dec

2022

$m

1 Jan

2022

$m

327,002   
7,297   
43,787   
218,093   
100,101   
284,159   
104,475   
923,561   
253,754   
364,726   
115,919   
156,149   
1,230   
29,254   
11,419   
8,360   
2,949,286   

43,787   
66,722   
1,570,303   
127,747   
7,864   
72,353   
127,321   
285,762   
78,149   
114,597   
134,313   
1,135   
108,816   
1,958   
972   
22,290   
2,764,089   

10,147   
14,664   
19,746   
(9,133)   
142,409   
177,833   
7,364   
185,197   
2,949,286   

403,018   
4,136   
42,578   
248,842   
110,795   
196,882   
82,567   
1,044,534   
241,648   
392,005   
3,411   
136,196   
970   
29,609   
11,169   
5,432   
2,953,792   

42,578   
101,152   
1,710,574   
126,670   
5,214   
84,904   
145,503   
191,064   
78,557   
9,005   
115,900   
699   
119,307   
2,566   
3,294   
20,487   
2,757,474   

10,316   
14,602   
22,414   
6,447   
135,236   
189,015   
7,303   
196,318   
2,953,792   

327,002   
7,299   
43,787   
218,093   
45,063   
284,146   
104,882   
924,854   
253,754   
425,563   
115,919   
156,865   
1,230   
29,254   
21,321   
7,498   
2,966,530   

43,787   
66,722   
1,570,303   
127,747   
7,864   
72,353   
127,327   
285,764   
78,149   
114,597   
133,240   
1,135   
114,844   
1,958   
2,422   
22,290   
2,770,502   

10,147   
14,664   
19,746   
(9,141)   
152,068   
187,484   
8,544   
196,028   
2,966,530   

403,018 
4,136 
42,578 
248,842 
49,804 
196,882 
83,136 
1,045,814 
241,648 
446,274 
3,411 
136,571 
970 
29,609 
20,622 
4,624 
2,957,939 

42,578 
101,152 
1,710,574 
126,670 
5,214 
84,904 
145,502 
191,064 
78,557 
9,005 
114,773 
698 
112,745 
2,566 
4,673 
20,487 
2,751,162 

10,316 
14,602 
22,414 
6,460 
144,458 
198,250 
8,527 
206,777 
2,957,939 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

425

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes on the financial statements

39 Events after the balance sheet date  
On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale of its retail banking business in France to CCF, a subsidiary of Promontoria 
MMB SAS (‘My Money Group’). The sale also included HSBC Continental Europe’s 100% ownership interest in HSBC SFH (France) and its 3% 
ownership interest in Crédit Logement. In the fourth quarter of 2023, a loss of $2.0bn was recognised upon reclassification to held for sale, in 
accordance with IFRS 5, which net of the $2.1bn partial reversal of impairment recognised in the first quarter of 2023, gave rise to a net reversal 
of impairment recognised in the year of $0.1bn.

On 30 January 2024, the PRA concluded its investigation into HSBC Bank plc’s and HSBC UK Bank plc’s compliance with depositor protection 
arrangements under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme in the UK. The PRA imposed a fine of $73m (£57m) on these entities, which 
was fully provided for as at 31 December 2023, and has now been paid. 

On 31 January 2024, HSBC Global Asset Management Limited, through its indirect subsidiary HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore 
Limited, completed the acquisition of the Asia-Pacific-focused real estate investment manager Silkroad Property Partners Pte Ltd. HSBC Global 
Asset Management Limited also acquired Silkroad’s affiliated General Partner entities as part of the transaction.

On 6 February 2024, HSBC Europe B.V., an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc, signed an agreement to sell HSBC Bank Armenia CJSC, its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, to Ardshinbank CJSC subject to regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to complete within the next 12 
months.

A fourth interim dividend for 2023 of $0.31 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately $5,913m) was approved by the Directors after 
31 December 2023. On 21 February 2024, HSBC Holdings announced a share buy-back programme to purchase its ordinary shares up to a 
maximum consideration of $2.0bn, which is expected to commence shortly and complete by our first quarter 2024 results announcement. 
HSBC Holdings called $2,500m 3.803% and $500m floating rate senior unsecured debt securities on 25 January 2024. These securities are 
expected to be redeemed and cancelled on 11 March 2024. These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2024 and 
authorised for issue.

40 HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a list of HSBC Holdings plc subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the 
registered office addresses and the effective percentages of equity owned at 31 December 2023 are disclosed below.

Unless otherwise stated, the share capital comprises ordinary or common shares that are held by Group subsidiaries. The ownership percentage 
is provided for each undertaking. The undertakings below are consolidated by HSBC unless otherwise indicated.

426

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Subsidiaries 

Subsidiaries

452 TALF SPV LLC
AI Nominees (UK) One Limited
AI Nominees (UK) Two Limited
Almacenadora Banpacifico S.A. (In 
Liquidation)
Assetfinance December (F) Limited
Assetfinance December (H) Limited
Assetfinance December (P) Limited
Assetfinance December (R) Limited
Assetfinance June (A) Limited
Assetfinance June (D) Limited
Assetfinance Limited (In Liquidation)
Assetfinance March (B) Limited
Assetfinance March (D) Limited
Assetfinance March (F) Limited
Assetfinance September (F) Limited
Assetfinance September (G) Limited
B&Q Financial Services Limited
Banco HSBC S.A.
Banco Nominees (Guernsey) Limited
Banco Nominees 2 (Guernsey) Limited
Banco Nominees Limited
Beau Soleil Limited Partnership
Beijing HSBC Real Estate Leasing Company 
Limited
Beijing Miyun HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
BentallGreenOak China Real Estate 
Investments, L.P.
Canada Crescent Nominees (UK) Limited
Canada Square Nominees (UK) Limited
Canada Water Nominees (UK) Limited (In 
Liquidation)

Capco/Cove, Inc.
Card-Flo #1, Inc.
Card-Flo #3, Inc.
CC&H Holdings LLC
CCF & Partners Asset Management Limited
CCF Holding (Liban) S.A.L. (In Liquidation)
Charterhouse Administrators (D.T.) Limited
Charterhouse Management Services Limited
Charterhouse Pensions Limited
Chongqing Dazu HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
Chongqing Fengdu HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
Chongqing Rongchang HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
COIF Nominees Limited

Corsair IV Financial Services Capital Partners - 
B LP
Dalian Pulandian HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC

Dempar 1
Desarrollo Turistico, S.A. de C.V. (In 
Liquidation)
Electronic Data Process México, S.A. de C.V.
Eton Corporate Services Limited

Flandres Contentieux S.A.
Foncière Elysées
Fujian Yongan HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
Fulcher Enterprises Company Limited
Fundacion HSBC, A.C.
Giller Ltd.

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

Footnotes

Subsidiaries

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

100.00
100.00
100.00
99.99

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00

100.00

N/A

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
74.99
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

N/A

N/A

100.00

N/A

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

1, 15

1, 16

116

17

18

16

16

16

16

18

19

20

18

16

16

18

16

21

22

22

23

0, 24

1, 12, 25

12, 26

0, 1, 27

16

16

19

28

15

15

29

16

30

16

16

16

12, 31

12, 32

12, 33

0, 16

0, 1, 34

12, 35

0, 36

4, 37

17

1, 38

22

4, 37

4, 37

12, 39

40

11, 17

28

GPIF Co-Investment, LLC
Griffin International Limited
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. de C. V.
Guangdong Enping HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
Guangzhou HSBC Real Estate Company Ltd 
(广州汇丰房地产有限公司)

Hang Seng (Nominee) Limited
Hang Seng Bank (China) Limited
Hang Seng Bank (Trustee) Limited
Hang Seng Bank Limited
Hang Seng Bullion Company Limited
Hang Seng Credit Limited
Hang Seng Data Services Limited
Hang Seng Finance Limited
Hang Seng Financial Information Limited
Hang Seng Indexes (Netherlands) B.V.
Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited
Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited
Hang Seng Investment Management Limited
Hang Seng Investment Services Limited
Hang Seng Qianhai Fund Management 
Company Limited
Hang Seng Real Estate Management Limited
Hang Seng Securities Limited
Hang Seng Security Management Limited

HASE Wealth Limited
Haseba Investment Company Limited
HFC Bank Limited (In Liquidation)
High Time Investments Limited
HLF
Honey Blue Enterprises Limited (亨京企業有
限公司)
Honey Green Enterprises Ltd.
Honey Grey Enterprises Limited (亨穗企業有
限公司)
Honey Silver Enterprises Limited (亨深企業有
限公司)
Household International Europe Limited (In 
Liquidation)
Household Pooling Corporation
Housing (USA) LLP
HSBC (BGF) Investments Limited
HSBC (General Partner) Limited
HSBC (Guernsey) GP PCC Limited
HSBC (Kuala Lumpur) Nominees Sdn Bhd
HSBC (Malaysia) Trustee Berhad
HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd
HSBC Agency (India) Private Limited
HSBC Alternative Investments Limited
HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad
HSBC Americas Corporation (Delaware)
HSBC Argentina Holdings S.A.
HSBC Asia Holdings B.V.
HSBC Asia Holdings Limited
HSBC Asia Pacific Holdings (UK) Limited
HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited
HSBC Asset Finance M.O.G. Holdings (UK) 
Limited
HSBC Asset Management (Fund Services UK) 
Limited
HSBC Asset Management (India) Private 
Limited
HSBC Asset Management (Japan) Limited

HSBC Assurances Vie (France)

HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited

N/A
100.00
99.99
100.00

100.00

100.00
N/A
100.00
62.14
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

99.99

100.00

100.00

100.00

(99.99)

(99.99)
(99.99)

(99.99)
(99.99)

(99.99)
(99.99)

(62.14)
(99.99)

Footnotes

0, 15

16

17

12, 41

1, 12, 42

(62.14)

40

0, 12, 43

(62.14)

(62.14)
(62.14)
(62.14)
(62.14)
(62.14)

(62.14)
(62.14)
(62.14)
(62.14)

(62.14)
(62.14)
(62.14)

(62.14)
(62.14)

(62.14)
(99.99)

(99.99)

40

40

40

40

40

40

40

0, 1, 44

40

40

40

40

0, 12, 45

40

40

40

1, 40

40

19

40

4, 37

1, 46

47

1, 48

1, 48

5, 49

50

0, 1, 29

16

2, 51

22

52

53

54

55

16

52

15

56

16

2, 48

5, 16

16

16

1, 16

3, 57

58

4, 59

5, 60

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

427

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Subsidiaries

HSBC BANK (CHILE)

HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited
HSBC Bank (General Partner) Limited
HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Limited
HSBC Bank (RR) (Limited Liability Company)
HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited
HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited
HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A.
HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd.
HSBC Bank A.S.
HSBC Bank Argentina S.A.
HSBC Bank Armenia cjsc
HSBC Bank Australia Limited
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited
HSBC Bank Canada
HSBC Bank Capital Funding (Sterling 1) LP
HSBC Bank Capital Funding (Sterling 2) LP
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c.
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 
Representative Office Morocco SARL (In 
Liquidation)
HSBC Bank Pension Trust (UK) Limited
HSBC Bank plc
HSBC Bank USA, National Association
HSBC Branch Nominee (UK) Limited
HSBC Brasil Holding S.A.
HSBC Broking Forex (Asia) Limited
HSBC Broking Futures (Asia) Limited
HSBC Broking Futures (Hong Kong) Limited
HSBC Broking Securities (Asia) Limited

HSBC Broking Securities (Hong Kong) Limited
HSBC Broking Services (Asia) Limited
HSBC Canadian Covered Bond (Legislative) 
GP Inc.

HSBC Canadian Covered Bond (Legislative) 
Guarantor Limited Partnership

HSBC Capital (USA), Inc.
HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P.
HSBC Card Services Inc.
HSBC Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., Grupo 
Financiero HSBC
HSBC Cayman Limited
HSBC Cayman Services Limited
HSBC City Funding Holdings (In Liquidation)

HSBC Client Holdings Nominee (UK) Limited
HSBC Client Nominee (Jersey) Limited
HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC
HSBC Continental Europe
HSBC Corporate Advisory (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
HSBC Corporate Finance (Hong Kong) Limited
HSBC Corporate Secretary (UK) Limited
HSBC Corporate Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd

HSBC Corporate Trustee Company (UK) 
Limited

HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited
HSBC Custody Services (Guernsey) Limited
HSBC Daisy Investments (Mauritius) Limited

HSBC Diversified Loan Fund General Partner 
Sarl
HSBC Electronic Data Processing 
(Guangdong) Limited
HSBC Electronic Data Processing (Malaysia) 
Sdn Bhd
HSBC Electronic Data Processing 
(Philippines), Inc.

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

(99.99)

 (94.54) 

(99.99)

100.00

N/A
100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
99.99
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A
N/A
99.62
100.00
70.03
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

N/A

100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
N/A
99.99
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

N/A

N/A

100.00

99.99

Footnotes

61

0, 12, 62

51

63

0, 13, 64

54

65

66

67

68

56

69

60

23

3, 70

0, 51

0, 51

71

3, 52

72

3, 73

74

16

2, 3, 16

3, 75

18

21

48

48

48

48

48

48

76

0, 76

3, 15

0, 51

15

17

192

77

19

16

78

0, 15

4, 37

52

48

1, 2, 16

0, 1, 79

16

60

22

80

0, 81

0, 12, 82

83

84

Subsidiaries

HSBC Electronic Data Processing India 
Private Limited
HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka 
(Private) Limited
HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery 
(Egypt) S.A.E.
HSBC Epargne Entreprise (France)
HSBC Equipment Finance (UK) Limited
HSBC Equity (UK) Limited
HSBC Europe B.V.
HSBC Executor & Trustee Company (UK) 
Limited

HSBC Factoring (France)
HSBC Finance (Netherlands)
HSBC Finance Corporation
HSBC Finance Limited
HSBC Finance Mortgages Inc.
HSBC Finance Transformation (UK) Limited
HSBC Financial Advisors Singapore Pte. Ltd.
HSBC Financial Services (Lebanon) s.a.l.
HSBC Financial Services (Uruguay) S.A. (In 
Liquidation)

HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company 
Limited

HSBC Global Asset Management (Bermuda) 
Limited

HSBC Global Asset Management (Canada) 
Limited

HSBC Global Asset Management 
(Deutschland) GmbH

HSBC Global Asset Management (France)
HSBC Global Asset Management (Hong 
Kong) Limited
HSBC Global Asset Management (Malta) 
Limited

HSBC Global Asset Management (México), 
S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Operadora de Fondos 
de Inversión, Grupo Financiero HSBC

HSBC Global Asset Management (Singapore) 
Limited

HSBC Global Asset Management 
(Switzerland) AG
HSBC Global Asset Management (Taiwan) 
Limited
HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) 
Limited
HSBC Global Asset Management (USA) Inc.

HSBC Global Asset Management Argentina 
S.A. Sociedad Gerente de Fondos Comunes 
de Inversión
HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings 
(Bahamas) Limited
HSBC Global Asset Management Limited

HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited

HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee 
(UK) Limited
HSBC Global Services (Canada) Limited
HSBC Global Services (China) Holdings 
Limited
HSBC Global Services (Hong Kong) Limited

HSBC Global Services (UK) Limited
HSBC Global Services Limited
HSBC Group Management Services Limited
HSBC Group Nominees UK Limited

HSBC Holdings B.V.
HSBC IM Pension Trust Limited
HSBC Infrastructure Debt GP 1 S.à r.l.
HSBC Infrastructure Debt GP 2 S.à r.l.

428

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
99.80
100.00

N/A

100.00

100.00

Footnotes

85

86

87

(99.99)

4, 59

(99.99)

18

16

16

18

4, 37

2, 16

3, 15

16

88

16

1, 54

89

90

0, 1, 91

3, 23

70

100.00

(99.99)

6, 92

100.00

100.00

(99.99)

100.00

(70.03)

100.00

(99.99)

(99.99)

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
N/A
N/A

4, 59

24

93

17

54

4, 94

95

16

96

97

98

2, 16

16

1, 16

88

16

99

16

2, 16

16

2, 16

16

16

0, 1, 100

0, 1, 100

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

Footnotes

Subsidiaries

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

Footnotes

Subsidiaries

HSBC Infrastructure Limited (In Liquidation)
HSBC Innovation Bank Limited

HSBC INSN (Non Operating) Pte. Ltd. (In 
Liquidation)
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Asia) 
Limited
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Bermuda) 
Limited
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Mauritius) 
Limited
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Singapore) 
Limited
HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings 
Limited

HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited
HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) Limited
HSBC Insurance Agency (USA) Inc.
HSBC Insurance Brokerage Company Limited
HSBC Insurance Brokers Greater China 
Limited
HSBC Insurance Holdings Limited (In 
Liquidation)
HSBC Insurance SAC 1 (Bermuda) Limited

HSBC Insurance SAC 2 (Bermuda) Limited
HSBC Insurance Services Holdings Limited
HSBC International Finance Corporation 
(Delaware)
HSBC International Trustee (BVI) Limited
HSBC International Trustee (Holdings) Pte. 
Limited
HSBC International Trustee Limited
HSBC Inversiones S.A.
HSBC InvestDirect (India) Private Limited

HSBC InvestDirect Financial Services (India) 
Limited
HSBC InvestDirect Sales & Marketing (India) 
Limited
HSBC InvestDirect Securities (India) Private 
Limited
HSBC Investment and Insurance Brokerage, 
Philippines Inc.
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings B.V.
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited
HSBC Investment Company Limited
HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc.

100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
99.99

99.99

98.99

99.99

99.99

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

HSBC Investment Funds (Hong Kong) Limited

100.00

HSBC Investment Funds (Luxembourg) SA

HSBC Invoice Finance (UK) Limited
HSBC Issuer Services Common Depositary 
Nominee (UK) Limited
HSBC Issuer Services Depositary Nominee 
(UK) Limited (In Liquidation)
HSBC Latin America B.V.
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Limited
HSBC Leasing (Asia) Limited
HSBC Life (Bermuda) Limited
HSBC Life (Cornell Centre) Limited

HSBC Life (Edwick Centre) Limited

HSBC Life (International) Limited

HSBC Life (Property) Limited
HSBC Life (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
HSBC Life (Tsing Yi Industrial) Limited
HSBC Life (UK) Limited
HSBC Life (Workshop) Limited
HSBC Life Assurance (Malta) Limited
HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited

HSBC LU Nominees Limited
HSBC Management (Guernsey) Limited

100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A

100.00
100.00

(70.03)

19

1, 101

54

48

23

102

54

103

104

105

106

0, 1, 107

1, 108

2, 16

23

1, 109

16

110

10, 111

54

112

61

57

57

113

57

114

16

16

2, 16

5, 115

24

116

18

16

19

16

2, 16

48

1, 23

104

104

23

104

1, 54

104

16

1, 104

93

0, 12, 117

16

118

HSBC Markets (USA) Inc.
HSBC Marking Name Nominee (UK) Limited
HSBC Master Trust Trustee Limited
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca 
Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC
HSBC Middle East Asset CO. LLC
HSBC Middle East Holdings B.V.
HSBC Middle East Leasing Partnership
HSBC Middle East Securities L.L.C
HSBC Mortgage Corporation (Canada)

HSBC Mortgage Corporation (USA)
HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
HSBC Nominees (Hong Kong) Limited
HSBC Nominees (New Zealand) Limited
HSBC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Operational Services GmbH
HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited
HSBC Overseas Investments Corporation 
(New York)
HSBC Overseas Nominee (UK) Limited
HSBC Participaciones (Argentina) S.A.
HSBC PB Corporate Services 1 Limited
HSBC PB Services (Suisse) SA
HSBC Pension Trust (Ireland) DAC

HSBC Pensiones, S.A. (In Liquidation)
HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing
HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited
HSBC Portfoy Yonetimi A.S.
HSBC Preferential LP (UK)
HSBC Private Bank (Luxembourg) S.A.
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA
HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA
HSBC Private Banking Nominee 3 (Jersey) 
Limited
HSBC Private Equity Investments (UK) 
Limited
HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) 
Inc.
HSBC Private Markets Management SARL
HSBC Private Trustee (Hong Kong) Limited

HSBC Professional Services (India) Private 
Limited
HSBC Property (UK) Limited

HSBC Property Funds (Holding) Limited
HSBC Provident Fund Trustee (Hong Kong) 
Limited
HSBC Qianhai Securities Limited
HSBC Real Estate Leasing (France)

HSBC REGIO Fund General Partner S.à r.l.
HSBC REIM (France)
HSBC Retirement Benefits Trustee (UK) 
Limited
HSBC Retirement Services Limited
HSBC Saudi Arabia, Closed Joint Stock 
Company
HSBC Savings Bank (Philippines) Inc.
HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc.
HSBC Securities (Egypt) S.A.E. (In 
Liquidation)
HSBC Securities (Japan) Co., Ltd.

HSBC Securities (Japan) Limited (In 
Liquidation)

HSBC Securities (Singapore) Pte Limited

HSBC Securities (South Africa) (Pty) Limited
HSBC Securities (Taiwan) Corporation Limited

100.00
100.00
100.00
99.99

100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

N/A
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00

N/A
100.00

N/A
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

99.99
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00

15

16

16

17

119

2, 3, 73

0, 120

121

122

15

52

48

123

52

3, 15

6, 92

2, 3, 16

124

16

56

125

126

127

17

0, 191

128

129

16

116

130

16

126

125

16

3, 115

0, 1, 131

48

132

16

16

48

0, 12, 133

4, 37

0, 1, 100

4, 59

1, 2, 16

1, 16

134

135

88

71

1, 58

16

54

136

65

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(66.18)

(94.65)

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

429

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Subsidiaries

HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.

HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) 
Private Limited
HSBC Securities Brokers (Asia) Limited
HSBC Securities Investments (Asia) Limited
HSBC Securities Services (Bermuda) Limited
HSBC Securities Services (Guernsey) Limited
HSBC Securities Services (Ireland) DAC

HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) S.A.
HSBC Securities Services Holdings (Ireland) 
DAC
HSBC Securities Services Nominees Limited
HSBC Seguros de Retiro (Argentina) S.A.
HSBC Seguros de Vida (Argentina) S.A.
HSBC Seguros, S.A de C.V., Grupo Financiero 
HSBC
HSBC Service Company Germany GmbH
HSBC Service Delivery (Polska) Sp. z o.o.

HSBC Services (France)
HSBC Services Japan Limited
HSBC Services USA Inc.
HSBC Servicios Financieros, S.A. de C.V

HSBC Servicios, S.A. DE C.V., Grupo 
Financiero HSBC
HSBC SFH (France)
HSBC SFT (C.I.) Limited
HSBC Software Development (Guangdong) 
Limited
HSBC Software Development (India) Private 
Limited
HSBC Software Development (Malaysia) Sdn 
Bhd

HSBC Specialist Investments Limited

HSBC Technology & Services (China) Limited
HSBC Technology & Services (USA) Inc.
HSBC Transaction Services GmbH

HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt (International) 
S.A.
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Gesellschaft fur 
Bankbeteiligungen mbH

HSBC Trinkhaus & Burkhardt GmbH
HSBC Trinkaus Family Office GmbH
HSBC Trinkaus Real Estate GmbH

HSBC Trust Company (Canada)
HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), National 
Association
HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited

HSBC Trustee (C.I.) Limited
HSBC Trustee (Cayman) Limited
HSBC Trustee (Guernsey) Limited
HSBC Trustee (Hong Kong) Limited

HSBC Trustee (Singapore) Limited
HSBC UK Bank plc
HSBC UK Client Nominee Limited
HSBC UK Holdings Limited (In Liquidation)
HSBC UK Societal Projects Limited
HSBC USA Inc.
HSBC Ventures USA Inc.
HSBC Violet Investments (Mauritius) Limited
HSBC Wealth Client Nominee Limited
HSBC Yatirim Menkul Degerler A.S.
HSI Asset Securitization Corporation
HSI International Limited
HSIL Investments Limited
Hubei Macheng HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
Hubei Suizhou Cengdu HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

Footnotes

Subsidiaries

100.00

99.99

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00

N/A

15

5, 113

48

48

23

22

127

116

127

1, 48

56

56

17

(99.99)
(99.99)
(99.99)

(99.99)

1, 6, 92

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

137

4, 37

138

139

17

17

59

22

Hubei Tianmen HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
Hunan Pingjiang HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
Imenson Limited
INKA Internationale Kapitalanlagegesellschaft 
mbH
Inmobiliaria Bisa, S.A. de C.V.

Inmobiliaria Grufin, S.A. de C.V.

Inmobiliaria Guatusi, S.A. de C.V.

James Capel (Nominees) Limited

James Capel (Taiwan) Nominees Limited
John Lewis Financial Services Limited
Keyser Ullmann Limited
Lion Corporate Services Limited
Lion International Corporate Services Limited
Lion International Management Limited
Lion Management (Hong Kong) Limited
Lyndholme Limited
Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc
Marks and Spencer Unit Trust Management 
Limited
Midcorp Limited
Midland Bank (Branch Nominees) Limited
Midland Nominees Limited
MP Payments Group Limited

0, 12, 140

MP Payments Netherlands B.V.

MP Payments Operations Limited 

100.00

(99.99)

141

100.00

100.00

N/A
100.00
100.00

(99.99)

100.00

(99.99)

83

3, 16

0, 12, 142

15

6, 92

143

100.00

(99.99)

92

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
N/A

N/A

(99.99)
(99.99)
(99.99)

(62.14)

1, 6, 144

6, 92

6, 92

122

110

16

125

145

22

48

54

2, 18

18

2, 3, 146

0, 1, 18

3, 124

15

80

1, 18

68

15

40

16

0, 12, 147

0, 12, 148

MP Payments Singapore Pte. Ltd.
MP Payments UK Limited
MW Gestion SA
Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee (UK) 
Limited
PT Bank HSBC Indonesia
PT HSBC Sekuritas Indonesia
R/CLIP Corp.
Real Estate Collateral Management Company
Republic Nominees Limited
RLUKREF Nominees (UK) One Limited

RLUKREF Nominees (UK) Two Limited
S.A.P.C. - Ufipro Recouvrement
Saf Baiyun
Saf Guangzhou
SCI HSBC Assurances Immo
Serai Limited
Serai Technology Development (Shanghai) 
Limited (丝睿科技开发（上海）有限公司)
SFM
SFSS Nominees (Pty) Limited
Shandong Rongcheng HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
Shenzhen HSBC Development Company Ltd

Sico Limited
SNC Les Oliviers D'Antibes
SNCB/M6-2008 A

SNCB/M6-2007 A
SNCB/M6-2007 B
Société Française et Suisse

Somers Dublin DAC
Somers Nominees (Far East) Limited
Sopingest
South Yorkshire Light Rail Limited
St Cross Trustees Limited
Sterling Credit Limited

Sun Hung Kai Development (Lujiazui III) 
Limited

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

N/A

N/A

100.00
100.00

(62.14)
(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(98.93)
(85.00)

(99.99)
(99.99)
(99.99)

(99.99)

(59.99)
(99.99)

(99.99)
(99.99)
(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

99.98

100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00

99.99
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
99.99
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

N/A

100.00
100.00

N/A

N/A

100.00
60.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00

N/A

Footnotes

0, 12, 149

0, 12, 150

40

92

17

17

17

16

16

16

16

48

1, 151

151

1, 48

48

152

152

16

18

18

1, 16

1, 153

1, 16

1, 154

1, 16

56

16

155

155

15

15

22

1, 16

1, 16

11, 37

4, 37

4, 37

11, 59

48

0, 1, 12, 
156

4, 37

136

0, 12, 157

0, 1, 12, 
158

159

11, 59

4, 37

4, 37

4, 37

4, 37

127

23

4, 37

16

18

183

0, 12, 160

430

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)

100.00

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

(99.99)

Footnotes

19

5, 48

19

2, 16

6, 92

100.00

(99.99)

6, 92

100.00

(99.99)

6, 92

100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
N/A
100.00
100.00

(99.99)

(99.99)

(99.99)

(62.14)

6, 92

6, 92

18

4, 37

48

48

0, 15

23

40

Subsidiaries

Swan National Limited (In Liquidation)

The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
The Venture Catalysts Limited (In Liquidation)
Tooley Street View Limited
Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.3 
Objekt Utrecht Verwaltungs-GmbH
Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds 
Geschaeftsfuehrungs-GmbH
Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds Verwaltungs-
GmbH
Trinkaus Private Equity Management GmbH

Trinkaus Private Equity Verwaltungs GmbH
Turnsonic (Nominees) Limited
Valeurs Mobilières Elysées

Wardley Limited
Wayfoong Nominees Limited
Westminster House, LLC
Woodex Limited
Yan Nin Development Company Limited

Joint ventures

The undertakings below are joint ventures and equity accounted.

Joint ventures

% of share class 
held by 
immediate parent 
company (or by 
the Group where 
this varies)

Climate Asset Management Limited

Global Payments Technology Mexico S.A. De 
C.V
HCM Holdings Limited (In Liquidation)
MK HoldCo Limited

Pentagreen Capital Pte. Ltd

ProServe Bermuda Limited
The London Silver Market Fixing Limited
Vaultex UK Limited

40.00

50.00

50.99
50.32

50.00

50.00
N/A
50.00

Footnotes

1, 161

162

19

1, 163

1, 164

165

0, 1, 166

167

Associates

The undertakings below are associates and equity accounted.

Associates

Bank of Communications Co., Ltd.
Barrowgate Limited
BGF Group plc
Bud Financial Limited
Canara HSBC Life Insurance Company 
Limited

Contour Pte Ltd

Divido Financial Services Limited
Electronic Payment Services Company (Hong 
Kong) Limited
Episode Six Inc.
EPS Company (Hong Kong) Limited
Euro Secured Notes Issuer
HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Company 
Limited
HSBC UK Covered Bonds (LM) Limited
HSBC UK Covered Bonds LLP
Liquidity Match LLC
London Precious Metals Clearing Limited
MENA Infrastructure Fund (GP) Ltd
Monese Ltd
Quantexa Ltd
RadiantESG Global Investors LLC
Saudi Awwal Bank
Services Epargne Entreprise
The London Gold Market Fixing Limited
Threadneedle Software Holdings Limited
Trade Information Network Limited

Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr. 7 
Frankfurt Mertonviertel KG
We Trade Innovation Designated Activity 
Company (In Liquidation)

% of share class 
held by 
immediate parent 
company (or by 
the Group where 
this varies)

19.03
15.31
24.62
4.84
26.00

9.87

7.70
38.66

5.69
38.66
16.67
N/A

20.00
N/A
N/A
30.00
33.33
5.39
9.36
N/A
31.00
14.18
N/A
7.10
12.76

N/A

9.88

Footnotes

168

169

170

1, 171

172

1, 173

1, 174

48

1, 175

48

176

0, 177

1, 178

0, 1, 18

0, 1, 179

1, 180

181

1, 182

183

0, 1, 184

186

187

0, 188

1, 189

1, 161

0, 92

1, 190

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

431

Financial statements 
Notes on the financial statements

Footnotes for Note 40
Description of shares

Registered offices
35

First & Second Floor, No.3 Nanshan Road, Pulandian, Dalian, 
Liaoning, China

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates 
when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights 
to pass resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the 
assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of 
other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, 
power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as 
an agent or principal. HSBC’s consolidation policy is described in 
Note 1.2(a).

Management has determined that these undertakings are 
excluded from consolidation in the Group accounts as these 
entities do not meet the definition of subsidiaries in accordance 
with IFRS. HSBC’s consolidation policy is described in Note 1.2(a).

Directly held by HSBC Holdings plc

Preference Shares

Actions

Redeemable Preference Shares

GmbH Anteil

Limited and Unlimited Liability Shares

Liquidating Share Class

Nominal Shares

Non-Participating Voting Shares

Parts

Registered Capital Shares

Russian Limited Liability Company Shares

Stückaktien

Registered offices
15

c/o The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, 
Wilmington, Delaware, United States of America, 19801

16

17
18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

8 Canada Square, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HQ

Paseo de la Reforma 347 Col. Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, 06500

1 Centenary Square, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B1 1HQ

C/O Teneo Financial Advisory Limited, The Colmore Building, 20 
Colmore Circus, Queensway, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B4 
6AT

5 Donegal Square South , Northern Ireland, Belfast, United 
Kingdom, BT1 5JP

1909 Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 19° andar, Torre 
Norte, São Paulo Corporate Towers, São Paulo, Brazil, 04551-903

Arnold House, St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 
3NF

37 Front Street, Harbourview Centre, Ground Floor, Hamilton, 
Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11

HSBC Main Building, 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong

2401-55 24/F, Office Tower Two 1 Jianguomenwai Street, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing, China

First Floor, Xinhua Bookstore Xindong Road (SE of roundabout), 
Miyun District, Beijing, China

Oak House Hirzel Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 2NP

2929 Walden Avenue, Depew, New York, United States of 
America, 14043

Corporation Service Company 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, 
Delaware, United States of America, 19808

Solidere - Rue Saad Zaghloul Immeuble - 170 Marfaa, P.O. Box 
17 5476 Mar Michael, Beyrouth, Lebanon, 11042040

No 1, Bei Huan East Road Dazu County, Chongqing, China

No 107 Ping Du Avenue (E), Sanhe Town, Fengdu County, 
Chongqing, China

No. 3, 5, 7, Haitang Erzhi Road Changyuan, Rongchang, 
Chongqing, China, 402460

c/o Walkers Corporate Services Limited Walker House, 87 Mary 
Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-9005

432

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

70

71

160 Mine Lake CT, Ste 200, Raleigh, North Carolina, United 
States of America, 27615-6417

38 Avenue Kléber, Paris, France, 75116

Avenida de las Granjas 972, Building A, Floor 2, Colonia Santa 
Bárbara, Alcaldía Azcapotzalco, Mexico City, Mexico, 02230

No. 1 1211 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Yongan, Fujian, China

83 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong

No. 44 Xin Ping Road Central, Encheng, Enping, Guangdong, 
China, 529400

Room 311, Cheng Hui No. 2, Nan Sha Street, Nan Sha District, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China

34/F, 36/F, Unit 031 of 45/F, and 46/F, Hang Seng Bank Tower 
1000 Lujiazui Ring Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 
200120

Gustav Mahlerplein 2 1082 MA, Amsterdam, Netherlands

1001 T2 Office Building, Qianhai Kerry Business Center, Qianhai 
Avenue, Nanshan Street, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong 
Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China

1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong

Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, P.O. Box 3140, Road Town, 
Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110

1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong

156 C/O Teneo Financial Advisory Limited, Great Charles Street, 
Queensway, West Midlands, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B3 
3HN

701 S CARSON ST STE 200, Carson City, Nevada, United States 
of America, 89701

HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8UB

Level 21, Menara IQ, Lingkaran TRX, Tun Razak Exchange, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia, 55188

Level 19, Menara IQ, Lingkaran TRX, Tun Razak Exchange, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia, 55188

10 Marina Boulevard, #48-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, 
Singapore, 018983

52/60, M G Road Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001

557 Bouchard Level 20, Ciudad de Buenos Aires, Federal Capital, 
Argentina, C1106ABG

9-11 Floors, NESCO IT Park Building No. 3 Western Express 
Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai, India, 400063

HSBC Building 11-1, Nihonbashi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 
Japan, 103-0027

Immeuble Cœur Défense 110 esplanade du Général de Gaulle, 
Courbevoie, France, 92400

Level 36 Tower 1 International Towers Sydney, 100 Barangaroo 
Avenue, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, 2000

Isidora Goyenechea 2800 23rd floor, Las Condes, Santiago, 
Chile, 7550647

HSBC Building Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, 
Shanghai, China, 200120

IconEbene, Level 5 Office 1 (West Wing), Rue de L’institut, 
Ebene, Mauritius

2 Paveletskaya Square Building 2, Moscow, Russia, 115054

54F, 7 Xinyi Road Sec. 5 Xinyi District, Taipei, Taiwan

1266 Dr Luis Bonativa 1266 Piso 30 (Torre IV WTC), Montevideo, 
Uruguay, CP 11.000

The Metropolitan 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, Ho Chi Minh 
City, Vietnam

Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Caddesi No.128 Şişli, Istanbul, 
Turkiye, 34394

90 Area 42 Paronyan Street, Yerevan, Armenia, 0015

885 West Georgia Street 3rd Floor, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada, V6C 3E9

306 Corniche El Nil, Maadi, Egypt, 11728

 
Registered offices
72

116 Archbishop Street, Valletta, Malta

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

90

91

92

93

94

95

96

97

98

99

100

101

102

103

104

105

106

107

108

109

Unit 401, Level 4 Gate Precinct Building 2, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, P. O. Box 30444, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Majer Consulting, Office 54/44, Building A1, Residence Ryad 
Anfa, Boulevard Omar El Khayam, Casa Finance City (CFC), 
Casablanca, Morocco

1800 Tysons Boulevard Suite 50, Tysons, Virginia, United States 
of America, 22102

66 Wellington Street West, Suite 5300, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada, M5K 1E6

P.O. Box 1109, Strathvale House, Ground floor, 90 North Church 
Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1102

HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1HS

RM 2113 HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc, No. 8 Century Avenue, 
Pudong, Shanghai, China, 200120

c/o Rogers Capital St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & 
St Louis Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius

49 avenue J.F. Kennedy, Luxembourg, 1855

4-17/F, Office Tower 2 TaiKoo Hui, No. 381 Tian He Road, Tian 
He District, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China

Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah Kwong, Hing No. 1, 
Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100

Building C-1 UP Ayala Technohub, Commonwealth Avenue, 
Diliman, Quezon City, Metro Manila, Philippines

HSBC House Plot No.8 Survey No.64 (Part), Hightec City Layout 
Madhapur, Hyderabad, India, 500081

Mireka City 324/9 Havelock Road, Colombo 05, Sri Lanka, 00500

Smart Village 28th Km Cairo- Alexandria Desert Road Building, 
Cairo, Egypt

16 York Street, 6th Floor, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5J 0E6

Centre Ville 1341 Building - 4th Floor Patriarche Howayek Street, 
PO Box Riad El Solh, Lebanon, 9597

World Trade Center Montevideo Avenida Luis Alberto de Herrera 
1248, Torre 1, Piso 15, Oficina 1502, Montevideo, Uruguay, CP 
11300

Room 655, Building A, No.888 Huan Hu West 2nd Road, Lingang 
New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 
China

Hansaallee 3, Düsseldorf, Germany, 40549

80 Mill Street, Qormi, Malta, QRM 3101

Gartenstrasse 26, Zurich, Switzerland, 8002

36F., No. 68 Sec. 5, Zhongxiao E. Rd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City, 
Taiwan, 110419

452 Fifth Avenue, New York, United States of America, NY10018

Bouchard 557, Piso 18° , Cdad. Autónoma de Buenos Aires, 
Argentina, 1106

Mareva House 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas

1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong

4 rue Peternelchen, Howald, Luxembourg, 2370

Alphabeta 14-18 Finsbury Square, London, United Kingdom, 
EC2A 1BR

IConEbene Rue de L’institut, Ebene, Mauritius

HSBC Main Building, 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong

18th Floor Tower 1, HSBC Centre 1 Sham Mong Road, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong

37 Front Street, Harbourview Center, Ground Floor, Hamilton, 
Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11

CT Corporation System 28 Liberty Street, New York, New York, 
United States of America, 10005

Unit 201, Floor 2, Building 3 No. 12, Anxiang Street, Shunyi 
District, Beijing, China

HSBC Main Building, 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong

37 Front Street, Harbourview Centre, Ground Floor, Hamilton 
Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11

Registered offices
110

300 Delaware Avenue Suite 1401, Wilmington, Delaware, United 
States of America, 19801

111

112

113

114

115

116

117

118

119

120

121

122

123

124

125

126

127

128

129

130

131

132

133

134

135

136

137

138

139

140

141

142

143

144

145

Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, P.O. 
Box 916

Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town Tortola, British Virgin Islands, 
VG1110

52/60 M G Road Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001

5/F HSBC Centre 3058 Fifth Ave West, Bonifacio Global City, 
Taguig City, Philippines

300-885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada, V6C 3E9

18 Boulevard de Kockelscheuer, Luxembourg, 1821

Unit 2002 of 20/F, Unit 2101 of 21/F HSBC Building, 8 Century 
Avenue, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 
China, 200120

Arnold House, St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 
1WA

HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, P.O. Box 66. United Arab 
Emirates

Unit 401, Level 4, Gate Precinct Building 2, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, P. O. Box 506553, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Level 16, HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, P.O. Box 66, United 
Arab Emirates

885 West Georgia Street, Suite 300, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada, V6C 3E9

HSBC Tower, Level 21, 188 Quay Street, Auckland, New 
Zealand, 1010

The Corporation Trust Incorporated, 2405 York Road, Suite 201, 
Lutherville Timonium, Maryland, United States of America, 
21093

HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1GT

Quai des Bergues 9-17 , Geneva, Switzerland, 1201

1 Grand Canal Square Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin 2, Ireland, 
D02 P820

6th floor HSBC Centre 18, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius, 72201

Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Caddesi No.128, 34394, Şişli, 
Istanbul, Turkiye

Quai des Bergues 9-17, Geneva, Switzerland, 1201

5 rue Heienhaff, Senningerberg, Luxembourg, L-1736

52/60 M G Road, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001

Unit 2201, 22/F, Qianhai Chow Tai Fook Finance Tower (Phase I) 
No. 66 Shu Niu Avenue, Nanshan Subdistrict, the Shenzhen 
Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, the PRC, 
Shenzhen, China, 518054

HSBC Building 7267 Olaya - Al Murrooj , Riyadh, Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia, 12283 - 2255

Unit 1 GF The Commerical Complex Madrigal Avenue, Ayala 
Alabang Village, Muntinlupa City, Philippines, 1780

1 Mutual Place, 107 Rivonia Road, Sandton, Gauteng, South 
Africa, 2196

Kapelanka 42A , Krakow, Poland, 30-347

Mareva House, 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas

C T Corporation System 820 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, 
New Jersey, United States of America, 08628

L22, Office Tower 2, Taikoo Hui, 381 Tianhe Road, Tianhe 
District, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China

Business Bay, Wing 2 Tower B, Survey no 103, Hissa no. 2, 
Airport Road, Yerwada, Pune, India, 411006

Room 3102, L31 HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, 
China (Shanghai) Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120

16 Boulevard d'Avranches, Luxembourg, L-1160

3 Hansaallee, Düsseldorf, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany, 40549

P.O. Box 309 Ugland House, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
KY1-1104

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

433

Financial statementsNotes on the financial statements

Registered offices
146

c/o Teneo Financial Advisory Limited The Colmore Building, 20 
Colmore Circus, Queensway, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B4 
6AT

147

148

149

150

151

152

153

154

155

156

157

158

159

160

161

162

163

164

165

166

167

No. 56 Yu Rong Street, Macheng, China, 438300

No. 205 Lie Shan Road, Suizhou, Hubei, China

Building 3, Yin Zuo Di Jing Wan Tianmen New City, Tianmen, 
Hubei Province, China

RM101, 102 & 106 Sunshine Fairview, Sunshine Garden, 
Pedestrian Walkway, Pingjiang, China

Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, 
VG1110

Kings Meadow Chester Business Park, Chester, United 
Kingdom, CH99 9FB

De Entree, 236 , Amsterdam, Netherlands, 1101 EE

10 Marina Boulevard, #48-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, 
Singapore, 018983

5th Floor, World Trade Center 1, Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 29-31, 
Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920

Room 667, 6/F, Tower A, No. 8 Century Avenue, Pudong District, 
Shanghai, China

No.198-2 Chengshan Avenue (E), Rongcheng, China, 264300

Room 1303-13062 Marine Center Main Tower, 59 Linhai Rd, 
Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China

Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, P.O. 
Box 3162

RM 2112, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc No. 8 Century Road, 
Pudong, Shanghai, China, 200120

3 More London Riverside, London, United Kingdom, SE1 2AQ

296, Floor 18, Office A Paseo de la Reforma, Mexico City, 
Mexico, 06600

35 Ballards Lane, London, United Kingdom, N3 1XW

1 Raffles Quay #23-01, Singapore, 048583

c/o MUFG Fund Services (Bermuda) Limited, Cedar House, 4th 
Floor North, 41 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton, Bermuda, HM12

27 Old Gloucester Street, London, United Kingdom, WC1N 3AX

All Saints Triangle Caledonian Road, London, United Kingdom, 
N1 9UT

Registered offices
168

188 Yin Cheng Zhong Lu (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China

169

170

171

172

173

174

175

176

177

178

179

180

181

182

183

184

185

186

187

188

189

190

191

192

50/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Hong Kong

13-15 York Buildings, London, United Kingdom, WC2N 6JU

167-169 Great Portland Street, 5th Floor, London, United 
Kingdom, W1W 5PF

Unit No. 208, 2nd Floor, Kanchenjunga Building, 18 Barakhamba 
Road, New Delhi, India, 110001

1 Harbourfront Avenue, #14-07 Keppel Bay Tower, Singapore, 
098632

Office 7, 35-37 Ludgate Hill, London, United Kingdom, EC4M 
7JN

251 Little Falls Drive, New Castle, Wilmington, United States of 
America, 19808

3 Avenue de l'Opera , Paris, France, 75001

17F, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, 
Shanghai, China

10th Floor 5 Churchill Place, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HU

100 Town Square Place, Suite 201, Jersey City, New Jersey, 
United States of America, 07310

7th Floor, 62 Threadneedle Street, London, United Kingdom, 
EC2R 8HP

Unit 705, Level 7, Currency House-Tower 2, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, P.O. BOX 506553, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 

Eagle House, 163 City Road, London, United Kingdom, EC1V 
1NR

Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, United Kingdom, EC4A 
3TR

4482 Deer Ridge Road, Danville, CA, Delaware, United States of 
America, 94506

9004 Al Ulaya - Al Olaya Dis. Unit no. 1, Riyadh, Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia, 12214-2652

7206 Prince Abdul Aziz Bin Musaid Bin Jalawi, 4065 Al Murabba 
District, 12613 Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

32 Rue du Champ de Tir, Nantes, France, 44300

c/o Hackwood Secretaries Limited, One Silk Street, London, 
United Kingdom, EC2Y 8HQ

2nd Floor, Regis House, 45 King William Street, London, United 
Kingdom, EC4R 9AN

10 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin, Ireland, D02 T380

Meeting Room 18.R005, 18/F Fortune Financial Center, No. 5 
Dongsanhuan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100020, 
China

P.O. Box, 309 Ugland House, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
KY1-1104

434

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shareholder information

Contents

435

435

435

435

436

436

437

Fourth interim dividend for 2023

Interim dividends for 2024

Other equity instruments

2023 Annual General Meeting

Earnings releases and interim results

Shareholder enquiries and communications

Stock symbols

Investor relations

437
437 Where more information about HSBC is available
438

Taxation of shares and dividends

439

441

443

444

Approach to ESG reporting

Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements

Certain defined terms

Abbreviations

This section gives important information for our shareholders, including contact information. It also includes an overview of key abbreviations 
and terminology used throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.

A glossary of terms used in the Annual Report and Accounts can be found in the Investors section of www.hsbc.com.

Fourth interim dividend for 2023
The Directors have approved a fourth interim dividend for 2023 of $0.31 per ordinary share. Information on the currencies in which shareholders 
may elect to have the cash dividend paid can be viewed at www.hsbc.com/investors. The interim dividend will be paid in cash. The timetable for 
the interim dividend is:

Announcement 
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda and American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’) quoted ex-dividend in New York
Record date – London, Hong Kong, New York, Bermuda1
Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and/or Strategic Report 2023
Final date for dividend election changes including Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for dividend 
elections
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars
Payment date

21 February 2024
7 March 2024
8 March 2024
22 March 2024

11 April 2024

15 April 2024
25 April 2024

1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date.

Interim dividends for 2024
For the financial year 2023, the Group reverted to paying quarterly dividends, and achieved a dividend payout ratio of 50% of reported earnings 
per ordinary share (’EPS’), in line with our published target for 2023 and 2024. EPS for this purpose excludes material notable items and related 
impacts (including those associated with the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the agreed sale of our banking business in Canada 
and our acquisition of SVB UK). The Board has adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable cash dividends, while retaining the 
flexibility to invest and grow the business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder distributions, if appropriate. 

Dividends are approved in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, pounds 
sterling and Hong Kong dollars.  

Other equity instruments
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities

HSBC continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1 capital 
securities. For further details on these securities, see Note 33 on the financial statements. 

HSBC issued $2,000m 8.000% perpetual contingent convertible securities on 7 March 2023.  
2023 Annual General Meeting
With the exception of the shareholder requisitioned Resolutions 16, 17 and 18, which the Board recommended that shareholders vote against, 
all resolutions considered at the 2023 AGM held at 11:00am on 5 May 2023 at The Eastside Rooms, 2 Woodcock Street, Birmingham, B7 4BL, 
UK, were passed on a poll.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

435

Additional information 
Additional information

Earnings releases and interim results
First and third quarter results for 2024 will be released on 30 April 2024 and 29 October 2024, respectively. The interim results for the six 
months to 30 June 2024 will be issued on 31 July 2024.   

Shareholder enquiries and communications
Enquiries

Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register (for example, transfers of shares, changes of name or address, lost share 
certificates or dividend cheques) should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor 
Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.

Principal Register:

Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ, 
United Kingdom

Telephone: +44 (0) 370 702 0137
www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus
Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.co.uk

Hong Kong Overseas Branch 
Register:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
Rooms 1712–1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre, 183 
Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong

Telephone: +852 2862 8555 
hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk
Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/hk

Bermuda Overseas Branch Register:

Investor Relations Team
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited, 37 Front Street, 
Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda

hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm
Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/bm

ADS Depositary:

The Bank of New York Mellon
Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 43006, Providence RI 
02940-3078, USA

Telephone (US): +1 877 283 5786
Telephone (International): +1 201 680 6825 
shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com 
www.mybnymdr.com

If you have elected to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main 
contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or custodian or broker, who administers the investment 
on your behalf. Therefore, any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding (including any administration of it) must continue 
to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian or broker. HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with 
matters directed to it in error.

Shareholders who wish to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 should contact HSBC’s Registrars. Please visit 
www.hsbc.com/investors/investor-contacts for further information. You can also download an online version of the report from www.hsbc.com.
Electronic communications

Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on 
HSBC’s website. To receive notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an 
instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.hsbc.com/investors/shareholder-information/manage-your-shareholding. If you 
received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy, or if you would like to 
receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email (quoting your shareholder reference number) to the 
appropriate Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge.

436

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 
Chinese translation

A Chinese translation of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 will be available upon request after 22 March 2024 from the Registrars (contact 
details above). Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents, or if you have received a 
Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive them in future.

《2023 年報及賬目》備有中譯本，各界人士可於2024年3月22日之後，向上列股份登記處索閱。

閣下如欲於日後收取相關文件的中譯本，或已收到本文件的中譯本但不希望繼續收取有關譯本，均請聯絡股份登記處。

Stock symbols
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols:

London Stock Exchange
Hong Kong Stock Exchange

∗   HSBC’s Primary market

HSBA*
5

New York Stock Exchange (ADS)
Bermuda Stock Exchange

HSBC
HSBC.BH

Investor relations
Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to:

Neil Sankoff, Global Head of Investor Relations
HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7991 5072
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com

Yafei Tian, Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited
1 Queen’s Road Central
Hong Kong
Telephone: +852 2899 8909
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk

Where more information about HSBC is available
The Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and other information on HSBC may be downloaded from HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com.

Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.sec.gov. 
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor 
Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the 
Commission at (1) 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC 
Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000).

HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting 
Regulations 2013. The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023 by 
31 December 2024. This information will be available on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com/tax.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

437

Additional informationAdditional information

Taxation of shares and dividends
Taxation – UK residents

The following is a summary, under current law (unless otherwise 
noted) and the current published practice of HM Revenue and 
Customs (‘HMRC’), of certain UK tax considerations that are likely to 
be material to the ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares. The summary does not purport to be a 
comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that may be 
relevant to a holder of shares. In particular, the summary deals with 
shareholders who are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and only with holders who hold the shares as investments and who 
are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax 
treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in securities. 
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers 
regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares in light of 
their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, 
state or local laws.

Taxation of dividends

Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings.

UK resident individuals

UK resident individuals are generally entitled to a tax-free annual 
allowance in respect of dividends received. The amount of the 
allowance for the tax year beginning 6 April 2023 is £1,000. To the 
extent that dividend income received by an individual in the relevant 
tax year does not exceed the allowance, a nil tax rate will apply. 
Dividend income in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 8.75% 
for basic rate taxpayers, 33.75% for higher rate taxpayers and 39.35% 
for additional rate taxpayers. 

UK resident companies 

Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation tax should 
generally be entitled to an exemption from UK corporation tax on any 
dividends received from HSBC Holdings. However, the exemptions 
are not comprehensive and are subject to anti-avoidance rules.

If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be satisfied, or 
a shareholder within the charge to UK corporation tax elects for an 
otherwise exempt dividend to be taxable, the shareholder will be 
subject to UK corporation tax on dividends received from HSBC 
Holdings at the rate of corporation tax applicable to that shareholder.  

Taxation of capital gains

The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on disposals of 
shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital 
gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for example, the 
shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in 
exchange for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for 
shares in other companies.

For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares 
is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and capitalisation 
issues. Any capital gain arising on a disposal of shares in HSBC 
Holdings by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of 
indexation allowance if the shares were acquired before 1 January 
2018, although the level of indexation allowance that is given in 
calculating the gain would be frozen at the value that would have 
been applied to a disposal of those shares in December 2017. If in 
doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional 
advisers.

Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax

Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will 
be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration 
paid for the transfer (rounded up to the next £5), and such stamp duty 
is generally payable by the transferee. An agreement to transfer 
shares, or any interest therein, normally will give rise to a charge to 
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. 
However, provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is 
executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped before the 
date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under 

438

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

the current published practice of HMRC it will not be necessary to pay 
the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be cancelled. 
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the transferee.

Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UK’s paperless share 
transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 
0.5% of the consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax is 
calculated and payment made automatically. Deposits of shares into 
CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless 
the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration. Until 31 December 
2023, the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of 
shares (and transfers integral to capital raising) to a depositary receipt 
issuer or a clearance service was incompatible with European Union 
law as retained in the UK following the UK’s departure from the 
European Union, and was not imposed by HMRC. If the UK Finance 
Bill 2023-24 is enacted in the form it stands as at the date hereof, that 
1.5% charge will be repealed with retrospective effect from 1 January 
2024.
Taxation – US residents

The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK tax 
and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be material 
to the ownership and disposition of shares or American Depositary 
Shares (‘ADSs’) by a holder that is a US holder, as defined below, and 
who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes.

The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of 
all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares 
or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals only with US holders that 
hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax 
treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules. These 
include banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in 
securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of 
an integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’ or ‘hedge’) comprised 
of a share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that 
own directly or indirectly 10% or more (by vote or value) of the stock 
of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial 
decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, 
all of which are subject to change.

For the purposes of this discussion, a ‘US holder’ is a beneficial holder 
that is a citizen or resident of the United States, a US domestic 
corporation or otherwise is subject to US federal income taxes on a 
net income basis in respect thereof.

Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers 
regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs 
in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any 
national, state or local laws.

Any US federal tax advice included in the Annual Report and Accounts 
2023 is for informational purposes only. It was not intended or written 
to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding US 
federal tax penalties.

Taxation of dividends

Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings. 
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash dividends paid on 
the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such holder or 
the ADS depositary receives them, translating dividends paid in UK 
pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on 
the date of receipt. A US holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of 
a cash dividend must include in ordinary income the fair market value 
of such shares on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of 
those shares will equal such fair market value.

Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than 
61 days, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a 
‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not being classified for 
US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign investment 
company), certain dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an 
individual US holder generally will be subject to US taxation at 
preferential rates. 

Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant 
market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not believe that it 
was a passive investment company for its 2023 taxable year and does 
not anticipate becoming a passive foreign investment company in 
2024 or the foreseeable future. Accordingly, dividends paid on the 
shares or ADSs generally should be eligible for qualified dividends 
treatment.

Taxation of capital gains

Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of 
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at 
the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, 
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or 
permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been 
used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, 
vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains 
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term 
capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year. 
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally 
will be subject to US tax at preferential rates.

Inheritance tax

Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined to 
be the US for the purposes of the United States–United Kingdom 
Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the 
‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of the 
UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has 
been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s death 
or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases 
where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at 
the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and 
was not a national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business property of a 
UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertain to a UK 
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent 
personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally 
provides a credit against US federal tax liability for the amount of any 
tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or ADSs are subject to 
both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.

Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs

If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American 
Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of 
shares to the depositary) UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve 
tax will be payable unless the UK Finance Bill 2023-24 is enacted in 
the form it stands as at the date hereof and the transfer is, or is 
treated as being, in the course of a capital raising arrangement. The 
stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the 
consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 
1.5%.

The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will 
be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same 
transfer.

No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to 
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument 
of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times 
outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written 
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty 
reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, 
an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.

US information reporting and backup withholding tax

Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of 
shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain 
financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to US information 
reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax. 
General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder: 
establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S corporation) or 
other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer identification 
number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup withholding 
has occurred and otherwise complies with the applicable 
requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders that are not US 
persons (as defined in the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
amended) generally are not subject to US information reporting or 

backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with 
applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US 
persons in order to avoid the application of such US information 
reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments 
received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.
Approach to ESG reporting
The information set out in the ESG review on pages 41 to 98, taken 
together with other information relating to ESG issues included in this 
Annual Report and Accounts 2023, aims to provide key ESG 
information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended 
31 December 2023. The data is compiled for the financial year 
1 January to 31 December 2023 unless otherwise specified. 
Measurement techniques and calculations are explained next to data 
tables where necessary. There are no significant changes from the 
previous reporting period in terms of scope, boundary or 
measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where relevant, 
rationale is provided for any restatement of information or data that 
has been previously published. We have also considered our 
obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing 
the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
(‘ESG Guide’) and under LR9.8.6R(8) of the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s (‘FCA’) Listing Rules. We will continue to develop and 
refine our reporting and disclosures on ESG matters in line with 
feedback received from our investors and other stakeholders, and in 
view of our obligations under the ESG Guide and the FCA’s Listing 
Rules.
ESG Guide

We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide, 
save for certain items, which we describe in more detail below:

– A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and greenhouse 
gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of 
hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and on emissions: taking into 
account the nature of our business, we do not believe that there 
are relevant laws and regulations in these areas that have 
significant impacts on our operations. Nevertheless, we are fully 
compliant with our publication of information regarding scope 1 
and 2 carbon emissions, while we only partially publish information 
on scope 3 carbon emissions, as the data required for that 
publication is not yet fully available. 

– A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total non-

hazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of our 
business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a material 
issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on total waste 
produced, which includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste.

– A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into 
account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to be 
a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we 
continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all waste. 
Building on the success of our previous operational environmental 
strategy, we are continuing to seek to identify key opportunities 
where we can lessen our wider environmental impact, including 
waste management. For further details, please see our ESG 
review on page 63.

– A2.4 on sourcing water issue and water efficiency target: Taking 

into account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to 
be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we 
have implemented measures to further reduce water consumption 
through the installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or 
zero flush sanitary fittings and continue to track our water 
consumption.

– A2.5 on packaging material, B6(b) on issues related to health and 
safety and labelling relating to products and services provided, 
B6.1 on percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to 
recalls for safety and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures: 
Taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider 
these to be material issues for our stakeholders.

This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in 
the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ on page 43 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

439

Additional informationAdditional information

for further information on how we determine what matters are 
material to our stakeholders.
TCFD recommendations and recommended 
disclosures

As noted on page 17, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’ 
obligation under both the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing 
Rules and Sections 414 CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 
2006, and confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the 
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, including 
its annexes and supplemental guidance, save for certain items, which 
we summarise below:

Targets setting 

Metrics and targets (c) relating to short-term targets: For financed 
emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line 
with the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) guidelines by setting 
2030 targets. While the NZBA define 2030 as intermediate, we use 
different time horizons for climate risk management. We define short 
term as time periods up to 2025; medium term is between 2026 and 
2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. In 2023, we disclose 
interim 2030 financed emissions targets for seven sectors comprising 
five on-balance sheet and two combined financed emissions targets, 
as we outline on page 18. For the shipping sector, we have taken a 
decision not to set a standalone financed emissions target. The 
decision follows a reduction in our exposure to the sector after the 
strategic sale of part of our European shipping portfolio. This aligns 
with NZBA guidelines on sector inclusion for target setting. We have 
now set combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and 
facilitated emissions targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil 
and gas, and power and utilities, and report the combined progress 
for both sectors. We intend to review the financed emissions 
baselines and targets annually and restate where relevant, to help 
ensure that they are aligned with market practice and current climate 
science. For further details on the restatements and targets and 
progress of financed emissions, see section ’Our approach to 
financed emissions recalculations’ and ’Targets and Progress’ on page 
56 and 57.

Metrics and targets (c) relating to capital deployment target: We do 
not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to 
capital deployment, since 2015, we have issued more than $2bn of 
our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital 
invested into a variety of green projects, including: green buildings, 
renewable energy and clean transportation projects. In 2023, we 
further progressed our internal review and enhancement of the green 
bond framework, with further refinement including internal and 
external review to be undertaken in 2024. This will be subject to 
continuous review and monitoring to ensure that they remain up to 
date and reflect updated standards, taxonomies and best practices. 
Any such developments in standards, taxonomies and best practices 
over time could result in revisions in our reporting going forward and 
lead to differences year-on-year as compared to prior years. See the 
HSBC Green Bond Report for further information.

Metrics and targets (c) relating to internal carbon pricing target: We do 
not currently disclose internal carbon pricing target due to transitional 
challenges such as developing the appropriate systems and 
processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our 
climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance the 
disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available.

Impacts on financial planning and performance

Strategy (b) relating to financial planning and performance: We have 
used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy 
and financial planning. In 2023, we continued to incorporate certain 
aspects of sustainable finance and financed emissions within our 
financial planning process. We do not fully disclose impacts from 
climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance 
including on revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative 
scenario analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for all sectors and 
geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional 
challenges in relation to data limitations, although nascent work is 
ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations to be 

440

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes 
available and technology solutions are implemented.

Strategy (b) related to transition plan: We published our Group-wide 
net zero transition plan in January 2024. In this plan, we provided an 
overview of our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking to 
help meet our ambitions. We want to be clear about our approach, 
the change underway today and what we plan to do in the future. We 
also want to be transparent about where there are still unresolved 
issues and uncertainties. We are still developing our disclosures, 
including considerations of possible additional data in relation to our 
financial plans, budgets, and related financial approach for the 
implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. 
amount of capital and other expenditures supporting our 
decarbonisation strategy).  

Metrics and targets (a) relating to internal carbon prices and climate-
related opportunities metrics: We do not currently disclose internal 
carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges. 
But we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario 
analysis exercise. In addition, we do not currently fully disclose the 
proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or 
other business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, 
including revenue from products and services designed for a low-
carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our 
business or strategic planning time horizons. In relation to sustainable 
finance revenue and assets we are disclosing certain elements. We 
expect the data and system limitations related to financial planning 
and performance, and climate-related opportunities metrics to be 
addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes 
available and technology solutions are implemented. We expect to 
further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.

Impacts of transition and physical risk

Strategy (c) relating to quantitative scenario analysis: We do not 
currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk 
quantitatively, due to transitional challenges including data limitations 
and evolving science and methodologies. In 2023, we have disclosed 
the impairment impacts for our wholesale, retail and commercial real 
estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. In addition, we have 
disclosed losses on our retail mortgage book under three scenarios 
and flood depths for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we 
have disclosed potential implications on our expected credit losses for 
11 sectors under two scenarios. We have also disclosed a heat map 
showing how we expect the risks to evolve over time.

Metrics and targets (a) relating to detailed climate-related risk 
exposure metrics for physical and transition risks: We do not fully 
disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical 
(chronic) and transitions (policy and legal, technology and market) 
risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial 
intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity 
and debt holdings, or trading positions, each broken down by industry, 
geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming to 
develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to provide 
these disclosures in future years. We disclose the exposure to six 
high transition risk wholesale sectors and the flood risk exposure and 
Energy Performance Certificate breakdown for the UK portfolio. 

Metrics and targets (c) on targets related to physical risk: We do not 
currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. 
This is due to transitional challenges including data limitations of 
physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and 
manage physical risk. In 2023 we introduced internally a global ‘soft 
trigger’ monitoring and review process for physical risk exposure 
where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures 
markets are actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to 
peril events. We also consider physical and transition risk as an input 
for our climate scenario analysis exercise.

We expect to further enhance our disclosures as our data, 
quantitative scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets 
evolve, and technology solutions are implemented in the medium 
term.

Scope 3 emissions disclosure

Metrics and targets (b) relating to scope 3 emissions metrics: We 
currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions including 
business travel, supply chain and financed emissions. We currently 
disclose four out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions including business travel, supply chain and financed 
emissions. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance 
sheet financed emissions for a number of sectors as detailed on page 
18. We also publish facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and 
power and utilities sectors. Future disclosures on financed emissions 
and related risks are reliant on our customers publicly disclosing their 
greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related risks. We 
recognise the need to provide early transparency on climate 
disclosures but balance this with the recognition that existing data 
and reporting processes require significant enhancements. 

Other matters

Strategy (b) relating to access to capital: We have considered the 
impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and 
financial planning. Our access to capital may be impacted by 
reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In 
addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business 
activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we 
could face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating 
ability and potentially our access to capital markets. We expect to 
further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data 
becomes available.

To manage these risks we have integrated climate risk into our 
existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk 
management framework through the policies and controls for the 
existing risks where appropriate. 

Metrics and targets (c) relating to water usage target: We have 
described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. 
However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not 
consider water usage to be a material target for our business and, 
therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s disclosure. 

With respect to our obligations under LR9.8.6R(8) of the FCA’s Listing 
Rules, as part of considering what to measure and publicly report, we 
perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate level of detail to 
be included in the climate-related financial disclosures that are set out 
in our Annual Report and Accounts. Our assessment takes into 
account factors such as the level of our exposure to climate-related 
risks and opportunities, the scope and objectives of our climate-
related strategy, transitional challenges, and the nature, size and 
complexity of our business. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ 
on page 43 for further information. 
Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements
This Annual Report and Accounts 2023 contains certain forward- 
looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition; results 
of operations and business, including the strategic priorities; financial, 
investment and capital targets; and ESG targets, commitments and 
ambitions described herein.

Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about 
HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. 
Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘anticipates’, 
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and 
‘reasonably possible’, or the negative thereof, other variations thereon 
or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking 
statements. These statements are based on current plans, 
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue 
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements 
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no 
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to 
reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of 
any forward-looking statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking 
statements may also be made in the periodic reports to the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary financial statements 
to shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars and 

prospectuses, press releases and other written materials, and in oral 
statements made by HSBC’s directors, officers or employees to third 
parties, including financial analysts. Forward-looking statements 
involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a 
number of factors could cause actual results to differ, in some 
instances materially, from those anticipated or implied in any forward-
looking statement. These include, but are not limited to:

– changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which 
we operate, such as new, continuing or deepening recessions, 
prolonged inflationary pressures and fluctuations in employment 
levels and the creditworthiness of customers beyond those 
factored into consensus forecasts; the Russia-Ukraine war and the 
Israel-Hamas war and their impact on global economies and the 
markets where HSBC operates, which could have a material 
adverse effect on (among other things) our financial condition, 
results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and 
credit ratings; deviations from the market and economic 
assumptions that form the basis for our ECL measurements 
(including, without limitation, as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war 
and the Israel-Hamas war, inflationary pressures, commodity price 
changes, and ongoing developments in the commercial real estate 
sector in mainland China); potential changes in HSBC’s dividend 
policy; changes and volatility in foreign exchange rates and interest 
rates levels, including the accounting impact resulting from 
financial reporting in respect of hyperinflationary economies; 
volatility in equity markets; lack of liquidity in wholesale funding or 
capital markets, which may affect our ability to meet our 
obligations under financing facilities or to fund new loans, 
investments and businesses; geopolitical tensions or diplomatic 
developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty, such 
as the Russia-Ukraine war or the Israel-Hamas war (including the 
continuation and escalation thereof) and the related imposition of 
sanctions and trade restrictions, supply chain restrictions and 
disruptions, sustained increases in energy prices and key 
commodity prices, claims of human rights violations, diplomatic 
tensions, including between China and the US, the UK, the EU, 
India and other countries, and developments in Hong Kong and 
Taiwan, alongside other potential areas of tension, which may 
adversely affect HSBC by creating regulatory, reputational and 
market risks; the efficacy of government, customer, and HSBC’s 
actions in managing and mitigating ESG risks, in particular climate 
risk, nature-related risks and human rights risks, and in supporting 
the global transition to net zero carbon emissions, each of which 
can impact HSBC both directly and indirectly through our 
customers and which may result in potential financial and non-
financial impacts; illiquidity and downward price pressure in 
national real estate markets; adverse changes in central banks’ 
policies with respect to the provision of liquidity support to 
financial markets; heightened market concerns over sovereign 
creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; adverse changes in 
the funding status of public or private defined benefit pensions; 
societal shifts in customer financing and investment needs, 
including consumer perception as to the continuing availability of 
credit; exposure to counterparty risk, including third parties using 
us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge; the 
discontinuation of certain key Ibors and the transition of the 
remaining legacy Ibor contracts to near risk-free benchmark rates, 
which continues to expose HSBC to some financial and non-
financial risks; and price competition in the market segments we 
serve;

– changes in government policy and regulation, including the 

monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and 
other regulatory authorities in the principal markets in which we 
operate and the consequences thereof (including, without 
limitation, actions taken as a result of the impact of the Russia-
Ukraine war on inflation); initiatives to change the size, scope of 
activities and interconnectedness of financial institutions in 
connection with the implementation of stricter regulation of 
financial institutions in key markets worldwide; revised capital and 
liquidity benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank 
balance sheets and lower returns available from the current 
business model and portfolio mix; changes to tax laws and tax 
rates applicable to HSBC, including the imposition of levies or 
taxes designed to change business mix and risk appetite; the 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

441

Additional informationAdditional information

practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving 
their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation 
of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership; 
the UK’s relationship with the EU, which continues to be 
characterised by uncertainty and political disagreement, despite 
the signing of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the 
UK and the EU, particularly with respect to the potential 
divergence of UK and EU law on the regulation of financial 
services; changes in government approach and regulatory 
treatment in relation to ESG disclosures and reporting 
requirements, and the current lack of a single standardised 
regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors and markets; 
changes in UK macroeconomic and fiscal policy, which may result 
in fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling; general changes 
in government policy that may significantly influence investor 
decisions; the costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews, 
actions or litigation, including any additional compliance 
requirements; and the effects of competition in the markets where 
we operate including increased competition from non-bank 
financial services companies; and

– factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately 

identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses 
or delinquency, and managing those risks (through account 
management, hedging and other techniques); our ability to achieve 
our financial, investment, capital and ESG targets, commitments 
and ambitions (including the positions set forth in our thermal coal 
phase-out policy and our energy policy and our targets to reduce 
our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, where applicable, 
facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected high-emitting 
sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve any of the 
expected benefits of our strategic priorities; evolving regulatory 
requirements and the development of new technologies, including 
artificial intelligence, affecting how we manage model risk; model 
limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the impact that 
high inflationary pressures and rising interest rates have had on 
the performance and usage of financial models, which may require 
us to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating 
controls, such as judgemental post-model adjustments, to address 
model limitations; changes to the judgements, estimates and 
assumptions we base our financial statements on; changes in our 
ability to meet the requirements of regulatory stress tests; a 
reduction in the credit ratings assigned to us or any of our 
subsidiaries, which could increase the cost or decrease the 
availability of our funding and affect our liquidity position and net 
interest margin; changes to the reliability and security of our data 
management, data privacy, information and technology 
infrastructure, including threats from cyber-attacks, which may 
impact our ability to service clients and may result in financial loss, 
business disruption and/or loss of customer services and data; the 
accuracy and effective use of data, including internal management 
information that may not have been independently verified; 
changes in insurance customer behaviour and insurance claim 
rates; our dependence on loan payments and dividends from 
subsidiaries to meet our obligations; changes in our reporting 
frameworks and accounting standards, which have had and may 
continue to have a material impact on the way we prepare our 
financial statements; our ability to successfully execute planned 
strategic acquisitions and disposals; our success in adequately 
integrating acquired businesses into our business, including the 
integration of SVB UK into our CMB business; changes in our 
ability to manage third-party, fraud, financial crime and reputational 
risks inherent in our operations; employee misconduct, which may 
result in regulatory sanctions and/or reputational or financial harm; 
changes in skill requirements, ways of working and talent 
shortages, which may affect our ability to recruit and retain senior 
management and diverse and skilled personnel; and changes in 
our ability to develop sustainable finance and ESG-related products 
consistent with the evolving expectations of our regulators, and 
our capacity to measure the environmental and social impacts 
from our financing activity (including as a result of data limitations 
and changes in methodologies), which may affect our ability to 
achieve our ESG ambitions, targets and commitments, including 
our net zero ambition, our targets to reduce on-balance sheet 
financed emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in 

442

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

our portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions 
set forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy 
policy, and increase the risk of greenwashing. Effective risk 
management depends on, among other things, our ability through 
stress testing and other techniques to prepare for events that 
cannot be captured by the statistical models it uses; our success 
in addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation 
challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we identify in ‘Top 
and emerging risks’ on pages 140 to 144. 

This Annual Report and Accounts 2023 contains a number of images, 
graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case studies and 
credentials which aim to give a high-level overview of certain 
elements of our disclosures and to improve accessibility for readers. 
These images, graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case 
studies and credentials are designed to be read within the context of 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 as a whole.
Additional cautionary statement 
regarding ESG data, metrics and 
forward-looking statements
The Annual Report and Accounts 2023 contains a number of forward-
looking statements (as defined above) with respect to HSBC’s ESG 
targets, commitments, ambitions, climate-related pathways, 
processes and plans, and the methodologies and scenarios we use, 
or intend to use, to assess our progress in relation to these (‘ESG-
related forward-looking statements’).

In preparing the ESG-related information contained in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023, HSBC has made a number of key 
judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and 
issues involved are complex. We have used ESG (including climate) 
data, models and methodologies that we consider, as of the date on 
which they were used, to be appropriate and suitable to understand 
and assess climate change risk and its impact, to analyse financed 
emissions - and operational and supply chain emissions, to set ESG-
related targets and to evaluate the classification of sustainable finance 
and investments. However, these data, models and methodologies 
are often new, are rapidly evolving and are not of the same standard 
as those available in the context of other financial information, nor are 
they subject to the same or equivalent disclosure standards, historical 
reference points, benchmarks or globally accepted accounting 
principles. In particular, it is not possible to rely on historical data as a 
strong indicator of future trajectories in the case of climate change 
and its evolution. Outputs of models, processed data and 
methodologies are also likely to be affected by underlying data quality, 
which can be hard to assess and we expect industry guidance, 
market practice, and regulations in this field to continue to change. 
We also face challenges in relation to our ability to access data on a 
timely basis, lack of consistency and comparability between data that 
is available and our ability to collect and process relevant data. 
Consequently, the ESG-related forward-looking statements and ESG 
metrics disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 carry an 
additional degree of inherent risk and uncertainty.

Due to the unpredictable evolution of climate change and its future 
impact and the uncertainty of future policy and market response to 
ESG-related issues and the effectiveness of any such response, 
HSBC may have to re-evaluate its progress towards its ESG 
ambitions, commitments and targets in the future, update the 
methodologies it uses or alter its approach to ESG (including climate) 
analysis and may be required to amend, update and recalculate its 
ESG disclosures and assessments in the future, as market practice 
and data quality and availability develop.  

No assurance can be given by or on behalf of HSBC as to the 
likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections, 
estimates, forecasts, targets, commitments, ambitions, prospects or 
returns contained herein. Readers are cautioned that a number of 
factors, both external and those specific to HSBC, could cause actual 
achievements, results, performance or other future events or 
conditions to differ, in some cases materially, from those stated, 
implied and/or reflected in any ESG-related forward-looking statement 
or metric due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors 
(including without limitation those referred to below):

– Climate change projection risk: this includes, for example, the 
evolution of climate change and its impacts, changes in the 
scientific assessment of climate change impacts, transition 
pathways and future risk exposure and limitations of climate 
scenario forecasts;

– ESG projection risk: ESG metrics are complex and are still subject 
to development. In addition, the scenarios employed in relation to 
them, and the models that analyse them have limitations that are 
sensitive to key assumptions and parameters, which are 
themselves subject to some uncertainty, and cannot fully capture 
all of the potential effects of climate, policy and technology-driven 
outcomes;

– Changes in the ESG regulatory landscape: this involves changes in 
government approach and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG 
disclosures and reporting requirements, and the current lack of a 
single standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors 
and markets;  

– Variation in reporting standards: ESG reporting standards are still 
developing and are not standardised or comparable across all 
sectors and markets, new reporting standards in relation to 
different ESG metrics are still emerging;  

– Data availability, accuracy, verifiability and data gaps: our 

disclosures are limited by the availability of high quality data in 
some areas and our own ability to timely collect and process such 
data as required. Where data is not available for all sectors or 
consistently year on year, there may be an impact to our data 
quality scores. While we expect our data quality scores to improve 
over time, as companies continue to expand their disclosures to 
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder expectations, there may 
be unexpected fluctuations within sectors year on year, and/or 
differences between the data quality scores between sectors. Any 
such changes in the availability and quality of data over time, or our 
ability to collect and process such data, could result in revisions to 
reported data going forward, including on financed emissions, 
meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or comparable 
year-on year;

– Developing methodologies and scenarios: the methodologies and 
scenarios HSBC uses to assess financed emissions and set ESG-
related targets may develop over time in line with market practice, 
regulation and/or developments in science, where applicable. Such 
developments could result in revisions to reported data, including 
on financed emissions or the classification of sustainable finance 
and investments, meaning that data outputs may not be 
reconcilable or comparable year-on year; and

– Risk management capabilities: global actions, including HSBC’s 

own actions, may not be effective in transitioning to net zero and 
in managing relevant ESG risks, including in particular climate, 
nature-related and human rights risks, each of which can impact 
HSBC both directly and indirectly through our customers, and 
which may result in potential financial and non-financial impacts to 
HBSC. In particular:

– we may not be able to achieve our ESG targets, commitments and 
ambitions (including with respect to the positions set forth in our 
thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, and our 
targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, 
where applicable, facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected 
high-emitting sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve 
some or all of the expected benefits of our strategic priorities; and

– we may not be able to develop sustainable finance and ESG-

related products consistent with the evolving expectations of our 
regulators, and our capacity to measure the environmental and 
social impacts from our financing activity may diminish (including 
as a result of data and model limitations and changes in 
methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve our ESG 
targets, commitments and ambitions, including our net zero 
ambition, our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our 
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set 
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and energy policy, and 
increase the risk of greenwashing. 

Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of HSBC speak 
only as of the date they are made. HSBC expressly disclaims any 
obligation to revise or update these ESG forward-looking statements, 
other than as expressly required by applicable law. 

Written and/or oral ESG-related forward-looking statements may also 
be made in our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy 
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases and 
other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s 
Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial 
analysts.

Our data dictionaries and methodologies for preparing the above ESG-
related metrics and third-party limited assurance reports can be found 
on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre. 
Certain defined terms
Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means HSBC 
Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to 
HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this document 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s 
Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. 

When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total 
shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital 
securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The 
abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions 
(thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

443

Additional informationAdditional information

Abbreviations

Currencies

£
CA$
€
HK$
MXN
RMB
SGD
$

A

ABS¹
ADR
ADS
AGM
AI
AIEA
ALCO
AML
AML DPA

ANP
ASEAN
AT1

B

Basel 
Committee
Basel II¹
Basel III¹

Basel 3.1

BEPS

BGF

BoCom

BoE
Bps¹

BVI

C

CAPM
CDS¹
CEA
CET1¹
CGUs
CMB
CMC
CODM
COSO

Corporate 
Centre

CP¹
CRD IV¹
CRR¹
CRR II¹

CSA
CSM
CVA¹

D

British pound sterling
Canadian dollar
Euro
Hong Kong dollar
Mexican peso
Chinese renminbi
Singapore dollar
United States dollar

Asset-backed security
American Depositary Receipt
American Depositary Share
Annual General Meeting
Artificial intelligence
Average interest-earning assets
Asset and Liability Management Committee
Anti-money laundering
Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US 
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012
Annualised new business premium
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Additional tier 1

Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

2006 Basel Capital Accord
Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and 
liquidity rules
Outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel 
III reforms
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting

Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides 
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK 
and Ireland
Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s 
largest banks
Bank of England
Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a 
percentage point
British Virgin Islands

Capital asset pricing model
Credit default swap
Commodity Exchange Act (US)
Common equity tier 1
Cash-generating units
Commercial Banking, a global business
Capital maintenance charge
Chief Operating Decision Maker
2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (US)
Corporate Centre comprises Central Treasury, our legacy 
businesses, interests in our associates and joint ventures, 
central stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments
Commercial paper
Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
Customer risk rating
The regulatory requirements of the Capital Requirements 
Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the PRA 
Rulebook
Credit support annex
Contractual service margin
Credit valuation adjustment

Deferred shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC 

Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will 
become entitled, generally between one and seven years 
from the date of the award, and normally subject to the 
individual remaining in employment

444

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

DPD
DPF

DVA¹

E

EAD¹
EBA
EC
ECB
ECL

EEA
Eonia
EPC
EPS
ESG
EU
Euribor
EVE

F

FAST-Infra

FCA
FDIC

FFVA

FPA
FRB
FRC
FSCS
FTE
FTSE
FVOCI¹
FX

G

GAAP
GAC
GBM
GDP
GEC
GFANZ
GMP
GPS

GPSP
GRC
Group
GTRF

H

Days past due
Discretionary participation feature of insurance and 
investment contracts

Debit valuation adjustment

Exposure at default
European Banking Authority
European Commission
European Central Bank
Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is 
recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is 
recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which 
only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied

European Economic Area
Euro Overnight Index Average
Energy performance certificate
Earnings per ordinary share
Environmental, social and governance
European Union
Euro interbank offered rate
Economic value of equity

Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
Infrastructure
Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on 
derivative contracts
Fixed pay allowance
Federal Reserve Board (US)
Financial Reporting Council
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Full-time equivalent staff
Financial Times Stock Exchange index
Fair value through other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange

Generally accepted accounting principles
Group Audit Committee
Global Banking and Markets, a global business
Gross domestic product
Group Executive Committee
Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero
Guaranteed minimum pension
Global Payments Solutions, the business formerly known as 
Global Liquidity and Cash Management
Group Performance Share Plan
Group Risk Committee
HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
Global Trade and Receivables Finance

Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
HKEx
Hong Kong Monetary Authority
HKMA
HMRC
HM Revenue and Customs
Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee
Hong Kong

Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s 
Republic of China
High-quality liquid assets
HQLA
HSBC
HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank
HSBC Bank 
Middle East
HSBC Bank 
USA
HSBC Canada

HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US

HSBC Bank Middle East Limited

The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company 
Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC 
Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes

HSBC Continental Europe

HSBC 
Continental 
Europe
HSBC Finance

HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance 
company (formerly Household International, Inc.)
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC
HSBC Private 
Bank (Suisse)
HSBC UK
HSBC USA

HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in 
Switzerland
HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank
The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of 
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for 
liquidity purposes
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg)

HSI
HSSL

I

IAS
IASB
IBE
Ibor
ICAAP
ICMA
IEA
IFRS Accounting 
Standards

International Accounting Standards
International Accounting Standards Board
Independent Board Evaluation
Interbank offered rate
Internal capital adequacy assessment process
International Capital Market Association
International Energy Agency
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board

ILAAP
IMA
IMM
IRB¹
ISDA
ISSB
JV

K

KMP

L

LCR
LGBTQ+

LGD¹
Libor
Long term

LTI
LTV¹

M

Mainland China

Medium term

MENAT
MREL
MRT¹
MSS

N

Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process
Internal model approach
Internal model method
Internal ratings-based
International Swaps and Derivatives Association
International Sustainability Standard Board
Joint venture

Key Management Personnel

Liquidity coverage ratio
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. The plus 
sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the 
spectrums of sexual orientation and gender identity
Loss given default
London interbank offered rate
For our financial targets, we define long term as five to six 
years, commencing 1 January 2024
Long-term incentive
Loan to value

People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and 
Macau
For our financial targets, we define medium term as three 
to four years, commencing 1 January 2024
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye
Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities
Material Risk Taker
Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets 
and securities services businesses in Global Banking and 
Markets

Net operating 
income

Net operating income before change in expected credit 
losses and other credit impairment charges

NGO
NII
NIM
NPS
NSFR
NYSE
NZBA

Non-governmental organisation
Net interest income
Net interest margin
Net promoter score
Net stable funding ratio
New York Stock Exchange
Net-Zero Banking Alliance

O

OCI
OECD
OTC¹

P

PBT
PCAF
PD¹
Performance 
shares¹

Ping An

POCI
PRA
PRC
Principal plan
PVIF

PwC

R

RAS
Repo¹
Revenue
Reverse repo
RNIV
RoE
RoTE
RWA¹

S

SAB
SAPS
SASB
SBTi
SDG
SEC
ServCo group

Sibor
SIC
SME
Solitaire

SPE¹
SVB UK

T

TCFD¹
THBFIX
TNFD
TSR¹

U

UAE
UK
UN
US

V

VaR¹
VIU

W

WEF
WPB

Other comprehensive income
Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
Over-the-counter

Profit before tax
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
Probability of default
Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee 
share plans that are subject to corporate performance 
conditions
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the 
second-largest life insurer in the PRC
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
People’s Republic of China
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and 
long-term investment contracts with DPF
The member firms of the PwC network, including 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Risk appetite statement
Sale and repurchase transaction
Net operating income before ECL
Security purchased under commitments to sell
Risk not in VaR
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Return on average tangible equity
Risk-weighted asset

Saudi Awwal Bank
Self-administered pension scheme
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
Science Based Targets initiative
United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
Separately incorporated group of service companies 
established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
Singapore interbank offered rate
Securities investment conduit
Small and medium-sized enterprise
Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed 
by HSBC
Special purpose entity
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited, now HSBC Innovation Bank 
Limited

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
Total shareholder return

United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Nations
United States of America

Value at risk
Value in use

World Economic Forum
Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business

1  A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

445

Additional informationAdditional information

 HSBC Holdings plc

 Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with
 limited liability under the UK Companies Act
 Registered in England: number 617987

Registered Office and Group Head Office

8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom

Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 
Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880 
Web: www.hsbc.com

Corporate Brokers

Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
25 Cabot Square
London E14 4QA
United Kingdom

Bank of America Securities
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
United Kingdom

HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom

446

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2024

All rights reserved 

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval 
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the  
prior written permission of HSBC Holdings plc

Published by Global Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, London 

Designed by Design Bridge and Partners, London  
(Strategic Report and ESG review) and by Global Finance with  
Design Bridge and Partners (rest of Annual Report and Accounts)

Printed by Park Communications Limited, London, on Nautilus 
SuperWhite board and paper using vegetable oil-based inks.  
Made in Austria, the stocks comprise 100% de-inked  
post-consumer waste. Pulps used are totally chlorine-free.  

The FSC® recycled logo identifies a paper which contains  
100% post-consumer recycled fibre certified in accordance  
with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council®.

HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0)20 7991 8888

www.hsbc.com

