Social

Building customer inclusion and resilience 

Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience

We believe that financial services, when 
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality 
and help more people access opportunities. 
We are playing an active role in opening 
up a world of opportunity for individuals by 
supporting their financial well-being, and 
removing the different barriers that people can 
face in accessing financial services.

Access to products and services
We provide innovative solutions to help 
improve customer access to products and 
services. HSBC UK and HSBC Hong Kong 
provide no-cost accounts for customers 
who do not qualify for a standard account 
or who might need additional support due 
to social or financial vulnerability. In 2023, 
HSBC Egypt ran a campaign that allowed 
new customers to open bank accounts 
with no minimum balance required and no 
account opening fees. In the UK, we continue 
to make our branches more accessible by 
providing ‘safe spaces’ for domestic abuse 
victims, where they can seek specialist 
support and advice. In 2023, we also launched 
a specialist training programme to raise 
awareness among our colleagues of modern 
slavery and human trafficking. This has been 
completed by more than 5,300 UK colleagues. 
In addition, our strategic partnership with 
housing and homelessness charity Shelter 
UK aims to support those in crisis and build 
financial resilience solutions to help prevent 
homelessness in the future.

Making banking accessible
Number of no-cost accounts held for 
customers who do not qualify for a standard 
account or who might need additional 
support due to social or ﬁnancial vulnerability.

2023

2022

2021

718,306

716,957

692,655

Supporting financial knowledge 
and education 
We continue to invest in financial education 
content and features across different 
channels to help customers, colleagues 
and communities be confident users of 
financial services. 

Since 2020, we received over 6.6 million 
unique visitors to our global digital financial 
education content. We continue to help 
customers expand their financial capabilities 
through our personal financial management 
tools. In 2023, HSBC UK launched new 
capabilities on our app enabling customers 
to manage their budgets, see their spending 

insights and view financial fitness content. 
This new tab on the app has attracted over 
4.5 million unique visitors. We also added 
investment pots and goals to help motivate 
customers to save for the future.

In 2022, we launched our ‘Well+’ reward 
programme on the HSBC HK Mobile Banking 
app to help customers improve the health 
of their body, money and mind. Reward 
points are earned by completing a series 
of simple activities, such as building their 
financial knowledge. In 2023, we added new 
capabilities, such as bonus badges, and more 
than 212,000 customers have engaged with 
Well+ in Hong Kong since launch.

To help customers understand complex 
products and make informed decisions, 
HSBC Life UK launched a series of quick 
video guides to explain the key benefits, 
exclusions and underwriting process of critical 
illness cover.

To support Hong Kong customers with special 
educational needs, we launched simple 
step-by-step guides, which were shared with 
our partners, to explain how to access basic 
banking services. 

We also support programmes that help 
expand the financial knowledge of children 
and young people to ensure future resilience. 
HSBC Egypt partnered with Injaz Al-Arab, 
a member of JA Worldwide, to deliver its 
‘building a financially capable generation’ 
programme to students in seven schools 
in Cairo. In Mexico, we created a podcast, 
targeted at developing the financial 
capabilities of young people with each  
episode covering a specific theme, to  
enhance their basic financial knowledge.

We continued to build on our financial literacy 
programmes for young people in the UK, with 
the launch of the first financial capability skills 
module for the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award. 

Creating an inclusive banking experience
We aim to ensure that our banking products 
and services are designed to be accessible for 
customers experiencing either temporary or 
permanent challenging circumstances, such 
as disability, impairment or a major life event.

A simplified version of the HSBC HK Mobile 
Banking app aims to continue to enhance 
digital inclusion for all, including seniors. The 
app is the first of its kind among Hong Kong 
banks and has attracted more than 477,000 
unique users since launch.

We are committed to improving accessibility 
experiences across our digital channels and 
continuously review our browser-based 
websites in 23 markets, and our mobile 
banking services in 18 markets, against the 
WCAG 2.0 AA standards. We also share 
our digital accessibility expertise with 
partners, companies and colleagues. More 
than 10,000 people and 66 companies have 
taken advantage of our specialised training 
programmes. To further share our best 
practice externally, HSBC sponsored and 
hosted AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro event in 
our Group head office in London. Our work 
on digital accessibility was recognised with 
11 awards in 2023.

Support for customers extends beyond our 
digital channels and we recognise that not all 
disabilities are visible or immediately obvious 
to others. We have expanded our commitment 
to the Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard 
Scheme, rolling it out across the UK, Hong 
Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia. The 
lanyard indicates that an individual may need 
a little more help, support or time. HSBC UK is 
also making use of virtual reality tools, such as 
EBOX (Empathy Box), to give colleagues the 
opportunity to experience vulnerability from 
the perspective of the customer. 

In 2023, HSBC UK was awarded the 
UK Construction Industry Council’s 
Inclusive Environments Recognition at 
the Organisational Level certification. This 
recognises the strong organisation and design 
processes HSBC has put in place to support 
accessible and inclusive design.

Supporting women
HSBC UAE and HSBC Singapore have 
collaborated with digital financial education 
provider Sophia, to create a programme 
designed specifically to help female customers 
build their financial knowledge. It covers a 
range of topics, including budgeting, ways to 
invest and investment strategies. 

In Mexico, our Mujeres Al Mundo programme 
continues to support women as customers 
through products, services, education and 
networking. In 2023, we also supported 
female-owned businesses through our $1bn 
Female Entrepreneur Fund, alongside hosting 
bespoke Pitch Day events for a number of 
female entrepreneurs seeking investment.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

85

ESG reviewESG review | Social 

Engaging with our communities 

Building a more inclusive and resilient world

We have a long-standing commitment to 
support the communities in which we operate. 
We aim to empower people and communities 
to develop the skills and knowledge needed to 
thrive in the future. 

Through the global reach of our charitable 
partnerships we bring together diverse people, 
ideas and perspectives that help us open up 
opportunities and build a more inclusive world.

Building community and future skills
We work with charity partners to initiate 
programmes that help people and 
communities respond to opportunities and 
challenges as global economies transition 
towards a low-carbon future. In 2023, 
these included:

 – launching a three-year partnership with 

the British Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, 
Indonesia and Vietnam, and extending The 
Prince’s Trust programmes in Australia, 
Canada, India and Malaysia, to help young, 
marginalised people develop the skills they 
need to thrive in the green economy;

 – partnering with the Guangdong Lvya Rural 
Women Development Foundation in China 
to help equip women in remote mountain 
areas with sustainable farming skills; and

 – partnering with the Ghabbour Foundation 
in Egypt to help provide technicians with 
specialist skills training to work in the 
electric vehicle market.

We also work with our charity partners around 
the world to strengthen the resilience of 
disadvantaged communities:

 – In Hong Kong, we announced a three-year 
partnership with Food Angel to increase its 
capacity to provide meals to underprivileged 
elderly groups.

 – In the US, we expanded our workforce 
development programme with Feeding 
America to support communities to 
find meaningful employment, especially 
mothers and Black, Indigenous People of 
Colour women.

 – In the UK, we announced a three-year 

partnership with Shelter to help develop the 
homeless charity’s training, guidance, tools 
and support within local communities to 
help build financial resilience. 

 – In France, we continued our work with 

Article 1 to help young people from deprived 
communities succeed in higher education 
through mentoring programmes. 

 – We supported disaster relief agency 

response to humanitarian needs, including 
those in Israel, Libya, Morocco, the 
Palestinian territories, Türkiye, and the 
Hawaiian island of Maui. 

Community engagement 
and volunteering
We offer paid volunteering days, and 
encourage our people to offer their time, 
skills and knowledge to causes within their 
communities. In 2023, our colleagues gave 
over 181,800 hours to community activities 
during work hours.

Awards 

 – National CSR Fund 2023 UAE – 

Platinum Impact Seal

 – Charitable giving by HSBC in China 

received recognition from the China 
Philanthropy Times

Charitable giving in 2023 (%)

Social, including Future Skills: 26%
Environment, including the Climate 
Solutions Partnership: 37%
Local priorities: 24%
Disaster relief and other giving: 13%

Total cash giving towards  
charitable programmes

$107.3m

Hours volunteered during work time

>181,800

People projected to be reached through 
our Future Skills programme

1.25m

Advancing financing and digital literacy

Over the past five years, HSBC worked with three microfinance networks to advance 
financial and digital literacy of women from unbanked and underbanked communities in 
India. The programme has engaged with more than 550,000 women to build awareness 
and understanding of digital payment platforms, and enhance their ability to access banking 
services, such as savings, credit and insurance, as well as government welfare schemes. By 
the end of 2023, 56,000 women had undertaken loan repayments worth $521,000 via digital 
channels. Insights from the initiative will be shared with financial institutions and the National 
Payment Corporation of India, set up by the banking regulator to oversee retail payments and 
settlement systems in India, to increase unbanked households’ access to financial services 
and products.

86

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Governance

Governance
Acting responsibly

We remain committed to high standards of governance.  
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our  
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.

At a glance

Our relationship
We act on our responsibility to run our 
business in a way that upholds high standards 
of corporate governance. 

Customer experience is at the heart of how 
we operate. It is imperative that we treat 
our customers well, that we listen, and that 
we act to resolve complaints quickly and 
fairly. We measure customer satisfaction 
through net promoter scores across each 
of our global businesses, listen carefully to 

customer feedback so we know where we 
need to improve, and take steps to do this. Our 
customer satisfaction performance improved 
in many markets in which we operate, 
although we still have work to do to improve 
our rank position against competitors.

We are committed to working with our 
regulators to manage the safety of the 
financial system, adhering to the spirit and the 
letter of the rules and regulations governing 
our industry. 

We strive to meet our responsibilities to 
society, including through being transparent 
in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek 
to ensure we respect global standards on 
human rights in our workplace and our supply 
chains, and continually work to improve our 
compliance management capabilities.

 For further details of our corporate  
governance, see our corporate governance 
report on page 238.

In this section

Setting high 
standards of 
governance 

Human rights

Customer 
experience

How ESG is governed

We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue 
to develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and 
stakeholder expectations.

Our respect for  
human rights

We have continued to raise awareness and develop our 
understanding of our salient human rights issues.

Customer satisfaction

While we are ranked in the top three banks against our competitors in 
58% of our key markets across WPB and CMB, we still have work to 
do to improve our rank position against competitors

How we listen

We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and 
manage complaints.

Integrity, conduct 
and fairness

Safeguarding the
financial system

We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce 
its impact on our organisation, customers and communities that  
we serve.

Whistleblowing

Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our 
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.

A responsible  
approach to tax

We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which  
we operate.

Conduct: Our product 
responsibilities

Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on 
the impact we have on our customers and the geographies in which 
we operate.

Our approach with
our suppliers

We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance 
standards and we assess them to identify any financial  
stability concerns.

Safeguarding data

Data privacy

We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold and 
process, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the markets 
in which we operate.

Cybersecurity

We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, 
detect and mitigate cyber threats.

 Page 88

 Page 89

 Page 91

 Page 92

 Page 94

 Page 94

 Page 95

 Page 96

 Page 96

 Page 97

 Page 98

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

87

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Setting high standards of governance  TCFD

How ESG is governed 

The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG 
strategy, overseeing executive management 
in developing the approach, execution and 
associated reporting. Progress against our 
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board 
discussion and review of key topics such 
as updates on customer experience and 
employee sentiment. The Board is regularly 
provided with specific updates on ESG 
matters, including the financed emissions 
sector targets, human rights and employee 
well-being. Board members receive ESG-
related training as part of their induction 
and ongoing development, and seek out 
further opportunities to build their skills and 
experience in this area. For further details of 
Board members’ ESG skills and experience, 
see page 239. For further details of their 
induction and training in 2023, see page 253. 

Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG 
matters, the governance activities are 
managed through a combination of specialist 
governance infrastructure and regular 
meetings and committees, where appropriate. 
These include the Group Disclosure and 
Controls Committee and Group Audit 
Committee, which provide oversight for the 
scope and content of ESG disclosures, and 
the Group People Committee, which provides 
oversight support for the Group’s approach to 
performance management. For some areas, 
such as climate where our approach is more 
advanced, dedicated governance activities 
exist to support the wide range of activities, 
including climate risk management in the 
Environmental Risk Oversight Forum.

The Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRA-
regulated businesses are the senior managers 
responsible for climate financial risks under 
the UK Senior Managers Regime. Climate risks 
are considered in the Group Risk Management 
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, 
with scheduled updates provided, as well as 
detailed reviews of material matters, such as 
climate-related stress testing exercises.

The diagram on the right provides an 
illustration of our ESG governance process, 
including how the Board’s strategy on climate 
is cascaded and implemented throughout 
the organisation. It identifies examples of 
forums that manage both climate-related 
opportunities and risks, along with their 
responsibilities and the responsible chair. 
The structure of the process is similar for 
the escalation of problems, with issues 
either resolved in a given forum or raised 
to the appropriate level of governance with 
appropriate scope and authority.

In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance 
with the establishment of a new Sustainability 
Execution Committee, which focuses on 

defining and measuring the success of our 
climate ambition, and developing commercial 
opportunities that support it through the 
sustainability execution programme. 

We expect that our approach to ESG 
governance is likely to continue to develop, 
in line with our evolving approach to ESG 
matters and stakeholder expectations. 

How HSBC’s climate 
strategy is cascaded

Opportunities

Risks

Board level governance

Group Executive Committee

Group Audit Committee

Group Risk Committee

Management level governance

ESG Committee
Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, 
material commitments and external 
disclosure. Oversees and monitors 
progress against ESG strategy, policies, 
plans, targets, commitments and 
execution processes. Reports to the 
Board of progress on the commitments, 
deliverables and targets under the 
sustainability execution programme.

Co-Chairs: Group Chief Financial Officer, 
and Group Chief Sustainability Officer

Group Risk Management Meeting
Oversees the enterprise-wide 
management of all risks, including 
updates relating to the Group’s climate 
risk proﬁle and risk appetite, top and 
emerging climate risks, and key 
climate initiatives.

Chair: Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer

Supporting governance

Sustainability Execution Committee
Has oversight of environmental strategy, 
including commercial execution and 
operationalisation through the 
sustainability execution programme. 
This included ﬁnanced and facilitated 
emissions targets and commitments, 
implementation and execution of 
transition plans, and delivery of $750bn 
to $1tn sustainable ﬁnance and 
investment by 2030.

Chair: Group Head of Commercial 
Banking, and Group Chief 
Sustainability Officer

Environmental Risk Oversight Forum
Oversees risk activities relating to 
climate and sustainability risk 
management, including the transition 
and physical risks from climate 
change. Equivalent forums have been 
established at a regional level, where 
appropriate.

Chair: Senior adviser, ESG Risk

Regional, global business and global functions

Examples of ESG-related management governance
The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.

Digital Business Services 
Executive Committee
Oversees the global delivery 
of ESG activities within our 
own operations, services 
and technology elements of 
our strategy.

Group Reputational 
Risk Committee
Provides recommendations 
and advice on signiﬁcant 
reputational risk matters 
with impact across 
the Group.

Chair: Group Chief 
Operating Officer

Chair: Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer

Human Rights 
Steering Committee
Oversees the Group’s 
evolving approach to 
human rights and provides 
enhanced governance.

Chair: Group Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer

88

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance

Human rights

Our respect for human rights

As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we 
recognise the role of business in respecting 
human rights. Our approach is guided by 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on 
Responsible Business Conduct.

Our salient human rights issues
We continue to raise awareness and develop 
our understanding of our salient human rights 
issues. These are the human rights at risk of 
the most severe negative impact through our 
business activities and relationships.

An extensive review of our salient human 
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified 
five human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s 
business globally, and five types of activity 
through which such risks might arise. These 
are represented in the adjacent table.

In 2023, building on this assessment, we 
provided practical guidance and training, 
where relevant, to our colleagues across the 
Group on how to identify and manage human 
rights risk.

We are now focusing on translating this into 
risk management enhancements in two key 
areas of activity. These are the services we 
provide to business customers and the goods 
and services we buy from third parties. 

Managing risks to human rights
In 2023, we continued the process of adapting 
our risk management procedures to reflect 
what we learned from our work on salient 
human rights issues and related guidance.

We continued to embed and build on 
the Sustainable Procurement Mandatory 
Procedure, which sets out the minimum 
sustainability requirements for procurement 
activity. This included enhanced procedures 
for human rights risk identification through 
the introduction of a human rights residual 
risk questionnaire for suppliers as part of our 
global onboarding assessment process, and 
human rights supplier audit pilots in our Asia-
Pacific and Latin America regions to assess 
the potential need for further supplier audits in 
the future.

New approaches to identifying and managing 
human rights risk in respect of our business 
customers have also been piloted. These 
included screening for indicators of potential 
negative impacts on people, including media 
monitoring and other relevant third-party data.

Our salient human rights issues
Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.

Inherent human rights risks

Employer

Buyer

HSBC activities

Provider of products and 
services

Personal 
customers

Business 
customers

Investor1 

Right to 
decent 
work

Freedom from  
forced labour

Just and favourable 
conditions of work

Right to health and  
safety at work

Right to equality and freedom  
from discrimination

Right to privacy

Cultural and land rights

Right to dignity and justice

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

◆

1 Investor includes our activities in HSBC Asset Management.

Through our membership of international 
certification schemes such as the Forestry 
Stewardship Council, the Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator 
Principles, we support standards aimed at 
respecting human rights. 

Our sustainability risk policies are reviewed 
periodically to ensure they reflect our priorities.

 For further details, see our sustainability risk 
policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/managing-risk/
sustainability-risk.

Financial crime controls 
The risk of us causing, contributing or being 
linked to adverse human rights impacts is 
also mitigated by our financial crime risk 
framework, which includes our global policies 
and associated controls. 

 For further details of how we fight financial 
crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/ 
fighting-financial-crime.

We continued to develop our in-house 
capability on human rights with the launch 
of further online resources for all staff and 
bespoke human rights training for colleagues 
in key roles, including those managing 
relationships with suppliers, and those  
with responsibility for overseeing risk 
management processes. 

The actions we are taking to address 
these salient human rights issues are 
consistent with our values and will help us 
to meet our commitments on diversity and 
inclusion, and those we have made under 
the UN Global Compact and WEF metrics 
on risk for incidents of child, forced or 
compulsory labour.

 For further details of the actions taken to respect 
the right to decent work, see our 2023 Annual 
Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at 
www.hsbc.com/modernslaveryact.
 For further details of the actions taken to respect 
the right to equality and freedom from 
discrimination, see ’Our approach to diversity 
and inclusion’ on page 76.

Sustainability risk policies
Some of our business customers operate 
in sectors where the risk of adverse human 
rights impact is high. Our sustainability risk 
policies for agricultural commodities, energy, 
forestry, mining and metals consider human 
rights issues such as forced labour, harmful or 
exploitative child labour and land rights. They 
also consider the rights of indigenous peoples 
such as ‘free prior and informed consent’, 
workers’ rights, and the health and safety 
of communities.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

89

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Our respect for human rights continued

Driving change
We continued to participate in industry 
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, 
which is an informal group that seeks to 
promote understanding of the UNGPs within 
the sector, and the UN Global Compact 
Human Rights Working Group.

HSBC has been a member of the Mekong 
Club since 2016. We are a participant of its 
monthly financial services working group, and 
we use its informative typological toolkits, 
infographics, and other multimedia resources 
covering current and emerging issues. Our 
Compliance teams regularly collaborate and 
engage with the Mekong Club in designing 
Group-wide knowledge sharing and 
training sessions.

Investments
Since 2022, HSBC Asset Management has 
published an annual Global Stewardship 
Plan outlining its approach to engagement, 
prioritisation of investee companies, objective-
setting and escalation procedures. The plan 
also highlights its thematic priorities including 
human rights.

HSBC Asset Management recognises 
collaborative engagement as a tool to promote 
change. It participates in investor-led joint 
engagement initiatives where it believes 
these can have a positive influence. It is a 
signatory to the Principles for Responsible 
Investment Advance initiative to promote 
active stewardship on human rights and social 
issues. It has also actively contributed to other 
sector-specific initiatives, including engaging 
with technology firms on digital rights and 
responsible AI, and working with ESG data 
providers to promote higher quality human 
rights data set. 

HSBC Asset Management has also 
incorporated human rights and modern 
slavery considerations into its Global 
Voting Guidelines. This helps to identify 
non-compliance with UN Global Compact 
principles, as well as a company’s 
competency in human rights management 
and disclosures. Where a company falls below 
expectations, HSBC Asset Management may 
vote against the re-election of the board chair 
or relevant board director.

As a signatory to the Net Zero Asset 
Management Initiative, HSBC Asset 
Management is taking steps to reduce the 
carbon exposure of its portfolios and engage 
with issuers on their climate strategies. It 
also recognises the impact that the climate 
transition can have on workers, communities, 
consumers and other stakeholders, and has 
published its perspectives on a just transition.

 For the Global Stewardship Plan, see  
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/
attachments/uk/policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
 For further details of the Net Zero Asset 
Management Initiative, see www.
assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/institutional-
investor/about-us/road-to-net-zero/a-transition- 
for-everyone.

Supporting those impacted and those 
potentially at risk
We continued to expand our Survivor Bank 
programme, which has now supported over 
3,000 survivors of modern slavery and human 
trafficking in the UK, and is a model for 
making financial services more accessible to 
vulnerable communities worldwide. 

We built on this experience in developing 
access to banking services for customers 
with no fixed abode in the UK and in Hong 
Kong, providing over 5,700 accounts under 
these programmes.

 For further details of our work to support 
vulnerable communities, see page 86.

Effectiveness
The table below includes some indicative 
metrics we use to measure year-on-year 
continual improvement to our human 
rights processes. 

 For further diversity and inclusion metrics, see 
page 76 in this ESG review, as well as Section 4 
of the 2023 Annual Statement under the UK 
Modern Slavery Act, which is available at www.
hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/modern-slavery-act.

Monitoring effectiveness

Metric

Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of 
conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 
Global Procurement function 

Employees who have received training on human rights

Votes by HSBC Asset Management against management for reasons 
including human rights1 

2023

2022

95% 

93%

8,176

213

520

87

1  The figure represents the number of resolutions at investee company shareholder meetings (including 

AGMs) where votes were cast against management for reasons related to human rights.

Working for a just transition 

Just Energy Transition Partnerships are becoming increasingly popular bringing key stakeholders 
together to enable a clean, fair energy transition in emerging economies that rely heavily on coal. 
Essentially, they are multilateral financial agreements aimed at accelerating the phase-out of fossil 
fuels, in a way that addresses the social consequences of doing so. 

  For further details on HSBC’s role in Just Energy Transition Partnerships with Indonesia and Vietnam, see 
www.hsbc.com/news-and-views/views/hsbc-views/jetps-powering-a-faster-energy-transition.
  Read more on Just Energy Transition Partnerships on page 68 of this ESG Review. 

90

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Governance

Customer experience

We remain committed to improving 
customers’ experiences. In 2023, we gathered 
feedback from over one million customers 
across our three global businesses to help us 
understand our strengths and the areas we 
need to focus on. We were ranked among 
the top three banks against our competitors 
in 58% of our six key markets across WPB 
and CMB1. This was lower than in 2022 when 
we were ranked among the top three banks 
against our competitors in 66% of our key 
markets. 

Customer satisfaction

Listening to drive improvement
We have continued to embed our feedback 
system so we can better listen, learn and 
act on our customers’ feedback. We use 
the net promoter score (‘NPS’) to provide a 
consistent measure of our performance. NPS 
is measured by subtracting the percentage 
of ‘detractors’ from the percentage of 
‘promoters’. ‘Detractors’ are customers who 
provide a score of 0 to 6, and ‘promoters’ are 
customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to 
the question: ‘On a scale on 0 to 10, how likely 
is it that you would recommend HSBC to a 
friend or colleague’. 

We run studies that allow us to benchmark 
ourselves against other banks. We try to make 
it as easy as possible for customers to give us 
feedback, accelerating our use of digital real-
time surveys to capture insight. By sharing this 
and other feedback with our front-line teams, 
and allowing them to respond directly to 
customers, we are improving how we address 
issues and realise opportunities. 

In 2023, we launched the CMB Customer 
Impact Forum, a dedicated global forum 
set up to provide oversight of our business 
and corporate customers’ experiences and 
promote continuous improvement. This, 
alongside our WPB ‘Customer in the room’ 
programme launched in 2022, helps ensure 
we use feedback in all aspects of how we 
run our business and prioritise initiatives that 
matter most to our customers. 

How we fared
In WPB, our NPS increased in four of our 
six key markets, which were Hong Kong, 
Mexico, India and Singapore. Our NPS in 
the UK declined slightly, largely among our 
mass affluent customers. In Hong Kong, we 
remained first overall against our competitors, 
driven by our mass affluent customers. 
In India we ranked in first place, driven by 
increased digitalisation. We introduced digital 
self-service solutions for updating customer 
details and downloading key documents, 
and digitised our onboarding process. We 
were also a top three bank in mainland China, 
based on 2022 data (see footnote 3 in the 
adjacent table).

In our private bank, our global NPS increased 
to 42 points, compared with 25 points in 2022. 
This was largely due to increased customer 
satisfaction in Asia, with improved scores in 
Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and mainland 
China. This was driven by relationship 
manager engagement and enhancements to 
our digital services.

In CMB, we were ranked among the top three 
banks against our competitors in four of our 
six key markets. We ranked first in Hong Kong 
and as a top three bank in mainland China, 
Singapore and Mexico. In India and the UK, 
we were ranked outside the top three. Our 
NPS rank improved in the UK, driven by our 
business banking customers and our top three 
ranking among UK corporate customers. Our 
NPS declined slightly among our mid-market 
enterprise customers.

In GBM, we had one of the highest NPS 
scores in the market against our competitors, 
including the quality of our digital trade 
finance platforms and for satisfaction with our 
digital capabilities.

Number of markets in top three 
or improving rank1,2

WPB3

CMB

2023

3 out of 6

5 out of 6

1  The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong, 
Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore. 
Rank positions are provided using data gathered 
through third-party research agencies.
2  We benchmark our NPS against our key 

competitors to create a rank position in each 
market. This table is based is on the number of 
markets where we are in the top three or have 
improved rank from the previous year.

3  Our WPB NPS ranking in mainland China is based 
on 2022 results. Due to data integrity challenges, 
we are unable to produce a 2023 ranking. The next 
mainland China results will be in 2024.

Acting on feedback 

We have continued to focus on developing 
our products and services, and enhancing 
our digital capabilities to improve 
customer experience. 

In WPB, we redesigned our international 
products and services to make it quicker 
and easier to bank internationally. This 
involved the launch of six products and 
services across 10 international markets. 
International customers can open an 
international account digitally pre-departure, 
gain access to a credit card in their new 
market, and make use of cross-border 
payment solutions with 24/7 global support 
to manage their international needs.

In CMB, we introduced a new credit 
application system, the Digital Credit Portal, in 
15 markets. It uses internal and external data 
combined with automation to streamline 
credit journeys. In Hong Kong, the portal 
also integrates with a credit decision engine 
to automate credit decisions for qualifying 
customers, reducing the assessment time 
on loan approvals from days to as little 
as a few minutes. Our digital onboarding 
tool, SmartServe, has been implemented 
in 21 markets to support international 
and domestic account opening. We have 
onboarded 89% of eligible customers 
through the digital platform, with 72% of 
customers rating this experience as ‘easy’.

In GBM, we continued to execute our 
strategy and refine the client coverage 
model. In 2023, we accelerated our 
‘originate-to-distribute’ model, providing 
clients with an effective capital efficiency 
strategy. We have refinanced our in-country 
and cross-border coverage model in 
mainland China and refreshed our growth 
plans in India based on client feedback. We 
also launched growth initiatives against 
our Asia-MENAT corridor to better service 
our clients.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

91

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

How we listen

To improve how we serve our customers, we 
must be open to feedback and acknowledge 
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt 
at pace to provide support for customers 
facing new challenges, new ways of working 
and those that require enhanced care needs.

We aim to be open and consistent in how 
we track, record and manage complaints, 
although as we serve a wide range of 
customers – from personal banking and 
wealth customers to large corporates, 
institutions and governments – we tailor our 
approach in each of our global businesses. As 
the table on the right demonstrates, we have 
a consistent set of principles that enable us 
to remain customer-focused throughout the 
complaints process. 

 For further details of complaints volumes  
by geography, see our ESG Data Pack at  
www.hsbc.com/esg.

How we handle complaints

Our principles

Our actions

Making it easy 
for customers  
to complain

Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them. 
We provide a point of contact along with clear information on next 
steps and timescales. 

Acknowledging 
complaints

All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise 
empathy to acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are 
escalated if they cannot be resolved at first point of contact. 

Keeping the 
customer up  
to date

Ensuring fair 
resolution

We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout 
the complaint resolution process through their preferred channel.

We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and 
ensure the right outcome for our customers. 

Providing 
available rights

We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal 
process if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint. 

Undertaking root 
cause analysis

Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and 
address any systemic issues and to inform process improvements. 

Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’)

In 2023, we received approximately 1.2 million 
complaints from customers. The ratio of 
complaints per 1,000 customers per month 
in our large markets remained stable at 
around 2.3.

In the UK, complaints fell 19%. In 2023, we 
applied the new UK Consumer Duty rules 
to our complaint handling processes and 
invested in root cause analysis to ensure good 
outcomes and avoid instances of foreseeable 
harm. We will continue to focus on enhancing 
our processes and on training complaint 
handlers to improve the customer experience 
and reduce our complaint volumes further.

The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was 
primarily driven by improvements in our digital 
capabilities to make it easier for customers to 
connect with us. Regular reviews, analysis of 
customer feedback and greater collaboration 
across business lines to address emerging 
customer pain points also contributed to the 
fall in complaints.

In response to an increase in credit and debit 
card fraud attacks in Mexico during the first 
quarter of 2023, we focused on strengthening 
our monitoring and fraud detection capabilities 
to help protect our customers. In October, 
we also released the new Visa Account 
Attack Intelligence tool to mitigate foreign 
e-commerce attacks on customer debit cards. 
As a result of these efforts, average monthly 
complaints in Mexico for the last nine months 
of the year decreased by 20.5% compared 
with the first quarter.

In our private bank, we received 507 
complaints, an increase of 176 compared with 
2022. This was largely due to growth in our 
customer base since establishing new private 
banking operations in the UAE and Mexico, 
along with an increase in complaints in the 
US. This led to an increase in administration 
and service issues, a high proportion of 
which were attributable to delays and errors 
in processing client instructions. Overall, 
the private bank resolved 465 complaints. 
Complaint data for the new private banking 
operation in India was reported within the 
WPB figures, pending system development to 
separately report the complaint figures.

WPB complaint volumes1
(per 1,000 customers per month)

Total2

UK3

Hong Kong3

Mexico3

2023

2022

2.3

2.3

1.1

1.4

0.9

1.0

5.2

5.1

1  A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction 
about WPB’s activities, products or services 
where a response or resolution is explicitly or 
implicitly expected.

2  Markets included: Hong Kong, mainland China, 

France, the UK, UAE, Mexico, Canada and the US. 

3  The UK, Mexico and Hong Kong make up 86% of 

total complaints.

Acting on feedback 

In 2023, we continued to develop and embed tools and capabilities across our business to deliver improved experiences for our customers 
around the world. Through our measurement of customer experience, we identify opportunities for improvement, develop agile customer 
experience plans and track and measure our progress. As a result of standardising our approach to customer experience globally, we have 
strengthened our capability to listen, understand and act on what our customers are telling us on a regular basis.

92

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Governance

How we listen continued
Commercial Banking (‘CMB’)

In 2023, we received 45,899 customer and 
client complaints, a decrease of 27% from 
2022. Of the overall volumes, 33,777 came 
from HSBC UK and 7,354 from Asia-Pacific. 

The most common complaint related to 
servicing and transactions, with the largest 
volume of complaints globally coming 
from business banking customers, which 
represented 87% of our total complaints.

We attribute the overall decrease in our 
complaint volumes to enhanced training of 
our front-line colleagues to ensure they can 
identify the differences between a complaint, 
query and feedback. We also focused on 
addressing the root causes of the complaint 
trends, as well on improvements to our 
systems, processes and advice to our clients.

We resolved 47,812 complaints globally 
in 2023. The average resolution time for 
complaints was 24 days, which was just above 
our global target of 20 days.

CMB complaint volumes1
(000s)

Total

UK

2023

2022

46

63

33.8

49.2

Hong Kong

6.5

8.1

Acting on feedback 

In 2023, we focused on improvements to our governance of complaints, creating regular forums in key markets to ensure that analysis of the 
root cause of issues and trends are prioritised to enhance our understanding of pain points for our customers. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, 
there has been increased efforts Group-wide to identify customers who are more exposed to harm or declare as vulnerable. In 2023, we 
focused on identifying these complaint types to ensure that we can offer adjustments and support within our processes. This new process helps 
to improve our understanding and support of clients at risk of financial or non-financial harm to ensure our banking services are accessible to all.

Global Banking and Markets (‘GBM’)

In 2023, we received 1,552 customer 
complaints in Global Banking, a decrease 
of 27% from 2022. Of the overall complaint 
volumes, 49% came from Europe and 23% 
came from the Middle East, North Africa and 
Türkiye. The most common complaint, at 38% 
of total complaints, related to servicing, which 
was in line with previous years.

In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’) 
complaints increased by 21% to 354. 
We attribute some of the increase to 
improvements in our data reporting processes 
globally. The majority of complaints were 
operational in nature and resolved in a timely 
manner. Of the overall MSS complaints, 47% 
came from Europe and 34% from Asia, our 
two largest markets. 

GBM complaint volumes1

Total

2023

2022

1,906 2,419

Global Banking2

1,552 2,127

Global Markets and 
Securities Services3

354

292

Acting on feedback 

We have continued to invest in our client feedback tool to create a more consistent and streamlined experience for colleagues across GBM 
and our wholesale businesses globally. In 2023, we introduced additional automation to improve the process of logging complaints, and 
simplified our procedures to make it easier for front-line colleagues to record feedback. We have also introduced mandatory training around 
conduct and complaints to ensure our people are acting on the feedback they receive and are consistent in how they evaluate queries 
and complaints. 

1  Globally, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service or 

service activity. Within the UK, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction – whether justified or not – about our products, services or activities which suggests 
we have caused (or might cause) financial loss, or material distress or material inconvenience.

2  Global Banking also includes Global Payments Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity and Cash Management) and complaints relating to payment 

operations, which is part of Digital Business Services.

3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

93

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Integrity, conduct and fairness

Safeguarding the financial system

We have continued our efforts to combat 
financial crime and reduce its impact on our 
organisation, customers and the communities 
that we serve. Financial crime includes 
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, 
sanctions and export control violations, 
money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing. 

We manage financial crime risk because it is 
the right thing to do to protect our customers, 
shareholders, staff, the communities in which 
we operate, as well as the integrity of the 
financial system on which we all rely. We have 
a financial crime risk management framework 
that is applicable across all global businesses 
and functions, and in all countries and 
territories in which we operate. The financial 
crime risk framework, which is overseen by 
the Board, is supported by our financial crime 
policy that is designed to enable adherence 
to applicable laws and regulations globally. 
Annual global mandatory training is provided 
to all colleagues, with additional targeted 
training tailored to certain individuals. 
We carry out regular risk assessments 
to identify where we need to respond to 
evolving financial crime threats, as well as 
to monitor and test our financial crime risk 
management programme.

We continue to invest in new technology, 
including through the deployment of a 
capability to monitor correspondent banking 
activity. We are also enhancing our fraud 

Whistleblowing

We want colleagues and stakeholders to 
have confidence in speaking up when they 
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We 
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to 
the concerns of individuals and have a zero 
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. 

Listening through  
whistleblowing channels
Our global whistleblowing channel, 
HSBC Confidential, is one of our speak-up 
channels, which allows colleagues and other 
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially 
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to 
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC 
Confidential concerns are raised through an 
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines 
and a web portal in multiple languages. We 
also provide and monitor an external email 
address for concerns about accounting, 
internal financial controls or auditing matters 
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). 
Concerns are investigated proportionately 
and independently, with action taken where 
appropriate. This can include disciplinary 
action, such as dismissal and adjustments 

monitoring capability and our trade screening 
controls, and investing in the application of 
machine learning to improve the accuracy and 
timeliness of our detection capabilities. 

These new technologies should enhance our 
ability to respond effectively to unusual activity 
and be more granular in our risk assessments. 
This helps us to protect our customers, the 
organisation and the integrity of the global 
financial system against financial crime.

Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
Our global financial crime policy requires 
that all activity must be: conducted without 
intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and 
transparent; considered to not be lavish 
nor disproportionate to the professional 
relationship; appropriately documented 
with business rationale; and authorised at 
an appropriate level of seniority. There were 
no concluded legal cases regarding bribery 
or corruption brought against HSBC or its 
employees in 2023. Our global financial crime 
policy requires that we identify and mitigate 
the risk of our customers and third parties 
committing bribery or corruption. Among 
other controls, we use customer due diligence 
and transaction monitoring to identify and 
help mitigate the risk that our customers are 
involved in bribery or corruption. We perform 
anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments 
on third parties that expose us to this risk.

The scale of our work

Each month, on average, we monitor 
over 1.35 billion transactions for signs 
of financial crime. In 2023, we filed over 
96,000 suspicious activity reports to law 
enforcement and regulatory authorities 
where we identified potential financial 
crime. We perform daily screening 
of 125 million customer records for 
sanctions exposure. In 2022, we 
reported screened customer records as 
a monthly average, although screening 
was, and continues to be, performed on 
a daily basis.

98% 

Total percentage of permanent and non-
permanent employees who received financial 
crime training, including on anti-bribery and 
corruption.

to variable pay and performance ratings, or 
operational actions including changes to 
policies and procedures.

We actively promote our full range of speak-
up channels to colleagues to help ensure 
their concerns are handled through the most 
effective route. In 2023, 4% fewer concerns 
were raised through HSBC Confidential 
compared with 2022. Of the concerns 
investigated through the HSBC Confidential 
channel in 2023, 81% related to individual 
behaviour and personal conduct, 14% to 
security and fraud risks, 4% to compliance 
risks and less than 1% to other categories.

The Group Audit Committee has oversight of 
the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, 
and the Chair of the Group Audit Committee 
acts as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion 
with responsibility for ensuring and overseeing 
the integrity, independence and effectiveness 
of the Group’s policies and procedures. 

Regulatory Compliance sets the 
whistleblowing policy and procedures, and 

provides the Group Audit Committee with 
periodic updates on their effectiveness. 
Specialist teams and investigation functions 
own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring 
in place to determine control effectiveness. 

 For further details of the role of the Group Audit 
Committee in relation to whistleblowing, see 
page 270.

HSBC Confidential concerns raised  
in 2023: 

1,746

(2022: 1,817)

Substantiation rate of concerns 
investigated through HSBC  
Confidential in 2023:

41%

(2022: 41%)

94

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Governance

A responsible approach to tax 

 – We seek to ensure that our entities 

 – We implement processes that aim to 

active in nil or low tax jurisdictions have 
clear business rationale for why they are 
based in these locations and appropriate 
transparency over their activities.

 – We seek to have open and transparent 

relationships with all tax authorities. Given 
the size and complexity of our organisation, 
which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, 
a number of areas of differing interpretation 
or disputes with tax authorities exist at 
any point in time. We cooperate with the 
relevant local tax authorities to mutually 
agree and resolve these in a timely manner.

With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are 
guided by the following principles:

 – We have made considerable investments 

to support external tax transparency 
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking 
services being used to facilitate customer 
tax evasion. Initiatives include the US 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the 
OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of 
Financial Account Information (‘Common 
Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation 
on the corporate criminal offence of failing 
to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.

ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated 
products and services are not provided to 
our customers.

Our tax contributions
The effective tax rate for the year of 19.1% 
was higher than in the previous year (2022: 
4.7%). The effective tax rate for the year was 
increased by 2.3% from the non-taxable 
impairment of the Group’s interest in BoCom, 
and reduced by 1.6% by the release of 
provisions for uncertain tax positions and by 
1.5% by the non-taxable provisional gain on 
the acquisition of SVB UK. Further details are 
provided on page 369. 

The UK bank levy charge for 2023 of $339m 
was higher than the charge of $13m in 2022, 
mainly due to adjustments arising upon filing 
prior year returns, which represented a credit 
in 2022 and a charge in 2023.

As highlighted below, in addition to paying 
$6.8bn of our own tax liabilities during 2023, 
we collected taxes of $10.8bn on behalf 
of governments around the world. A more 
detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes 
paid in 2023 is provided in the ESG Data Pack. 

We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all 
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to 
minimise the likelihood of customers using 
our products and services to evade or 
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide 
by international protocols that affect our 
organisation. Our approach to tax and 
governance processes is designed to achieve 
these goals. 

Through adoption of the Group’s risk 
management framework, we seek to ensure 
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax-
motivated transactions or products, and that 
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by 
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no 
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. 

With respect to our own taxes, we are guided 
by the following principles:

 – We are committed to applying both the 
letter and spirit of the law. This includes 
adherence to a variety of measures arising 
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit 
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ 
global minimum tax rules which will apply 
to the Group from 2024. These rules seek 
to ensure that the Group pays tax at a 
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction 
in which it operates. We have identified 12 
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax 
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually 
monitor the number of active subsidiaries 
within each jurisdiction as part of our 
ongoing entity rationalisation programme. 

Taxes paid – by type of tax

Taxes paid – by region

Taxes collected – by region

Tax on proﬁts $3,685m (2022: $2,429m)
Withholding taxes $432m (2022: $361m)
Employer taxes $1,052m (2022: $1,041m)
Bank levy $57m (2022: $314m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,298m (2022: $1,152m)
Other duties and levies $249m1 (2022: $232m)

Europe $2,945m (2022: $2,745m)
Asia-Paciﬁc $2,488m (2022: $1,894m)
Middle East, North Africa 
and Türkiye $296m (2022: $259m)
North America $389m (2022: $207m)
Latin America $655m (2022: $424m)

Europe $4,714m (2022: $4,197m)
Asia-Paciﬁc $3,226m (2022: $3,274m)
Middle East, North Africa 
and Türkiye $77m (2022: $67m)
North America $1,119m (2022: $1,129m)
Latin America $1,680m (2022: $1,493m)

1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $91m (2022: $94m)

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

95

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Conduct: Our product responsibilities

Our conduct approach guides us to do the 
right thing and to focus on the impact we have 
for our customers and the financial markets 
in which we operate. It is embedded into the 
way we design, approve, market and manage 
products and services, with a focus on five 
clear outcomes:

 – We understand our customers’ needs.

 – We provide products and services that offer 

a fair exchange of value.

 – We service customers’ ongoing needs and 

put it right if we make a mistake.

 – We act with integrity in the financial markets 

we operate in.

 – We operate resiliently and securely to avoid 

harm to customers and markets.

We train all our colleagues on our approach 
to customer and market conduct, helping 
to ensure our conduct outcomes are part of 
everything we do.

Designing products and services 
Our approach to product development is set 
out in our policies and provides a clear basis 
on which informed decisions can be made. 
Our policies require that products must be 
fit-for-purpose throughout their existence, 
meeting regulatory requirements and 
associated conduct outcomes. 

Our approach includes:

 – designing products to meet identified 

customer needs;

 – managing products through governance 
processes, helping to ensure they meet 
customers’ needs and deliver a fair 
exchange of value;

 – periodically reviewing products to help 

ensure they remain relevant and perform in 
line with expectations we have set; and

 – improving, or withdrawing from sale, 

products which do not meet our customers’ 
needs or no longer meet our high standards.

Meeting our customers’ needs 
Our policies and procedures set standards to 
ensure that we consider and meet customer 
needs. These include: 

 – enabling customers to understand the key 

features of products and services;

 – enabling customers to make informed 

decisions before purchasing a product or 
service; and

 – ensuring processes are in place for the 

provision of advice to customers. 

They help us provide the right outcomes for 
customers, including those with enhanced 
care needs. This helps us to support 
customers who are more vulnerable to 
external impacts, including the current cost of 
living crisis (see ‘Supporting our customers in 
challenging economic times’ on page 15).

Our approach with our suppliers

We maintain global standards and procedures 
for the onboarding and use of third-party 
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our 
third-party risk compliance standards and 
we assess them to identify any financial 
stability concerns. 

Sustainable procurement 
Supporting and engaging with our supply 
chain is vital to the development of our 
sustainable procurement processes. In 2023: 

 – We published net zero guides to help 
buyers and suppliers understand our 
net zero ambitions. The guides explain 
our carbon reduction requirements and 
provide practical advice for meeting these 
ambitions, as laid out in our supplier code  
of conduct.

 – We began developing decarbonisation 
plans for high-emitting procurement 
categories, including real estate services, 
telecommunications, data centres 

and servers, and computer hardware. 
Engagement with suppliers has given 
us a better understanding of their 
decarbonisation efforts and the challenges 
and opportunities of achieving net zero in 
these categories. As a result, strategies for 
these procurement categories will include 
decarbonisation plans from 2024 onwards.

 – We completed analysis to understand the 
impacts and dependencies of our supply 
chain on biodiversity. The analysis will 
inform the development of a biodiversity 
strategy for global procurement in 2024, to 
reduce supply chain biodiversity impacts. 

 – We launched the supplier diversity portal in 

the UK and US. The portal enables small and 
medium-sized enterprises or businesses, 
which are majority-owned, operated and 
controlled by historically underrepresented 
groups, to register interest in becoming 
an HSBC supplier. For further details, see 
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/working-with-suppliers. 

96

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial promotion
Our policies help to ensure that in the sale 
of products and services, we use marketing 
and product materials that support customer 
understanding and fair customer outcomes. 
This includes providing information on 
products and services that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. We also have controls in place to 
ensure our cross-border marketing complies 
with relevant regulatory requirements.

Product governance 
Our product management policy covers 
the entire lifecycle of the product. This 
helps ensure that our products meet our 
requirements before we sell them and 
allows continued risk-based oversight 
of product performance against the 
intended customer outcomes.

When we decide to withdraw a product 
from sale, we aim to consider the 
implications for our existing customers 
and agree actions to help them achieve a 
fair outcome where appropriate.

Supplier code of conduct 
Our supplier code of conduct sets out our 
ambitions, targets and commitments on the 
environment, diversity and human rights, 
and outlines the minimum standards we 
expect of our suppliers on these issues. We 
seek to formalise adherence to the code 
with clauses in our supplier contracts, which 
support the right to audit and act if a breach 
is discovered. At the end of 2023, 95% of 
approximately 10,400 contracted suppliers 
had either confirmed adherence to the 
supplier code of conduct or provided their own 
alternative that was accepted by our Global 
Procurement function. 

 For further details of the number of suppliers in 
each geographical region, see the ESG Data 
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.

Governance

Safeguarding data

Data privacy

We are committed to protecting and 
respecting the data we hold and process, in 
accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the markets in which we operate.

Our approach rests on having the right talent, 
technology, systems, controls, policies and 
processes to ensure appropriate management 
of privacy risk. Our Group-wide privacy policy 
and principles provide a consistent global 
approach to managing data privacy risk, and 
must be applied by all our global businesses 
and functions. Our privacy principles are 
available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/managing-risk/
operational-risk.

We conduct regular employee training 
and awareness sessions on data privacy 
and security issues throughout the year. 
This includes mandatory training for all our 
colleagues globally, with additional training 
sessions, where needed, to keep up to date 
with new developments in this space.

We provide transparency to our customers 
and stakeholders on how we collect, use 
and manage their personal data, and their 
associated rights. Where relevant, we work 
with third parties to help ensure adequate 
protections are provided, in line with our 
data privacy policy and as required under 
data privacy law. We offer a broad range of 
channels in the markets where we operate, 
through which customers and stakeholders 
can raise concerns about the privacy of 
their data.

Our dedicated privacy teams report to the 
highest level of management on data privacy 
risks and issues, and oversee our global data 
privacy programmes. We review data privacy 
regularly at multiple governance forums, 
including at Board level, to help ensure 
appropriate challenge and visibility for senior 
executives. Data privacy laws and regulations 
continue to evolve globally. We continually 
monitor the regulatory environment to ensure 
we respond appropriately to any changes. 

As part of our three lines of defence model, 
our Global Internal Audit function provides 
independent assurance as to whether our 
data privacy risk management approaches 
and processes are designed and operating 
effectively. In addition, we have established 
data privacy governance structures, and 
continue to embed accountability across all 
businesses and functions.

We continue to implement industry 
practices for data privacy and security. Our 
privacy teams work closely with our data 
protection officers, industry bodies and 
research institutions to drive the design, 
implementation and monitoring of privacy 
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and 
privacy risk assessments, and continue to 
develop solutions to strengthen our data 
privacy controls.

We continue to enhance our internal data 
privacy tools to improve accountability for 
data privacy. We have procedures to articulate 
the actions needed to deal with data privacy 
considerations. These include notifying 
regulators, customers or other data subjects, 
as required under applicable privacy laws 
and regulations, in the event of a reportable 
incident occurring.

Intellectual property rights practices
We have a group intellectual property risk 
policy, supported by controls and guidance, to 
manage risk relating to intellectual property. 
This is to help ensure that commercially and 
strategically valuable intellectual property 
is identified and protected appropriately, 
including by applying to register trademarks 
and patents and enforcing our intellectual 
property rights against unauthorised use 
by third parties. Our intellectual property 
framework also helps us avoid infringement 
of third-party intellectual property rights, 
supporting our consistent and effective 
management of intellectual property risk in 
line with our risk appetite.

Data Privacy Day 

In January 2023, we held a hybrid 
roundtable event for our colleagues to 
mark International Data Privacy Day. 
The event was hosted by our Global 
Head of Data Legal, and guest speakers 
included the former UK Information 
Commissioner and industry specialists 
from an external law firm, with HSBC’s 
own data privacy experts in attendance. 

The event covered privacy-related 
developments likely to have the greatest 
impact across the Group. Key themes 
included upcoming data privacy 
reforms in the UK and the implications 
for global organisations, and trends 
in enforcement of data privacy laws 
and regulations. We also reviewed the 
impact, successes and challenges of 
General Data Protection Regulation 
(‘GDPR’) implementation globally.

The ethical use of data and AI 

Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process and 
analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies offer 
significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for the 
financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help ensure 
we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical 
Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/our-conduct. 

We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into 
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

97

ESG reviewESG review | Governance 

Cybersecurity

The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern 
for our organisation, as it does across the 
financial sector and other industries. As 
cyber-attacks continue to evolve, failure to 
protect our operations may result in the loss 
of sensitive data, disruption for our customers 
and our business, or financial loss. This could 
have a negative impact on our customers and 
our reputation, among other risks. 

We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical 
events and changes to the cyber threat 
landscape and take proactive measures  
with the aim to reduce any impact to  
our customers. 

Prevent, detect and mitigate
We invest in business and technical controls 
to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber 
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow 
a ’defence in depth’ approach, making use 
of multiple security layers, recognising the 
complexity of our environment. Our ability 
to detect and respond to attacks through 
round-the-clock security operations centre 
capabilities is intended to help reduce the 
impact of attacks. 

We have a cyber intelligence and threat 
analysis team, which proactively collects 
and analyses internal and external cyber 
information to continuously evaluate threat 
levels for the most prevalent attack types 
and their potential outcomes. We actively 
participate in the broader cyber intelligence 
community, including by sharing technical 
expertise in investigations, alongside others in 
the financial services industry and government 
agencies around the world. 

In 2023, we further strengthened our cyber 
defences and enhanced our cybersecurity 
capabilities with the objective to help reduce 
the likelihood and impact of unauthorised 
access, security vulnerabilities being exploited, 
data leakage, third-party security exposure, 
and advanced malware. These defences build 
upon a proactive data analytical approach to 
help identify advanced targeted threats and 
malicious behaviour.

We work with our third parties, including 
suppliers, financial infrastructure bodies and 
other non-traditional third parties, in an effort 
to help reduce the threat of cyber-attacks 
impacting our business services. 

We have a third-party security risk 
management process in place to assess, 
identify and manage the risks associated with 
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other 
third-party relationships. The process includes 
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews 
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity 
programmes against our standards 
and requirements.

Policy and governance
We have a robust suite of cybersecurity 
policies, procedures and key controls 
designed to help ensure that the organisation 
is well managed, with effective oversight and 
control. This includes but is not limited to 
defined information security responsibilities 
for employees, contractors and third parties, 
as well as standard procedures for cyber 
incident identification, investigation, mitigation 
and reporting.

We operate a three lines of defence model, 
aligned to the enterprise risk management 
framework, to help ensure oversight and 
challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities 
and priorities. In the first line of defence, we 
have risk owners within global businesses and 
functions who are accountable for identifying 
and managing cyber risk. They work with 
cybersecurity control owners to apply the 
appropriate risk treatment in line with our 
risk appetite. Our controls are designed to 
be executed in line with our policies and are 
reviewed and challenged by our risk stewards 
representing the second line of defence. 
They are independently assured by the 
Global Internal Audit function, the third line of 
defence. The assessment and management of 
our cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated 
by a Global Chief Information Security Officer, 
who has extensive experience in financial 
services, security and resilience, as well as 
in strategy, governance, risk management 
and regulatory compliance. The Global Chief 
Information Security Officer is supported by 
regional and business level chief information 
security officers. In the event of incidents, the 
Global Chief Information Security Officer and 
relevant supporting officers are informed by 
our security operations team and are engaged 
in alignment with our cybersecurity incident 
response protocols. 

Key performance indicators, control 
effectiveness and other matters related to 
cybersecurity, including significant cyber 
incidents, are presented on a regular basis 
to various management risk and control 
committees including to the Board, the Group 
Risk Management Meeting and across global 
businesses, functions and regions. This is 
done to ensure ongoing awareness and 
management of our cybersecurity position.

Our cybersecurity capabilities are regularly 
assessed against the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology framework by 
independent third parties, and we proactively 
collaborate with regulators to participate in 
regular testing activities. HSBC also engages 
external independent third parties to support 
our penetration and threat-led penetration 
testing, which help to identify vulnerabilities to 
cyber threats and test security resilience. 

98

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Cyber training and awareness
We understand the important role our people 
play in protecting against cybersecurity 
threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague 
with the appropriate tools and behaviours they 
need to keep our organisation and customers’ 
data safe. We provide cybersecurity training 
and awareness to our people, ranging from 
our top executives to IT developers to front-line 
relationship managers around the world.

Over 94% of our IT developers hold at least 
one of our enhanced security certifications  
to help ensure we build secure systems  
and products.

We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month 
for all colleagues, covering topics such as 
online safety at home, social media safety, 
safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and 
response. Our dedicated cybersecurity training 
and awareness team provides a wide range 
of education and guidance to both customers 
and our colleagues about how to identify and 
prevent online fraud.

Over 99%

Employees completed mandatory 
cybersecurity training on time. 

Over 94%

IT developers hold at least one of our internal 
secure developer certifications. 

Over 90

Cybersecurity education events were 
held globally. 

Over 96%

Of survey respondents to cybersecurity 
education events said they have a better 
understanding of cybersecurity following 
these events.

Financial  
review

The financial review gives detailed reporting 
of our financial performance at Group level 
as well as across our different global 
businesses and legal entities.

100   Financial summary

111 

 Global businesses and legal entities

130 

 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures

Moving to a dynamic new London HQ

Our global headquarters is to relocate to the heart of the City  
of London, after we signed contracts to move to the new 
Panorama St Paul’s development.

When selecting our future location, we wanted a head office 
that provides flexible, dynamic and inclusive workspaces for 
colleagues and clients. We also wanted the choice of building  
to contribute to our net zero commitments through sustainable 
design, with the building constructed to high sustainability 
standards, using predominantly repurposed materials.

With our lease at our existing Canary Wharf office expiring in 
early 2027, we expect colleagues to start moving to Panorama 
St Paul’s from late 2026.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

99

Financial summary

Financial summary
Contents

100

100

101

101

102

103

106

107

Changes to presentation from 1 January 2023

Use of alternative performance measures

Critical estimates and judgements

Impact of hyperinflationary accounting

Consolidated income statement 

Income statement commentary 

Supplementary table for planned disposals

Consolidated balance sheet 

Changes to presentation from 
1 January 2023
Changes to our reporting framework

On 1 January 2023, we updated our financial reporting framework. 
We no longer report ‘adjusted’ results, which excluded the impact of 
both foreign currency translation differences and significant items. 
Instead, we compute constant currency performance by adjusting 
comparative reported results only for the effects of foreign currency 
translation differences between the relevant periods. This will enable 
users to understand the impact of foreign currency translation 
differences on the Group’s performance. We separately disclose 
‘notable items‘, which are components of our income statement that 
management would consider as outside the normal course of 
business and generally non-recurring in nature. While our primary 
segmental reporting by global business remains unchanged, effective 
from 1 January 2023, the Group changed the supplementary 
presentation of results from geographical regions to main legal 
entities to better reflect the Group’s structure.
IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’

On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. As 
required by the standard, the Group applied the requirements 
retrospectively with comparative data previously published under 
IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022 
transition date. As required by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements’ a third statement of financial position as at the transition 
date of 1 January 2022 has been disclosed (for further details, see 
page 331). Under IFRS 17 there is no present value of in-force 
business (‘PVIF’) asset recognised up front. Instead the measurement 
of the insurance contract liability takes into account fulfilment cash 
flows and a contractual service margin (‘CSM’) representing the 
unearned profit. In contrast to the Group’s previous IFRS 4 accounting 
where profits are recognised up front, under IFRS 17 they are 
deferred and systematically recognised in revenue as services are 
provided over the expected coverage period. The CSM also includes 
directly attributable costs, which had previously been expensed as 
incurred and which are now incorporated within the insurance liability 
measurement and recognised over the expected coverage period. 

In conjunction with the implementation of IFRS 17, the Group has 
made use of the option to re-designate to fair value through profit or 
loss assets that were previously held at amortised cost totalling 
$55.1bn, and eligible assets previously held at fair value through other 
comprehensive income totalling $1.1bn. The re-designation of 
amortised cost assets generated a net increase to assets of $4.9bn 
because the fair value measurement on transition was higher than the 
previous amortised cost carrying amount. 

The impact of the transition was a reduction of $1.1bn on the Group’s 
full-year 2022 reported revenue and a reduction of $0.5bn on full-year 
2022 reported profit before tax. The Group’s total equity at 1 January 
2022 reduced by $10.5bn to $196.3bn on the transition, and tangible 
equity reduced by $2.4bn to $146.9bn. For further details of our 
adoption of IFRS 17, see Note 38 ‘Effects of adoption of IFRS 17’ on 
page 422.

100

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Cost target

At our full-year 2022 results, we set a target for our ‘adjusted‘ 
operating expenses of growth for 2023 compared with 2022. Under 
our new reporting framework we no longer present ‘adjusted‘ results. 
The exception to this is for operating expenses, where our ‘target 
basis’ will adjust reported results for notable items and the period-on-
period effects of foreign currency translation differences. We also 
exclude the impact of retranslating comparative period financial 
information at the latest rates of foreign exchange in hyperinflationary 
economies, which is not within our control. We consider that this 
measure provides useful information to investors by quantifying and 
excluding the items that management considered when setting and 
assessing cost-related targets. In our target basis, we also exclude 
the costs related to the acquisition of SVB UK and related 
investments internationally, which are expected to add approximately 
1% to our cost growth compared with 2022.

Our 2022 baseline for operating expenses on this basis is $29.8bn, 
which has been retranslated at the average rates of foreign exchange 
for 2023.
Resegmentation

In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess 
which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’ 
respective needs, a portfolio of our Global Banking customers within 
our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for 
reporting purposes. Comparative data have been re-presented 
accordingly. Similar smaller transfers from GBM to CMB were also 
undertaken within our entities in Australia and Indonesia, where 
comparative data have not been re-presented.

Banking NII

At our interim 2023 results, we introduced banking net interest 
income. This alternative performance measure is reconciled on 
page 104, and deducts from Group reported net interest income: the 
impact of the cost of funding reported in net interest income used to 
fund trading and fair value net assets; the impact of foreign exchange 
swaps in Markets Treasury, where an offsetting income or loss is 
recorded in trading and fair value income, and third-party net interest 
income from our insurance business. 

This resulting measure is intended to approximate the Group’s 
banking revenue that is directly impacted by changes in interest rates.
Use of alternative performance 
measures
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting Standards’), 
as detailed in the financial statements starting on page 329.

To measure our performance, we supplement our IFRS Accounting 
Standards figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards measures, 
which constitute alternative performance measures under European 
Securities and Markets Authority guidance and non-GAAP financial 
measures defined in and presented in accordance with US Securities 
and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These measures 
include those derived from our reported results that eliminate factors 
that distort year-on-year comparisons. The ‘constant currency 
performance’ measure used throughout this report is described 
below. Definitions and calculations of other alternative performance 
measures are included in our ‘Reconciliation of alternative 
performance measures’ on page 130. In addition, insurance-specific 
non-GAAP measures including ‘Insurance manufacturing value of new 
business‘, ‘Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value‘, and 
‘Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax‘ are provided on pages 116 to 
117, together with their definitions and reconciliation to GAAP 
measures. All alternative performance measures are reconciled to the 
closest reported performance measure.

 
The global business segmental results are presented on a constant 
currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as 
detailed in Note 10 ‘Segmental analysis’ on page 372.
Constant currency performance

Constant currency performance is computed by adjusting reported 
results for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, 
which distort year-on-year comparisons.

We consider constant currency performance to provide useful 
information for investors by aligning internal and external reporting, 
and reflecting how management assesses year-on-year performance.
Notable items

We separately disclose ‘notable items’, which are components of our 
income statement that management would consider as outside the 
normal course of business and generally non-recurring in nature. 

The tables on pages 112 to 113 and pages 123 to 128 detail the 
effects of notable items on each of our global business segments, 
legal entities and selected countries/territories in 2023, 2022 and 
2021.
Foreign currency translation differences

Foreign currency translation differences reflect the movements of the 
US dollar against most major currencies during 2023. 

We exclude them to derive constant currency data, allowing us to 
assess balance sheet and income statement performance on a like-
for-like basis and to better understand the underlying trends in the 
business.

Foreign currency translation differences for 2023 are computed by 
retranslating into US dollars for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates:

– the income statements for 2022 and 2021 at the average rates of 

exchange for 2023; and

– the balance sheets at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 

at the prevailing rates of exchange on 31 December 2023.

No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to 
translate foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities into the 
functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint 
ventures or associates. The constant currency data of HSBC’s 
Argentina subsidiaries have not been adjusted further for the impacts 
of hyperinflation. Since 1 June 2022, Türkiye has been deemed a 
hyperinflationary economy for accounting purposes. HSBC has an 
operating entity in Türkiye and the constant currency data have not 
been adjusted further for the impacts of hyperinflation.

When reference is made to foreign currency translation differences in 
tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional 
currencies of HSBC’s operations have been translated at the 
appropriate exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis 
described above.
Critical estimates and judgements
The results of HSBC reflect the choice of accounting policies, 
assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements. The material accounting policies, 
including the policies which include critical estimates and judgements, 
are described in Note 1.2 on the financial statements. The accounting 
policies listed below are highlighted as they involve a high degree of 
uncertainty and have a material impact on the financial statements:

– Impairment of amortised cost financial assets and financial assets 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(‘FVOCI’): The most significant judgements relate to defining what 
is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk, determining 
the lifetime and point of initial recognition of revolving facilities, 
selecting and calibrating the probability of default (‘PD’), the loss 
given default (‘LGD’) and the exposure at default (‘EAD’) models, 
as well as selecting model inputs and economic forecasts, making 
assumptions and estimates to incorporate relevant information 
about late-breaking and past events, current conditions and 
forecasts of economic conditions, and selecting applicable 

recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired loans. A 
high degree of uncertainty is involved in making estimations using 
assumptions that are highly subjective and very sensitive to the 
risk factors. See Note 1.2(i) on page 348.

– Deferred tax assets: The most significant judgements relate to 
those made in respect of recoverability, which are based on 
expected future profitability. See Note 1.2(l) on page 353.

– Valuation of financial instruments: In determining the fair value of 
financial instruments a variety of valuation techniques are used, 
some of which feature significant unobservable inputs and are 
subject to substantial uncertainty. See Note 1.2(c) on page 345.

– Impairment of investment in subsidiaries: Impairment testing, 

including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant 
judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular 
estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from 
continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of 
management assumptions. See Note 1.2(a) on page 343.

– Impairment of interests in associates: Impairment testing, 

including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant 
judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular 
estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from 
continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of 
management assumptions. The most significant judgements relate 
to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). See Note 1.2(a) on 
page 343.

– Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets: A high degree of 
uncertainty is involved in estimating the future cash flows of the 
cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) and the rates used to discount 
these cash flows. See Note 1.2(a) on page 343 and Note 1.2(n) on 
page 353.

– Provisions: Significant judgement may be required due to the high 
degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a 
present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and 
amount of any outflows that may arise. See Note 1.2(m) on 
page 353.

– Post-employment benefit plans: The calculation of the defined 
benefit pension obligation involves the determination of key 
assumptions including discount rate, inflation rate, pension 
payments and deferred pensions, pay and mortality. See 
Note 1.2(k) on page 352.

– Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale: 

Management judgement is required in determining the likelihood 
of the sale to occur, and the anticipated timing in assessing 
whether the held for sale criteria have been met. See Note 1.2(o) 
on page 354. 

Given the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity 
involved in the recognition or measurement of the items above, it is 
possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from 
the expectations on which management’s estimates are based, 
resulting in the recognition and measurement of materially different 
amounts from those estimated by management in these financial 
statements.
Impact of hyperinflationary 
accounting
We continue to treat Argentina and Türkiye as hyperinflationary 
economies for accounting purposes. The impact of applying IAS 29 
‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’ and the 
hyperinflation provisions of IAS 21 ’The Effects of Changes in Foreign 
Exchange Rates’ in the current period for our operations in both 
Argentina and Türkiye was a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax 
of $1,297m (2022: $548m), comprising a decrease in revenue, 
including loss on net monetary position, of $1,586m (2022: $541m) 
and a decrease in ECL and operating expenses of $289m 
(2022: increase of $7m). The CPI at 31 December for Argentina was 
3,576, with an increase in the year of 2,429.13 (2022: 563.92 
increase). The CPI for Türkiye was 1,859 with an increase in the year 
of 730.89 (2022: 359.94 increase). 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

101

Financial reviewPrincipal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)

Risk areas

Key issues
HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses 
resulting from the failure of a counterparty to 
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. 

Wholesale/
retail credit risk

Financial 
reporting risk

HSBC is exposed to risks where controls 
supporting the reporting of its financial 
statements are not effective, resulting in material 
error or misstatement.

Resilience risks could lead to a situation where 
we may be unable to provide our customers with 
critical business services due to significant 
disruption.  
Technology risks could cause unmanaged 
disruption to any IT system within HSBC, as a 
result of malicious acts, accidental actions or 
poor IT practice, or IT system failure.

Resilience risk 
(and 
operational 
risk)

There is a risk that HSBC’s products and services 
could be exploited for criminal activity, including 
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, 
sanctions and export control violations, money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing.  

Financial crime 
risk

Conclusions and actions
The GRC reviewed updates on the strategy and approach to managing credit risk 
and credit risk capabilities. The GRC received regular updates on the Group’s 
expected credit losses and provisions, and the credit risk arising from the 
wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. Throughout the year, the GRC focused 
on oversight of management’s enhancement objectives for wholesale credit risk 
management, in particular to improve the Group’s approach to country and 
industry concentration risks. 
The GRC continued its emphasis on building even stronger credit capabilities for 
specialty sectors, the development of stronger portfolio management capabilities 
and further improving the Group’s credit risk culture. A key focus area continued to 
be offering support to our retail customers experiencing financial difficulty, by 
maintaining appropriate tools and treatments and ensuring that conduct and good 
customer outcomes was a priority. 

While the GAC maintains primary responsibility in relation to internal financial 
control systems, with further detail on pages 266 to 271, the GRC receives reports 
on entity level control assessments to enable the oversight of the effectiveness of 
such controls in support of the Group’s financial reporting. The GRC also receives 
relevant audit reports that provide an assessment of control effectiveness for 
financial reporting risks. 

The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s implementation of operational 
resilience capabilities in line with PRA and FCA policies. The GRC reviewed and 
challenged the operational resilience self-assessment against regulatory 
expectations, and worked with management to ensure that ownership and the 
delivery of resilience outcomes were embedded within the business and with 
function leaders. The GRC also received reports on system incidents and outages 
experienced across the Group, including reports on immediate actions being taken 
to enhance system continuity for, and communicate with customers, and 
measures being implemented to improve resilience-related controls to prevent 
reoccurrence.

The GRC regularly reviewed reports on the Group’s technology risk profile, as well 
as receiving bi-annual updates in relation to the risk and control environment,  as 
well as the current threat landscape and emerging risks. The GRC (working with 
the newly-created Group Technology Committee as appropriate) will consider 
further the risks and opportunities inherent in the use of AI (generative and 
advanced) in 2024.
The GRC maintained a strong focus on understanding the Group’s data risk 
landscape, its data strategy and data management programme. The GRC 
collaborated with the GAC and the Technology Governance Working Group on data 
strategy, the execution plan and timeline for data remediation, the governance 
approach and the investment model. Further details on the joint meetings are 
included in the 'Collaboration with GAC/GRC/Technology Governance Working 
Group’ section on page 275.

The GRC reviewed the Group’s approach to managing its financial crime risk 
across geographies and businesses. This included reviewing updates to the 
Group’s financial crime policy, enhancing the approach to insider risk, and 
monitoring the fraud landscape and strategies for managing fraud risk.

The ongoing Russia-Ukraine war has necessitated continued oversight of the ever-
changing and increasingly complex international sanctions landscape in which the 
Group and its customers operate, as well as the Group’s approach to managing its 
compliance with multiple and differing sanctions regimes globally.

People are central to everything HSBC does and 
it is essential to manage the risk of not having 
the right people with the right skills, and to 
ensure staff always have the customer’s interest 
at the forefront.

The GRC monitored people risk and employee conduct, with support from the 
Group Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer. The GRC considered people risk issues with a focus on the four 'c’s: 
capacity, capability, culture and conduct. It also considered remuneration risks, and 
strategies to retain talent and acquire new capabilities in key areas. 

People and 
conduct risk

Regulatory 
compliance 
risk

As a result of operating in multiple jurisdictions 
globally, HSBC is exposed to risks associated 
with inappropriate market conduct or breaching 
related financial services regulatory standards or 
expectations. 

Of key importance, the GRC placed strong emphasis on policies and practices 
relating to conduct and fairness to customers, especially vulnerable customers 
given heightened macroeconomic pressures and stress on customers across 
markets. 
The GRC met in November to review the Group’s risk and reward alignment 
framework to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and 
FCA remuneration rules and expectations.

The GRC and its members actively engage with regulators and act on feedback. 
The Committee closely monitors the progress of any regulatory remediation 
activities, with support from the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer as well 
as principal subsidiary risk committee chairs. Throughout the year, the GRC had 
oversight over reports providing feedback from regulators, including a summary of 
regulatory deliverables to ensure HSBC remains in line with regulatory standards 
and expectations.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

277

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)

Risk areas

Legal risk

Key issues
HSBC is exposed to the risk of financial loss, 
legal or regulatory action resulting from 
contractual risk, dispute management risk, 
breach of competition law or intellectual property 
risk.

Conclusions and actions
The GRC oversees and receives regular updates on key legal developments and 
material legal issues from the Group Chief Legal Officer. The updates also cover 
material litigation and regulatory enforcement matters and an overview of the legal 
risk profile of HSBC.

If models have been inadequately designed, 
implemented or used, or do not perform in line 
with expectations and predictions, then HSBC 
can face risks from inappropriate or incorrect 
business decisions arising from their use.

Model risk

The GRC continued to oversee the Group’s progress in managing model risk 
through the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer’s Group risk profile report. 
The GRC oversaw the progress in achieving our model risk vision, strengthening 
our model risk management capabilities and addressing regulatory requirements 
across global jurisdictions. In particular, the GRC reviewed the PRA Supervisory 
Statement 1/23 and the impact on the Group. The GRC reviewed the new 
guidance, potential resource implications and the planned programme of changes 
across all three lines of defence. It also noted the enhanced governance 
expectations in relation to model oversight.

Climate risk

Environmental, social and governance risks 
present significant risks to organisations both in 
terms of their own operations and how they 
engage with stakeholders and communities.

The GRC remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC 
received reports on climate risk management and energy policies, while 
maintaining oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust 
climate risk management capabilities.  

The GRC approved the 2023 internal climate scenario analysis and nature scenario 
analysis pilot in July 2023. The outcomes will be used to respond to multiple 
regional regulatory climate exercises as well as meeting regulatory expectations on 
incorporating climate change within the Group’s strategic plans and ICAAP.

Committee evaluation 

2022/2023

During 2023, the GRC implemented the recommendations of the 
2022 committee evaluation conducted by Lintstock in consultation 
with the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. This included the need for 
continued focus on the quality of reporting, the importance of 
focusing limited agenda time to the most critical issues, and further 
clarity in roles and coordination between the GRC and other Board 
committees. The outcomes of the evaluation were reported to the 
Board, and progress was tracked by the GRC through the year.

2023/2024

During the year, the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board 
committees, including the GRC, was conducted externally by 
Independent Board Evaluation. The review determined that the GRC 
continued to operate effectively. 

Areas for enhancement were identified, including the need for: 
increased focus on the most significant enterprise risks recognising 
the breadth of the risk agenda; continued close engagement with 
subsidiaries; and enhancement of induction programmes for new 
members given the complexity of much of the subject matter under 
discussion. A review of escalation parameters and filters will also be 
undertaken by the GRC in 2024.

The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and 
the GRC will track progress in implementing recommendations during 
2024.

Further details of the annual review of effectiveness can be found on 
pages 260 to 261. 

The Committee will continue to monitor progress to deliver 
enhancements in response to feedback from the evaluations in 2024.

Focus of future activities

The GRC’s focus for 2024 will include the following activities:

– oversee risk transformation activities to develop even stronger risk 
management capabilities, including the continued enhancement of 
the Group's risk appetite and risk management framework, 
especially in light of continued geopolitical and macroeconomic 
headwinds;

– continue to assess the Group’s operational resilience capability 

and the implementation of enhancements to the operating model;

– continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and 

liquidity management capabilities;

– monitor delivery against our climate ambitions and the 

development of appropriate data and model management tools 
and capabilities;

– continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning 

activities to assess our resolvability capabilities if such situation 
arises;

– continue the oversight of the delivery of technology-related 

programmes including the data remediation programme, and 
enhancement of the Group’s IT systems/platform; 

– continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of 

the financial crime control framework, including proactive 
management by the business; and

– assess our strategic opportunities and risks including exposures to 

digital currencies or assets and use of timely application of 
technology such as machine learning or artificial intelligence.

278

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Directors’ remuneration report

"The Group’s financial and strategic performance is reflected in the positive remuneration outcomes for our 
colleagues, and we remain committed to sharing the benefits of our performance with shareholders."

Membership1

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn

Chair

Group Remuneration Committee

Member 
since

Meeting attendance 
in 2023

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (Chair)

Geraldine Buckingham

Rachel Duan
James Forese2
Ann Godbehere3
José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña
Eileen Murray4

Sep 2021

May 2022

Sep 2021

May 2020

Sep 2023

May 2021

May 2023

7/7

7/7

7/7

3/3

2/2

7/7

4/4

1   All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 

Directors of HSBC Holdings plc.

2   James Forese stepped down from the Committee on 5 May 2023.
3   Ann Godbehere joined the Committee on 1 September 2023.
4   Eileen Murray joined the Committee on 5 May 2023.

Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:

– making recommendations to the Board, for approval by 

shareholders, on the Group's remuneration policy;

– setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance 

framework of the Group’s remuneration policy;

– approving the remuneration of executive Directors and other senior 

Group employees; and

– regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the remuneration policy of 
the Group and its subsidiaries in the context of consistent and 
effective risk management.

All disclosures in the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be 
considered audited in the context of financial statements taken as a whole.

Dear Shareholder

I am delighted to present our 2023 Directors’ remuneration report on 
behalf of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee.

I would like to thank Jamie Forese for the counsel he provided to us 
all as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee. We 
welcomed Eileen Murray and Ann Godbehere as members. They 
have already made valuable contributions since their respective 
appointments in 2023.

2023 was a year of good performance and positive progress for the 
Group. Our colleagues were critical to delivering those outcomes, 
remaining committed to serving our customers and clients around the 
world. Against that backdrop, the Committee’s focus in 2023 was on 
ensuring we deliver an exceptional experience to colleagues. This is 
crucial to attract, retain and energise the people we need to sustain 
our performance and grow in markets that are highly competitive.

We also spent considerable time in 2023 thinking about executive 
Director remuneration, in the context of our strategy, performance 
and the removal of the 2:1 UK regulatory cap between variable and 
fixed pay. We have started to consider policy options ahead of the 
renewal of the Directors' remuneration policy in 2025. 

The Committee reflected on feedback from investors following the 
vote on the implementation of our current policy at the Annual 
General Meeting (’AGM’) in 2023, which received 79.75% of votes 
cast in favour. 

We explained in our statements of 5 May 2023 and 3 November 2023 
that our largest shareholder voted against the Board’s 
recommendations on a number of resolutions including the Directors’ 
remuneration report, which impacted the voting results on these 
resolutions. The Board was pleased that a large majority of 
shareholders voting at the AGM supported HSBC’s approach. I have 
met with several of our large institutional investors and proxy advisory 
firms since the AGM, and there remains strong support for our 
current Directors' remuneration policy. 

We will continue to engage with our major shareholders and listen to 
their views as we develop the Directors' remuneration policy next 
year. 

Performance in 2023

Financial performance

Our financial performance in 2023 reflected the strength of our 
balance sheet in a higher interest rate environment and the good 
progress made executing our strategy over the last four years.

We delivered a reported profit before tax of $30.3bn, which was up 
$13.3bn compared with 2022. This included a favourable year-on-year 
impact of $2.5bn relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in 
France and a provisional gain of $1.6bn recognised on the acquisition 
of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (’SVB UK’), which were partly offset 
by the recognition of a $3.0bn impairment charge relating to the 
investment in our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited 
(‘BoCom’).

Reported revenue of $66.1bn grew by 30% or $15.4bn compared 
with 2022, due to good performance by all three businesses reflecting 
higher net interest income from interest rate rises.

Reported costs fell by 2% to $32.1bn, primarily due to the non-
recurrence of restructuring and other related costs. On our cost target 
basis, 2023 costs grew by 6% versus our target of approximately 3% 
compared with 2022.

Our return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘) for 2023 was 14.6%, 
compared with 10.0% in 2022. Excluding strategic transactions and 
the BoCom impairment, our RoTE was 15.6%.

This performance together with our 50% payout ratio commitment for 
2023 (excluding material notable items and related impacts) enables 
us to approve a full year dividend of $0.61 per share.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

279

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Strategic performance

In 2023, there was further good progress in executing our strategy 
across the four strategic pillars aligned to our purpose, values and 
ambition. The completion of the sale of our retail banking operations 
in France on 1 January 2024 was an important milestone in the 
turnaround of our business. However, the strategic focus has shifted 
to investing for growth. The acquisition of SVB UK, and subsequent 
launch of HSBC Innovation Banking, is a good example of this.

We continued to capitalise on our strengths, which are our two home 
markets of Hong Kong and the UK, as well as our international 
wholesale, transaction banking and wealth businesses. The 
digitisation of our services for personal and corporate customers 
helped to improve our net promoter scores in key markets and 
businesses. Meanwhile the growth of transaction banking revenue, 
fee income in Commercial Banking, and net new invested assets in 
Wealth all underlined our focus on improving our earnings 
sustainability, which remains a key priority.

Our colleagues are the driving force behind our performance and 
progress, with our 2023 employee Snapshot survey demonstrating 
that they are more engaged than ever. Our employee focus index, 
which gauges how colleagues feel about their day-to-day work, was 
76%, which was an increase of four percentage points on 2022. Our 
employee engagement index is at an all time high of 77%, which was 
also an increase of three percentage points and meant we matched or 
exceeded the global financial services benchmark in all eight of our 
indices.

We also continued to support our customers in challenging economic 
times, particularly in the UK where we supported our personal and 
business customers by enhancing our range of digital resources and 
targeting those most in need.

Rewarding our colleagues

Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to 
colleagues so that we sustain our performance in competitive 
markets. Our reward principles and commitments centre on 
rewarding colleagues responsibly, recognising their success and 
supporting them to grow.

Pay is a critical part of our proposition. We were encouraged by a nine 
percentage point improvement to 52% in colleagues' perceptions 
they are paid fairly because of actions we took through 2022. The 
Committee remains very focused on the need to improve this further. 
For 2024, we are putting more structure in place to improve 
transparency and clarity about how we make pay decisions.

Beyond pay we have a strong proposition of benefits, well-being 
support, flexible working options, and learning and career 
opportunities to support our colleagues.

In 2023, we saw the maturity of the 2020 three-year Sharesave plan, 
which had the highest take-up rate and contribution level in recent 
years. The share price at maturity was more than double the option 
price, meaning colleagues benefited from our share price growth at a 
time when they needed it most. Over 90% of colleagues have access 
to share ownership plans globally with 25% of our global population 
taking part. 

For further details, see ‘Our approach to workforce reward‘ on 
page 289.

Fixed pay

For the majority of our colleagues, fixed pay is the biggest part of their 
reward, and many continue to be impacted by the economic 
environment including inflation and cost of living challenges. Our 
focus is on ensuring that we provide financial security through fixed 
pay.

Fixed pay is primarily reviewed through our annual pay cycle. Fixed 
pay ranges were introduced for over 190,000 colleagues to improve 
clarity and transparency and simplify decision making for our people 
managers. Effective in 2024, we have awarded an overall fixed pay 
increase of 4.4%. The level of increases vary by market, depending 
on the economic situation and individual roles. The highest increases 
were made to lower paid colleagues, and then focused on middle 
management, so that we keep pace with wage inflation.

280

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

We have also established Living Wage benchmarks for every market 
and were certified as a global Living Wage employer by the Fair Wage 
Network for 2024. This is critical to give us further confidence in 
meeting our commitments to reward colleagues responsibly.

We continued to take tangible actions to address the most significant 
inflationary pressures for colleagues. For example, in Argentina and 
Türkiye, we adjusted fixed pay regularly through the year. In Egypt, 
we supported our colleagues with a one-off pay adjustment in 
response to high inflation.

Variable pay

In determining the 2023 variable pay pool, the Committee wanted to 
recognise our strong financial and strategic performance, and the 
contribution colleagues have made to that.

The Committee determined an overall variable pay pool of $3,774m, 
12% higher than $3,359m in 2022. This was determined based on a 
review of our performance against financial and non-financial metrics 
set out in the Group risk framework. The Committee considered the 
strength of our financial performance in 2023, and the ratio between 
variable pay and pre-variable pay profit before tax. The Committee 
considered the impact of margins on interest rates in our results, and 
lowered the total pool in line with our countercyclical funding 
approach. We also considered our total compensation position 
compared with the market, and the broader economic outlook.

The Committee considered in respect of all its remuneration decisions 
for 2023 the Prudential Regulation Authority's ('PRA') 29 January 
2024 Notice relating to HSBC Bank plc's and HSBC UK's compliance 
with the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme ('FSCS') and 
related Depositor Protection rules. The PRA penalty was reflected in 
the calculation of profitability used to determine the pool. The 
Committee carefully considered input from the Group Risk 
Committee ('GRC') and determined that no further discretionary 
adjustment should be made to the overall variable pay pool. The 
circumstances leading to the penalty require a more detailed review 
internally to address potential responsibility of individuals, which will 
be completed by the Committee in 2024, with any remuneration 
adjustments applied once it is complete.

Total compensation across all our businesses increased relative to 
2022, rewarding our colleagues for their contribution to our 
performance. The distribution of the pool by business considered 
relative performance against revenue, reported profit before tax and 
cost targets. Strong differentiation has meant our highest performers 
received the largest increases in variable pay compared with the 
previous year. 

Key remuneration decisions for executive Directors

Annual incentive for 2023 performance

The Group’s financial and strategic performance is reflected in the 
executive Directors’ annual scorecards. The Committee believes this 
reflects their individual leadership and contribution to delivery of the 
Group‘s performance.

At the start of the year, the Committee set the scorecards to align 
with our reported financial performance. The Committee considered 
carefully the impact of strategic transactions and one-offs on the 
Group's financial performance in 2023, including the favourable year-
on-year impact of $4.1bn relating to the sale of our retail banking 
operations in France and the provisional gain on the acquisition of 
SVB UK, balanced with the $3.0bn impairment charge relating to the 
investment in BoCom. 

Consistent with the approach in prior years, the Committee judged 
that it was appropriate to assess financial performance for the 
purpose of the annual scorecard excluding these items, to ensure that 
out-turns were not impacted by one-offs. The assessment of RoTE 
and profit before tax measures therefore excluded strategic 
transactions and the BoCom impairment.

The Committee also considered the impact of interest rates on 
performance and noted that macroeconomic fluctuations remain a 
frequent driver of the Group’s business outcomes for our executives 
to manage. In recent years these factors have not led to discretionary 
scorecard adjustments for our executive Directors, either positive or 
negative, which the Committee continues to believe is appropriate.

As part of its deliberations, the Committee reflected on the overall 
risk management in the year, and in respect of the PRA Notice: the 
nature of the failings identified; the regulator’s finding that the 
breaches identified were not deliberate or reckless; fines levied; and 
the tenure and specific responsibilities of the executive Directors in 
relation to the issues covered. 

Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery will each receive a 2024–2026 LTI 
award of 320% of base salary in respect of their performance for 
2023 (Noel Quinn: £4,275,000; Georges Elhedery: £2,496,000). 
Subject to performance over the next three years, awards will vest 
over a further five years with a one-year retention period on vesting 
shares. Further details on our targets can be found on page 286.

Taking into account inputs from the GRC and the overall accountability 
of the Group Chief Executive for the performance and risk 
management of the Group in 2023, the Committee used its 
judgement and applied a downward adjustment of 7.50% to Noel 
Quinn’s scorecard outcome.

This results in a final scorecard outcome of 70.24% of the maximum 
opportunity for Group Chief Executive Noel Quinn (2022: 75.35%) and 
an annual incentive of £2,018,000, which is 7% lower than 
£2,164,000 in 2022.

The scorecard for Group Chief Financial Officer Georges Elhedery was 
76.75%, resulting in an annual incentive of £1,287,000.

The Committee considered that these final outcomes were a 
balanced and appropriate reflection of Group and individual 
performance delivered in 2023, and appropriate in the context of the 
pay decisions made for the wider workforce.

2021–2023 long-term incentive ('LTI') vesting

Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson (the former Group Chief Financial 
Officer) participated in the 2021–2023 LTI that will vest in March 
2024. As disclosed in our 2020 Directors’ remuneration report, the 
Committee considered windfall gains at the time of award and 
determined no adjustment was appropriate.

The maximum RoTE and relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
targets were exceeded. The capital reallocation to Asia measure was 
not met and the environment and sustainability measures were 
assessed to be 100% met. Overall, 75.00% of the original award will 
vest on a pro-rata basis over the next five years. Ewen Stevenson’s 
awards have been pro-rated for time in employment.

As this is the first LTI vesting for Noel Quinn, his single figure of 
remuneration for 2023 is materially changed. The 2023 single figure of 
remuneration for Noel Quinn is £10,641,000 (compared with 
£5,562,000 for 2022). The value of the LTI award reflects the Group's 
improvement in performance, shareholder returns and share price 
over 2021 to 2023, and Noel Quinn's leadership in reshaping the 
Group to deliver more sustainable returns to shareholders.

Noel Quinn's LTI vesting also means that the pay ratio measuring the 
total pay of the Group Chief Executive against the median pay of our 
UK employees has increased to 169:1 compared with 95:1 last year. 
Excluding the LTI vesting in respect of the year, the median ratio 
remained broadly in line with prior years at 86:1. This is consistent 
with the pay and progression policies for our UK workforce, 
considering the diverse mix of employees, the pay mix for various 
roles and the differences in pay structure compared with executive 
Directors.

2024–2026 LTI awards

We have reviewed the performance measures for LTI awards 
considering the next phase of our strategy over 2024 to 2026. We will 
retain Group RoTE, relative TSR and environment targets, reflecting 
our strategic commitments, and to measure relative performance 
compared with peers. The capital reallocation to Asia measure was 
previously included to retain focus on repositioning the Group’s capital 
base through the transformation of the business. While our 
operations in Asia continue to be of significant strategic importance to 
the Group, it was the Committee’s view that this measure no longer 
appropriately incentivises the delivery of sustainable returns 
achievable across wider markets in which HSBC operates. We are 
simplifying the 2024–2026 LTI by removing this metric and increasing 
the weighting of RoTE and relative TSR.

The relative TSR peer group was amended for 2023 to include more 
Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment focus. We do 
not propose to make any changes for 2024 other than the removal of 
the Credit Suisse Group following its acquisition by UBS Group.

Fixed pay for 2024

We have increased the base salary of our executive Directors by 3%, 
effective from 1 March 2024. The increase is lower than the overall 
fixed pay increase of 4.4% for our wider workforce.

Remuneration in 2024

The Committee welcomes the change announced by the PRA and the 
Financial Conduct Authority ('FCA') to remove the existing limits on 
the ratio between fixed and variable pay.

The announcement, together with the wider considerations on the 
overall competitiveness of the UK capital markets, provides us an 
opportunity to consider the competitiveness of our remuneration 
arrangements for our executive Directors and wider workforce.

At the 2024 AGM, we will seek shareholder approval to provide the 
Committee with discretion, where regulations allow, to set an 
appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio considering all relevant factors, 
including our business activities and associated prudential and 
conduct risks.

This will improve flexibility in the structure of remuneration to 
increase the amount of pay that is variable, subject to the delivery of 
performance. It will also strengthen our ability to recruit and retain 
people in competitive markets where many of our international 
competitors do not have similar restrictions.

We remain very supportive of the use of deferral mechanisms and the 
requirements to deliver a substantial portion of variable remuneration 
in shares to ensure alignment between shareholders, good risk 
management and individual reward.

For our executive Directors, we have started early engagement with 
institutional shareholders and proxy advisory bodies ahead of the 
renewal of our Directors' remuneration policy in 2025. Over several 
years, the Committee has expressed concerns around the 
competitiveness of the executive Director remuneration opportunity 
and indicated that our preference would be to operate a policy with a 
higher proportion of the package based on variable pay linked to 
performance. The Committee continues to believe in a more 
performance-based structure, and we will seek shareholder approval 
for a new Directors' remuneration policy at the 2025 AGM in line with 
the normal three-year cycle after engaging with shareholders through 
2024.

Conclusion

On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank our shareholders 
for the time taken to engage with us during the year. We welcome 
the feedback on our approach to remuneration and I look forward to 
engaging with you further in the year ahead as we continue our 
review of the Directors’ remuneration policy, in advance of the 2025 
AGM.

As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the 2023 
Directors’ remuneration report and the resolution to remove the 2:1 
cap on variable pay for our Material Risk Takers at this year's AGM.

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn

Chair

Group Remuneration Committee

21 February 2024 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

281

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Executive remuneration at a glance
This section sets out an overview of our performance, 2023 remuneration outcomes for executive Directors and a summary of the policy 
approved by shareholders at our 2022 AGM, including how we will implement the policy in 2024.  
Our performance 

Reported profit before 
tax

$30.3bn 

(2022: $17.1bn)
Employee engagement 
index1
77% 
(2022: 74%)

Net new invested 
assets
$84bn
(2022: $80bn)

Inclusion index
78% 
(2022: 76%)

Operating expenses
$32.1bn 
(2022: $32.7bn)

Return on average 
tangible equity
14.6% 
(2022: 10.0%)

Percentage of colleagues of 
Asian heritage in senior 
leadership roles
37.8% 
(2022: 34.0%)

Percentage of women in 
senior leadership roles2
34.1%
(2022: 33.3%)

1  The 2022 employee engagement index score has been recalculated to reflect a change in the composition of questions in the 2023 index to ensure 

comparisons remain valid. In 2022 the employee engagement index was reported as 73%.

2  The percentage of women in senior leadership roles excluded the Canada business held for sale.

Remuneration outcomes for executive Directors

Summary remuneration outcomes for 2023 are set out below. Further details are set out in our annual report on Directors‘ remuneration on 
pages 284 to 286. 

Noel Quinn
Annual incentive outcome (£000)

Georges Elhedery

Georges Elhedery did not participate in the 
2021–2023 long-term incentive

Long-term incentive outcome (£000)

Single figure of remuneration (£000)

Shareholding (% of base salary)

282

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

£2,872£2,01870.24%Maximum opportunity2023 annual incentive£1,677£1,28776.75%Maximum opportunity2023 annual incentive£5,195£4,275£3,575£1,619Vesting long-term incentiveShare price appreciationon long-term incentiveMaximum opportunity2021–2023 long-term incentive£5,562     £10,641     Base salary and fixed pay allowancePension and benefitsAnnual incentiveLong-term incentiveNotional returns on deferred cashawarded in respect of prior role                           20222023£4,701£3,292Base salary and fixed pay allowancePension and benefitsAnnual incentiveLong-term incentiveNotional returns on deferred cashawarded in respect of prior roleReplacement award for forfeiture upon hire                               2022(Ewen Stevenson)2023400%797%             Shareholding requirementCurrent shareholding300%598%             Shareholding requirementCurrent shareholding 
Remuneration policy summary – executive Directors 

Our Directors' remuneration policy was approved at the AGM on 29 April 2022. The full policy can be found on pages 257 to 265 of our Annual 
Report and Accounts 2021 and in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Supplement, which is available under Group results and reporting in the 
‘Investors‘ section of www.hsbc.com.  

Elements and objectives

Operation

Base salary

– Base salary is paid in cash on a monthly basis.
– Other than in exceptional circumstances, the base salary for the current executive 

Directors will not increase by more than 15% above the level at the start of the policy 
period in total for the duration of the policy. 

Implementation in 2024

Base salary will increase by 
3% for 2024 and will be:
– Noel Quinn: £1,376,000
– Georges Elhedery: 

£803,000

Fixed pay allowance (‘FPA’)

– The FPA is granted in instalments of immediately vested shares.
– On vesting, the net number of shares delivered (after those withheld to cover any income 
tax and social security) are subject to a retention period and released annually on a pro-rata 
basis over five years, starting from the March immediately following the end of the 
financial year for which the shares are granted.

FPA will not be increased for 
2024 and will remain:
– Noel Quinn: £1,700,000
– Georges Elhedery: 

£1,085,000

– Dividends are paid on the vested shares held during the retention period.

Cash in lieu of pension

– 10% of base salary is paid on a monthly basis.
– This allowance, as a percentage of salary, is aligned with the maximum contribution rate 

– No change to percentage of 

base salary.

Annual incentive

Long-term incentive (‘LTI’)

Benefits

Shareholding guidelines

that HSBC could make for a majority of employees who are defined contribution members 
of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme.

– The maximum opportunity is up to 215% of base salary.
– Performance is measured against an individual scorecard.
– At least 50% of any award is delivered in shares, which are normally immediately vested.
– On vesting, the net number of shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any 

income tax and social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one year, 
or such period as required by regulators.

– Awards will be subject to clawback (i.e. repayment or recoupment of paid vested awards) 
for a period of seven years from the date of award, extending to 10 years in the event of 
an ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Any 
unvested awards will be subject to malus (i.e. reduction and/or cancellation) during any 
applicable deferral period.

– The maximum opportunity is up to 320% of base salary.
– The LTI award is granted if the Committee considers that there has been satisfactory 

performance over the prior year, and is subject to a forward-looking three-year 
performance period from the start of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
– At the end of the performance period, awards will vest in five equal instalments, with the 
first vesting on or around the third anniversary of the grant date and the last instalment 
vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date.

– On vesting, the net number of shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any 

income tax and social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one year, 
or such period as required by regulators.

– Awards are subject to malus provisions prior to vesting. Vested shares are subject to 

clawback on the same terms as the annual incentive.

– Awards may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, paid on vesting. 
Where awards do not receive dividend equivalents, the number of shares awarded can be 
determined using the share price discounted for the expected dividend yield.

– Benefits include the provision of medical insurance, accommodation, car, club 
membership, independent legal advice in relation to a matter arising out of the 
performance of employment duties for HSBC, tax return assistance or preparation, and 
travel assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable).

– Additional benefits may also be provided when an executive is relocated or spends a 
substantial proportion of his/her time in more than one jurisdiction for business needs.

Executive Directors are expected to satisfy the following shareholding requirement as a 
percentage of base salary within five years from the date of their appointment:
– Group Chief Executive: 400%
– Group Chief Financial Officer: 300%

All-employee share plans

Executive Directors are eligible to participate in all-employee share plans, such as HSBC 
Sharesave, on the same basis as all other employees.

– No change to opportunity.
– See page 288 for 2024 

measures.

– No change to opportunity.
– See page 287 for details of 
the 2024–2026 LTI awards.

– Benefits to be provided as 

per policy and details 
disclosed in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2024 
single figure of 
remuneration table.

– No change to percentage of 

base salary.

– Participation will be 

disclosed in the respective 
Annual Report and 
Accounts, as required.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

283

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Annual report on Directors’ remuneration 
This section sets out how our approved Directors’ remuneration policy was implemented during 2023. 
Determining executive Directors’ incentive outcomes

(Audited)  

For any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director 
must achieve a minimum standard of conduct and values-aligned 
behaviour. Both executive Directors met this requirement for 2023.

The award is determined by applying the outcome of their annual 
scorecard to the maximum opportunity, set at 215% of base salary. 

The financial measures, weightings and targets were set at the start 
of the financial year to align with our reported financial performance 
and before significant changes in the interest rate environment. They 
considered the 2023 financial plan, data from 2022, external 
commitments, scenario testing of upside and downside risks in the 
plan, and analyst consensus where relevant.

The Committee considered carefully the wider context in which 
performance was delivered and the impact of strategic transactions 
and one-offs on the Group's financial performance in 2023, including 
the favourable year-on-year impact of $4.1bn relating to the sale of 
our retail banking operations in France and the provisional gain on the 
acquisition of SVB UK, balanced with the $3.0bn impairment charge 
relating to the investment in BoCom. 

Consistent with the approach in prior years, the Committee judged 
that it was appropriate to assess financial performance for the 
purpose of the annual scorecard excluding these items, to ensure that 
out-turns were not impacted by one-offs. The assessment of RoTE 
and profit before tax measures therefore excluded strategic 
transactions and the BoCom impairment.

The Committee also considered the impact of interest rates on 
performance and noted that macroeconomic fluctuations remain a 
frequent driver of the Group’s business outcomes for our executives 
to manage. In recent years these factors have not led to discretionary 
scorecard adjustments for our executive Directors, either positive or 
negative, which the Committee continues to believe is appropriate.

Performance was above the maximum targets for Group profit before 
tax, Group RoTE and Asia RoTE. On our cost target basis, growth was 
6% versus our target of approximately 3% compared with 2022 and 
below the performance range.

For strategic measures, diversity representation targets were set 
based on a trajectory to meet our external commitments. Other 

Annual incentive scorecard assessment 

(Audited)

Summary assessment 

measures were set based on maintaining or improving when 
compared with 2022 performance and/or market benchmarks.

The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey exceeded 
target, and was significantly above the financial services benchmark. 

We met or exceeded our senior leadership diversity representation 
targets. Our customer net promoter score ('NPS') performance was 
largely positive relative to our competitors in most areas of our 
business.

The Committee considered that the scorecard outcome for personal 
measures for both Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery was appropriate 
against the targets set at the start of the year.

Overall, this resulted in a formulaic scorecard outcome of 75.93% of 
the maximum for Noel Quinn and 76.75% for Georges Elhedery.

The Committee discussed at length whether the risk and compliance 
modifier should be applied for 2023 for the Group’s performance 
against key risk metrics, including the historical failings identified by 
the PRA in its Notice of 29 January 2024.

As part of its deliberations, the Committee reflected on the overall 
risk management in the year, and in respect of the PRA Notice: the 
nature of the failings identified; the regulator’s finding that the 
breaches identified were not deliberate or reckless; fines levied; and 
the tenure and specific responsibilities of the executive Directors in 
relation to the issues covered. 

Taking into account inputs from the Group Risk Committee and Noel 
Quinn's overall accountability for the performance and risk 
management of the Group in 2023, the Committee used its 
judgement and applied a downward adjustment of 7.50% to his 
scorecard outcome.

This results in a final outcome of 70.24% of the maximum opportunity 
for Noel Quinn (2022: 75.35%) and an annual incentive of £2,018,000, 
which is 7% lower than £2,164,000 in 2022.

No risk and compliance modifier was applied for Georges Elhedery 
who was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 
2023, after all underlying issues identified by the PRA had been fully 
remediated. Georges Elhedery's scorecard outcome of 76.75% 
results in an annual incentive of £1,287,000.

Minimum 
(25.0% 
payout)

Maximum 
(100.0% 
payout)

25.8

31.0

 12.0% 
 12.8% 
11.8

36.6

58.8

30.3

30.5

 14.5% 
 15.0% 
13.1

56.8

79.0

Performance2
31.6

31.6

 15.6% 
 16.8% 
11.84

55.1

84.3

See following tables for commentary

Profit before tax1 ($bn)
Target basis operating 
expenses ($bn)
Group RoTE1
Asia RoTE1
Fee income ($bn)
Growth in 
net new 
invested 
assets ($bn)

Total

Total (ex 
Hong Kong)

Customer satisfaction
Employee experience
Personal objectives
Total
Scorecard outcome (000)
7.50% risk adjustment per 
Committee judgement (000)

Annual incentive (000)

1   Assessed excluding strategic transactions and BoCom impairment.
2   The CET1 capital ratio underpin was met.

284

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Weighting 
(%)

Noel Quinn
Assessment 
(%)

Outcome 
(%)

Weighting 
(%)

Georges Elhedery
Assessment 
(%)

Outcome 
(%)

 15.0 

 15.0 

 15.0 
 5.0 
 5.0 

 2.5 

 2.5 

 15.0 
 15.0 
 10.0 
 100.0 

 15.0 

 15.0 

 15.0 
 5.0 
 5.0 

 2.5 

 2.5 

 15.0 
 15.0 
 10.0 
 100.0 

 100.00 

 15.00 

 — 

 100.00 
 100.00 
 25.55 

 — 

 15.00 
 5.00 
 1.28 

 93.73 

 2.34 

 100.00 

 91.67 
 93.75 

 2.50 

 13.75 
 14.06 
 7.00 
 75.93 
£2,181

£(163)

£2,018

 100.00 

 15.00 

 — 

 100.00 
 100.00 
 25.55 

 — 

 15.00 
 5.00 
 1.28 

 93.73 

 2.34 

 100.00 

 91.67 
 93.75 

 2.50 

 13.75 
 14.06 
 7.81 
 76.75 
£1,287

£0

£1,287

Stakeholder measures for Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery

Customer 
satisfaction

– NPS is sourced from our strategic NPS surveys with results gathered 

15.0%

Measures Weighting (%) Assessment considerations by the Committee
Maintain and 
improve NPS 
in the UK 
and Hong 
Kong, in 
digital 
markets, and 
in key 
growth 
markets

the target in digital markets. Across other growth markets we met our 
maximum NPS target.

– In WPB, our NPS increased in five of our six key markets (Hong Kong, 

through independent third-party research agencies. The assessment is 
against quantitative targets set based on the level of improvement from the 
prior year and in rank position.

– In the UK and Hong Kong, we met our maximum NPS target and largely met 

mainland China, Mexico, India and Singapore). In the UK, the slight decline 
of our NPS was driven by mass affluent customers. We ranked among the 
top three banks in three of our six key markets. In Hong Kong, we remained 
in first place overall, leading the market with our mobile app performance. 
Our rank remained in the top three in mainland China, and rose to the top in 
India.

Assessment (%) Outcome (%)

91.67%

13.75%

Employee 
experience

Improve 
diversity and 
inclusion

15.0%

– In CMB, we ranked among the top three banks in four of our six key 

markets. We were first place in Hong Kong and within the top three in 
mainland China, Singapore and Mexico.

– In GBM, we ranked in first place globally for NPS and digital satisfaction. 
– The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey increased by two 

percentage points and exceeded the maximum target of 77%. The score is 
seven points above the external financial services benchmark.

– The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles 

increased by 0.5 percentage points to 3.0%, meeting the maximum target 
and on track to meet our external commitment of 3.4% by 2025.

– We made a 3.8 percentage point year-on-year net gain in senior leadership 
representation of colleagues with Asian heritage, against a 2022 year-end 
baseline of 34.0%

– The percentage of women in senior leadership roles increased by 

0.8 percentage points to 34.1%, meeting the target, and below the 
maximum. The targets excluded the Canada business held for sale. 
Including colleagues in HSBC Canada, gender representation in senior 
leadership is 34.2%.

93.75%

14.06%

Personal objectives for Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery

For each executive Director, personal objectives were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee against agreed targets and key performance 
indicators.

Noel Quinn

Weighting Assessment Performance achievement

Technology 
transformation

4.0%

50.00%

– Our Cloud adoption rate, which is the percentage of our technology services on the private or public Cloud, 
increased to 43% (2022: 35%). At the end of 2023, about 54% of our WPB customers were 'mobile active' 
users (2022: 49%) and the proportion of WPB sales completed digitally increased to 49% (2022: 43%).
– The Committee's assessment balanced strong progress automating our organisation at scale against the 

targets set, and progress to deliver our wider multi-year technology strategy.

Progress on 
innovation 
programmes

Simplification of 
processes and 
organisation

4.0%

100.00%

– Several strategic investments were made in Asia including Meditrust, a unicorn start-up, which will support 

HSBC Life’s Pinnacle proposition in mainland China. Investments were made in a joint venture with 
Tradeshift, an existing Ventures investment, which will support the trade finance business to deploy a range 
of technology solutions.

– In 2023, Zing, our new international payments business aimed at non-HSBC customers, was launched, and 
a digital currency capability with eHKD was piloted in Hong Kong. We became the first bank to pioneer 
quantum protection for foreign exchange trading, and were one of the first international banks to participate 
in China’s eCNY programme. 

– Progress was made on several generative AI use cases including developer productivity, knowledge 

management and content generation. Our first AI patent to be used to detect cyber threats, was filed.

2.0%

50.00%

– Strong progress was made with the completion of the exit from Greece, merger in Oman, and sale of the 

New Zealand WPB mortgage portfolio.

– The sale of our retail banking portfolio in France was completed on 1 January 2024 and we remain on track 

to sell our retail banking operations in Canada in the first quarter of 2024.

– The timing of our planned exit from our business in Russia was impacted by dependency on the regulatory 

and government approval process, which is outside of HSBC’s control.

– Exits from our WPB business in Mauritius and our hedge fund administration business were announced.

Total 

7.00% out of 10.00%

Georges Elhedery Weighting Assessment Performance achievement

Deliver activities 
relating to 
regulatory priorities

2.5%

58.33%

– The Integrity of Regulatory Reporting programme continues to remediate against known gaps to deliver 

improvements in quality of regulatory returns.

– The Bank of England Resolvability Assessment Framework self-assessment was submitted, demonstrating 

Deliver Finance 
change 
transformation and 
digitisation
More energised 
Finance workforce

Drive liquidity and 
capital management 
across the Group

2.5%

62.50%

2.5%

100.00%

2.5%

91.67%

Total

7.81% out of 10.00%

an uplift in the Group’s capabilities.

– Certain climate considerations have been assessed and incorporated into the annual financial planning cycle. 

We also enhanced our climate scenario analysis capabilities in line with plan.

– For the remediation of interest rate risk in the banking book, all 2023 targeted actions were completed from 
a first line of defence perspective, subject to second and third line of defence review and confirmation in 
early 2024 as planned.

– Identified Finance change transformation activities have been deployed in line with plans.
–   Global Finance employee engagement index increased to 79% (2022: 74%), exceeding the target set.
–   Global Finance career index increased to 69% (2022: 65%), exceeding the target set.

– The Group’s CET1 capital ratio was delivered above our target operating range.
– Planned liquidity optimisation outcomes were successfully met.
– Targets relating to earnings stabilisation were assessed as met.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

285

Corporate governance 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Single figure of remuneration

(Audited)

The following table shows the single figure of remuneration of each executive Director for 2023, together with comparative figures. This is the 
first vesting LTI for Noel Quinn since his appointment as Group Chief Executive in 2020 and so materially changes the composition of his single 
figure of remuneration for 2023. 

Single figure of remuneration

(£000)
Base salary
Fixed pay allowance (’FPA’)
Cash in lieu of pension
Taxable benefits2
Non-taxable benefits
Total fixed
Annual incentive3
Notional returns4
Replacement award
Long-term incentive5
Total variable
Total fixed and variable

Noel Quinn

Georges Elhedery1

2023
1,336
1,700
134
127
89
3,386
2,018
43
—
5,195
7,256
10,641

2022

1,329
1,700
133
119
86
3,367
2,164
31
—
—
2,195
5,562

2023
780
1,085
78
4
52
1,999
1,287
6
—
—
1,293
3,292

2022

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

1  Georges Elhedery was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer from 1 January 2023.
2  Taxable benefits include the provision of medical insurance, car benefit, accommodation and tax return assistance (including any associated tax due, 

where applicable). Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover.

3  Annual incentive awards to the executive Directors are awarded 50% in cash and 50% in shares. The shares portion of the award vests immediately 

at grant and is subject to a retention period of one year and clawback provisions.

4  Deferred cash awards granted in prior years include a right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant and vesting date. This is 

determined by reference to a rate of return specified at the time of grant and paid annually, with the amount disclosed on a paid basis.  

5  An LTI award over 1,118,554 shares was made in February 2021 (in respect of 2020) at a share price of £4.262 for which the performance period 

ended on 31 December 2023. The value has been computed based on a share price of £6.192, the average share price during the three-month period 
to 31 December 2023. The value attributable to share price appreciation is £1,619,106. See the following section for details of the assessment 
outcomes, which resulted in 75.00% vesting due to performance.

Benefits
The values of the significant benefits in the single figure table are set out in the following table. The insurance benefit for Noel Quinn has 
increased year on year because of the increase in premium at annual renewal. The car benefits for Georges Elhedery are not included in the 
table below as they were not deemed significant.

(£000)

Insurance benefit (non-taxable)
Accommodation in Hong Kong (taxable)
Car and driver in UK and Hong Kong (taxable)

Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards

(Audited)

LTI awards over 2021 to 2023 performance period 

The 2021–2023 LTI award was granted to Noel Quinn and Ewen 
Stevenson in February 2021. Georges Elhedery was in a different role 
at the time and did not receive the 2021–2023 LTI award. 

The scorecard delivered an outcome of 75.00%, reflecting a 
significant improvement in shareholder returns across the 
performance period. 

In line with the terms of his departure, Ewen Stevenson is a good 
leaver and his award has been pro-rated for time in employment. 
Based on the performance outcome, 838,915 shares will vest for 
Noel Quinn and 371,697 shares will vest for Ewen Stevenson. The 
awards will vest in five equal annual instalments commencing in 
March 2024.

The Committee is mindful of executives not experiencing ’windfall 
gains’ through the granting of LTI awards when a share price is 

Noel Quinn

Georges Elhedery

2023
84
67
47

2022

82
39
69

2023
49
—
—

2022

—
—
—

particularly low. We introduced an upfront windfall gains check for the 
2021–2023 LTI award such that if the LTI grant share price 
experienced a greater than 30% decline since the previous grant, 
then a downward adjustment would be made. The Committee 
determined that there were no windfall gains to consider for this 
award given the share price at grant (£4.26) was 24% below the 
share price at the previous LTI grant (£5.62).

The 2021–2023 LTI award is subject to a risk and compliance 
modifier. The Committee received input from the GRC who assessed 
that the performance targets were delivered with appropriate risk 
management. On this basis, the Committee considered that no 
adjustment for risk should be made to the 2021–2023 LTI award. The 
CET1 capital ratio underpin for the 2021–2023 LTI award was also 
met. 

286

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Assessment of the 2021–2023 LTI awards

Measures (weighting)1
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 
(25.0%)

Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1 
capital ratio underpin3 (25.0%)

Transition to net 
zero4 (25.0%)

Carbon reduction 
(own emissions)

Sustainable finance 
and investment

Relative TSR5 (25.0%)

Total

Minimum    
(25.0% payout)

Target        
(50.0% payout)

Maximum   
(100.0% payout)

8.0%

45.0%

42.0%

9.0%

47.0%

48.0%

10.0%

50.0%

51.0%

Actual

Assessment Outcome

14.6%

100.0%

25.00%

43.4%

0.0%

0.00%

57.3%

100.0%

12.50%

$200.0bn

$240.0bn

$260.0bn

$294.0bn

100.0%

12.50%

At median of the 
peer group

Straight-line 
vesting between 
minimum and 
maximum

At upper quartile 
of the peer group

Above upper 
quartile

100.0%

25.00%

75.00%

1   Awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set out in this table.
2   Assessed based on RoTE in the 2023 financial year. The CET1 capital ratio underpin was met.
3   Assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2023, 

which was not met.

4   Carbon reduction assessed on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2023 using 2019 as the baseline. 

Sustainable finance and investment assessed on cumulative financing provided over the performance period.

5   The peer group was: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds 

Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. Credit Suisse Group was removed from the peer group following its acquisition 
by UBS Group in June 2023.

LTI awards over 2024 to 2026 performance period 

After taking into account performance for 2023, the Committee 
decided to grant Noel Quinn an LTI award of £4,275,000 and Georges 
Elhedery an LTI award of £2,496,000 (both 320% of base salary).

– Our emissions reduction targets have been set based on meeting 
our commitments to procure 90% renewable energy by 2025 and 
halve energy consumption and travel emissions by 2030.

The awards will have a three-year performance period starting on 
1 January 2024. 

The Committee has reviewed the performance measures considering 
feedback from shareholders and the next phase of our strategy. We 
are simplifying and improving the focus on shareholder returns by 
assessing performance on three measures, including RoTE and 
relative TSR which are equally-weighted financial measures, and a 
third measure linked to our climate ambitions.

The capital reallocation to Asia measure was previously included to 
retain focus on repositioning the Group’s capital base through the 
transformation of the business. While our operations in Asia continue 
to be of significant strategic importance to the Group, it was the 
Committee’s view that this measure no longer appropriately 
incentivised the delivery of sustainable returns achievable across 
wider markets in which HSBC operates.

Targets have been set to balance stretch and achievability so that 
awards act as an effective incentive for management, and incentivise 
outperformance, aligned to our external strategic commitments.

– The minimum threshold for the RoTE measure is aligned to our 
external commitment of mid-teens RoTE over the medium term.

– The relative TSR peer group was amended for 2023 to include 
more Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment 
focus. No changes have been made for 2024 other than the 
removal of the Credit Suisse Group following its acquisition by 
UBS Group.

– Our sustainable finance and investments measure is based on our 

ambition announced in 2020 to provide $750bn to $1tn of 
financing and investment by 2030. Although the target range is 
lower than for the 2023–2025 LTI awards, we are on track to meet 
our 2030 ambition, with changing market conditions slightly 
impacting our year-on-year trajectory.

The LTI is subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which gives the 
Committee the discretion to ensure performance targets are delivered 
with appropriate risk management.

The RoTE measure is subject to a CET1 capital ratio underpin. If the 
CET1 capital ratio at the end of the performance period is below the 
CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the 
assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.

The number of shares to be awarded will be adjusted to reflect the 
expected dividend yield of the shares over the vesting period, as 
awards are not entitled to dividend equivalents in accordance with 
regulatory requirements.

To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the 
three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five equal 
annual instalments commencing from around the third anniversary of 
the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of 
shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and 
social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one 
year, or such period as required by regulators.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

287

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Performance conditions for the 2024–2026 LTI awards 

Measures (weighting)1
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (37.5%)
Carbon reduction 
(own emissions)

Environment3 (25.0%)

Sustainable finance 
and investment

Relative TSR4 (37.5%)

Minimum                 

Target                           

Maximum                     

(25.0% payout)
14.0%

(50.0% payout)
16.0%

(100.0% payout)
17.0%

66.0%

$539.0bn

70.0%

$641.0bn

74.0%

$693.0bn

At the median of the peer 
group

Straight-line vesting 
between minimum and 
maximum

At the upper quartile of the 
peer group

Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance 
factors during the performance period.

1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table. 
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin. 
3  Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2026 using 2019 as 

the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 
31 December 2026.

4  The peer group for the 2023 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, 

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. 

Annual incentive measures for 2024

The 2024 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive 
Directors have been set to incentivise the delivery of the next phase 
of our strategy.

We have reduced the number of financial measures, reflecting 
feedback from shareholders to simplify our approach and ensure 
focus on our key strategic commitments. The weighting of Group 
RoTE has increased to 25% (from 15% in 2023). The overall 
weighting of financial measures remains at 60%.

Financial measures will be assessed on a reported basis excluding 
notable items so that the outcome reflects performance excluding the 
impact of one-off and items not controlled by management.

Our first net zero transition plan was launched in January 2024 setting 
out our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking. To 
support our ambition, a sustainability measure has been added to the 
annual scorecard, which will be assessed based on the execution of 
our sustainability commitments against Board approved plans.

Personal measures have been set to ensure meaningful weighting for 
the most critical objectives for each executive Director.

The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the 
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as 
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder 
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying 
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience.

The weightings and performance measures for the 2024 annual 
incentive scorecard for executive Directors are in the adjacent table. 

The targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2024 plan, while 
considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including the interest rate 
environment and inflation. The performance targets are commercially 
sensitive and it would be detrimental to the Group’s interests to 
disclose them at the start of the financial year. Subject to commercial 
sensitivity, we will disclose the targets in the 2024 Directors’ 
remuneration report.

2024 annual incentive performance measures

Financial (all measures subject to CET1 capital ratio 
underpin, and excluding notable items)

Weighting

60.0%

15.0%
15.0%
25.0%
5.0%
30.0%

15.0%

10.0%

5.0%

10.0%

Profit before tax
Operating expenses
Group RoTE
Asia RoTE
Stakeholders

Customer satisfaction 
Improvement in NPS scores/rank

Employee experience 
Gender and ethnicity representation and Inclusion index score

Execution of our sustainability commitments against Board 
approved plans

Personal measures
– Group Chief Executive: Technology transformation and 

enhanced Board information

– Group Chief Financial Officer: Delivery of regulatory change 

programmes (including regulatory reporting), enhancement of 
external disclosures and robust liquidity and capital 
management  

Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account 
performance against risk and compliance factors during the 
performance period.

288

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our approach to workforce reward 
Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to energise 
colleagues to perform at their best. This is critical to strengthening our 
ability to attract, retain and motivate the people we need, in 
competitive markets where employee expectations continue to 
evolve. 

Our approach is centred on our purpose and values, and our reward 
principles and commitments are:

– We will reward our colleagues responsibly through fixed pay 

security and protection through core benefits, a competitive total 
compensation opportunity, pay equity, and a more inclusive and 
sustainable benefits proposition over time.

– We will recognise colleagues' success through our performance 
culture and routines, including feedback and recognition, pay for 
performance, and all employee share ownership opportunities.

– We will support our colleagues to grow through our proposition 
beyond pay, with a focus on future skills and development, 
support for well-being, and flexibility.

Pay is an important part of our overall proposition. Our focus is 
improving transparency and clarity for colleagues so they understand 
better how we make pay decisions. 

For 2024, we will introduce a new variable pay structure for over 
150,000 junior and middle management colleagues, providing more 
clarity around the variable pay levels for on-target performance, while 
retaining flexibility to differentiate outcomes for performance.

We have been certified by the Fair Wage Network as a global Living 
Wage employer for 2024. This is an important commitment to give 
colleagues confidence that our fixed pay levels are sufficient to 
provide financial security.

The section below highlights some of our achievements in 2023.

We will reward you responsibly
78% ▲ up 5% from 2022

of colleagues say pay recommendations 
determined regardless of personal 
characteristics

52%  ▲ up 9% from 2022

of colleagues say they are paid fairly for 
what they do
59%  same as 2022
of colleagues say my benefits meet my 
(and my family's) needs well

We will recognise your success
81% ▲ up 7% from 2022

of colleagues say they receive feedback 
helping them improve performance
1.4 million recognitions 
the highest since the At Our Best 
recognition platform was launched in 2015

We will support you to grow
78% ▲ up 20% from 2022

of colleagues work flexibly and split their 
time between home and the workplace

71% ▲ up 3% from 2022

our career index is higher than the 
financial services benchmark by 6%

Many of our colleagues found 2023 to be a challenging year. While inflation has 
fallen from levels seen in 2022, it remains high across many of our markets, which 
has resulted in continued pressures on the cost of living.

Fixed pay increases for 2024 were determined based on consistent principles to 
help address wage inflation in the markets where we operate. Across the Group, 
there was an overall increase in fixed pay of 4.4%. The level of increases varied by 
market, depending on the economic situation and individual roles. Increases were 
targeted towards more junior and middle management colleagues where fixed pay 
is a larger proportion of overall pay.

We continued to take action outside of our annual cycle to address inflation 
pressures for colleagues, where the local context required this. In Argentina and 
Türkiye, we gave our colleagues fixed pay increases throughout the year. In Egypt, 
we supported our colleagues with a one-off pay adjustment in response to high 
inflation.

Over 90% of colleagues have access to share ownership plans globally, with 25% 
of our global employee population taking part. In the UK, following the maturity of 
the three-year 2020 Sharesave plan with an option price of £2.627, colleagues 
benefited from significant share price growth at a time when they needed it most. 
The 2020 plan had the highest take up rate and contribution level in recent years. 

Our approach to benefits and well-being balances local market practice with global 
minimum standards. More than 95% of colleagues have private medical insurance, 
a retirement plan and life insurance.

Our well-being programme focuses on mental, physical, financial and social well-
being. In our employee Snapshot survey, 83% of colleagues said their mental 
health was positive. HSBC has been ranked top tier for mental health in the global 
CCLA Corporate Mental Health Benchmark.

We have prioritised supporting colleagues to work flexibly, balancing customer 
needs, social connection and individual flexibility. Flexible working remains one of 
the most cited reasons why colleagues would recommend HSBC as a place to 
work, and a third of new joiners say it is what attracted them to HSBC. 

We have delivered a world-class talent marketplace and learning experience 
platform, providing learning pathways, projects and networking opportunities to 
more than 200,000 colleagues. An average of 23.9 hours of training was delivered 
per FTE in 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

289

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration structure for employees

We set out below the key features of our remuneration framework, which applies on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local laws:

Remuneration 
components and 
objectives

Fixed pay
Attract and retain 
employees with market 
competitive pay for the 
role, skills and 
experience required.

Benefits
Support the physical, 
mental and financial 
health of a diverse 
workforce in 
accordance with local 
market practice.
Annual incentive
Incentivise and reward 
performance based on 
annual financial and 
non-financial measures 
consistent with the 
medium- to long-term 
strategy, stakeholder 
interests and values-
aligned behaviours.

Buy-out awards
Support recruitment of 
key individuals.

Application for Group employees

– Fixed pay may include base salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other 

cash allowances in accordance with local market practice. 

– It is based on predetermined criteria, non-discretionary, transparent and not reduced 

based on performance.

– It represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior colleagues.
– Fixed pay may change to reflect an individual’s position, role or grade, cost of living in the 

country, individual skills, capabilities and experience.

– Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.

Approach for executive Directors

– Consistent with approach for 
Group colleagues except 
fixed pay allowance paid in 
shares.

– Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical 

– Provision of medical 

insurance, life insurance, health assessment and relocation support.

insurance, life insurance, car 
and tax return assistance. 
Group Chief Executive is 
eligible to receive 
accommodation and a car 
benefit in Hong Kong.

– All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award. 

– Annual incentive is 

Individual awards are determined against objectives for performance set at the start of 
the year.    

– Variable pay represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior 

colleagues and will be more closely aligned to Group and business performance as 
seniority increases. 

– Variable pay for Group employees identified as Material Risk Takers (’MRTs’) under 

European Union Regulatory Technical Standard (’RTS’) 2021/923 is limited to 200% of 
fixed pay, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM held on 23 May 2014 (98% in 
favour).

– Awards are generally paid in cash and shares. For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are 
in shares and/or where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management 
funds.

determined based on the 
outcomes of annual 
scorecard of financial and 
non-financial measures.
– Executive Directors and 

Group Executives are also 
eligible to be considered for a 
long-term incentive award, 
which is subject to three-year 
forward-looking performance 
measures.

– Buy-out awards may be offered if an individual holds any outstanding unvested awards 

– For new hires, the approach 

that are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.

– The terms of the buy-out awards will not be more generous than the terms attached to 

the awards forfeited on cessation of employment with the previous employer.

is consistent with the 
approach taken for 
employees and policy 
approved by shareholders.

– For new hires, the approach 

is consistent with the 
approach taken for 
employees and policy 
approved by shareholders.

New hire indicative 
variable pay
Support recruitment of 
key individuals.

– New hire indicative variable pay is awarded in exceptional circumstances, and is limited to 
an individual's first year of employment only, and is subject to a number of factors (such 
as the respective performance of the Group, business unit and individual), and the final 
value paid remains at the full discretion of HSBC. 

– The exceptional circumstances would typically involve a critical new hire and depend on 

factors such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate is forfeiting 
any awards and the timing of the hire during the performance year.

290

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Remuneration 
components and 
objectives (continued)

Deferral
Align employee 
interests with the 
medium- to long-term 
strategy, stakeholder 
interests and values-
aligned behaviours.

Application for Group employees

Approach for executive Directors

– A Group-wide deferral approach is applicable to all employees. A portion of annual 

– All of the LTI award, or at 

incentive awards above a specified threshold is deferred in shares vesting annually over a 
three-year period (33% vesting on the first and second anniversaries of grant and 34% on 
the third).

– For MRTs, awards are generally subject to a minimum 40% deferral (60% for awards of 

£500,000 or more) over a minimum period of four years. 

– A deferral period of five years is applied for senior management and individuals in 

specified roles with managerial responsibilities as prescribed under the PRA and FCA 
remuneration rules and seven years for individuals in PRA-designated senior management 
functions.

– In line with the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, and in compliance with local 

regulations, the deferral requirement for MRTs is not applied to individuals where their 
total variable pay is £44,000 or less and variable pay is not more than one-third of total 
compensation. For these individuals, the Group standard deferral applies.

– Individuals based outside the UK and identified as MRTs under local regulations, would be 

subject to local requirements where necessary.

least 60% of the total variable 
award (including LTI), is 
deferred. The deferred 
awards will vest in five equal 
annual instalments, with the 
first vesting on or around the 
third anniversary of the grant 
date and the last instalment 
vesting on or around the 
seventh anniversary of the 
grant date.

– All deferred awards are in 

HSBC shares and subject to a 
post-vesting retention period 
of one year.

– All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions, subject to compliance with local 
laws. Awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 and awards granted to non-
MRTs on or after 1 January 2022 are subject to clawback.

– HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees, which prohibits employees from 

entering into any personal hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities.

– For all Group MRTs and the majority of local MRTs, excluding executive Directors, a 

minimum 50% of the deferred awards is in HSBC shares and the rest into deferred cash. 
Local regulatory requirements would also apply where necessary.

– For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the relevant 
regulations, at least 50% of the deferred award is linked to fund units reflective of funds 
managed by those entities, with the remaining portion in deferred cash awards.

– Variable pay awards made in HSBC shares or linked to relevant fund units granted to 

MRTs are generally subject to a one-year retention period post-vesting. 

– MRTs who are subject to a five-year deferral period, except senior management or 

individuals in PRA- and FCA-designated senior management functions, have a six-month 
retention period applied to their awards.

– Where an employee is subject to more than one regulation, the requirement specific to 

the sector and/or country in which the individual is working is applied.

Severance payments
Adhere to contractual 
agreements with 
involuntary leavers.

– Where an individual’s employment is terminated involuntarily for gross misconduct then, 
subject to compliance with local laws, the Group’s policy is not to make any severance 
payment and all outstanding unvested awards are forfeited. 

– Any payments will be in line 
with the policy on loss of 
office.

– For other cases of involuntary termination of employment, the determination of any 
severance will take into consideration the performance of the individual, contractual 
notice period, applicable local laws and circumstances of the case.

– Generally, for good leavers, all outstanding unvested awards will normally continue to 

vest in line with the applicable vesting dates. Where relevant, any performance conditions 
attached to the awards, and malus and clawback provisions, will remain applicable to 
those awards.

– Severance amounts awarded to MRTs are not considered as variable pay for the purpose 

of application of the deferral and variable pay cap rules under the PRA and FCA 
remuneration rules where such amounts include: (i) payments of fixed remuneration that 
would have been payable during the notice and/or consultation period; (ii) statutory 
severance payments; (iii) payments determined in accordance with any approach 
applicable in the relevant jurisdictions; and (iv) payments made to settle a potential or 
actual dispute.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

291

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Committee governance 
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer, the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, 
the Group Chief Human Resources Officer, and the Group Head of 
Performance, Reward and Employee Relations routinely and 
selectively attend Committee meetings. As detailed below, the Chair 
of the Group Remuneration Committee held regular meetings with 
management, and Committee advisers to discuss specific issues as 
they arose during the year outside the formal Committee process.

The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the 
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, to consider input 

Matters considered during 2023

from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas and track 
progress on actions and Committee priorities. The Committee 
Secretary will continue to support the Chair in ensuring that the 
Committee has fulfilled its governance responsibilities.

A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/
board-committees.

Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay pool, workforce performance and pay matters, pay gap report, and employee insights
Directors’ remuneration policy design
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group
Directors’ remuneration report
Regulatory, risk and governance
Material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved
Regulatory updates, including approach and outcomes for the identification of Material Risk Takers
Governance matters
Principal subsidiaries
Matters from subsidiary committees

Jan

Feb May

Jun

Jul

Sep

Dec

l
ô
l
l
l

l
l
l

l

l
ô
l
l
l

l
l
l

ô

l
ô
l
l
ô

l
l
l

l

l
l
ô
ô
ô

ô
l
l

l

l
l
l
l
ô

l
l
l

ô

l
l
l
ô
ô

l
l
l

l

l
l
l
l
l

l
l
l

l

l Matter considered

ô Matter not considered

Advisers

The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on 
specific topics during 2023. Deloitte provided independent advice to 
the Committee. Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other 
advisory services to the Group in 2023. Deloitte is a founding member 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates 
under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK.

The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on 
market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson also 
provides actuarial support to Global Finance, benchmarking data for 
the wider workforce and services related to benefits administration 
for our Group employees. The Committee was satisfied the advice 
provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective and 
independent in 2023.

For 2023, total fees of £292,800 and £51,492 were incurred in relation 
to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers 
Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees and a time-
and-materials basis.
Attendees and interaction with other Board 
committees

During the year, Noel Quinn as the Group Chief Executive provided 
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the Committee 
engaged with, and received updates from, the following:

– Mark Tucker, Group Chairman;

– Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer;

– Georges Elhedery, Group Chief Financial Officer;

– Jenny Craik, Group Head of Performance, Reward and Employee 

Relations;

– Pam Kaur, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer;

– Bob Hoyt, Group Chief Legal Officer; and

– Aileen Taylor, Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance 

Officer.

The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group Risk 
Committee and Group Audit Committee on risk, conduct and 
compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration. 

No Director is present at Committee meetings when their own 
remuneration is discussed.

In addition to the meetings above, the Chair took the opportunity to 
meet with the Chair of the Group Risk Committee and Group Audit 
Committee to consider the Group’s risk and reward alignment 
framework, which is designed to promote sound and effective risk 
management in meeting PRA and FCA remuneration rules and 
expectations. 
Committee effectiveness

In 2023, the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board 
committees, including the Group Remuneration Committee, was 
conducted externally by Ffion Hague, Independent Board Evaluation. 
The review determined that the Committee continued to operate 
effectively.

Areas for enhancement were identified, including continued focus on 
the relationship between the Group and its subsidiary entities, 
building on the efforts taken under the direction of the Committee 
Chair, which will be kept under review in 2024.

The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and 
the Committee will track the progress in implementing 
recommendations during 2024.

As highlighted in the Board effectiveness review disclosure on 
page 261, the Board considered that further improvement is required 
to ensure reporting is succinct and supported by relevant key 
performance indicators. Further details of the annual review of the 
Board effectiveness review can be found on pages 260 to 261.

292

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Additional remuneration disclosures 
This section provides further information and disclosure in relation to 
executive Director and wider workforce remuneration as required 
under the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, Hong Kong Ordinances, Hong Kong 
Listing Rules and the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures.

For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures, executive 
Directors and non-executive Directors are considered to be members 
of the management body. Members of the Group Executive 
Committee other than the executive Directors are considered as 
senior management.

Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code

The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in 
respect of the Directors' remuneration policy: 

Provision

Approach

Clarity
Remuneration arrangements should be 
transparent and promote effective engagement 
with shareholders and the workforce.

– The Committee regularly engages and consults with major shareholders to take into account 

shareholder feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
– Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and 

available to all our employees.

Simplicity

Remuneration structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation should be easy 
to understand.

– Our Directors' remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and 

transparent, while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the remuneration rules of the UK's PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our 
shareholders. The objective of each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in 
respect of each element is clearly set out.

Risk

– In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk 

Remuneration structures should identify and 
mitigate against reputational and other risks from 
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks 
that can arise from target-based incentive plans.

Predictability

The range of possible values of rewards to 
individual Directors and any other limits or 
discretions should be identified and explained at 
the time of approving the policy.

Proportionality

The link between individual awards, the delivery 
of strategy and the long-term performance of the 
Group should be clear and outcomes should not 
reward poor performance.

Alignment with culture

Incentive schemes should drive behaviours 
consistent with the Group's purpose, values and 
strategy.

management while supporting our business objectives.

– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the 

Committee on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the 
Group Risk Committee when making remuneration decisions.

– Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from 

which any executive Director variable pay is funded.

– Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-

financial measures. Financial measures are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure CET1 remains 
within risk tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the overall scorecard 
outcome is subject to a risk and compliance modifier.

– The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year 

deferral period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have 
vested are subject to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date 
(extending to 10 years where an investigation is ongoing).

– The charts set out in our shareholder approved policy report (available in our Annual Report and 

Accounts 2021) show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary under different 
performance scenarios for executive Directors.

– The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial and resource plan 

targets, as well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.

– The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the 

outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not 
appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance 
period.

– In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a 

required behaviour rating, which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.

– Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social 

strategy. These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations, 
improving customer satisfaction, diversity and inclusion.

– Each year senior employees participate in a 360 survey, which gathers feedback on values-aligned 

behaviours from peers, direct reports, skip level reports and managers.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

293

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Link between risk, performance and reward

Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk management to support our business objectives and the delivery of our strategy.

We set out below the key features of our framework, which enable us to align between risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance 
with local laws and regulations:

Framework 
elements

Variable pay 
pool

Application

– The Group variable pay pool is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial and non-financial factors. We 

use a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance 
increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling 
recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby 
limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.

– The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:

– Group and business unit financial performance, considering contextual factors driving performance, and capital requirements;
–

current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial and resourcing plan and global 
conduct outcomes; and
fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for 
determining the pool.

–

– In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group 

may determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for 
employees including unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.

Individual 
performance

– Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial objectives. Objectives 
for senior management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint; 
facilitating financing to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee diversity; and risk and compliance measures.

Control 
function staff

– A mandatory global risk and compliance objective is included for all other employees. Employees receive a behaviour rating as well 

as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.

– Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles 

are made by the global function head.

– The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance colleagues, are assessed according to 

a balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake. 

– Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
– Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
– The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of 

Internal Audit.

Variable pay 
adjustments 
and conduct 
recognition

– Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including:
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
–

involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause 
significant harm to HSBC; and

– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.

– Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to 

variable pay awards.

Malus

– Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:

– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
–
–

restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
improper or inadequate risk management.

Clawback

– Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs 
on or after 1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior 
management functions in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may 
be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
–
–

failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a 
contract of employment; and 
a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards, 
policies and procedures.

–

Sales 
incentives
Identification 
of MRTs

– Clawback can also be applied to vested or paid awards granted to designated Executive Officers as defined by the US Securities 
and Exchange Commission ('SEC') for a period of three years in the event of an accounting restatement due to material non-
compliance with any financial reporting requirement under the US securities laws.

– We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate 

safeguards to avoid incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours. 

– We identify individuals as MRTs based on qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the PRA's and FCA's Remuneration Rules. 

Our identification process is underpinned by the following key principles:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers a colleague’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and 

function that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
– We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in 

certain roles and grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the Remuneration Rules.

294

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Summary of shareholder return and Group Chief Executive remuneration

The graph shows HSBC TSR performance (based on the daily spot 
Return Index in sterling) against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for 
the 10-year period ended 31 December 2023.

The single figure remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the 
past 10 years, together with the outcomes of the respective 
annual incentive and LTI awards, are presented in the following table.

The FTSE 100 Total Return Index has been chosen as a recognised 
broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. 

HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Group Chief Executive

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Stuart 
Gulliver

Total single figure £000
Annual incentive1 (% of maximum)
Long-term incentive1,2,3 (% of maximum)

7,619
54%
44%

7,340
45%
41%

5,675
64%
–%

6,086
80%
–%

2,387
76%
100%

John 
Flint

4,582
76%
–%

John 
Flint

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

Noel 
Quinn

2,922
61%
–%

1,977
66%
–%

4,154
32%
–%

4,895
57%
–%

5,562
75%
–%

10,641
70%
75%

1  The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver included 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ remuneration report, which 
was deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US 
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 (’AML DPA’) as determined by the Committee. The AML DPA performance condition was met 
and the award vested in 2018. The value of the award at vesting was in the 2018 single figure of remuneration and included as long-term incentive for 
2018. 

2  Long-term incentive awards are included in the single figure of remuneration for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be 

substantially completed. For Group Performance Share Plan (’GPSP’) awards, this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant. GPSP 
awards shown in 2014 to 2015 are therefore related to awards granted in 2015 to 2016. 

3  The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made. LTI awards have a three-year 

performance period and the first LTI award was made in February 2017. The value of the LTI awards expected to vest will be included in the total 
single figure of remuneration of the year in which the performance period ends. Noel Quinn received the 2021–2023 LTI award that had a 
performance period which ended on 31 December 2023. This was the first LTI award granted to him as Group Chief Executive.

Voting results from Annual General Meeting

2023 Annual General Meeting voting results

Remuneration report (votes cast)

Remuneration policy (votes cast from 2022 Annual General Meeting)

For
79.75%

8,251,001,243

 95.73 %

7,666,488,029

Against
20.25%

2,094,952,768
 4.27 %
342,320,697

Withheld
––

32,990,533

––

7,773,468

As set out in the Committee Chair's letter, the Committee reflected 
on feedback from investors following the vote on the implementation 
of our current policy at last year’s AGM. We explained in our 
statements of 5 May 2023 and 3 November 2023 that our largest 
shareholder voted against the Board’s recommendations on a number 
of resolutions including the Directors’ remuneration report, which 
impacted the results of these resolutions. 

The Board was pleased that a large majority of shareholders voting at 
the AGM supported HSBC’s strategy. The Committee Chair has met 
with several of our large institutional investors and proxy advisory 
firms since the AGM, and there remains strong support for the 
current remuneration policy.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

295

HSBC TSRFTSE 100 Total Return IndexDec 2013Dec 2014Dec 2015Dec 2016Dec 2017Dec 2018Dec 2019Dec 2020Dec 2021Dec 2022Dec 2023100%200%Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Pay ratio

The following table shows the ratio between the total pay of the 
Group Chief Executive and the lower quartile, median and upper 
quartile pay of our UK employees.

Total pay and benefits for the Group Chief Executive is the single 
figure of remuneration for Noel Quinn. The increase in median ratio is 
primarily driven by the vesting of the 2021–2023 long-term incentive 
('LTI'), which is the first he has received as Group Chief Executive. 
Excluding the LTI vesting in respect of the year, the ratio remained 
broadly in line with prior years at 86:1 at median. 

Total pay ratio

Method

A
A
A
A
A

Lower 
quartile

291:1
167:1
154:1
139:1
169:1

Median

169:1
95:1
90:1
85:1
105:1

Upper 
quartile

88:1
49:1
46:1
43:1
52:1

2023
2022
2021
2020
2019

Total pay and benefits amounts used to calculate the ratio

Lower quartile

Median

Upper quartile

Total 
pay and 
benefits

36,528
33,284
31,727
29,833
28,920

Total 
salary

27,680
24,615
27,666
23,264
24,235

Total 
pay and 
benefits

63,000
58,257
54,678
48,703
46,593

Total 
pay and 
benefits

Total 
salary

121,223 89,506
113,778 95,000
106,951 84,000
75,000
96,386
72,840
93,365

Total 
salary

45,536
41,000
41,500
36,972
41,905

(£) Method

2023
2022
2021
2020
2019

A
A
A
A
A

The total pay and benefits for the median employee for 2023 was 
£63,000, an 8.1% increase compared with 2022.

Our UK workforce comprises a diverse mix of colleagues across 
different businesses and levels of seniority, from junior cashiers in our 
retail branches to senior executives managing our global business 
units. We aim to deliver market-competitive pay for each role, taking 
into consideration the skills and experience required for the business.

Pay structure varies across roles in order to deliver an appropriate mix 
of fixed and variable pay. Junior colleagues have a greater portion of 
their pay delivered in a fixed component, which does not vary with 
performance and allows them to predictably meet their day-to-day 
needs. Our senior management, including executive Directors, 
generally have a higher portion of their total remuneration opportunity 
structured as variable pay and linked to the performance of the Group, 
given their role and ability to influence the strategy and performance 
of the Group. Executive Directors also have a higher proportion of 
their variable pay delivered in shares, which vest over a period of 
seven years with a post-vesting retention period of one year. During 
this deferral and retention period, the awards are linked to the share 
price so the value of award realised by them after the vesting and 
retention period will be aligned to the performance of the Group.

We are satisfied that the median pay ratio is consistent with the pay 
and progression policies for our UK workforce, taking into account the 
diverse mix of our UK employees, the pay mix applicable to each role 
and our objective of delivering market competitive pay for each role 
subject to Group, business and individual performance.

Our ratios have been calculated using the option ‘A’ methodology 
prescribed under the UK Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018. Under this option, the ratios are calculated using 
full-time equivalent pay and benefits of all employees providing 
services in the UK at 31 December 2023. We believe this approach 
provides accurate information and representation of the ratios. The 

ratio has been computed taking into account the pay and benefits of 
nearly 33,000 UK employees, other than the Group Chief Executive. 
We calculated our pay quartiles and benefits information for our UK 
employees using:

– full-time equivalent annualised fixed pay, which includes base 

salary and allowances, at 31 December 2023;

– variable pay awards for 2023;

– return on deferred cash awards granted in prior years. The 

deferred cash portion of the annual incentive granted in prior years 
includes a right to receive notional returns for the period between 
the grant date and vesting date, which is determined by reference 
to a rate of return specified at the time of grant. A payment of 
notional return is made annually and the amount is disclosed on a 
paid basis in the year in which the payment is made; 

– gains realised from exercising awards from taxable employee 

share plans; and

– full-time equivalent value of taxable benefits and pension 

contributions. 

Full-time equivalent fixed pay and benefits for each employee have 
been calculated by using each employee’s data as at 31 December 
2023. Where an employee works part-time, fixed pay and benefits are 
grossed up, where appropriate, to full-time equivalent. One-off 
benefits have not been included in calculating the ratios as these are 
not permanent in nature and in some cases, depending on individual 
circumstances, may not truly reflect a benefit to the employee.

The reported ratios may not be comparable to our international and 
listed peers on the FTSE 100, given differences in business mix and 
size; employment and compensation practices; methodologies for 
computing pay ratios; and assumptions used by companies.
Relative importance of spend on pay

The following chart shows the change in:

– total employee pay between 2022 and 2023; and

– dividends and share buy-backs in respect of 2022 and 2023.

In 2023, total spend on pay was slightly higher than in 2022. The total 
return to shareholders increased by 156% compared with 2022, 
reflecting a higher dividend and $7bn of capital return to shareholders 
through share buy-backs, which included the up to $3bn buy-back 
announced at our third quarter of 2023 results. In addition, the Group 
has announced the intention to initiate a further up to $2bn buy-back. 
Dividends include an approximation of the amount payable in April 
2024 in relation to the fourth interim dividend of $0.31 per ordinary 
share.

 Relative importance of spend on pay

2023  —

$11,816m

$7,000m

$18,816m

Total return to 
shareholder

2022  —

$6,343m $1,000m $7,343m1

Employee pay

2023  —

2022  —

$18,220m

$18,003m

↑
156%

↑
1%

Employee pay

Dividends

Share buy-back

1    In our Annual Report and Accounts 2022, we disclosed that the total 
return to shareholders was $9,144m, of which $8,144m related to 
dividends in 2022. This was an error and has been corrected in the 
chart above.

296

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Comparison of Directors’ and employees’ pay

The following table compares the changes in each Director’s base 
salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive between 2020 and 2023 
with the percentage change in each of those elements of pay for UK-
based employees of HSBC Group Management Services Limited, the 
employing entity of the executive Directors. 

There were no changes to the fees or benefits of the non-executive 
Directors between 2020 and 2023. The year-on-year percentage 
change in fees noted in the table below is primarily driven by any pro-
rated fees received by the non-executive Director for 2020, 2021, 
2022 and 2023 based on time served by them on the Board and the 
relevant Board committees and any additional responsibilities taken 

Annual percentage change in remuneration

on by the non-executive Director during each year. The value of 
benefits received by the non-executive Directors reflect the taxable 
expense reimbursements claimed, and the associated gross-up tax, in 
relation to attending the Board meetings in each year. Page 301 
provides the underlying single figure of remuneration for non-
executive Directors used to calculate the figures above. 

Non-executive Directors who joined after 1 January 2023 are not 
included, which includes Ann Godbehere, Kalpana Morparia, Brendan 
Nelson and Swee Lian Teo. 

Director/employees

Executive Directors
Noel Quinn1,2
Georges Elhedery3
Non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham4
Rachel Duan5,6
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn6,7
James Forese8
Steven Guggenheimer9
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña10
Eileen Murray5
David Nish
Jackson Tai10,11
Mark Tucker
Employee group12

Base salary/fees
2021
2022

2023

2020

2023

2022

2021

2020

2023

Benefits

Annual incentive
2021
2022

2020

 0.5 
 — 

 3.2 
 — 

 1.7 
 — 

 151.7 
 — 

 6.7 
 — 

 25.3 
 — 

 (48.9) 
 — 

 353.7 
 — 

 (6.7) 
 — 

 36.1 
 — 

 57.4 
 8.4 
 5.3 
 10.2 
 0.8 
 0.8 
 10.7 
 0.4 
 (65.0) 
 — 
 5.0 

 — 
 235.8 
 231.1 
 20.5 
 4.8 
 8.5 
 (1.5) 
 (1.0) 
 7.7 
 — 
 3.1 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 257.5 
 86.6 
 10.4 
 121.7 
 0.4 
 (1.4) 
 — 
 1.0 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 28.7 
 — 
 108.7 
 (10.8) 
 — 
 2.0 

 — 
 (100.0) 
 (100.0) 
 — 
 (90.0) 
 (71.4) 
 — 
 (13.6) 
 (24.0) 
 (54.9) 
 5.7 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 120.0 
 — 
 242.4 
 7.0 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 (100.0) 
 — 
 25.0 
 (100.0) 
 (36.5) 
 1.3 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 100.0 
 — 
 (50.0) 
 (78.9) 
 (77.5) 
 2.3 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 11.7 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 3.7 

 99.0 
 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 25.2 

 20.2 
 — 

 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 (20.0) 

1  Noel Quinn succeeded John Flint as interim Group Chief Executive with effect from 5 August 2019 and was appointed permanently into the role on 

17 March 2020. The annual percentage change in 2020 for Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2019 single figure of remuneration (for 
the period 5 August 2019 to 31 December 2019) and his 2020 single figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020). 
Based on his annualised 2019 compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 2.1%, 
85.2% and -50.9%, respectively for 2020.

2  Noel Quinn voluntarily waived the cash portion of his 2020 annual incentive. The year-on-year percentage change between 2020 and 2021 would be 

-1% without this cash waiver.

3  Georges Elhedery succeeded Ewen Stevenson as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 January 2023. Year-on-year comparison for 

Georges Elhedery will be available from 2024 onwards.
4  Geraldine Buckingham joined the Board on 1 May 2022.
5  Rachel Duan and Eileen Murray were appointed members of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022.
6  Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn did not receive taxable benefits in 2023, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
7  Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee effective 29 April 2022.
8  James Forese was appointed as non-executive Chair of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc in 2021. Fees for 2021 included fees in relation to this role. 
9  Steven Guggenheimer joined the Board on 1 May 2020 and therefore received fees for only part of 2020.
10  José Antonio Meade Kuribreña and Jackson Tai did not receive taxable benefits in 2021, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
11  Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023.
12  Employee group consists of individuals employed by HSBC Group Management Services Ltd, the employing entity of the executive Directors, as no 

individuals are employed directly by HSBC Holdings.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

297

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Scheme interests awarded during 2023

(Audited)

The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2023 in respect of the 2022 performance year, as 
disclosed in the 2022 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. The below 
table includes details of immediate shares and fixed pay allowances in compliance with Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of 
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

Scheme awards in 2023

(Audited)

Noel Quinn

Type of interest 
awarded
LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary
Immediate shares2 % of base salary

Basis on which 
award made

Fixed pay allowance3 N/A

Georges Elhedery

LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary
Immediate shares2 % of base salary

Fixed pay allowance3 N/A

Face 
value
awarded
£000

Percentage
 receivable for 
minimum
performance

Number of
shares
awarded

End of
performance 
period

5,476 
1,082 
300 
300 
300 
1,599 
716 
192 
192 
192 

 25 
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
 25 
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

861,422
170,206
50,080
51,435
49,291
251,474
112,568
31,962
32,827
31,459

31 December 2025
31 December 2022
N/A
N/A
N/A
31 December 2025
31 December 2022
N/A
N/A
N/A

Date of award

27 February 2023  
27 February 2023  
15 May 2023  
21 August 2023  
7 November 2023  
27 February 2023  
27 February 2023  
15 May 2023  
21 August 2023  
7 November 2023  

1 In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of base salary for 

Noel Quinn and 160% of base salary for Georges Elhedery. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price 
of £6.357 taken on 24 February 2023, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 5% per annum for the vesting period 
(£4.963). LTI awards are conditional share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal annual 
instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. Awards are subject to malus and 
clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award and are not eligible for dividend equivalents. 

2 Immediate share awards are granted based on the previous years' performance as part of the annual incentive and are not subject to forward-looking 
performance conditions. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. The face value of the immediate share awards have been 
computed using HSBC’s closing share price of £6.357 taken on 24 February 2023. Awards are subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years 
from the date of the award. 

3 Fixed pay allowance awards are granted in instalments in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, and 

are not subject to forward-looking performance conditions. Individual tax liabilities were satisfied in cash, therefore the face value awarded represents 
the net of tax value of the shares and the number of shares awarded reflects the net of tax number of shares. The fixed pay allowance awards have 
been computed using HSBC's closing share price of £5.997 taken on 12 May 2023, £5.839 taken on 18 August 2023 and £6.093 taken on 
6 November 2023. These awards vest immediately and are subject to a retention period and released annually on pro-rata basis over five years, 
starting in March 2024.

Performance conditions for the 2023–2025 LTI awards
(Audited)

Measures (weighting)1
RoTE (with CET1 capital ratio underpin)2 (25.0%)
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1 capital ratio underpin)3 
(25.0%)

Environment and 
sustainability4 (25.0%)

Relative TSR5 (25.0%)

Carbon reduction
Sustainable finance and 
investment

Minimum
(25% payout)
13.0%

49.0%

64.0%

$588.0bn

At median of the
peer group

Target
(50% payout)
14.3%

50.5%

68.0%

$700.0bn

Maximum
(100% payout)
15.5%

52.0%

72.0%

$756.0bn

Straight-line vesting 
between minimum and 
maximum

At upper quartile of 
peer group

1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2  To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period.
3  To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 

2025.

4  Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2025 using 2019 as 

the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 
31 December 2025. 

5  The peer group for the 2022 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, 

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. 

298

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Executive Directors’ interests in shares

(Audited)

The shareholdings of executive Directors in 2023, including the 
shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2023 (or 
the date they stepped down from the Board, if earlier) are set out 
below. The following table shows the comparison of shareholdings 
with the company shareholding guidelines. There have been no 
changes in the shareholdings of the executive Directors from 
31 December 2023 to the date of this report.

Individuals have five years from their appointment date to build up the 
recommended levels of shareholding. In line with investor guidance, 
for executive Directors, unvested shares that are not subject to 
forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) can 
count towards their shareholding requirement under the shareholder-
approved policy.

The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding 
requirement, taking into account shareholder expectations and 
guidelines. The Committee also has full discretion in determining any 
penalties for non-compliance.

With regard to post-employment shareholding arrangements, we 
believe that our remuneration structure achieves the objective of 
ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors’ interests 
with shareholder experience post-cessation of their employment due 
to the following features of the policy: 

– Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the fixed pay 
allowance have a five-year retention period, which continues to 
apply following a departure of an executive Director.

– Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are subject 
to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply following 
a departure of an executive Director.

– LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year post-
vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on departure. 
The weighted average holding period of an LTI award within HSBC is 
therefore six years, in excess of the five-year holding period typically 
implemented by FTSE-listed companies. 

HSBC operates a policy under which individuals are not permitted to 
enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares 
subject to a vesting and/or retention period.

Shares

(Audited)

Executive Directors
Noel Quinn5
Georges Elhedery5

Shareholding 
guidelines
(% of salary)

Shareholding at 
31 Dec 20232 
(% of salary)

Share 
interests
(number
of shares)

At 31 December 2023

Scheme interests

Shares awarded 
subject to deferral1

Share 
options3

without
 performance 
conditions

with
performance
conditions4

400%
300%

797%  
598%  

1,721,465   
753,467   

—   
—   

308,610   
714,008   

2,963,315 
475,463 

1 The gross number of shares is disclosed. A portion will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security that falls due at the time of 

vesting.

2  The value of the shareholding is calculated using an average of the daily closing share prices in the three months to 31 December 2023 (£6.192), and 

does not include any unvested interests.

3  At 31 December 2023, Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery did not hold any options under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK).
4 LTI awards granted in February 2022 and 2023 are subject to the performance conditions as set out in the preceding sections. 
5  Executive Directors are expected to meet their shareholding guidelines within five years of the date of their appointment. Noel Quinn and Georges 

Elhedery were appointed on 5 August 2019 and 1 January 2023, respectively. 

Service contracts

Payments to past Directors

The service contracts of executive Directors do not have a fixed term. 
The notice periods of executive Directors are set at the discretion of 
the Committee, taking into account market practice, governance 
considerations, and the skills and experience of the particular 
candidate at that time.

Service agreements for each executive Director are available for 
inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. Consistent with the 
best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise 
termination payments. Directors may be eligible for a payment in 
relation to statutory rights.

Noel Quinn
Georges Elhedery

Contract date (rolling)

18 March 2020
1 January 2023

Notice period
(Director and HSBC)
12 months
12 months

Total pension entitlements 

(Audited)
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year 
have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension scheme 
for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to additional 
benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no retirement age 
set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for colleagues is 65.

(Audited)
HSBC has received a formal request from the former employer of 
Ewen Stevenson to reduce the buy-out award granted to him in 2019 
by £82,980, which will be offset against the next available vesting for 
this award. The reduction will be made in line with PRA regulations, 
acting on the decision made by Ewen Stevenson’s former employer. 
We understand the reduction was part of a collective adjustment and 
there are no concerns over Ewen Stevenson's conduct or the 
discharge of his individual accountabilities.

Payments Ewen Stevenson received after he stepped down as an 
executive Director are set out in the following section.

In line with the terms of his departure disclosed in our Annual Report 
and Accounts 2022, Ewen Stevenson was granted good leaver status 
and is therefore eligible to receive vesting of the 2021–2023 LTI 
award, which was pro-rated for time in employment. Ewen’s good 
leaver status is conditional upon satisfaction of non-compete 
provisions under which he cannot undertake a role with a defined list 
of competitor financial services firms for 12 months after his 
employment ceases with HSBC. Details of the 2021–2023 LTI 
outcome are outlined on page 286.

No other payments were made to, or in respect of, former Directors 
in the year in excess of the minimum threshold of £50,000 set for this 
purpose.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

299

Corporate governanceReport of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Payments for loss of office 

(Audited)
Departure terms for Ewen Stevenson

Ewen Stevenson left the Group on 30 April 2023.

In accordance with the approved Directors' remuneration policy and 
contractual terms agreed for the period between 1 January 2023 and 
25 October 2023, Ewen received payments totalling £703,519 in lieu 
of his base salary and pension allowance. Ewen also received his
Directors’ emoluments

fixed pay allowance in respect of the same period, which totalled 
£885,836 and was awarded in immediately vested shares, which are 
subject to a retention period. In accordance with the approved 
Directors' remuneration policy, Ewen received cash in lieu of unused 
holiday totalling £73,621 on expiry of his notice period. 

External appointments

During 2023, executive Directors did not receive any fees from 
external appointments.

The details of compensation paid to executive and non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2023 are set out below: 

Emoluments

Directors' base salary, allowances and benefits in kind
Non-executive Directors' fees and benefits in kind
Pension contributions
Performance-related pay paid or receivable2
Inducements to join paid or receivable
Compensation for loss of office
Notional return on deferred cash
Total
Total ($000)

Noel Quinn
2023
£000
3,386 

— 
6,293 
— 
— 
43 
9,722 
12,083 

2022
£000
3,367 

— 
6,439 
— 
— 
31 
9,837 
12,226 

Georges Elhedery

Non-executive Directors1

2023
£000
1,999 

— 
3,783 
— 
— 
6 
5,788 
7,194 

2022
£000
— 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

2023
£000

4,920 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
4,920 
6,115 

2022
£000

4,644 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
4,644 
5,772 

1 Fees and benefits in kind for 2022 reflects the population as per the single figure table for non-executive Directors, which excludes individuals who 

have stepped down from the Board during 2022. 

2 Includes the value of the deferred and LTI awards at grant. 

The aggregate amount of Directors’ emoluments (including both 
executive Directors and non-executive Directors) for the year ended 
31 December 2023 was $25,391,977. As per our policy, benefits in 
kind may include, but are not limited to, the provision of medical 
insurance, income protection insurance, health assessment, 
life assurance, club membership, tax assistance, car benefit, travel 
assistance, provision of company owned-accommodation and 
relocation costs (including any tax due, where applicable). 

Total benefits in kind of £25,304 ($31,450) were provided to Ewen 
Stevenson until he left the Group. This included income protection 
benefits valued at £16,414 ($20,401), life assurance benefits of £935 
($1,162) and other non-taxable expenses of £7,955 ($9,887).

Post-employment medical insurance benefits were provided to former 
Directors, including Douglas Flint valued at £6,721 ($8,354), Stuart 
Gulliver valued at £6,721 ($8,354), John Flint valued at £9,706 
($12,064), Marc Moses valued at £15,886 ($19,745) and Ewen 
Stevenson valued at £377 ($469). Tax return support was also 
provided to John Flint valued at £5,441 ($6,763), Marc Moses valued 
at £2,500 ($3,107) and Ewen Stevenson valued at £1,320 ($1,641).

Five highest paid employees – share awards (HSBC Share Plan 2011)

The total aggregate value of benefits provided to former executive 
Directors was £73,976 ($91,945). The aggregate value of Director 
retirement benefits for current Directors is nil. Amounts are converted  
into US dollars based on the average exchange rates for the year.

There were payments under retirement benefit arrangements with 
three former Directors of £1,381,674. The provision at 31 December 
2023 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to two former 
Directors amounted to £340,208. This relates to unfunded 
unapproved retirement benefits schemes. 

Emoluments of senior management and five highest paid 
employees

The following tables set out the emoluments paid to senior 
management, which in this case comprises executive Directors and 
members of the Group Executive Committee, for the year ended 
31 December 2023, or for the period of appointment in 2023 as a 
Director or member of the Group Executive Committee. Details of the 
remuneration paid and share awards granted to the five highest paid 
employees, comprising one executive Director and four Group 
Executives for the year ended 31 December 2023, are also presented.

Dates of award

2013 to 2022
27 Feb 20232
15 May 20233
21 Aug 20234
7 Nov 20235
1 Jan to 31 Dec 20236

Purchase
price (£)

Usually vesting

from

to
1 Mar 2023 30 Mar 2029
0
0
27 Feb 2023 30 Mar 2030
0 15 May 2023 15 May 2023
0 21 Aug 2023 21 Aug 2023
7 Nov 2023
0
7 Nov 2023
1 Mar 2023 30 Mar 2024
0

HSBC Holdings ordinary share awards

At 1 Jan 
2023
5,603,050 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5,603,050

Granted in 
period
— 
2,533,801 
50,080 
51,435 
49,291 
3,345 
2,687,952

Vested in 
period1
445,705 
687,935
50,080
51,435
49,291
982
1,285,428

Lapsed
in period
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

Cancelled in 

period At 31 Dec 2023
5,157,345 
1,845,866 
— 
— 
— 
2,363 
7,005,574 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

1   The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which the awards were vested was £5.9681.
2   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £6.3570. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 
standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period, range between £2.8390 and £6.3180. These awards include LTI 
awards and other awards which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions. LTI awards are subject to a combination of financial and non-
financial metrics that are detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report in the Annual Report and Accounts.

3   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £5.9970. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 

standard. The fair value of the award was £6.1100.

4   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £5.8390. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 

standard. The fair value of the award was £5.8330.

5   The closing price on the day before the grant date was £6.093. The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting 

standard. The fair value of the award was £6.0830.

300

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

6   Relates to the allocation of dividend equivalent shares in relation to eligible awards.

Emoluments

£000s

Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind
Pension contributions
Performance-related pay paid or receivable1
Inducements to join paid or receivable
Compensation for loss of office
Total
Total ($000)

1   Includes the value of deferred share awards at grant.

Five highest paid employees

13,357   
100   
24,259   
—   
—   
37,716   
46,877   

Senior management
38,960 
640 
59,286 
— 
— 
98,886 
122,906 

US dollars

Number of highest paid employees Number of senior management

Emoluments by bands

Hong Kong dollars

$19,000,001 – $19,500,000
$22,500,001 – $23,000,000
$25,000,001 – $25,500,000
$38,000,001 – $38,500,000
$41,000,001 – $41,500,000
$42,000,001 – $42,500,000
$42,500,001 – $43,000,000
$48,000,001 – $48,500,000
$49,000,001 – $49,500,000
$51,500,001 – $52,000,000
$56,000,001 – $56,500,000
$59,000,001 – $59,500,000
$61,000,001 – $61,500,000
$63,500,001 – $64,000,000
$72,500,001 – $73,000,000
$75,000,001 – $75,500,000
$94,000,001 – $94,500,000

Non-executive Directors

(Audited)

$2,426,967 – $2,490,834
$2,874,040 – $2,937,907
$3,193,377 – $3,257,245
$4,853,933 – $4,917,801
$5,237,139 – $5,301,006
$5,364,874 – $5,428,741
$5,428,741 – $5,492,609
$6,131,284 – $6,195,152
$6,259,019 – $6,322,887
$6,578,357 – $6,642,224
$7,153,165 – $7,217,032
$7,536,370 – $7,600,238
$7,791,840 – $7,855,708
$8,111,178 – $8,175,046
$9,260,794 – $9,324,661
$9,580,132 – $9,643,999
$12,007,098 – $12,070,966

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1   
1   
1   
1   
1   

The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2023, together with comparative figures for 2022.

Fees and benefits

(Audited)
(£000)

Geraldine Buckingham
Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
James Forese3
Ann Godbehere4
Steven Guggenheimer
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia5
Eileen Murray6
Brendan Nelson7
David Nish
Jackson Tai8
Swee Lian Teo9
Mark Tucker
Total (£000)
Total ($000)

Fees1

2023

244   
244   
279   
759   
68   
264   
244   
170   
290   
81   
479   
132   
51   
1,500   
4,805   
5,972

2022

155   
225   
265   
689   
—   
262   
242   
—   
262   
—   
477   
377   
—   
1,500   
4,454   
5,536

Benefits2
2023

2022

5   
—   
—   
1   
—   
1   
4   
—   
3   
12   
19   
19   
—   
51   
115   
143

—   
5   
1   
—   
—   
10   
14   
—   
—   
—   
22   
25   
—   
113   
190   
236

Total

2023

249   
244   
279   
760   
68   
265   
248   
170   
293   
93   
498   
151   
51   
1,551   
4,920   
6,115

1 Fees are in line with the Directors’ remuneration policy that was approved at the 2022 AGM. Non-executive Directors receive a pro-rata payment of 

£4,000 travel allowance per annum. 

2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC 

Holdings' registered offices. Tax for non-executive Director benefits is met by HSBC, therefore amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax 
rate of 47%, where relevant. 

3 Appointed as Chair of the Group Risk Committee on 5 May 2023. Stepped down as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee and joined the 

Group Audit Committee as a member on 5 May 2023. Includes fee of £443,000 (2022: £447,000) in relation to his role as Chair of HSBC North 
America Holdings, Inc.

4 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2023.
5 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 March 2023.
6 Appointed as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee on 5 May 2023.
7 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 September 2023.
8 Retired from the Board and retired as Chair of the Group Risk Committee and member of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Nomination 

& Corporate Governance Committee on 5 May 2023. 

9 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2023.

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

301

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

2022

155 
230 
266 
689 
— 
272 
256 
— 
262 
— 
499 
402 
— 
1,613 
4,644 
5,772

Corporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report

Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares

(Audited)

The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in 
2023, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at 
31 December 2023, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are 
set out below. There have been no changes in the shareholdings of 
the non-executive Directors from 31 December 2023 to the date of 
this report.

Shares

Geraldine Buckingham 
Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
James Forese
Ann Godbehere (appointed to the Board on 1 September 2023)
Steven Guggenheimer
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia (appointed to the Board on 1 March 2023)
Eileen Murray
Brendan Nelson (appointed to the Board on 1 September 2023) 
David Nish 
Jackson Tai (retired on 5 May 2023)
Swee Lian Teo (appointed to the Board on 1 October 2023)
Mark Tucker

2024 fees for non-executive Directors

Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the shareholding 
guidelines of 15,000 shares within five years of the date of their 
appointment. All non-executive Directors who had been appointed for 
five years or more at 31 December 2023 met the guidelines.

Shareholding 
guidelines (number 
of shares)

Share interests 
(number of shares)

15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  
15,000  

15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
115,000 
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
75,000 
— 
50,000 
66,515 
15,200 
307,352 

Following a review of fees during 2023, and in accordance with the shareholder approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the Company’s 
2022 Annual General Meeting, the Board approved increases to certain of the fees payable to the non-executive Directors and for roles on the 
Board Committees with effect from 1 January 2024. As a result, each non-executive Director receives a fee of £136,500 per annum. The 
separate travel allowance of £4,000 per annum has been incorporated within this fee – a separate travel allowance is no longer paid. The fees 
paid to non-executive Directors who are standing for election or re-election as members of Board Committees are set out in the table below 
(these Board Committees’ fees and Board fees are pro-rated for part year service where relevant).

Position
Non-executive Group Chairman1
Non-executive Director (base fee)
Senior Independent Director
Group Risk Committee

Group Audit Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Group Technology Committee

Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee

Designated workforce engagement non-executive Director

2024 fees
£

1,500,000
136,500
200,000
150,000
42,000
78,750
42,000
––
34,650
40,000

Chair
Member
Chair
Member
Chair
Member

1  The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.

Non-executive Director appointment and re-election

Non-executive Directors and the Chair are appointed for fixed terms 
not exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their re-
election by shareholders at AGMs. Non-executive Directors and the 
Chair do not have service contracts, but are bound by letters of 
appointment issued for and on 

behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for inspection at HSBC 
Holdings’ registered office. There are no obligations in the non-
executive Directors’ or Chair's letters of appointment that could give 
rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.

2024 AGM
James Forese
Ann Godbehere1
Steven Guggenheimer
Eileen Murray
Brendan Nelson1
Swee Lian Teo1

2025 AGM
Rachel Duan
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña

2026 AGM
Geraldine Buckingham
Kalpana Morparia

1  Ann Godbehere, Brendan Nelson and Swee Lian Teo were appointed following the 2023 AGM and therefore their initial three-year appointment terms 
are subject to approval of their election by shareholders at the 2024 AGM. Their initial three-year term of appointment will end at the conclusion of the 
2027 AGM, subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the relevant AGMs.

302

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
MRT remuneration disclosures

The following tables set out the remuneration disclosures for 
individuals identified as MRTs for HSBC Holdings. 

Remuneration information for individuals who are only identified as 
MRTs at HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank plc or other solo-regulated 
entity levels is included, where relevant, in those entities’ disclosures.

The 2023 variable pay information included in the following tables is 
based on the market value of awards. For share awards, the market 
value is based on HSBC Holdings’ share price at the date of grant 
(unless indicated otherwise). For cash awards, it is the value of 
awards expected to be paid to the individual over the deferral period.

Remuneration awarded for the financial year (REM1)

Fixed 
remuneration

Variable 
remuneration3

Number of identified staff
Total fixed pay ($m)
–  of which: cash-based ($m)1
–  of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2
–  of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m)
–  of which: other instruments ($m)
–  of which: other forms ($m)
Number of identified staff
Total variable remuneration ($m)4
–  of which: cash-based ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: other instruments ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)
–  of which: other forms ($m)
–  of which: deferred ($m)

Total remuneration ($m)

Supervisory 
function

Management 
function

Other senior 
management

Other 
identified 
staff

13.0
5.9
5.9
—
—
—
—
13.0
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
5.9

2.0
6.7
3.2
3.5
—
—
—
2.0
15.6
2.1
—
13.5
11.5
—
—
—
—
—
—
22.3

16.9
39.8
39.8
—
—
—
—
16.9
67.4
30.5
18.3
36.9
24.7
—
—
—
—
—
—
107.2

1,238.0
690.3
690.3
—
—
—
—
1,238.0
740.2
371.2
174.5
354.6
201.6
10.1
5.6
—
—
4.3
2.7
1,430.5

1  Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
2  Paid in HSBC shares. Vested shares are subject to a retention period of up to one year.
3  Variable pay awarded in respect of 2023. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 (98% in favour), for each MRT the variable 

component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of fixed component of the total remuneration. HSBC has continued to use the 
discount rate previously published as PRA remuneration rule 15.13 for 17 individuals for the purpose of calculating the ratio between fixed and variable 
components of 2023 total remuneration. 

4  26 identified staff members were exempt from the application of the remuneration structure requirements for MRTs under the PRA and FCA 

remuneration rules. Their total remuneration is $6.2m, of which $5.1m is fixed pay and $1.1m is variable remuneration.

Special payments to staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM2)

Supervisory 
function

Management 
function

Other senior 
management

Other 
identified 
staff

Guaranteed variable remuneration awards1
Number of identified staff
Total amount ($m)
–  of which guaranteed variable remuneration awards paid during the financial year, that are not 

taken into account in the bonus cap ($m)

Severance payments awarded in previous periods, that have been paid out during the financial year2
Number of identified staff
Total amount ($m)
Severance payments awarded during the financial year2
Number of identified staff
Total amount ($m)
–  of which paid during the financial year ($m)
–  of which deferred ($m)
–  of which severance payments paid during the financial year, that are not taken into account in 

the bonus cap ($m)

–  of which highest payment that has been awarded to a single person ($m)

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

59.8
37.0
32.8
—

37.0

3.4

1  No guaranteed variable remuneration was awarded in 2023. HSBC would offer a guaranteed variable remuneration award in exceptional 

circumstances for new hires, and for the first year of employment only. It would typically involve a critical new hire, and would also depend on factors 
such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance 
year.
Includes payments such as payment in lieu of notice, statutory severance, outplacement service, legal fees, ex-gratia payments and settlements 
(excludes pre-existing benefit entitlements triggered on terminations).

2 

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

303

Corporate governance