108108

109

Reflecting
ON INTERNAL 
MOBILITY AT ADMIRAL 

Hola! I’ve been in the Admiral 
Group for 12 years and spent the 
last 8 of those years as CEO of 
our Spanish insurance business – 
Admiral Seguros. 

As CEO of Admiral Seguros, I oversee a 
fantastic team of people, based mostly 
in Seville. We serve our 440k Spanish 
customers through the Qualitas Auto, 
Qualitas Classic and Balumba brands. 

I originally joined Admiral as a Business 
Development Manager, reporting into 
Henry Engelhardt. Previous to Admiral 
I had been a senior manager in PwC 
Madrid, also completing an MBA at 
INSEAD. In my first day on the job Henry 
asked me if I would mind delaying my 
training and flying to the US, to support 
a team investigating what would later 
become Compare.com. Thus started an 
intense but fun-packed three years during 
which I worked closely with both Henry 
and David Stevens, running group projects 
and launching the UK telematics product. 

In 2014 I had the chance to move to Paris 
and support the in-sourcing of our French 
operation, L´olivier. From there I moved to 
Seville and transitioned into leadership 
of the Admiral Seguros team at the time 
Cristina Nestares moved to the UK. 

What struck me about Admiral when I 
first joined was its open culture, combined 
with a strong willingness to do things 
differently and to trust in people as a 
driver of results. I’m pleased to say that 12 
years on, the Admiral culture is still very 
much prevalent across the Group. 

It’s been great to reflect during 2023 on 
everything the Group has achieved in the 
last 30 years. I look forward to continuing 
to build together on this success.

“What struck me  
about Admiral when  
I first joined was its open 
culture, combined  
with a strong willingness  
to do things differently 
and to trust in people as  
a driver of results.  
I’m pleased to say that  
12 years on, the Admiral 
culture is still very  
much prevalent across 
 the Group.”

Sarah Harris
CEO, Admiral Seguros

USA

Cardiff
Paris

Seville

Viability Statement

In accordance with 
provision 31 of the 2018 
UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Directors have 
assessed the prospects of the 
Company over a three-year 
period, having referenced 
the Group’s Own Risk and 
Solvency Assessment (ORSA), 
the Capital Plan, risk strategy, 
risk appetite, principal risks 
and uncertainties, key risk 
drivers, and ongoing risk 
management activities. 

As per provision 31, Admiral considers 
three years to be a period of assessment 
over which it has a reasonable degree of 
confidence. Although the Group reviews 
financial projections that extend beyond 
the three-year time horizon covering the 
years up to 2028, Admiral considers that 
there is an inherent risk and uncertainty 
in projecting beyond this three-year 
period, as the degree of certainty in 
the impact of internal and external 
developments reduces greatly due to 
the nature of Admiral’s primary business 
(one-year insurance policies). However, 
these financial projections contain no 
information which would cause different 
conclusions to be reached over the long-
term viability of the Group.

At least annually, the Group produces an 
ORSA report, which is one of the sources 
of evidence used by the Board to assess 
viability. The ORSA report sets out a 
detailed consideration of the principal 
risks and uncertainties facing the Group 
and considers current and projected levels 
of solvency and liquidity over the short to 
medium term.

In addition to the ORSA, the Board utilises 
other relevant reporting, some of which 
is longer term in nature. Notably these 
include five-year financial projections 
reviewed twice a year, three-year solvency 
projections reviewed at least twice a year, 
and a one-year financial budget for the 
forthcoming 12 months approved on an 
annual basis.

Another source of evidence is the 
alignment of the financial and business 
planning process and the solvency 
assessment, referred to within Admiral 
as the capital plan. This makes sure that 
Admiral is appropriately capitalised at 
a fixed point in time as well as over the 
future planning time horizon, given 
Admiral’s principal risks and uncertainties 
and a plausible range of potential stressed 
conditions. The capital plan is a key 
consideration for Group and Subsidiary 
Boards in assessing and approving the 
business strategy, business/financial 
plan, capacity to pay dividends, and 
key business decisions.

The quantitative assessment considers 
how the regulatory capital requirements, 
economic capital needs, own funds 
and solvency position of the Group are 
projected to change over the three-year 
horizon, with a requirement to maintain 
a solvency ratio above the approved 
capital risk appetite buffer throughout 
the projection. 

As part of the ORSA process, a series 
of sensitivity, stress and scenario tests 
(S&STs) and reverse stress tests (RSTs) 
are examined and quantified based 
on the regulatory capital basis (which 
is the standard formula method with 
adjustments tailored to reflect Admiral’s 
risk profile) to understand the potential 
impact on the Group’s solvency, liquidity 
and profitability over a three-year period. 
In addition to these Group tests, there are 
also entity-specific scenarios, considered 
of lower materiality to the Group, that are 
performed by each subsidiary insurance 
entity as part of their ORSA processes. 

The results of the stress tests form part 
of the process to set the Group’s capital 
risk appetite, which seeks to hold a buffer 
on top of the Group’s regulatory capital 
requirement that is sufficient to protect 
its regulatory capital position against a 
range of significant but plausible potential 
shocks and stresses.

Key strategic decisions, including the 
setting of dividend payments, consider 
the solvency impact against the Board-
approved capital risk appetite of 150%, 
which is a key criterion for the Board in 
assessing viability. Refer to the Strategic 
Report (page 54) for information on 
sensitivities to the reported 2023 solvency 
ratio position.

To assess the robustness of the Group 
to the impact of various risks, 13 S&STs 
and two RSTs have been quantified to 
understand the potential impact on the 
Group’s solvency ratio. In 2023 a range of 
scenarios have been performed, capturing 
insurance risk, market/credit risk, strategic 
risk, natural catastrophe, climate change 
and cyber/operational risk.

The results provide comfort that Admiral 
has sufficient capital to withstand the 
extreme scenarios. Whilst the 150% lower 
trigger is breached in five instances – 
three severe inflation-based scenarios, a 
US banking crisis scenario and a liquidity 
stress, should such scenarios actually 
occur there are a number of management 
actions, including adjustments to 
shareholder dividends, that would be 
called on to alleviate capital pressures and 
improve the solvency ratio to bring it back 
above the 150% buffer. Another exception 
is an extreme RST, combining severe 
and extreme insurance and market 
risk scenario combinations with credit 
and liquidity risk. In the absence of 
management actions, this would result 
in a breach of the 100% solvency ratio 
but, as is the intention of the RST, it is 
considered to be an extremely remote 
outcome, being well in excess of a  
1-in-200-year event. Overall, the Group 
is likely to remain adequately capitalised 
and liquid in future, given the results of 
the S&STs.

Strategic ReportAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic ReportAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023110110

Viability Statement
continued

Risk management is an essential part of 
Admiral’s operations, and successful risk 
taking is key to the Group achieving its 
business objectives. Risk management 
is therefore a key consideration when 
setting the Group’s strategy, managing 
performance, and rewarding success. 
The current risks that are faced by the 
Group are captured in the Risk Universe, 
with the most notable risks captured 
in the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties (page 98)29. In addition to 
these principal risks and uncertainties, 
the Group also considers a range of 
emerging risks that could impact the 
Group to varying degrees in the future, 
but which are not yet fully understood, 
including those related to climate change 
(page 107). 

The Admiral Group Risk Strategy is 
considered and approved by the Board. 
The strategy is directly linked to the 
business plan and seeks to ensure that 
all risks are managed effectively to 
allow the Group to meet its strategic 
aims (page 22). Supporting this is the 
Admiral Group Risk Management Policy, 
which sets out Admiral’s approach to risk 
management, as well as the governance 
of risk management across the Group. 
This approach ensures that there is 
appropriate oversight of the Group’s risk 
profile, and that the Group remains within 
risk appetite in all its operations.

While each of Admiral’s principal risks 
and uncertainties could have potentially 
impacted the Group’s performance, 
during 2023 the following key risk drivers 
were seen to be of notable importance: 
changing economic outlook, geopolitical 
instability, technology, cyber and 
operational resilience, Consumer Duty, 
and climate change. 

Changing economic outlook: 
Admiral has reviewed and continues 
to monitor the Group’s solvency and 
liquidity positions in response to market 
volatility and wider economic uncertainty, 
considering factors such as sustained high 
inflation, banking uncertainties resulting 
from the collapse of regional US banks 
and the UBS rescue of Credit Suisse, 
the wider impact of continued supply 
chain disruption, high energy prices, 
high interest rates, and the pressures 
on individual Household finances which 
have led to a cost of living crisis in many 
countries. Some of the current trends 
in risks most impacted by the changing 
economic outlook are highlighted below:

Premium Risk and Catastrophe 
Risk: Global uncertainties, supply 
chain pressures and increasing vehicle 
repair and replacement costs have 
all contributed to claims inflation. 
While labour shortages have generally 
eased, wages have also grown quickly 
to keep up with inflation, impacting large 
bodily injury claims. In most insurance 
markets, motor claims frequency has 
increased but is still noticeably below 
pre-pandemic levels. Admiral continues 
to manage these challenges with a 
disciplined, long-term approach to 
pricing and growth, with a focus on 
building the business for the long term.

Credit Risk: Cost of living pressure has 
seen growing demand for the “essentials” 
insurance product and a modest increase 
in the number of loan customers 
falling into arrears. Controls are in place 
to identify and support vulnerable 
customers on a case-by-case basis. 
Within Admiral Money, the screening 
process has been adjusted to include 
stricter creditworthiness and affordability 
checks to ensure that customers are 
resilient to ongoing inflation. The loan 
portfolio is subject to regular stress tests 
and the risk adjusted returns achieved 
indicate a resilient portfolio.

Reserve Risk: The Group has a prudent 
approach to reserving, which helps to 
minimise the impact of inflation and helps 
build strong, resilient businesses for the 
long term. Provision has been made for 
the impact of inflation on unsettled bodily 
injury (BI) claims, for which cost of care is 
the primary driver, ensuring that reserves 
capture excess inflation for all large BI 
heads of damage exposed to inflation, 
but particularly for wage inflation over 
the average time it takes for BI claims to 
settle. This continues to be reviewed, with 
best-estimates of these impacts being 
reflected in the reserves recognised as at 
the balance sheet date.

Operational Risk: While 2023 has seen 
the relative normalisation of working 
conditions following the pandemic-era, 
the business has continued to review 
the impacts and level of operational 
risk in the context of a modern, hybrid 
workforce. Admiral received real living 
wage accreditation in the UK in July which 
helped to support colleagues through 
cost of living concerns.

Geopolitical instability: 
The escalation of geopolitical risk 
following the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
led to a review of potential exposure 
across the Group’s PR&Us. At that time, 
both market risk and insurance risk were 
flagged as key areas to monitor. 

Market Risk: The initial investment 
spread shock was of brief duration 
and there was very limited indirect 
exposure across the investment portfolio. 
Market risks are reviewed by the 
investments team and asset managers 
to ensure Admiral is adequately positioned 
in this rapidly changing environment.

Insurance Risk: The risk of reduced 
availability of co-insurance/reinsurance 
arrangements remains heightened due 
to tensions between Russia-Ukraine and 
an anticipated Ogden rate change in 2024, 
however monitoring is being undertaken 
to adequately react to any scenario. 

More recently, Admiral reviewed its 
exposure to geopolitical conflict in 
response to the outbreak of the 2023 
Israel-Hamas war. Initial analysis suggests 
there is no reason to believe Admiral will 
be materially impacted as a result of the 
conflict. The position is being monitored.

29  Please also see note 6 to the financial statements which sets out the Group’s objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial assets and liabilities.

111

Strategic Report Approval
The Strategic Report is approved for issue 
by the Board of Directors, and signed on 
behalf of the Board:

Milena Mondini de Focatiis
Group Chief Executive Officer

6 March 2024

Cyber and operational resilience: 
Admiral’s strategy to drive continuous 
delivery of good customer outcomes 
includes effective and safe usage of 
technology and data. In support of this 
the Group Risk function has specialist 
staff which: 

•  Complete oversight, challenge 

and escalation of Technology and 
Information Security risks through 
regular engagement with each of the 
businesses within the Admiral Group;

•  Monitor the risk position through 
setting and review of specific KRIs, 
with reporting and, where appropriate, 
escalation through to Committees;

•  Ensure that there is an embedded 
Group Cyber Crisis management 
plan which includes all necessary 
stakeholders to ensure the effective 
response to a cyber crisis; and

•  Work with the businesses to undertake 
deep-dive reviews of specific topics 
highlighted through threat intelligence 
and the key cyber risks facing 
the Group.

Consumer Duty:
The FCA’s Consumer Duty came into 
effect on 31 July 2023. The Duty 
introduces higher and clearer standards 
of consumer protection across financial 
services and requires firms to focus on 
customer outcomes. This aligns with 
the Group purpose and commitment to 
delivering good customer outcomes for 
all customers. Admiral has worked hard to 
review critical customer communications 
and interactions, products and services, 
and customer journeys to align with the 
requirements of the Consumer Duty. 
Admiral has also had close engagement 
with external third parties and the FCA 
throughout the year on the Consumer 
Duty implementation and requirements. 
There is an ongoing focus to ensure that 
the Consumer Duty is fully embedded 
within the business and Admiral 
continue to monitor this to ensure that 
good outcomes are being delivered 
to customers.

Climate change:
Admiral remains committed to 
recognising and understanding the 
risks and opportunities posed by 
climate change to the Group, as 
well as to mitigate its impact on the 
environment. Climate-related risks can 
impact on all of Admiral’s business lines, 
operations, investments, and reinsurance 
arrangements. Admiral Group recognises 
that while there are risks from delayed 
action, there are also opportunities from 
considering the challenges, including 
the potential to accelerate the Group’s 
transformation, to build resilience, and to 
gain competitive advantage in new and 
existing markets. 

As part of this work there is an ongoing 
Group focus on:

•  Ensuring full compliance with 

existing and emerging regulatory and 
disclosure requirements

•  Researching climate-change trends and 
assessing the risks and opportunities 
arising from climate change

•  Incorporating climate-related risks into 
business-as-usual risk management 
and financial planning, such as 
enhancing Admiral’s climate scenario 
testing capabilities, linking climate-
related targets and achievements 
against the directors’ remuneration, 
and better reflecting climate change 
considerations in projections from the 
Business Plan and

•  Continuing efforts to further reduce the 

Group’s carbon footprint.

Admiral Group’s strategy linked to climate 
change is discussed in more detail in the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures disclosure (page 73).

Based on the results of this analysis, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due, for the period up to and including 
December 2026.

Strategic ReportStrategic ReportAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023  
112112

Celebrating
ADMIRAL’S CUSTOMER 
CHAMPIONS

We love to celebrate when our 
colleagues go the extra mile for 
a customer, to ensure we recognise 
and reward exceptional service. 
Every month our UK CEO Cristina 
selects a customer champion, a 
colleague that has gone above and 
beyond for a customer. 

Nancy from our Canadian operation 
was awarded this title for her amazing 
service to a customer who had been in 
an accident. The customer was still on the 
roadside with a car that couldn’t be driven 
and feeling very shaken up. The initial 
contact with our customers is usually 
a brief call to get them and their car 
home safely. 

However, in this instance the customer 
had no one else to call for comfort so 
Nancy called the customer back after 
their initial call. She stayed on the line 
with the customer for 30 minutes 
supporting them until the recovery 
vehicle arrived.

We understand that customers can be 
in a state of anxiety or shock when they 
initially contact us, we accompany them 
on some of their worst days, which is why 
we always try to help make the process 
easier with a friendly voice at the end of 
the phone.

Strategic ReportAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023113

CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE

In this section

114 Chair’s Introduction to Governance
116 Q&A with the Chair
118 Board of Directors
125 Board Leadership and Company Purpose
140 Division of Responsibilities
146 Nomination and Governance Committee Report
161 Audit Committee Report
168 Group Risk Committee Report
172 Remuneration Committee Report
174 Remuneration at a Glance
176 Director’s Remuneration Policy
185 Annual Report on Remuneration
198 Directors’ Report

Corporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023114114

Chair’s Introduction to Governance

115

Building
A DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS 
WITHIN AN EFFECTIVE 
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 
to present Admiral’s Governance Report 
for the financial year ended 31 December 
2023, my first as Chair of the Board. 
Through the course of my first year,  
I have been impressed with the focus 
that Admiral places on ensuring that 
an effective governance framework 
complements its unique culture and 
that both are embedded throughout 
the Group. This report describes the 
framework in place to ensure our Board 
and its Committees are operating 
effectively by supporting and challenging 
management to maintain high standards 
of governance across the Group as we 
continue to drive long-term value for 
all our stakeholders. 

Board changes
2023 has been a year of considerable 
change for the Board of Admiral. I was 
honoured to take over the responsibility 
of Chair of the Board following Annette 
Court stepping down as Chair at the 2023 
Annual General Meeting. You can find a full 
description of my appointment process 
in last year’s Annual Report. Following the 
announcement of my appointment in 
January 2023, I went through a bespoke 
and comprehensive induction, details 
of this process are set out on page 151. 
Again, I would like to express my gratitude 
to Annette for her exemplary leadership 
of the Board. I can confirm that my fellow 
Board members and the wider Admiral 
Team are equally grateful for Annette’s 
dedication and thoughtful guidance. 

Jean Park retired from the Board and all 
her Admiral commitments with effect 
from 20 January 2023, having spent nine 
years on the Board. As I have previously 
mentioned, it was with great sadness 
we learnt that Jean had passed away 

change across the Group. Following his 
resignation from the Board, Keith chaired 
and served on a number of subsidiary 
boards until he retired as a director in 
2019. Keith then continued to undertake 
mentoring roles to many of the Admiral 
management team until shortly before 
his untimely death. Keith was universally 
liked, respected and admired by so 
many across South Wales and beyond 
and will be deeply missed by the whole 
Admiral community.

We were delighted to welcome Fiona 
Muldoon who joined the Board on 
2 October 2023. Fiona was appointed 
as a new independent Non-Executive 
Director and member of the Audit 
Committee. Fiona’s biography can be 
found on page 123. A description of the 
appointment process undertaken to find 
and recruit Fiona is set out on page 149. 

People and culture 
One of the most significant and enduring 
observations from my first year as Chair 
is the sheer quality of people we have 
at Admiral and the passion they show 
for the business, this is demonstrated 
every day in the work they do. There is a 
special culture embedded throughout 
the Group, which I believe is unique to 
Admiral. We build our culture through 
our purpose and our values, these are not 
just words on paper, they are lived daily 
by our teams and integrated through 
everything we do as a business. On behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank all our 
employees for the hard work, dedication 
and enthusiasm they have shown 
throughout the year. Our people and our 
culture are what sets us apart from other 
companies and are the reason why in 
2023, Admiral was acknowledged as the 
best large Company to work for in the UK, 
and our Chief Executive Officer, Milena 

“The Board is focused on 
delivering Admiral’s  
purpose and building its  
culture through a 
framework of good 
governance and established 
values which, in turn, 
will deliver long-term, 
sustainable returns  
to our shareholders.”

Mike Rogers
Group Chair

in May 2023. Whilst Jean left prior to 
my joining the Board, I am well aware 
of the invaluable contribution she made 
to Admiral and the Board throughout her 
nine years’ service, as well as the esteem 
within which she was held by her fellow 
Board Directors and our colleagues across 
the business. 

Sadly, we also learned that our former 
Board colleague Keith James passed 
away in May 2023 after a short illness. 
Keith joined the Board in 2002 and served 
until 2012 overseeing huge growth and 

Governance at a glance

Board Director skills

Board independence

Board gender 

Finance

Risk

Insurance

Executive Strategic Leadership

Marketing/Retail

M&A

City

International

Tech/Digital/Data

Operations

Entrepreneurial

Lending

Small /Medium Enterprise

Remuneration/People

ESG/Sustainability

8 Independent

2 Non-Independent

1 Chair*

6 Men

5 Women

Board ethnicity

Board tenure

0 

2 

4 

6 

8 

10 

12 

* 

Independent on appointment

10 White British or other White
      (including white minority groups) 

1  Asian /Asian British

2  0–2 years

4  2–4 years

3  4–6 years

2  6+ years

Mondini de Focatiis, was recognised as 
the best leader of a big Company at the 
Best Companies to work for awards, see 
more at www.b.co.uk. You can find out 
more about our culture and why Admiral is 
considered a great employer throughout 
this report.

ESG and sustainability
ESG and sustainability considerations form 
part of the narrative to every decision 
we take as a Board and are integral 
to the formation of our wider Group 
Strategy. During the year, the Board 
considered the effects of the cost of living 
situation and, amongst other financial 
and non-financial measures taken to 
keep employees healthy, motivated 
and productive, declared a 5% salary 
increase for all our UK based employees. 
Further information on this can be found 
on page 129.

With regards to diversity, I am pleased to 
report that the Admiral Board exceeds 
the FTSE Women Leaders Review targets, 
with a range of 45% to 55% female Board 
representation during the year. We have 
a female CEO and Senior Independent 
Director and have met The Parker Review 
target for Director ethnicity at Group 
Board level. Whilst this is positive, we 
cannot rest on our laurels, there is still 

much work we can do to ensure a fully 
inclusive environment sits alongside 
a diverse pipeline of talent to drive 
the business forwards. You can read 
more about our diversity and inclusion 
initiatives on pages 62 and 154. 

Climate change and the wider 
environment are important considerations 
we take into account as a Board. You can 
read about how Admiral has taken steps 
to meet its environmental obligations 
through its TCFD and SECR reporting 
disclosures set out on pages 71 and 73.

As Chair, I am conscious that the Board 
is accountable to all our shareholders 
and wider stakeholders such as our 
employees, customers, partners, 
suppliers, communities and the 
environment. We maintain an active 
dialogue with our shareholders and have 
regular interaction with all our wider 
stakeholders. How we do this is set out 
in our section 172 statement on page 87 
along with further details on page 136.

Effectiveness
The Board conducted an evaluation 
of its own performance and those of 
its committees in December 2023. 
In line with its three-year cycle, this 
review was conducted internally by 
the Company Secretary in conjunction 

with myself. The findings from the 
2023 evaluation along with an update 
on the progress made against those 
recommendations from the previous 
year’s external review process can be 
found on page 158. This process gives 
a clear focus on what we can do as a 
Board to improve during the forthcoming 
year, however it did confirm that the 
Board and its committees are working 
effectively in ensuring the business 
is managed for the long-term benefit 
of all our stakeholders. 

I would like to thank my fellow Board 
members for their insight and support 
during my first year as Chair. I look 
forward to our 2024 AGM, which will 
once again be held in person on 25 April 
2024. Further details will be published 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, 
which will be sent or made available to 
shareholders on the Company’s website.

Mike Rogers
Chair

6 March 2024

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023116116

Q&A with the Chair

117

How important is diversity 
and inclusion to the success 
of the business?
Embracing people from all areas of society 
and walks of life brings with it different 
experiences, skills and perspectives. This in 
turn delivers a stronger, more creative 
and capable workforce. Inclusive and 
diverse workplaces foster a keen sense 
of belonging and create an environment 
where employees feel their contributions 
are valued and respected, this enhances 
the culture of the Company. High quality 
candidates are attracted to diverse and 
inclusive companies and employees feel 
more comfortable and satisfied within 
inclusive environments, creating loyalty 
and reducing attrition. Equality is one of 
the four pillars of Admiral’s culture and 
I’ve been impressed with the seriousness 
and focus the Group gives to ensuring 
diversity and inclusion, from the Board 
through to all levels within the Company. 
We have many forums throughout 
Admiral which focus on all aspects of 
diversity and inclusion, this is key to 
enhancing our culture and ultimately the 
success of our business. The team is proud 
of its diverse working culture – it’s what 
makes us Admiral.

  See page 154 for further information

Why is stakeholder engagement 
important to Admiral? 
Stakeholder engagement is a key 
responsibility for the Board, we value 
all our stakeholders and through 
understanding their individual needs 
the Board is able to create a balanced 
and fair approach to their varying, 
sometimes conflicting, interests. 
Engagement through effective 
communication builds trust, credibility 
and confidence, and we take into account 
our various stakeholder views and 
opinions to build a shared vision for the 
future. Engagement also brings clarity 
and alignment as to what the business 
wants to achieve and consensus as to how 
it should do this. Our stakeholders have 
a huge wealth of relevant knowledge 
and experience which we are able to tap 
into to help Admiral be more impactful, 
sustainable and successful, whilst at the 
same time assist in mitigating potential 
risks, conflicts and resistance to change. 
The Board understands the importance 
of these relationships and Admiral has 
an in depth understanding of who our 
stakeholders are and how best to engage 
with them for the benefit of the Company 
in the long-term.

  See pages 56, 87 and 136 for  

further information

What does being a sustainable 
business mean to the Admiral Board?
As a Board we understand that having 
an understandable, transparent and 
sustainable approach to business has 
environmental, economic and social 
benefits, not just for our stakeholders but 
for society as a whole. We have a duty to 
promote sustainable working practices 
and, where possible, to mitigate the 
negative aspects of any impact we have 
on our environment. Everyone benefits 
from working in a more sustainable 
environment and by doing our best to 
reduce emissions and promote equality, 
as a couple of examples amongst 
many, we can do our small part to help 
secure and build a society for future 
generations. As a Board, we understand 
that the perception from our stakeholders 
around Admiral’s commitment to being 
a sustainable business has a bearing on 
our reputation, our customer loyalty, 
employee engagement and investment 
decisions. By continuing to integrate and 
embed sustainability and ESG practices 
throughout our business we are ensuring 
Admiral’s success and resilience over the 
longer-term.

  See page 56 for further information

Helping
PEOPLE LOOK AFTER 
THEIR FUTURE

We asked Mike Rogers 
to share some of his 
initial impressions and 
observations from his first 
year as Chair of Admiral.

How valuable did you find your 
induction process in preparing 
you for your role as Chair?
My induction process was incredibly 
helpful and insightful. One of my 
overwhelming impressions of Admiral is 
how knowledgeable and collaborative 
colleagues are across the UK and beyond. 
Admiral staff generally have a very long 
tenure and therefore the knowledge 
that they build up and are able to share 
is incredibly valuable. I believe that the 
way that Admiral colleagues collaborate 
so closely really adds to the overall 
competitive advantage that Admiral has 
been able to maintain for so many years. 
Meeting with management during my 
induction process has really reinforced 
this in my mind. On top of meeting 
management, I have also spent time 
listening to customer calls as well as 
spending time in a number of call centres 
with our front-line staff. Everyone I have 
met has been generous with their time 
and it is clear that people at Admiral love 
working here.

  See page 151 for further information

What does effective governance 
mean to you and how is this 
demonstrated at Admiral?
Throughout my career I have seen how 
embracing effective governance, initiated 
at the most senior levels of a Company 
and cascaded down through the business, 
builds a culture where integrity and 
values are put at the very heart of how 
that business operates. This in turn allows 
trust to be built through accountability 
and transparency, which encourages 
investment and the building of 
stakeholder relationships with confidence 
and mutual respect. At Admiral, I have 
seen this integrity demonstrated through 
a strong sense of purpose and values, led 
by an effective Board who understand 
and espouse the benefits that effective 
governance can have on building a positive 
workplace culture and, ultimately, on the 
performance of the business. Whilst this in 
itself cannot guarantee Admiral’s success, 
it certainly can create a strong base from 
which the Company is given the best 
opportunity to flourish.

  See page 113 for further information

What have been your initial 
impressions of Admiral’s culture 
during your first year? 
Before I joined as Chair, I was aware of 
Admiral’s reputation for its unique culture, 
this was a factor in guiding my decision 
to join the Company. Having spent my 
first year visiting all areas of the business 
and meeting a large cross-section of our 
colleagues, I can honestly say that I have 
not been disappointed. I believe I can sum 
up Admiral’s culture with the following 
words: engaging, innovative, collaborative, 
inclusive, focused, conscientious and 
fun. The Board and senior management 

team view our culture as the heart of 
what Admiral is, and what it stands for as 
a business. Admiral’s culture is key to why 
the Company has been so successful in 
growing over the past 30 years to where 
we are today and, for this reason, should be 
protected at all costs. Amongst the many 
awards received which reflect our culture, 
we were delighted to be named Best Large 
Company to work for in 2023 and our CEO, 
Milena, was awarded Best Leader of a Big 
Company at the Best Companies Awards.

  See page 132 for further information

How much consideration should 
the Board give to Admiral’s 
purpose and values during its 
decision-making process?
On joining the business, Admiral’s 
philosophy was explained to me in simple 
terms, we want to help people to look 
after their future, always striving for 
better together. This is our purpose, 
and in my relatively short time with the 
business I’ve been impressed in seeing 
how our colleagues embody this purpose 
every day through our values. With every 
discussion and decision we take as a 
Board, our purpose and values are at 
the forefront of our minds. Simply put, 
if the Board believes something does 
not measure up to the high bar we have 
set ourselves then it will be rejected. 
Our values are embraced through an open 
and inclusive workplace, where people can 
have fun, work hard, and be rewarded for 
their achievements. The Board and our 
senior management team lead from the 
front, truly believing that people who like 
what they do, do it better, and it is our 
customers and wider stakeholders who 
benefit as a result. 

  See page 132 for further information

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
118118

Board of Directors

Our aim is to accelerate  
the evolution of our  
core businesses toward  
what we call Admiral  
2.0, an organisation that 
leverages on Admiral’s 
historical strengths whilst 
being even more agile  
and technology focused.

Key

Board skills matrix

  Finance

  Insurance

  Marketing/Retail

  City

  Technology/Digital/Data

  Entrepreneurial

  Remuneration/People

  Risk

  Executive/Strategic Leadership

  M&A

  International

  Operations

  Lending

  ESG/Sustainability

  Small/Medium Enterprise

Committee Membership
  Audit Committee member

  Remuneration Committee member

  Group Risk Committee member

 Nomination and Governance 
Committee member

C   Committee Chair

  Senior Independent Director

119

Mike Rogers  C  
Chair 
Appointed
Appointed as Chair of the Board on 27 April 2023.

Current appointments
•  Chair of Experian plc

Background and experience
Mike was Group Chief Executive Officer of LV= Group from 
2006 until 2016, during which time he grew the organisation 
into a significant player in the life and general insurance 
market. Before that, Mike was with Barclays plc for more 
than 20 years, holding a number of senior roles, most recently 
as Managing Director, UK Retail Banking. Mike was previously 
a Non-Executive Director of NatWest Group plc (where he 
Chaired its Group Sustainable Banking Committee and sat 
on the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee). 
He was also previously a Non-Executive Director of the 
Association of British Insurers.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Mike was appointed as Chair of the Board based on his wide 
business, insurance and financial services knowledge and 
on him being someone who would make a strong strategic 
impact on the future of Admiral. Mike has over 30 years 
of international financial services experience holding the 
senior positions described above. Mike also has a wealth 
of Board experience, he is currently Chair of Experian plc, 
and stepped down as Non-Executive Director of NatWest 
Group plc immediately prior to joining Admiral and as Chair 
of Aegon UK on 22 January 2024. Mike’s recent and relevant 
background and experience, and the skills he has developed 
over his significant and distinguished career made him the 
ideal choice as Chair to lead the Admiral Board and business 
through the next stage of its evolution. 

Skills

Milena Mondini de Focatiis 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
Appointed
Appointed to the Board in August 2020 and became 
CEO on 1 January 2021. 

Current appointments
•  Admiral Insurance Company Limited member  

(an Admiral Group subsidiary)

Geraint Jones 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
Appointed
Appointed in August 2014.

Current appointments
•  Admiral Financial Services Limited Board member 

(an Admiral Group subsidiary)

•  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited Board member 

•  Able Insurance Services Limited Board member  

(an Admiral Group subsidiary)

(an Admiral Group subsidiary)

•  Mentor for A-Road, Growth Capital

Background and experience
Milena joined Admiral in 2007 and was appointed CEO 
in January 2021. She has been a member of the leadership 
team throughout her time at Admiral, has extensive 
experience of the Group’s operations and has attended 
and actively contributed at Board meetings as an observer 
since 2011. Her previous roles included being Head of UK 
and European Insurance and CEO of ConTe, Admiral’s Italian 
insurance business which she founded in 2008. Before joining 
Admiral, Milena worked as a consultant for Bain & Co and 
Accenture. She holds an MBA from INSEAD and a degree 
in Telecommunication Engineering from Università degli 
Studi di Napoli Federico II.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Milena leads a very strong and experienced management 
team and is an effective CEO who continues to build an 
even stronger Admiral for the future. In 2023 Milena was 
awarded the Best Leader of a Big Company at the 2023 
Best Companies Awards.

Skills

•  Admiral Insurance Company Limited Board member 

(an Admiral Group subsidiary)

•  Trustee and Chair of the Finance and Audit Committee  

of the Wales Millennium Centre

•  Finance, Audit and Risk Committee member at the 

Football Association of Wales

Background and experience
Geraint joined Admiral in 2002 and held several senior finance 
positions including Head of Finance, before being promoted 
to Deputy CFO in January 2012 and CFO in August 2014. 
Geraint is responsible for finance, investments and investor 
relations. A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales, Geraint spent the early part of his 
career as an external auditor at Ernst & Young and KPMG.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Geraint has worked for Admiral for over 20 years and 
has been Group CFO for nearly 10 years. He has a deep 
understanding of the Group’s businesses and strategy, 
which, together with his significant financial and accounting 
experience and broad range of skills and commercial 
expertise, makes him a valuable contributor both to the 
Board and the wider Group. Geraint is also able to use his 
financial and accounting experience to provide insight 
into the Group’s financial reporting and risk management 
reporting processes.

Skills

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
120120

Board of Directors
continued

121

Michael Brierley 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed
Appointed in October 2018.

Current appointments
•  Chair of Admiral Financial Services Limited (Admiral Money) 

(an Admiral Group subsidiary)

•  Director, Trustee and Chair of Finance and Risk Committee 

of the Rose Theatre Trust

•  Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit Committee 
and Risk and Compliance Committee at Alpha Bank 
London Limited

Background and experience
Michael was CFO of Metro Bank Plc between 2009 and 2018, 
helping lead the business from start-up to profitability and 
listing on the FTSE. He spent seven years at Capital One 
Europe in various roles including CFO Europe, CFO UK and 
Chief Risk Officer Europe. He has also served as CFO for 
Royal Trust Bank, Financial Controller at Industrial Bank of 
Japan (London Branch), Director Business Risk at Barclaycard 
and was co-founder, Deputy Managing Director and CFO 
of Gentra Limited. Michael is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Michael brings a depth of knowledge from working at 
senior levels across multiple financial services sectors, 
jurisdictions and markets. As a result of his extensive financial 
and commercial experience, Michael is able to contribute 
effectively as a Non-Executive Director, and in his role as 
a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
Through his recent and relevant financial experience, he is 
able to effectively challenge management on the financial 
reporting and internal control matters that come before the 
Audit Committee. Michael demonstrates full commitment 
to the responsibilities that go with his Board and Committee 
roles and offers appropriate challenge and guidance in 
respect of the matters considered in these forums. 

Skills

Karen Green  C  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed
Appointed in December 2018.

Current appointments
•  Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director 
and Chair of the Sustainability Committee, member 
of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees, 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc

•  Non-Executive Director, member of the Audit, Nomination 

and Remuneration Committees, Great Portland 
Estates PLC

•  Non-Executive Director, and Risk and Audit Committee 
Chair and member of the Remuneration Committee of 
Miller Insurance Services LLP 

•  Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Risk Committee  
and member of the Remuneration Committee, Asta 
Managing Agency Ltd

•  Advisor role for Insurtech, Cytora Limited

•  Supervisory Board member and Audit Chair for the 

TMF Group

•  Charity Trusteeship, Wellbeing of Women

Background and experience
Karen Green is the former CEO of Aspen UK. Other senior 
Aspen positions included Group Head of Strategy, Corporate 
Development, Office of the Group CEO and she was a 
member of the Group Executive Committee for 12 years. 
Prior to that, she held various corporate finance, M&A and 
private equity roles at GE Capital Europe and Stone Point 
Capital having started her career in investment banking 
at Baring Brothers and Schroders. 

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Karen has substantial financial services experience and 
has a deep understanding of insurance and reinsurance. 
Karen also has a strong background in strategic planning 
and corporate development and the relevant financial and 
industry expertise to be Chair of the Audit Committee. 
She demonstrates the commitment required to discharge 
effectively the responsibilities attached to this role and to 
challenge management on the Group’s financial reporting 
and risk management processes. 

Skills

Justine Roberts, CBE 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed
Appointed in June 2016.

Andy Crossley  C  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed
Appointed in February 2018. 

Current appointments
•  CEO and Founder, Mumsnet.com and Gransnet.com

Current appointments
•  Chair of EUI Limited (an Admiral Group subsidiary)

•  Non-Executive Director of The Open Data Institute

•  Non-Executive Director, member of Remuneration 

•  Non-Executive Director of Boring Money

•  Non-Executive Director and Chair of Remuneration 

Committee of the English Football League

Background and experience
Justine founded Mumsnet in 2000 and is responsible for 
creation, strategic direction and overall leadership. In May 
2011, Justine founded Gransnet, a sister site to Mumsnet, 
for the over-50s. Before that Justine was a freelance football 
and cricket journalist for the Times and Daily Telegraph, after 
working for Warburgs and Deutsche Bank as an economist, 
strategist and head of South African Equities in New York. 

Contributions and reasons for appointment
As CEO of the successful Mumsnet and Gransnet brands, 
Justine has strong digital and customer experience insights 
that she is able to bring to the Board decision-making 
process. Justine also has a strong background in driving 
change through digital capabilities and brings a fresh and 
insightful perspective to the matters for consideration 
by the Board. Justine is also an effective member of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee and demonstrates 
full commitment to the role as well as performing the role 
of Senior Independent Director.

Skills

Committee, Risk Committee and Chair of Audit Committee 
at Vitality Health Ltd (Vitality Health Ltd, Vitality Life Ltd, 
Vitality Corporate Services Ltd) and Senior Independent 
Director of Vitality Life Ltd.

Background and experience
Andy was CFO at Domestic & General Group from 2014 
to 2017. He spent 14 years at Prudential Plc from 2000 as 
Director, Group Finance; Group Chief Risk Officer, and CFO and 
Deputy Chief Executive of Prudential UK. He previously held 
senior manager roles at Legal & General Group Plc, where he 
was Group Financial Controller, and Lloyds Bank Plc. Andy is a 
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Andy has held a variety of senior roles relating to financial 
planning, strategy and risk across UK financial services. 
He has a wealth of accounting and financial experience 
and provides progressive insights to the matters that come 
before the Board. Andy is a valuable contributor to the Board 
and as a member of the Audit Committee and Chair of the 
Group Risk Committee. Through his recent and relevant 
financial experience, he is able to effectively challenge 
management on the financial reporting matters that come 
before the Audit Committee. 

Skills

*  Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 7 March 2024.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
122122

Board of Directors
continued

123

Evelyn Bourke  C  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed
Appointed in April 2021.

Current appointments
•  Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Audit and Risk 

Committee and member of the Nomination Committee 
at Marks and Spencer Group Plc

•  Non-Executive Director, member of the Nominations 
Committee, Sustainability Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and Workforce engagement NED at Bank of 
Ireland Group plc.

•  Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director, 
member of Audit Committee, Risk and Compliance 
Committee and Nominations Committee at AJ Bell Plc

Background and experience
Evelyn was Bupa Group’s CFO between 2012 and 2016, 
before becoming Bupa’s Group Chief Executive Officer from 
2016 to 2020. Evelyn has held several senior leadership roles 
during her career including Chief Commercial Officer at 
Friends Life UK (2011 - 2012), CFO at Friends Provident 
(2009 – 2010), CFO at Standard Life Assurance (2006 -2008), 
and CEO at Chase de Vere (2004). Evelyn is a qualified actuary 
and holds an MBA from London Business School.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Evelyn brings valuable general management, finance 
and strategy experience from life and health insurance, 
internationally. She complements and enhances the range 
of skills currently on the Board. Evelyn has held several 
leadership positions in financial services organisations 
and has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience 
to perform her roles as Non-Executive Director and Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee.

Skills

Jayaprakasa Rangaswami 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed
Appointed in April 2020.

Current appointments
•  Non-Executive Director and member of Remuneration 

Committee (joint with both Allfunds entities) of Allfunds 
Bank SA and Allfunds Group Plc

•  Non-Executive Director and member of Remuneration and 
Nominations, Audit and Risk Committees at Daily Mail and 
General Trust Plc (DMGT)

•  Board Member and Chair Quarterly Security Forum of 

Harmsworth Media

•  Non-Executive Director and member of Audit Committee, 
Human Resources and Remuneration Committee and 
Chair, Sustainability, and Innovation Committee of National 
Bank of Greece S.A.

•  Member and Chair, Business Development Committee, 

Board of Trustees, Cumberland Lodge

•  Member, Board of Trustees, Web Science Trust

Background and experience
Jayaprakasa Rangaswami (JP) has a wealth of large-scale IT 
operational experience gained through his roles as Chief 
Information Officer (CIO) with Dresdner Kleinwort (2001 to 
2006) and Managing Director/Chief Scientist at BT Group 
(2006 to 2010). JP has also been Chief Scientist with Salesforce 
(a US cloud-based software Company) (2010 to 2014) and was 
Chief Data Officer (CDO) and Group Head of Innovation with 
Deutsche Bank (2015 to 2018). 

JP is also a former global CIO of the Year as well as European 
Innovator of the Year.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
JP brings a wide range of technology and digital experience 
which helps to complement and enhance the existing 
skills around the Board table. He has operated in financial 
services for over ten years and understands the challenges 
of working in a regulated environment. He is also able to 
effectively contribute to the Board debate and demonstrates 
full commitment to the role. JP is also a member of the 
Group Risk Committee, a role for which he has the relevant 
experience and capability. 

Skills

Bill Roberts 
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed
Appointed in June 2021.

Current appointments
•  Advisor at Hi Marley

•  Independent Non-Executive Director Elephant Insurance 

Fiona Muldoon 
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed
Appointed in October 2023.

Current appointments
•  Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Risk Committee 
and member of the Audit Committee at Beazley plc

Company (EIC) (an Admiral Group subsidiary)

•  Chair of Sretaw PE DAC

Background and experience
Bill Roberts has a wealth of insurance, underwriting and 
marketing experience gained during his time at US insurer, 
GEICO, which he joined in 1984. Whilst at GEICO, Bill held 
several Executive appointments, including COO and President 
and CEO for all GEICO Insurance Companies, a position he 
held from 2018 until he was promoted to Vice Chairman, 
GEICO Insurance Companies in 2020. Bill held this role until 
he retired from GEICO in December 2020.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Bill brings valuable insurance experience and insight on the 
US insurance market having held several senior executive 
positions with US insurer, GEICO. Bill contributes and 
challenges effectively on the matters that come before the 
Board. His extensive US insurance experience and insight 
is of specific value to the Group’s US business as it seeks to 
continue to develop and grow. Bill does not currently have 
any other Executive or Non-Executive Director commitments 
that would impact the time commitment requirements for 
his Admiral Non-Executive Director role and member of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee and has capacity 
to fulfil the duties and responsibilities for these roles. 

Skills

Background and experience
Fiona has thirty years’ experience in the insurance industry. 
Fiona was the CEO of FBD Holdings plc, a listed general 
insurer in Ireland, from 2015 to 2020. Prior to that Fiona was 
Director of Credit Institutions and Insurance Supervision at 
the Central Bank of Ireland, the Irish regulator. Fiona spent 
17 years of her career with XL Group in various progressively 
senior finance and general management positions, in Dublin, 
London, and Bermuda. She is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in Ireland.

Contributions and reasons for appointment
Fiona has acquired extensive experience of the insurance 
sector during her 30+ years’ career in financial services. 
Fiona has built a compelling portfolio in the financial services 
sector, demonstrating an ability to leverage her financial 
and commercial skills to make a useful contribution to board 
discussions. Fiona was a Non-Executive Director of Bank of 
Ireland Group for eight years, also sitting on the board of 
New Ireland Assurance Company, the bank’s wholly owned life 
insurance, pension and investment business. She additionally 
serves on the board of Beazley; a FTSE 100 specialist insurer 
and she chairs the board of Sretaw DAC a private equity 
Company based in Ireland.

Skills

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
124124

Board of Directors
continued

Dan Caunt 
Group Company Secretary  
and General Counsel
Appointed
Appointed in May 2022.

Background and experience
Dan trained at Field Fisher where he qualified into the IP 
disputes team in 2005. Dan relocated to Cardiff in 2008. 
He spent two years in the IP/commercial litigation team at 
Osborne Clarke before joining Admiral’s in-house legal team 
in September 2010. Dan became Group Company Secretary 
and General Counsel at Admiral in May 2022 and leads 
the in-house Group Legal and Company Secretarial teams 
within the business. Dan is secretary to the Admiral Group 
Board and all Group Board Committees.

“As Company Secretary  
of Admiral Group PLC, my role  
is focused on ensuring  
that the Group conforms to  
the highest standards of  
corporate governance practice  
as well as ensuring compliance  
with all of its legal and  
regulatory requirements.” 

Dan Caunt 
Group Company Secretary  
and General Counsel

Our Culture

Engagement 

#1

Best Big Company to Work for in the UK

Voted the best big Company to work for in the UK in 2023  
by the Best Companies to Work For awards. 
www.b.co.uk

Diversity

95%

of our employees believe Admiral is  
a diverse and inclusive employer. 

GPTW Survey

Our Culture

87%

of our colleagues are proud to tell others  
that they work for Admiral.

GPTW Survey

Community

88%

of employees feel good about how Admiral  
contributes to the community.

GPTW Survey

Equality

#3

Admiral was recognised as the 3rd best workplace  
for women in the UK by Great Places to Work. 
www.greatplacetowork.co.uk

Board Leadership and Company Purpose

125

UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’) available at www.frc.org.uk, 
applied to Admiral throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2023. At the heart 
of the Code is a set of principles which 
emphasise the value that good corporate 
governance can have on the long-
term sustainable success of a business. 
By applying the principles, and following 
the more detailed provisions of the Code, 
the Board can demonstrate to Admiral’s 
stakeholders how the creation of an 
effective, transparent and accountable 
corporate governance framework, 
aligned to the purpose and values of the 
Company, assists the Board in building our 
special Admiral culture and delivering the 
business strategy within the relevant legal 
and regulatory landscapes in which the 
Group operates. 

Admiral is required to report to 
shareholders on how it has applied the 
principles and provisions of the Code 
during the year and, where we have not, 
the reasons for not doing so. The Board 
confirms that Admiral has complied 
with all of the provisions set out in the 
Code for the year ended 31 December 
2023, with the exception of Provision 19. 
This is explained in further detail below. 

Details on how Admiral has applied the 
principles set out in the Code and how 
governance operates throughout the 
Group have been summarised throughout 
this Governance section and elsewhere 
in this Annual Report and are set out in 
the table below.

Provision 19 of the Code states that 
‘The chair should not be in post beyond 
nine years from the date of their first 
appointment to the Board.’ Annette 
Court was appointed as Board Chair 
in April 2017, having spent five years as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Board. 
Annette reached her nine-year tenure 
as Non-Executive Director on the Board 
in March 2021. As reported in the 2021 
Annual Report, the Board considered and 
agreed, having consulted shareholders, 
that Annette should remain in post to 
facilitate an effective succession process 
for both CEO in 2021 and Chair in 2023. 
Mike Rogers was appointed Chair at 
Admiral’s AGM held on 27 April 2023, 
at which time Annette stood down from 
the Board.

Compliance with Corporate Governance Code Principles

Board leadership and Company purpose
1
Effective Board
A
Purpose, values and culture
B
Governance framework
C
Stakeholder engagement
D
E Workforce policies and practices

2
F
G
H
I

3
J
K
L

Division of Responsibilities
Board roles and responsibilities
Independence
External commitments and conflicts of interest
Board resources

Composition, Succession and Evaluation
Appointments to the Board
Board skills, experience and knowledge
Annual Board evaluation

4
Audit, Risk and Internal Control
M External Auditor and Internal Auditor
N
O

Fair, balanced and understandable review
Internal financial controls and risk management 

5
P
Q
R

Remuneration
Linking remuneration to purpose and strategy
Remuneration policy review
Performance outcomes 2023

Pages
118
8, 132
113
56, 87, 136
96, 132

118, 140
118, 152
143, 154
144

118, 146
153
158

163
161, 201
98, 161, 168

172
176
185

Provision 19 of the Code states that ‘To facilitate effective succession planning and the development of a diverse board, this period can 
be extended for a limited time.’ Annette’s re-election was supported by shareholders at the 2022 AGM (99.3% votes in favour) and her 
2022 performance review, led by the Senior Independent Director, concluded that she continued to perform effectively as Board Chair, 
continued to exercise objective judgement and promoted constructive challenge amongst Board members. Following Annette stepping 
down and the appointment of Mike Rogers as the new Chair in April 2023, Admiral has been in full compliance with the Code.

Corporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Corporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
126126

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

Principal areas of focus  
How the Board spent 
its time during 2023.

In 2023, the Board held seven scheduled 
meetings, in addition there were a 
number of ad hoc Board meetings to deal 
with significant matters that were unable 
to wait until the next scheduled meeting. 
A Board planner is in place which sets out 
those items to be reviewed on an annual 
basis at scheduled Board meetings in 
accordance with the Matters Reserved for 
the Board Schedule. The items below are 
not exhaustive but demonstrate some of 
the key areas of the Board’s focus during 
the year ended 31 December 2023.

Strategy and business plan 
•  Received regular updates around 

key areas of business strategy across 
the Group including progress against 
current plan and strategic priorities 
for the business going forward

Operational performance, 
financial and risk management
•  Review of the operational performance 
of the business through regular reports 
from the CEO and presentations from 
CEOs and senior management from 
across business divisions

•  Regular updates from the CFO on 
the Group’s financial performance 
against strategic objectives, business 
plans, capital allocation and budgets, 
tax planning and international tax 
considerations, planning liquidity and 
adequacy of solvency thresholds and 
prudential buffers considering market 
conditions, analyst forecasts and 
financial and non-financial KPIs

•  Approval of significant debt refinance - 

see principal decision page 129

•  Review and approval of the half year 

and full year results and consideration 
and approval of interim and 
final dividends

•  A two-day Board strategy meeting 

•  Consideration of fair, balanced and 

took place at Admiral’s Swansea office 
in October where the Group’s business 
strategy, 5-year plan, Admiral 2.0, 
capital allocations and diversification 
were discussed

•  Consideration of individual business 
strategies within the Group business 
presented by divisional CEOs, evaluating 
how these tied into the wider 
Group strategy

•  Approval of acquisitions and disposals 
including disposal of Compare.com 
to Insurify, Inc., and the acquisition 
due to complete in 2024 of UK direct 
home and pet personal lines insurance 
operations of RSA, review of M&A 
processes and lessons learnt – see 
principal decision page 128

•  Review of ESG, sustainability and 

community strategies and how these 
are integrated throughout the wider 
business strategy

•  Brand, technology and digital 

programme updates.

understandable requirements in the 
half and full year financial reports, 
along with going concern and viability 
statements following review by the 
Audit Committee

•  Reviewed and approval of risk 

framework, policy and appetite 
for the Group through the Group 
Risk Committee

•  Integration of new technology - 
see principal decision page 130

•  Oversight of internal control 

environment and framework through 
updates from Audit Committee and 
Risk Committee including Cyber 
Risk, ORSA, Solvency II and Group 
Governance framework.

Culture and stakeholders 
•  Consideration of how the Group 
purpose and values have been 
imbedded throughout the business

•  Review of how Admiral’s culture 

continued to develop including analysis 
of feedback from Great Place To Work® 
(GPTW) survey results, working groups, 
culture scorecard and Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy review - see more on 
pages 56 and 132.

•  Consideration of stakeholder map 

and respective stakeholder updates 
throughout the year, including 
engagement mechanisms - see more 
on pages 56, 87 and 136

•  Employee welfare review and 

considerations including cost of living 
analysis and hybrid and remote working 
practice considerations - see pages 129 
and 132

•  Presentations and discussion from 
the Chairs of the UK and Overseas 
Employee Consultation Groups - 
see page 138

•  Overview of Group reward strategy 

including review of share-based awards 
and approval of Directors Remuneration 
Policy through the Remuneration 
Committee – see page 172

•  Talent management and succession 
planning throughout the Group

•  Review of Investor Relations reports

•  Group health and safety updates.

Society, environment  
and sustainability 
•  Oversight of Group ESG and 

sustainability strategy to ensure 
alignment with the Group’s wider 
strategic objectives and culture – 
see page 79

•  Review of climate change strategy, 

related activities and risk management 
including progress towards climate 
commitments and understanding the 
evolving expectations of stakeholders

•  Updates on progress against 

sustainability targets

•  Analysis of suppliers and partners 

and the communities within which 
Admiral operates

•  Updates on volunteering and charity 

propositions within the Group as part of 
a wider community outreach strategy 
including sponsorship of community 
events, charitable giving, volunteering 
and fundraising

•  Updates on the customer journey, 

customer engagement and ensuring 
fair and reasonable claim outcomes for 
all customers with special consideration 
of vulnerable and disadvantaged groups 
within society

Governance and Regulatory
•  Received regular reports from the 

Chairs of the Audit, Risk, Nomination 
and Governance and the Remuneration 
Committee’s

•  Consideration of the work of the 
Nomination and Governance 
Committee on Board composition 
and succession planning, including 
approval of the appointments of Mike 
Rogers as Chair and Fiona Muldoon as 
Independent Non-Executive Director

•  Regular updates and consideration of 

new regulatory requirements including 
implementation mechanisms for 
the new Consumer Duty regulation 
and oversight and education on 
the integration of IFRS 17 reporting 
framework - see page 131

•  The fostering of good relations and 
open and constructive dialogue 
with regulators

•  Discussions around conclusions of 

the external Board evaluation findings 
and agreed areas of focus and Board 
objectives for 2023

•  Consideration of skills, experience and 
time requirements for Directors and 
recommendations to shareholders 
regarding their reappointment

•  Discussions around The Parker 

Review disclosure requirements 
for senior management ethnicity 
through Nomination and Governance 
Committee and the implications for 
succession planning

•  Review and approval of Group policies 
including Board members’ potential 
Conflicts of Interest, Modern Slavery 
and Anti-Bribery considerations 
and approval of Admiral’s Modern 
Slavery Statement

•  Considered and approved the Notice 

of 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
for issue to shareholders

•  Reviewed matters reserved for the 

Board and the committees’ respective 
terms of reference.

Principal areas of focus for  
the Board for 2024 

•  Continued focus on accelerating the 
evolution of Admiral’s core business 
and competencies toward ‘Admiral 
2.0’, leveraging the Group’s historical 
strengths whilst being even more agile 
and technology focused

•  Oversight of progress of the Group’s 
diversification strategy to ensure 
long-term resilience within the 
business whilst strengthening 
and complementing existing 
customer propositions

•  Monitoring the ongoing embedding 
of culture and values throughout the 
business, including closely monitoring 
the effects of hybrid working to ensure 
that the uniqueness of Admiral’s culture 
is maintained and developed

•  To continue focus in relation to the 

Admiral internal model, supporting a 
planned regulatory pre-application and 
subsequent full regulatory application 

•  Provide steering and oversight for 

capital management and reinsurance

•  Embedding the Group’s sustainability 
strategy ensuring that it continues 
to be integral to the Group’s 
wider strategy

•  Focus on Board composition and skills 
in conjunction with Nomination and 
Governance Committee along with 
executive team succession planning

•  Ensure diversity and inclusion objectives 
are embedded throughout the Group 
and continued progress is made in 
respect of ethnic diversity

•  Monitoring progress against 

key pledges for climate change 
and community

•  Continued deepening of the Board’s 
understanding of external risk factors

•  Ongoing oversight of FCA’s Consumer 
Duty regime implementation across 
the business.

127

C
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e

Strategic
THINKING AT 
ADMIRAL

Whilst a significant proportion of 
the Board’s time is focused towards 
addressing the short to medium term 
business considerations required in 
managing a business such as Admiral, 
it is also important that the Board is 
allowed the opportunity to take a step 
back and assess the bigger picture, 
to promote discussion and strategic 
planning over the medium to long term 
in order to identify and address those 
significant opportunities and risks 
that may present themselves. As well 
as being part of every Board meeting, 
Admiral annually dedicates two full days 
to focus on its strategy. In 2023, the 
Board was taken to Admiral’s Swansea 
office for their annual strategy meeting, 
at this meeting the following items are 
examples of some of those issues the 
Board addressed.

•  Group-wide strategy and objectives

•  Admiral 2.0

•  Diversification strategy

•  Motor evolution strategy

•  UK insurance strategy

•  Organic versus inorganic growth

•  International business strategy

•  Five-year plan

•  Strategic opportunities

•  Organisational requirements.

2

full days each year 
to focus on strategy

Corporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
128128

129

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

s172 Principal 
decisions
Our section 172 statement, set out 
on page 87, highlights how the Board 
considers those matters set out under 
s172. On the pages that follow are 
examples of some of the key discussions 
and decisions taken by the Board during 
the year along with details around how 
those considerations set out under 
s172 were taken into account during 
the Board’s decision-making process.

Key: Board considerations as 
defined under s172:
A    Long-term impact 

B   Interests of employees

C    Fostering business relationships

D    Impact on community 
and environment

E    Maintaining reputation for high 
standards of business conduct

F   Treating stakeholders fairly 

Key

Customer

Shareholders

People

Partners/
Suppliers

Communities

Principal decision 1
Acquisitions 
and disposals
The strategic objectives the Board 
considers when evaluating potential 
acquisitions and disposals are:

1. To accelerate Admiral’s diversification 

strategy: to increase the pace of 
growth of non-motor products, such as 
Household, Pet and Travel in the UK

2. To build new capabilities: acquiring 
knowledge in fields where Admiral 
has not yet developed the 
required competencies

3. A path to scale: opportunities 

identified where Admiral is able to drive 
incremental value through pricing 
and claims expertise and driving 
cost efficiencies 

4. To divest from non-attractive markets: 
generating value from adjusting the 
portfolio to focus on markets where we 
see long-term growth potential.

In alignment with Admiral’s strategy of 
diversification of its product offering 
into insurance products beyond Motor, 
the Board was pleased to announce 
the acquisition of the More Than direct 
Home and Pet personal lines insurance 
business from RSA in December 2023. 
This transaction will see Admiral welcome 
c.300 new colleagues as well as the 
transfer of the renewal rights and the 
‘More Than’ brand.

The proposal to engage in the process to 
acquire the More Than business was first 
presented to the Board in September 
2023, and then on a number of occasions 
at milestone points throughout the 
process. Board deliberations focused on:

•  Strategic fit: The Board concurred with 

management that the acquisition 
represented a strong strategic fit and 
achieved the objective of diversification 
in the UK by accelerating the scale and 
market share of both Admiral’s Home 
and Pet products

•  Impact on core business: The Board 
considered the impact on the core/
existing business, particularly in terms 
of management time, and felt that 
this could be mitigated by a properly 
structured, funded and resourced 
integration team

•  Comparison of organic versus inorganic 

growth: An alternative approach 
of investing in organic growth was 
considered. The Board agreed that 
there was no alternative opportunity 
equivalent to the increase in scale for 
the Home and Pet businesses which 
would be achieved by this acquisition

•  Brand reach: The Board agreed to 
offer RSA customers an Admiral 
Home product and discontinue the 
More Than brand for home insurance. 
Admiral would continue to offer 
the More Than brand to RSA Pet 
customers at renewal and to sell new 
business under this brand, whilst also 
maintaining the Admiral brand.

A key consideration for the Board in 
respect of the More Than acquisition was 
the impact on all stakeholders in the short 
and the longer terms. This was factored 
into the Board’s evaluation and decision-
making process. In such situations, 
key stakeholders will be identified, for 
example, employees, customers and 
shareholders, and analysis is undertaken 
to understand any relevant issues specific 
to each stakeholder group. The Board will 
balance the often-conflicting interests 
of stakeholders whilst, at the same 
time, ensuring all receive equitable 
treatment. In the case of the More Than 
business, after in-depth analysis the 
Board agreed that this was a strategic 
fit with the existing Admiral business 
and its stakeholders, and approved the 
acquisition as being in the long-term best 
interests of the Admiral Group. 

During the year, Admiral said goodbye 
to our colleagues at Compare.com in 
the US, as the final step in our exit from 
the comparison market. The sale of 
Compare.com Insurance Agency LLC to 
Insurify, Inc., a US-based virtual insurance 
agent, was completed in March 2023 and 
demonstrated the Boards divestment 
strategy to focus on markets Admiral 
has identified as having the potential for 
longer term growth.

Key s172 criteria considered 
A   B   C   D   E   F

Relevant stakeholders considered

resulting in 743 free parking spaces. 
The Board also approved a free share 
award to employees to ensure a sense 
of shared ownership in the success of 
the business. As a result of these and 
multiple other initiatives overseen by 
the Board, attrition rates continued to 
see improvements, overall absenteeism 
continued to see small reductions 
and recruitment performed well with 
increases in application volumes and 
strong acceptance of offers. The Board 
was also pleased to see an increase in 
the hiring of internal candidates for 
senior positions. 

Employees were able to feedback 
to the Board through the Employee 
Consultation Group (ECG), where topics 
such as the cost of living, employee 
engagement and morale were discussed. 
Engagement scores across the Group 
remained strong, signposting areas for 
continued focus. Pleasing results were 
noted around inclusion, bolstered by 
external recognition and accreditation 
across several areas such as the 
government’s Disability Confident Leader 
and the gold Corporate Health Standard. 
The Board was delighted that the work 
carried out by the team during the year 
was recognised with Admiral achieving 
multiple awards for its workplace culture - 
see page 13. 

Key s172 criteria considered 
A   B   C   D   E   F

Relevant stakeholders considered

Principal decision 2
Liquidity/ 
Refinancing of 
subordinated debt
In June 2023, Admiral Group successfully 
priced a GBP £250 million 10.5-year Tier 
2 bond issue, this was the second bond 
issue in its history. The bond issue was 
accompanied by a tender for Admiral’s 
existing £200 million 5.5% subordinated 
Tier 2 notes, due to mature in July 2024, 
which attracted participation in line 
with expectations.

The Board considered the Tier 2 bond 
issue to be an important part of the 
Company’s active management of its 
debt profile and capital base and took 
the opportunity to refinance, prudently 
well ahead of the maturity date in July 
2024. The proceeds of the new notes 
were to be used to fund general business 
and commercial activities of the Group 
and to allow the Group to refinance 
its existing notes well in advance of 
maturity. The success of the new bond 
issue, which was oversubscribed, and the 
refinancing demonstrated the strength of 
Admiral’s credit and investor confidence in 
the Group. 

The Board sought external advice as 
to the most opportune timing for the 
proposed new issue and tender given 
the maturity date of the existing Tier 2 
notes. The Board approved the refinance 
of the notes in June 2023 subject to 
favourable market conditions and pricing, 
given inflationary pressures and an 
uncertain global economic backdrop, in 
the best interests of the business and 
its stakeholders. 

Key s172 criteria considered 
A   B   C   E   F

Relevant stakeholders considered

Principal decision 3
Employee 
welfare and the 
cost of living
Admiral takes great pride in looking 
after its colleagues by helping them to 
look after their future, this is especially 
important in challenging economic times. 
In 2023 the Board continued its focus 
on maintaining a workforce which was 
healthy, motivated and productive, whilst 
also ensuring that the required talent 
and skills were built on to equip Admiral 
for the future. During the year, the Board 
oversaw investment in multiple initiatives 
to build on pre-existing employee 
engagement, believing that employees 
who feel supported during uncertain 
times, were better equipped to deal 
with them. 

In H1 2023, conscious of the ongoing cost 
of living situation in the UK, the Board 
oversaw a one-off maximum salary uplift 
of 5% to all directly employed UK based 
colleagues. In addition, the timing of 
this increase was accelerated to ensure 
colleagues received benefit from the 
uplift for the majority of the year rather 
than awaiting the annual pay review 
date. Admiral also committed to paying 
the Real Living Wage for all of UK roles, 
to continue to support those impacted 
by the ongoing increased cost of living. 
This rate was paid from March 2023 and 
Admiral will be making the increase to 
£12, effective from 1 March 2024. This was 
approved at the EUI Board, the main UK 
trading business. 

In addition to multiple health, wellbeing, 
diversity and inclusion and career 
initiatives - see pages 62 and 132, 
examples of additional initiatives overseen 
by the Board to specifically assist 
employees with the cost of living have 
included a canteen subsidy of 50% for 
food and drink covering approximately 
2000 people a day and a car park subsidy 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
130130

131

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

Moving to Admiral 2.0 is a strategic 
priority for the Board. Board oversight 
around the introduction of new 
technology and the migration of systems 
to the cloud will assist the business 
in meeting this objective. The roll out 
of new technologies brings modern, 
capable platforms that allow Admiral to 
create great features and experiences 
for customers, a faster time to 
market, improved scalability, stability 
and resilience, whilst also assisting in 
addressing the increasing risks around 
the protection of customer data and 
cyber security. The Board received 
updates and presentations from the 
business in addition to oversight of 
project milestones and agreed targets. 
As a result of the changes made as part 
of this transformation journey, Admiral 
aims to become a much more digitally 
diverse business both to customers and 
employees and the changes will also help 
in meeting sustainability targets. 

Key s172 criteria considered 
A   B   C   D   E   F

Relevant stakeholders considered

Principal decision 4
New technology 
New technology 
A strategic priority for the Board is to 
accelerate the evolution of Admiral’s 
core business and competencies toward 
‘Admiral 2.0’, leveraging the Group’s 
historical strengths whilst being even 
more agile and technology focused 
to ensure that it continues to put the 
customer first. To support the journey to 
Admiral 2.0 the Board is overseeing the 
building of next generation architecture, 
leveraging cloud, data, analytics and 
digital to continually improve the 
customer experience. 

Following the implementation of the 
Guidewire Claims Centre platform in 2022, 
this year the Guidewire Policy Centre and 
Billing Centre were migrated to the cloud 
and at the same time updated to the 
latest version. Policy Centre and Billing 
Centre has been used by Admiral in the 
UK since 2016 but the cloud deployment 
and updates to the latest version allows 
the business to benefit from new features, 
mitigate technology and security risk, 
further improve the speed of release by 
shifting to an ‘environments on-demand’ 
model, and reduce the overall total cost 
of ownership of the estate. There were 
also improvements in customer contact, 
supported by the scaled deployment 
across the business of a new cloud contact 
centre platform which allows Admiral 
to utilise new technologies to enhance 
the customer telephony experience. 
In addition to telephony, Admiral is also 
modernising the customers’ digital 
experience through a new web portal 
and mobile applications. Work has also 
commenced on the implementation of a 
new customer master database, which will 
provide a single customer view across the 
Admiral Group. 

The Board oversaw the implementation 
of the Consumer Duty regime through its 
relevant regulated subsidiary entities who 
fell under the scope of the new regime. 
Subsidiary board Non-Executive Directors 
were appointed as Consumer Duty 
“champions” in their respective businesses 
and implementation plans were approved. 
The FCA attended a Group Board 
meeting in April 2023 where constructive 
discussions were held around Consumer 
Duty implementation expectations, 
which were then fed back to the relevant 
subsidiary boards. The Group Board 
attained oversight and assurance through 
reports from the Group Risk Committee, 
Group Compliance Committee and 
Consumer Duty Steering Committee that 
appropriate implementation plans were in 
place to ensure the Group would meet its 
obligations which came into effect in July 
2023, and that monitoring processes were 
in place to ensure effective embedding 
within the business and the continued 
delivery of requirements to customers in 
line with the Group’s purpose and values. 

Internal model
The Board along with the Group Risk 
Committee continued its focus on the 
Admiral internal model during the year, 
receiving regular reporting to help drive 
key discussions and decisions in relation 
to the model. The Board oversaw the 
updating of the UK Car model in 2023 
to address limitations identified during 
prior independent validation reviews. 
This will help to ensure that the model 
is well placed to support a regulatory 
pre-application – see pages 33 and 169 for 
further information.

Key s172 criteria considered 
A   B   C   E   F

Relevant stakeholders considered

Principal decision 5
Regulatory 
decisions 
IFRS 17
IFRS 17, the new insurance contracts 
accounting standard, which establishes 
the principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and 
disclosure of insurance contracts, 
including information about a Company’s 
financial position and enhanced 
disclosures in respect of claims reserves, 
was effective from 1 January 2023. 
The new standard applies to the Group 
and its insurance subsidiaries in the UK 
and Gibraltar.

During 2023, the Group Board continued 
to closely monitor the implementation 
of IFRS 17 and discuss and approve key 
information including accounting policy 
decisions, the impact on the transition 
balance sheet, 2022 comparatives, 
and projected future results, proposed 
revisions to key performance indicators.

In August 2023 the Board, in conjunction 
with the Audit Committee oversaw the 
successful conclusion of the IFRS 17 
implementation programme, delivering 
the first external reporting under IFRS 
17 as part of Admiral’s interim results. 
Given the significance of the changes in 
reporting, external stakeholders were 
provided with supplementary information 
within the presentation, and additional 
opportunities to discuss the results 
in order to clarify the impact of the 
reporting changes. 

Consumer Duty
The FCA’s Consumer Duty regime came 
into effect on 31 July 2023. The Duty 
introduced higher and clearer standards 
of consumer protection across financial 
services and required firms to focus 
on customer outcomes. This new 
requirement aligned with Admiral’s wider 
Group purpose and commitment to 
delivering good customer outcomes for 
all our customers. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023132132

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

Culture
An important part of the Board’s role is 
to lead from the front in promoting and 
safeguarding Admiral’s unique culture. 
This is achieved through establishing 
purpose and values and is especially 
important in times where there may be 
significant challenges and changes to how 
the business operates.

The Code emphasises the importance of 
the role of the Board regarding culture, 
with specific recommendations that the 
Board assesses and monitors culture, and 
ensures that workforce policies, practices 
and behaviours are aligned with the 
Company’s purpose, values and strategy.

At Admiral we believe that our culture 
is the real essence of what our business 
is; how we act, what makes us different, 
our character and personality, and how 

we treat our employees, customers and 
other key stakeholders. Our culture is a 
culmination of the implementation of our 
purpose through our values. The Board 
sets the tone and leads by example, this 
permeates through the business and 
creates a culture lived daily by colleagues 
as well as our wider stakeholders. 
We strongly believe that Admiral’s culture 
is unique as we aim to demonstrate 
throughout this report. It is fundamentally 
important that Admiral’s culture evolves 

Implementing our purpose through our four pillars of culture

At Admiral we implement  
our purpose through our  
unique workplace culture.  
This is reinforced by our  
values – the ‘Four Pillars  
of our Culture’.

Recognition and reward
85% of employees believe that good work and 
 extra effort is appreciated. All colleagues in 
 the business will receive up to the equivalent of 
£3,600 of shares in Admiral during the year. 

Equality
95% of employees  
believe Admiral is a diverse 
and inclusive employer  
and 96% believe that 
Admiral’s culture is open 
to different sensibilities 
and backgrounds.

Our Purpose  
 “Help more people to 
look after their future. 
Always striving for 
better, together.” 

Fun
84% of employees perceive 
Admiral as being a fun place  
to work and 93% of employees 
believe that they work  
in a friendly environment.

Communication
90% of employees believe their managers are  
approachable and easy to talk to and 85% believe they  
are kept informed on important issues and changes. 

Fun
We want our people to look 
forward to coming to work, 
to celebrate who they are, 
and to feel happy and supported 
enough to give that little 
bit extra.

What makes Admiral a fun 
place to work can be found 
throughout our Strategic Report 
on page 14 and in our Corporate 
Governance Report on page 132.

Communication
We encourage effective and 
transparent communication 
at all levels. This is aided by 
accessible management and 
opportunities to encourage 
feedback across the Group. 
Further information on our 
channels of communication can 
be found on pages 89 and 136.

Equality
We work hard to promote a 
sense of fairness and equality. 
Everyone has the opportunity 
to succeed, backed up by 
multiple focus and working 
groups supporting diversity, 
inclusion and social mobility. 
Further information as to how 
we do this can be found in our 
Strategic Report on page 62 and 
the Nomination and Governance 
Committee Report on page 154.

Recognition and reward
A job well done should be 
appropriately rewarded. At the 
heart of this pillar is our share 
ownership scheme, which 
rewards employees with a stake 
in the Company. The Group’s 
approach to investing in and 
rewarding its workforce can be 
found in our Strategic Report on 
pages 17, 89, 129 and 172.

133

C
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e

Striving
TO BE A 
GREAT PLACE 
TO WORK

Admiral has been recognised as the 
best big Company to work for in the 
UK in 2023 by the Best Companies 
awards, as well as being in the top 15 
best multinational companies to work 
for in Europe by ‘Great Places to Work’ 
a global authority on workplace culture. 

Sharing
OUR 
EXPERIENCES

In October 2023, Jayaprakasa 
Rangaswami (JP), our Group 
Non-Executive Director, held an 
all-employee forum on diversity and 
inclusion along with a question-and-
answer session at our head office in 
Cardiff. This included his experiences 
growing up from an ethnically diverse 
background and the challenges and 
opportunities he faced throughout his 
career. This session was well attended 
by colleagues across the business, both 
in-person and online.

and adapts as the business environment 
changes. It is even more critical that those 
parts of our culture that we see as our 
competitive advantage and a key driver of 
our success to date, are fiercely protected, 
especially during continuing periods 
of change.

Aligning our culture with our 
purpose, values, strategy, 
policies and practices
Admiral’s culture is strongly aligned to 
our purpose to ‘Help more people to 
look after their future. Always striving for 
better, together’. Providing customers 
with great products and services, whilst 
caring for our people and other important 
stakeholders is key to what we do.

Our Four Pillars of Culture are built into 
the fabric of our training, communication, 
policies and the way we do business. 
During the year, the Board received 
assurance from management that 
the Group purpose continued to be 

Admiral’s cultural initiatives

embedded within the operational process 
and policies and that there continued 
to be alignment with its rewards and 
incentives. Maintaining culture was a 
key part of Admiral’s Board discussion 
throughout the year and will continue to 
be at the forefront of its decision-making 
rationale through the year to come. 

Guiding and promoting culture 
Our Board has the responsibility to act 
with integrity, to lead by example and to 
promote the desired culture. The Board 
does this through its governance 
framework, its decision-making processes 
and its everyday interactions. We also 
ensure that any policies which apply 
to Directors are consistent with those 
equivalent policies for the workforce.

Many initiatives take place during the 
year to promote Admiral’s unique culture, 
examples of these are shown below: 

Fun and inclusive activities: Our 30th 
anniversary celebrations included, 
amongst other things, an all-
employee ‘Admiral Olympics’ and  
staff music festival called ‘MultiFest’

Flexible working arrangements. 
Empowering teams to define their own 
optimum working blueprint and self-organise in 
the most effect way, whilst coming together to 
share key moments

Department and team away days 
including spending allocated time 
giving back to the community

Employee induction workshops 
focusing on Admiral’s culture

Diversity and inclusion working  
groups and initiatives

Group Top 10 competition: 
departments compete in a Group-
wide competition which includes 
a presentation to a panel of senior 
managers on a different subject each 
year in order to be awarded  
the best department

A compensation and promotion structure based 
on meritocracy, including a 5% increase in 
salary to all UK employees during the year and 
excellent employee benefit offers

Star lunches where colleagues are recognised 
for their performance and are invited to attend a 
lunch with a senior manager

Excellent opportunities for career development 
throughout the business leading to high 
retainment of employees

Health and wellbeing initiatives to encourage 
employees to speak up if they needed support, 
a weekly health and wellbeing bulletin, yoga 
and meditation classes, choirs, running clubs, 
webinars and art classes, amongst many 
other things

Annual manager awards

Local reward and recognition programmes

Encouraging use of training 
opportunities for work and 
personal development

High five feedback programmes, where 
employees can submit feedback on colleagues 
across departments who have given great service

The Ministry of Fun organises  
events and entertainment  
throughout the Group.

Regular Group-wide updates on business 
performance and matters of importance from 
Executive Directors and senior management. 

Corporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
134134

135

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

How the Board monitors  
and assesses culture
People and culture scorecard 
The people and culture scorecard 
continues to provide a good analysis 
of the key people and culture metrics 
in order to help management and the 
Board’s assessments of the overall health 
of the Group’s culture. It also supports 
the identification of any trends in the 
evolution of the Group’s workforce and 
culture, including any associated risks 
which could impact the execution and 
support of the Group’s strategy.

The Group continues to view the following 
people and culture metrics that are 
derived from the annual Great Place 
To Work® (GPTW) survey and Admiral’s 
regular internal pulse surveys as the 
lead indicators for people and culture at 
Admiral. The GPTW survey is an external 
survey which collates anonymised 
question responses from all colleagues 
to provide an overall result, as well as 
departmental results. 

Score

85%

2022: 84%

83%

2022: 82%

Index

GPTW Trust Index: 
The Trust Index comprises 60 questions from 
the GPTW survey, which are stable over time, 
benchmarked against the best companies in each 
market, and highly representative of the overall 
people sentiment of a positive culture.

GPTW Engagement Index: 
The Engagement Index is a specific measure 
comprising nine questions from the GPTW 
survey relating to willingness to go the extra mile, 
intention to stay with the business and likelihood 
of being an employer brand promoter. It is also 
benchmarked and stable over time and has a proven 
correlation with business performance. According 
to the GPTW institute research, the drivers that are 
most correlated to higher engagement scores are: 
(i) teamwork, (ii) career development, (iii) values 
and ethics, (iv) empowerment and accountability, 
and (v) innovation.

GPTW Culture Index: 
The Culture Index is a specific measure comprising 
of eight questions from the GPTW survey relating 
to employee perception of the workplace as friendly, 
fun and welcoming.

87%

2022: 89%

Pulse surveys: 
Pulse surveys are undertaken four times a year 
and ask the same questions of our people to 
enable management to track any trends.
Pulse survey results in 2023 demonstrated that 
colleagues at Admiral continued to feel well 
supported by their managers. Hybrid working 
arrangements were welcomed by employees 
and communication was scored highly. 

Other people metrics:
Recruitment, gender balance, headcount, 
absence, attrition.

*  Q3 2023 Pulse survey results
**  Q3 2022 Pulse survey results

87%

of our people feel they are well 
supported by their manager*
2022: 86%**

84%

of our people think we are 
truly customer focused*
2022: 86%**

88%

of our people think that 
important knowledge and 
information is shared with 
them by their manager*
2022: 88%**

92%

of our people believe 
Admiral Group is a diverse 
and inclusive employer*
2022: 92%**

Scores pertaining to culture continue 
to be very high across the Group 
demonstrating the strength and impact 
of the Admiral culture. During the year 
Admiral was recognised as the best big 
Company to work for in the UK in 2023 
by the Best Companies awards, as well 
as being in the top 15 best multinational 
companies to work for in Europe by 
‘Great Places to Work’ a global authority 
on workplace culture. Admiral was also 
placed 3rd in the UK’s Best Workplaces for 
Women award in 2023.

The Board received an update on the 
people and culture scorecard metrics 
during the year, this included a review as 
to how hybrid and remote working were 
impacting on Admiral’s unique culture and 
how this potential risk to the Company’s 
culture should be managed. This oversight 
was achieved by focusing on several 
key metrics across the Group, including 
recruitment, engagement, productivity, 
absence and attrition trends, which 
were closely associated with the risks to 
culture heightened by a move to a more 
permanent model of hybrid working. 

The Board agreed that a hybrid working 
model was an effective working model for 
Admiral in the current climate, however 
close attention should be maintained as 
to the effects that this was having on the 
culture of the business, and more ‘office 
based moments’ should be encouraged 
whilst, at the same time, empowering 
teams to set their own blueprint for 
working patterns and avoiding mandated 
days in the office. 

How Admiral retains its unique 
culture whilst offering flexibility 
in working practices
For a Company of Admiral’s size there 
can be no ‘one size fits all’ solution 
to working practices. The Board 
understands that a post Covid world 
has increased the opportunity and 
expectation for greater flexibility 
within the working environment, with 
a hybrid working model becoming 
more common practice. At Admiral, 
individual business functions and 
departments are empowered to define 
their own blueprint and self organise 
their teams in a manner which they 
believe creates maximum benefit for 
the business, whilst, at the same time, 
ensuring that our special culture is 
retained and enhanced. For example, 
at a Group level a guide as to where 
and when colleagues should be 
spending time together is driven by 
our ‘Admiral Moments’ model, these 
are key moments when it matters for 
colleagues to be together in-person. 
The Board enables each business 
division to interpret these principles in 
their own way to maximise workplace 
efficiencies and enhance culture 
throughout the Group. 

Admiral Moments 
Admiral promotes a hybrid working model, empowering business functions and 
departments to organise their own working arrangements in a manner that creates 
maximum benefit for the Group. However, our ‘Admiral Moments’ model below 
sets out examples where we encourage in-person or ‘face to face’ engagement 
amongst our teams, to ensure that Admiral’s unique culture is retained 
and enhanced.

Team building 
activities

Charity 
contribution

Connections & 
networking

Onboarding new 
starters and 
learning activities

Awards & 
celebrations

Feedback 
and appraisal 
moments

Brainstorming 
and innovating

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023136136

137

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

Other tools 
In addition to employee participation in 
regular monthly surveys and the annual 
GPTW survey, there are several other 
mechanisms used by the Group and the 
Board to monitor and assess culture. 
For example, culture audits conducted 
by the internal audit function; ‘Meet 
the Manager’ meetings; the ‘Ask Milena’ 
scheme; regular online manager chats; 
ECG and IECG meetings (see page 137), 
mandatory training completion rates; 
health and safety data; whistleblowing 
and grievances; and customer net 
promoter score (NPS). All are felt to be 
valuable methods of capturing the mood 
of our people and to gauge the health of 
our culture.

The Board Committees also help the 
Board monitor and assess culture through 
their respective responsibilities, some 
examples of which are highlighted below.

Nomination and Governance Committee 
– Succession and talent management 
strategies, along with a diversity and 
inclusion strategy and policies and 
progress against targets to ensure 
alignment with the Group’s strategy 
and values.

Remuneration Committee – Monitoring 
of alignment of workforce remuneration 
policies to culture and strategy, risk 
events reported to it by the Risk 
Committee under the malus and claw 
back framework.

Audit Committee – Whistleblowing, 
Internal Audit, Group Minimum Standards.

Group Risk Committee – Risk events that 
would impact remuneration from a malus 
and claw back perspective, financial crime 
and misconduct risks.

As well as receiving updates on the 
Group’s culture at Board meetings, 
Directors utilise other mechanisms 
to assess and monitor culture, such 
as attending meetings of the UK ECG, 
subsidiary boards and performing site 
visits across the different entities within 
the Group which, during their discussions 
with a cross-section of colleagues, enables 
the Directors to gauge the culture for 
themselves. In 2023, Mike Rogers, the 
Board Chair visited L’olivier offices in 
Paris and Lille, the Admiral Seguros office 
in Seville and Madrid, and the Admiral 
Europe Compañía de Seguros S.A.U. 
(AECS) in Rome for meetings with the 
management team and employees. 

Whistleblowing
The Board has in place arrangements by 
which employees can raise concerns in 
confidence and, if necessary, anonymously. 
During the year, the Board received an 
update on the Group’s whistleblowing 
arrangements from the management 
team. The Audit Committee, chaired 
by the Group’s Whistleblowing 
Champion, Karen Green, was satisfied 
that the update was proportionate for 
independent internal investigation of the 
matters raised and supported an ethical 
business culture where colleagues felt 
safe raising concerns. In addition, and on 
an exceptions basis, the Board is updated 
in respect of reports arising from matters 
that have been raised by employees 
under the Policy. The Audit Committee 
receives more regular updates in respect 
of whistleblowing matters, see page 161 
for further information.

Shareholder engagement
The Board has continued to focus 
on effective engagement with its 
stakeholders during the year, to ensure 
that their interests are taken into 
account in its decision-making processes. 
Detailed information is set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 56 and 87 
outlining how the Board has discharged 
its duties under s172(1) of the Companies 
Act, including further information on 
the ECG and IECG see page 137, which 
constitute formal workforce advisory 
panels under the Code.

Communication and interaction with 
shareholders remains very important 
and engagement occurs on a regular 
basis. Open and frequent dialogue 
enables shareholders to fully understand 
the Group’s strategy, objectives and 
governance processes. The Investor 
Relations team has day-to-day 
primary responsibility for managing 
communications with institutional 
shareholders through a combination of 
briefings to analysts and institutional 
shareholders, both at the half-year and 
full-year results and on other occasions 
such as roadshows and conferences. 
Meetings, briefings and conferences 
with investors have taken place both 
in-person and virtually, with investor 
visits generally taking place twice a year. 
In addition, the Chair, CEO and Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee held meetings 
during the year with major shareholders 
to understand their views on governance, 
for example the proposed Remuneration 
Policy, and also Admiral’s performance 
against strategy and reported to the 
Board on any significant issues raised 
with them. During 2023, there were over 
80 separate engagements held with 
institutional shareholders. 

Meetings with investors are 
supplemented by regular feedback to 
the Board. The Investor Relations team 
produces a report on their activities in 
the previous quarter which is circulated 
to the Board for their consideration. 
The report contains an analysis of share 
price performance, a summary of analyst 
reports received during the month, and 
of meetings that have been held with 
investors and analysts, together with 
details of any significant changes to the 
shareholders’ register.

The Senior Independent Director has 
specific responsibility to be available to 
investors who have any issues or concerns, 
and in cases where contact with the Chair, 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer has either failed to resolve their 
concerns, or where such contact is 
inappropriate. No such concerns have 
been raised in the year under review.

All shareholders are invited to attend the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
in person. The 2023 AGM was held on 
27 April 2023 with the required quorum. 
Shareholders were able to vote on the 
important customary annual business 
and encouraged to submit questions 
to the Board in advance of the AGM. 
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, 
Nomination and Governance, and Group 
Risk Committees attend the AGM along 
with the other Directors and are available 
to answer shareholders’ questions on 
the activities of the Committees they 
chair. Shareholders are also invited to ask 
questions during the meeting and have an 
opportunity to meet with Directors after 
the formal business of the meeting has 
been concluded. Details of proxy voting by 
shareholders, including votes withheld, are 
made available on request and are placed 
on the Company’s website following 
the meeting.

The Group maintains a corporate website 
(www.admiralgroup.co.uk) containing 
a wide range of information of interest 
to institutional and private investors. 
The major shareholders of the Company 
are listed in the Directors’ Report on 
page 199.

The regular channels of communication 
with both the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and Prudential Regulation Authority 
(PRA) that existed throughout the year 
were supplemented by the regulators 
being invited to attend Board meetings. 
The FCA attended the Board remotely 
in April 2023, which gave the Board an 
opportunity to directly hear their views 
on specific areas such as Consumer Duty, 
as well as wider market issues. The PRA 
had previously attended a meeting of 
the Board in December 2022. The Board 
is also kept up to date with the regular 
communications between the Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited Board 
and the Gibraltar Financial Services 
Commission as well as contact between 
the Group’s other insurance subsidiaries 
and respective regulators.

Employee Consultation Group
Purpose
The Board recognises the importance of 
engaging with its workforce and does 
so through a combination of formal and 
informal channels. To ensure a two-
way communication platform and an 
effective means by which the views of 
the workforce can be heard, the Board 
established a UK Employee Consultation 
Group (ECG) in 2019 with the aim of 
enhancing and formalising its pre-existing 
employee engagement arrangements. 
For the purposes of Provision 5 of the 
Code, the ECG is a formal workforce 
advisory panel.

Membership and attendance
Membership of the UK ECG comprises 
elected colleague representatives and 
the remit of the ECG is to act as a forum 
for employee consultation, gathering 
colleague opinion and fostering a safe 
environment to raise matters of interest 
and generate ideas. There is a democratic 
member election process and members 
are provided with an induction to ensure 
that there is clarity about the role and 
remit of the ECG, as well as their role 
as members.

Non-Executive Directors are invited to 
attend ECG meetings on a rotational basis 
and report back to the Board on matters 
discussed, as well as actions agreed at 
the ECG meeting. Taking this approach 
ensures that each of the Non-Executive 
Directors can engage with the workforce 
directly and hear first-hand the issues and 
matters that are affecting the workforce.

To ensure that the meetings remain a 
two-way mechanism, Non-Executive 
Directors are also asked to comment on 
any insights from ECG meetings at the 
following Board meeting and the Chair of 
the UK ECG is regularly invited to attend 
Board meetings to report on matters 
discussed by the ECG and highlight any 
areas of concern. Minutes of the ECG 
meetings are also published on the 
intranet for all employees to view. Non-
Executive Directors also provide an update 
at ECG meetings on recent matters 
discussed by the Board.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023138138

139

Board Leadership and Company Purpose
continued

Areas of focus for the Employee Consultation Group 
During 2023, the Employee Consultation Group (ECG) forum remained focused on important issues for employees, such as hybrid 
and remote working, remuneration and the cost of living, the performance management and appraisal processes, ideas on how to 
improve engagement, employee morale, attrition and absence, proposals to support mental health and wellbeing, staff survey results 
and improving diversity. There were four scheduled ECG meetings during 2023, with a wide range of topics discussed. There were also 
a number of ad hoc meetings where important one-off items were brought to the ECG’s attention that required an ‘employee voice’ 
prior to being presented to the Board. Presentations on the following topics were given to the ECG during the year, the results of these 
discussions were presented to the Board by the ECG Chair: 

Meeting

Main presentations and key topics discussed 

Outcome/impact 

February 2023 

Group strategy refresh

Director remuneration 

May 2023

UK Insurance, customer outcomes

Operational resilience

September 2023  New representative orientation

Share dividends 

October 2023*

Hybrid working

November 2023* Remuneration Policy

December 2023

Climate change update

Group sustainability

The Group CEO attended the meeting to discuss Group strategy, 
diversification, investments, technological advancements and elements of 
the international business. Members were able to direct questions to the 
CEO to gain a greater understanding of how business strategy was aligned 
with Admiral’s purpose and values. 

The Chair of the Remuneration Committee took the meeting through 
the current Director’s Remuneration Policy to ensure the ECG had full 
transparency around executive reward structure. Questions were asked 
around alignment with the wider workforce.

The ECG was updated on the steps Admiral was taking to deliver first class 
customer outcomes and experience, how these were benchmarked, and 
measures taken to ensure the customer was always treated fairly.

A discussion was held around Admiral’s ability to prevent, adapt, respond 
to, and learn from operational disruptions in line with FCA and PRA 
requirements. Admiral’s important business services were identified 
together with what the priorities were for the remainder of the year.

New employee appointed representatives were welcomed and inducted to 
the ECG. 

A presentation and discussion was held around share dividends and how 
new tax treatment may impact employees, along with focus on Admiral’s 
dividend reinvestment scheme.

The ECG discussed the impact of hybrid working on the business and 
actions being taken to preserve the Admiral culture in an evolving 
working environment.

A presentation was made on the proposed amended Remuneration Policy 
to be put to shareholders at the 2024 AGM for approval.

A presentation was made on the increasing expectations and regulatory 
reporting requirements for banks and insurers on climate change, the 
ambitious targets Admiral had set itself on net zero and the initiatives 
being rolled out to meet these targets.

The meeting discussed how Admiral had a long track record of delivering 
on key sustainability and ESG issues. A new Group wide approach was 
being embedded into the core strategy and governance framework of the 
business led by a recently appointed new Group Head of Sustainability. 

*  Ad hoc ECG meetings to address important one-off items that required an ‘employee voice’ prior to being presented to the Board.

Whilst recognising that this engagement mechanism will evolve over time, the Board continues to believe that the operation of the 
ECG has been, and continues to be, an effective means of engaging with the workforce, to help the Board understand matters that 
concern the workforce and their specific interests, whilst having regard to these matters in the discussions and decisions that take place 
at the Board. The Board will ensure that the ECG continues to develop as an effective, formal workforce advisory panel and that regular 
interaction between the Board and the ECG is maintained. 

International Employee Consultation Group (IECG)
The International Employee Consultation Group has been formally meeting since 2022, and is Chaired by Costantino Moretti, Head of 
International Insurance. 

This year, five IECG meetings took place in-person across the international offices of ConTe, L’olivier, Admiral Seguros together with 
Admiral Tech, AECS and Elephant alongside the Admiral Europe Compañía de Seguros (AECS) Board meetings. The meetings were 
attended by candidates chosen on a voluntary basis, with an agenda created to incorporate employee interests, questions and proposals.

Entity/Meeting 

Topics discussed 

Outcome/Impact 

AECS –  
February 2023

Insurance market developments

Challenges faced by employees

Talent and opportunities

Discussions were held around how the insurance market had developed 
in recent years through advancements in technology, new competitors 
entering the market, and new regulatory requirements.

Concerns were shared regarding challenges being experienced 
by employees and potential improvements that could be made 
were discussed. 

Members discussed the opportunities Admiral offered in terms of 
professional development, for example taking temporary opportunities in 
other Group entities.

L ’olivier – 
March 2023

Admiral culture

Members shared their views on Admiral’s culture and how this was evolving 
with changing working practices. 

L’olivier growth over the year

Product diversification

The importance of being eco-friendly

Main challenges for the future

Discussions took place around the progress and growth of the business 
over the year when compared to the other European countries. It was 
confirmed that much had been achieved already, however development 
and improvements were still required.

Members discussed how the insurance market had changed in recent years, 
and how, through a strategy of expanding into different products, Admiral 
continued to evolve to meet future consumer requirements. 

It was agreed that social and ecological issues were of growing importance 
for brands and customers, in step with this was an increasing demand 
for transparency and accountability. Admiral’s initiatives in this area 
were discussed.

A discussion was held around what members regarded to be the three main 
challenges for the businesses over the next few years and how these should 
be addressed.

ESG and sustainability 

The meeting discussed how the evolving Group strategy was incorporating 
ESG and sustainability trends.

EU collaboration 

Diversification

Members agreed that greater collaboration between businesses in EU 
countries could add value to the Admiral Group.

The meeting discussed how a key element of the Group strategy was 
focused on the diversification of products and channels.

New technologies and hybrid working The new technologies introduced to both improve the customer 

experience and also assist in the work life balance of employees were 
highlighted. Members confirmed that employees had benefitted from the 
versatility that came from a hybrid working model.

Strong culture and working practices Members agreed that there was a strong culture within the business,  

where they felt valued, listened to and trusted by management. 
Flexibility in working arrangements was viewed positively and assisted in 
easing concerns around cost of living. 

Admiral Seguros 
and Admiral Tech – 
September 2023

ConTe –  
November 2023

Elephant – 
November 2023

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023140140

Division of Responsibilities

141

Through the strong governance framework that it has in place, the Board is able to deliver on its 
strategy and, in doing so, provide strong, sustainable financial and operational performance for  
our shareholders and wider stakeholders.

Board and Committee framework
Our Board and Committee framework supports the development of the highest standards of governance practices across the Group 
which is integral to the successful delivery of our strategy. 

Shareholders

The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for establishing the purpose, values and strategy of the Group and for promoting 
the long-term success of Admiral for the benefit of our shareholders and stakeholders.

Principal Board Committees

Audit Committee
Responsible for 
overseeing the 
Company’s systems for 
internal financial control, 
risk management and 
financial reporting, 
and monitoring 
the integrity of the 
financial statements.

   See page 161

Nomination 
and Governance 
Committee
Reviews the composition 
of the Board, considers 
succession planning at 
both Board and senior 
management level and 
leads the process of 
appointments to  
the Board.

   See page 146

Remuneration 
Committee
Responsible for 
remuneration policy, 
performance-related 
pay schemes and share-
based incentive plans.

Group Risk 
Committee
Assists with the 
oversight of the 
Group’s risk appetite, 
tolerance and strategy. 
Monitors current 
and potential risk 
exposures and the 
effectiveness of the risk 
management framework 

Recognition and reward
Colleagues in the business will receive up 
to the equivalent of £3,600 of shares in 
Admiral during the year.

   See page 168

   See page 172

CEO

Group Board Management Committees

Group 
Reserving 
Committee

Group Model  
Governance 
Committee

Group Assets 
and Liabilities 
Committee

Group 
Investments 
Committee

Group 
Disclosure 
Committee

Divisional CEO’s, Subsidiary Boards and Committees, 
Management Committees and Senior Management

Admiral Business

Chair
•  Runs the Board and sets its agenda, with an emphasis on strategic issues.

•  Ensures the Board has effective decision-making processes, demonstrating 

objective judgement and applying sufficient challenge to proposals.

•  Facilitates constructive Board relations, including effective contributions from 

Non-Executive Directors.

•  Ensures the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience 

and diversity.

•  Leads the induction and development plans for new and existing Board members.

•  Communicates with major shareholders and ensures the Board understands 

their views.

•  Ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.

•  Leads the annual Board evaluation.

Senior Independent Director
•  Supports the Chair in the delivery of their objectives.

•  Acts as a sounding board for the Chair and serves as an intermediary 

for the other Directors.

•  Available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved 

through the normal channels.

•  Works with the Chair and other Directors/shareholders to resolve significant issues 

where necessary.

•  Leads the annual performance evaluation of the Chair.

•  Leads the Chair appointment process. 

Chief Executive Officer
•  Runs the Group’s business and delivers its commercial objectives.

•  Proposes and develops the Group’s strategy, in close consultation with the 

Group’s senior management, the Chair and the Board.

•  Implements the decisions of the Board and its Committees.

•  Ensures operational policies and practices drive appropriate behaviour, in line 

with the Group’s culture.

•  Leads the communication programme with key stakeholders, including employees.

•  Ensures management provides the Board with appropriate information and 

necessary resources.

Our CEO, Milena Mondini de Focatiis 
was awarded the Best Leader of 
a Big Company at the 2023 Best 
Companies Awards. You can find out 
more at www.b.co.uk

Board roles and responsibilities
The Chair is primarily responsible for 
leading the Board, setting its agenda, 
promoting a culture of openness and 
debate and monitoring its effectiveness. 
The Chair is supported by the Senior 
Independent Director, who acts as 
a sounding board and serves as an 
intermediary for the other Directors 
if required. Neither are involved in the 
day-to-day management of the Group. 
Save for the matters reserved for the 
Board, the Chief Executive Officer 
(with the support of the Chief Financial 
Officer and the senior executives) is 
responsible for proposing the strategy 
to be adopted by the Group, running the 
business in accordance with the strategy 
agreed by the Board and implementing 
Board decisions.

It is the Non-Executive Directors’ role to 
provide constructive challenge, strategic 
guidance, offer their respective specialist 
advice and hold management to account.

It is the role of the Company Secretary 
to support the Chair and administer the 
workings of the Board and Committees, 
ensuring Directors have precise and 
timely information to enable an effective 
decision-making process, whilst providing 
governance, legal and statutory advice 
and ensuring a record of decisions and 
actions is clear and attributable. 

The Board has approved a statement 
that sets out the clear division of 
responsibilities between the Chair,  
Chief Executive Officer and SID. This and 
Matters Reserved for Decision by the 
Board are reviewed annually and are 
available to review on Admiral’s website  
at www.admiralgroup.co.uk.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023142142

Division of Responsibilities
continued

Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for promoting 
the long-term, sustainable success of the 
Group, generating value for shareholders, 
taking into consideration all of its 
stakeholders and contributing to the 
wider society in which Admiral operates 
its business. The Board is the principal 
decision-making forum for the Group, 
providing entrepreneurial leadership, both 
directly and through its committees, and 
delegating authority to the Executive 
Directors and the senior management 
team for the day-to-day operation of 
the business.

The Board has determined the Group’s 
purpose, to ‘help more people to look 
after their future. Always striving for 
better, together’. This is embedded in 
the culture of the business through our 
aligned values and strategy. Part of the 
Board’s role is to promote the Group’s 
culture and, in particular, ensure that its 
uniqueness is safeguarded. This has been 
especially important in recent years where 
there have been significant challenges to 
how the business operates and its culture, 
such as the recent Covid-19 pandemic 
(see page 132).

The Board is responsible for organising 
and directing the affairs of the Group in 
a manner that generates and preserves 
value over the long-term. Through the 
strong governance framework that it has 
in place, the Board is able to deliver on its 
strategy of providing strong sustainable 
financial and operational performance. 
The Board is also accountable for ensuring 
that in carrying out its duties, the Group’s 
legal and regulatory obligations are being 
met; and for ensuring that it operates 
within appropriate risk parameters.

The Group’s UK-regulated entities are 
accountable to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and the Prudential 
Regulatory Authority (PRA) for ensuring 
compliance with the Group’s UK 
regulatory obligations and that dealings 
with the FCA and PRA are handled 
in a constructive, co-operative and 
transparent manner. Similar provisions 
apply in respect of the Group’s 
international businesses with regard 
to the relevant regulatory authorities, 
such as the Gibraltar Financial Services 
Commission and Dirección General de 
Seguros y Fondos de Pensiones in Spain.

Board and Committee meeting attendance
Mike Rogers1 (Chair)
Milena Mondini de Focatiis (Chief Executive Officer)
Geraint Jones (Chief Financial Officer)
Karen Green
Justine Roberts
Andy Crossley
Michael Brierley
Jayaprakasa (JP) Rangaswami
Evelyn Bourke
William (Bill) Roberts
Fiona Muldoon5 
Annette Court6
Jean Park7

Board
4/4
7/7
7/7
7/7
7/7
7/7
7/7
7/7
7/7
7/7
2/2
3/3
1/1

Audit Committee
–
–
–
8/8
–
7/84
8/8
–
–
–
2/2
–
–

Board and Committee meetings 
Directors are expected to attend all 
meetings of the Board and the Board 
committees on which they serve and to 
devote sufficient time to the Group to 
perform their duties. Where Directors are 
unable to attend meetings, they receive 
papers for that meeting, giving them 
the opportunity to raise any issues with 
the Chair in advance of the meeting. 
The number of scheduled Board and 
Board committee meetings attended by 
each Director during 2023 is provided in 
the table below.

In addition to the scheduled meetings 
of the Board set out in the table 
below, the Board also held a number of 
additional late notice, ad hoc meetings 
to discuss matters that were of sufficient 
importance that they could not wait until 
the following scheduled Board meeting. 
All Directors are invited to participate in 
such meetings which, by their nature, 
are arranged at short notice. Where they 
are unable to do so due to pre-existing 
commitments, Directors are given the 
opportunity to contribute their views to 
the Chair prior to the meeting. The Board 
also delegates authority to a Board 
sub-committee for the approval of final 
drafts of announcements and proposals 
which had already been considered by the 
Board or its committees. The Board met 
in-person for all seven of its scheduled 
meetings held during the year, including 
its strategy meeting (and October Board) 
which was held over two days in the UK. 

Group Risk 
Committee
–
–
–
8/8
–
8/8
–
8/8
–
–
–
–
1/1

Nomination
and Governance
Committee
4/4
–
–
–
6/6
–
–
–
–
6/6
–
2/2
1/1

Remuneration 
Committee
–
–
–
1/12
5/73
–
7/7
–
7/7
–
–
–
–

Justine Roberts joined the Remuneration Committee on 31 January 2023, she missed two Committee meetings due to pre-existing engagements made prior to her joining the Committee.

1  Mike Rogers joined the Board on 27 April 2023.
2  Karen Green was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 2 October 2023.
3 
4  Andy Crossley missed one meeting of the Audit Committee due to a pre-existing engagement.
5  Fiona Muldoon joined the Board and Audit Committee on 2 October 2023.
6  Annette Court stepped down from the Board on 27 April 2023.
Jean Park stepped down from the Board on 20 January 2023.
7 

143

Group conflicts of interest
In compliance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006 regarding 
Directors’ duties in relation to conflicts 
of interest, the Group’s Articles of 
Association allow the Board to authorise 
potential conflicts of interest that may 
arise and to impose such limits as it 
thinks fit. The Group has a Conflicts of 
Interest Policy which deals with conflicts 
of interest, and this was reviewed and 
approved by the Board in October 2023. 
The Policy sets out the process and 
procedure by which the Board manages 
potential conflicts of interest that 
may arise at Board level, within Board 
Committees, and within the Group’s 
Subsidiary Boards. Following this review, 
the Board concluded that the process 
continued to operate effectively.

In addition, each Board member is asked 
to complete, annually, a conflicts of 
interest questionnaire that sets out any 
situation in which they, or their connected 
persons, have, or could have, a direct or 
indirect interest that could conflict with 
the interests of the Company. Any current 
directorships that they, or their 
connected persons hold, any advisory 
roles or trusteeships held, together with 
any companies in which they hold more 
than 1% of the issued share capital are 
also disclosed. The Board is satisfied that 
none of the Directors had any potential 
conflicts of interest during the year which 
could not be authorised by the Board.

Matters reserved for the Board
The Board has adopted a formal schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board’s 
consideration. This is monitored by the 
Company Secretary and reviewed by the 
Board on an annual basis. Specific matters 
reserved to the Board include the 
approval of:

•  The Group’s long-term objectives and 

corporate strategy

•  Operating and capital budgets, financial 
results, and any significant changes to 
accounting practices or policies

•  The Group’s capital structure

•  Results and financial reporting

•  The system of internal control and 

risk management

•  The Group’s overall risk appetite

•  Changes to the structure, size and 

composition of the Board, including 
new appointments

•  Succession plans for the Board and 

senior management

•  Dividend policy and proposals for 

dividend payments

•  Major acquisitions, disposals, and other 
transactions outside delegated limits

•  The annual review of its own 
performance and that of its 
Board Committees

•  Annual review of selected 

Group policies

•  The review of the Group’s overall 

corporate governance arrangements.

Board Committees
The Board has delegated authority 
to several permanent committees to 
deal with matters in accordance with 
written Terms of Reference. The principal 
committees of the Board – the Audit, 
Remuneration, Risk, and Nomination and 
Governance Committees all comply with 
the requirements of the Code.

All committees are chaired by an 
independent Non-Executive Director, 
except for the Nomination and 
Governance Committee, which is chaired 
by the Chair of the Board, and comprise a 
majority of independent Non-Executive 
Directors. In accordance with the Code, 
all members of the Audit Committee are 
independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Appointments to the Committees are 
made on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee 
and are for a period of up to three 
years, which may be extended for two 
further three-year periods, provided 
the Director remains independent and 
they are annually reappointed to the 
Board by shareholders. The committees 
are constituted with written Terms of 
Reference that are reviewed annually 
to ensure that they remain appropriate 
and reflect any changes in good 
practice and governance. These Terms 
of Reference are available on request 
from the Company Secretary and can 
also be found on the Company’s website: 
www.admiralgroup.co.uk.

Directors are fully informed of all 
committee matters by the committee 
Chairs who report on the proceedings 
of their committee at the subsequent 
Board meeting. Copies of committee 
minutes are also distributed to the 
Board. Committees are authorised 
to obtain outside legal or other 
independent professional advice if they 
consider it necessary. The Chair of each 
committee attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder 
questions that might be raised on the 
committee’s activities. An evaluation 
of the performance of each committee 
against the duties set out in each Terms of 
Reference is carried out annually. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023145

144144

Division of Responsibilities
continued

Information flows to 
and from the Board
Agendas and papers
Agendas and papers are circulated to 
the Board electronically in a secure 
manner in preparation for Board and 
Board committee meetings. The Board 
agenda is structured by the Chair 
in consultation with the Company 
Secretary and CEO. An annual schedule 
of agenda items is reviewed and updated 
regularly to ensure that items are 
considered at the appropriate point 
in the financial and regulatory cycle. 

Meetings are structured so as to allow for 
consideration and debate of all matters. 
Routine Board papers are supplemented 
by information specifically requested by 
the Directors from time to time.

At each scheduled meeting, the Board 
receives updates from the Chair, the 
CEO and CFO as to the financial and 
operational performance of the Group 
and any specific developments of which 
the Board should be aware. In addition, 
there is an update provided at each Board 
on the matters discussed and considered 

Board and Board committee meeting preparation process

at each of the Group’s principal subsidiary 
Board meetings. Additional meetings 
are called as and when required and 
there is contact between the Board, 
Board committees, subsidiary boards 
and management, where necessary, 
to progress the Group’s business. 

The Company Secretary manages a yearly planner 
of scheduled agenda items for the Board and 
Board Committees.

The Company Secretary liaises with the Chair, 
Executive Directors, committee Chairs and key 
members of senior management in advance 
of each respective meeting to confirm agenda 
items and required attendees.

Board and committee papers are drafted  
by relevant authors throughout the business  
and are subject to an established  
review process ahead of submission.

Board and committee papers are circulated 
electronically at least one week prior to the meeting.

The Chair will meet with Executive Directors and  
Non-Executive Directors ahead of the meeting to 
ascertain any areas of particular concern or focus.

Standardised Board reporting 
templates and report cover 
sheets are in place and 
training has been given to 
those producing Board and 
Committee reports to ensure 
there is consistency, clarity and 
conciseness in approach.

Attendees
The CEO of UK Insurance (Cristina 
Nestares), together with the Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer (Keith Davies), 
the Head of International Insurance 
(Costantino Moretti) and the CEO of 
Admiral Money (Scott Cargill) are invited 
to attend every Board meeting and 
regular Board dinners. This has proved 
an effective means of ensuring that 
senior managers below Board level have 
exposure to and gain experience of the 
operation of the Board. 

Dynamics
All Board and committee meetings during 
the year were held in an open atmosphere 
conducive to robust and constructive 
challenge and debate. All Directors have 
therefore been able to bring independent 
judgement to bear on issues such as 
strategy, risk management, performance, 
and resources.

Cross-committee membership
As shown on pages 118 and 142, 
committee membership is composed 
in a way that ensures that there is 
cross-committee membership, which 
allows items of importance to be flagged 
from committee to committee in a 
timely manner. This complements the 
committee briefings that the Board 
receives on the key points of discussion 
following each committee.

Advice
All the Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary, 
who has responsibility for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and for 
advising the Board, through the Chair, 
on governance matters. The Company 
Secretary provides updates to the Board 
on regulatory and corporate governance 
issues, new legislation, and Directors’ 
duties and obligations. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary 
is one of the matters reserved for the 
Board. Dan Caunt has held the position 
of Company Secretary since 1 May 2022, 
his biography can be found on page 124. 

The Directors are also given access 
to independent professional advice 
at the Group’s expense, should 
they deem it necessary to carry out 
their responsibilities.

Training and professional 
development 
The development and training of Directors 
is an ongoing process and is considered 
throughout the year. The Directors are 
regularly updated on the Group’s business; 
legal matters concerning their roles and 
duties; the competitive environments 
in which the Group operates; and any 
other significant changes affecting the 
Group and the industry of which it is a 
part. During the year, the Board received 
deep dive updates, briefings and training 
on the following topics: Admiral internal 
model (AIM), IFRS 17, Chat GPT education 
session (Large Language Models), Pioneer 
Toolbox SME Market overview, Consumer 
Duty training provided by KPMG, amongst 
several business deep dives.

Other information flows
The Board Chair met with a wide range 
of Admiral colleagues and visited various 
parts of the business during 2023 as 
part of his induction process. The Non-
Executive Directors are invited to visit 
areas of the business for in-person on 
site visits to meet employees and review 
business functions. 

As referenced within the commentary 
on employee consultation on page 
137, the Non-Executive Directors are 
invited to attend ECG meetings and 
participate in the two-way engagement 
with employees. 

The Non-Executive Directors met 
in-person during the year without the 
Executive Directors being present. 
From April 2023, Non-Executive Directors 
individually met with the Chair for 
discussion ahead of each Board meeting 
and also met with the CEO for a debrief 
at the conclusion of each scheduled 
Board meeting. 

The Chair holds one-to-one meetings 
with members of the Group’s senior 
management team either in-person 
or on a virtual basis. Members of the 
senior management team were invited 
to join Board dinners which allows the 
opportunity for informal interaction 
between Directors and the senior 
management team. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023146146

147

Nomination and Governance Committee Report

Overseeing 
OUR BOARD
COMPOSITION

Dear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, 
I am pleased to present my 
first report as Chair of the 
Nomination and Governance 
Committee (the Committee). 
The Committee plays a key 
role in overseeing Admiral’s 
Board composition, ensuring 
it has the optimum balance 
of skills, experience and 
knowledge, as well as ensuring 
diversity in the broadest sense 
on the Board and all of its 
committees. The Committee 
also ensures that the 
Group operates within 
a robust and transparent 
governance framework. 
This report sets out the 
Committee’s main activities, 
along with how it has 
discharged its responsibilities 
throughout the year ended 
31 December 2023.

As a Committee, we have 
continued our focus on 
the composition, skills and 
experience of the Board 
and Board committees 
to ensure these reflect the 
current requirements of the 
Admiral business and meet 
the expectations  
of our stakeholders.

Six committee 
meetings 
held in 2023.

Succession planning was a key focus 
for the Committee during 2023. 
As I discussed on page 114, I succeeded 
Annette Court as Chair following the 
2023 AGM in April. My induction process, 
which began following the announcement 
of my appointment in January 2023, 
was bespoke and comprehensive. 
Further details on this are set out on 
page 151. In addition to myself as 
Chair, the Board, on recommendation 
from the Committee, also appointed 
Fiona Muldoon as a new Non-Executive 
Director in October 2023. The full search 
and recruitment process for Fiona’s 
appointment is set out on page 149. 

As a Committee, we have continued 
our focus on the composition, skills 
and experience present on the Board 
and Board committees to ensure these 
reflect the current requirements of 
the Admiral business and meet the 
expectations of our stakeholders. 
To effectively oversee this process, the 
Committee has maintained and refined 
a skills matrix which maps those skills 
currently present on the Board and those 
required to ensure the effective delivery 
of our business strategy. Where gaps 
in skills and experience are identified 
these are reviewed and addressed by 
the Committee and the necessary 
recommendations are made to the Board. 

Diversity and inclusion were key topics for 
Committee discussion during the year. 
The Committee ensured that the Board 
continued to meet the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review target that 40% of the 
Board should be female, in addition to 
The Parker Review’s target that the 
Board should include at least one director 
from an ethnic minority background by 
2024. The evolving requirements of The 
Parker Review at a senior management 
level were discussed in detail, and the 
Committee ensured that the Group’s 

policy on diversity and inclusion was 
reviewed during the year and continued 
to be embedded throughout the 
Group. Where necessary, changes were 
implemented to the appointment 
and succession processes to ensure 
that evolving diversity considerations 
were key to discussions during these 
processes. More details on this and wider 
considerations around diversity and 
inclusion in the workplace are set out on 
page 154.

Following an external review of the Board 
and Board Committee’s effectiveness 
in 2022, the 2023 annual review of the 
Committee’s effectiveness, which took 
place in December, was carried out by 
way of an internal review led by myself 
in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary. This review concluded that, 
overall, the Board and its committees 
remained effective but noted some areas 
for improvement for 2024. These are 
outlined on page 160 of this report, along 
with progress against the previous year’s 
recommendations set out on page 159.

In line with the requirements of Solvency 
II, the Senior Insurance Manager Regime, 
and in accordance with the Group’s Senior 
Managers & Certification Regime Policy, 
I have also carried out the process of 
assessment for the Group CEO, Group 
Non-Executive Directors, and the Chairs 
of the Group’s material, regulated 
subsidiaries; EUI Limited, Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited, Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited, and Admiral 
Financial Services Limited (Admiral 
Money), Able Insurance Services Limited 
(Admiral Pioneer), Elephant Insurance 
Company (USA), and Admiral Europe 
Compania de Seguros - AECS (Europe) to 
ensure they meet the requirements in 
terms of qualifications, capability, honesty 
and integrity. 

The rest of this Report sets out in more 
detail the activities of the Committee 
during 2023. I would like to thank the 
Committee members for their continued 
contributions and support throughout 
the year.

Mike Rogers
Chair of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee

6 March 2024

Committee meetings  
held during the year
The Committee meets at least twice 
per year, in accordance with its Terms of 
Reference, and at such other times as 
the Chair may require. During 2023, the 
Committee held six formal scheduled 
meetings. The Committee Chair agrees 
the meeting agendas for each meeting 
with the Company Secretary, items 
covered during the year are linked 
to an agenda planner covering the 
responsibilities of the Committee. 

Attendees at Committee meetings
The above table shows the attendance 
of Committee members at meetings 
during 2023. The Company Secretary 
acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
Other individuals, such as the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Group Head of 
People Experience and representatives 
of different parts of the Group, may 
be invited to attend all or part of any 
meeting, as and when appropriate.

Role and responsibilities 
of the Committee 
The Committee reviews the leadership 
and succession needs of the Board and 
ensures appropriate procedures are 
in place for nominating, training and 
evaluating Directors. It also oversees the 
governance of the Group to ensure the 
business is operating within a transparent 
and accountable framework.

Committee Membership 
and Meeting Attendance
The Committee is chaired by 
Mike Rogers, in addition to Mike, 
the Committee comprises two 
independent Non-Executive Directors: 
Justine Roberts and Bill Roberts. 
Individual meeting attendance and 
changes to membership during the 
year are detailed below.

Member
Mike Rogers2
Justine Roberts
Bill Roberts 
Annette Court3
Jean Park4

Attendance1
4/4
6/6
6/6
2/2
1/1

1  Scheduled meetings only, additional ad hoc 

Committee meetings took place during the year.

2  Mike Rogers joined the Committee as Chair on 

27 April 2023.

3  Annette Court retired from the Board and all of her 
committee memberships following the 2023 AGM 
on 27 April 2023.
Jean Park retired from the Board and all of her 
committee memberships on 20 January 2023.

4 

Composition
The Committee met formally six times 
during the year. The membership of 
the Committee at the year-end was 
Mike Rogers (Chair), Justine Roberts 
and Bill Roberts. Mike Rogers was 
appointed as Chair of the Committee 
following the 2023 AGM on 27 April 
2023, replacing Annette Court who 
stood down from the Committee 
and the Board at this time. Jean Park 
retired from the Committee and 
the Board on 20 January 2023. 
Justine Roberts and Bill Roberts are 
independent Non-Executive members 
of the Committee, in accordance 
with the Code which requires that 
the majority of members should be 
independent Non-Executive Directors.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023148148

149

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

The Nomination and Governance Committee is primarily responsible for: 

Reviewing the structure size and composition of the Board as a whole, along with consideration of the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience, time commitment and diversity of the Board and its committees.
Succession planning for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and leading the process for Board appointments by making 
recommendations regarding Board vacancies.
Make recommendations to the Board on refreshing the membership of the Board’s principal committees.
Overview of succession planning at executive and senior management level throughout the Admiral Group, ensuring there is an 
experienced and diverse pipeline for succession.
Devising the selection criteria for the role, skills, capabilities and experience required for a particular appointment and engagement  
with independent, third-party recruitment experts.
Consideration of results of the Board evaluation and consideration of the proposed annual re-election of Directors to the Board  
at the AGM.
Review of Admiral’s governance framework to ensure transparency and accountability, and to consider developing corporate governance 
matters to bring to the attention of the Board where necessary.
Consideration of the Committee’s draft report for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts.

The Committee is regularly updated on proposed senior appointments and governance changes across the Group, as well as key 
developments within the corporate governance landscape. The terms of reference of the Committee include all the relevant matters set 
out under the UK Corporate Governance Code, they are reviewed annually by the Committee and are available to view on the Company 
website in the investor relations section.

Key activities of the Committee during the year
A description of the activities the Committee has focused on during the year ended 31 December 2023 is outlined under the 
following headings:

Non-Executive Director appointment process and appointments made during 2023
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board as a whole, acting on the advice and recommendations of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee. The Committee seeks to balance the retirement and recruitment of Non-Executive Directors well ahead 
of relevant deadlines so as to avoid a dislocation of Board process by losing experience and skills. The Committee is mindful of the need 
to promote diversity and inclusion in appointments to the Board and throughout the Group. Appointments are made on merit and 
against objective criteria, having due regard to the benefits of diversity, and with a view to ensuring the Board has the appropriate mix of 
personalities, skills and experience.

The policy on Board appointments involves the Committee developing an appropriate job specification that identifies the required skills 
and experience for the role and, in most instances, engaging external recruitment consultants, to lead the search process and identify 
suitable candidates. Interviews of the shortlisted candidates are held with the Chair and members of the Committee. After consideration 
by the Committee, a recommendation is made to the Board to appoint a preferred candidate. Further details of how this process 
worked effectively during the year are set out below. The Committee is satisfied that this constitutes a formal, rigorous and transparent 
process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and its subsidiaries, embracing a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and 
experience required of new Directors. 

Mike Rogers, Chair: Appointed 27 April 2023. Mike Rogers joined the Board as Chair following the 2023 AGM. Mike was also appointed 
as Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee at this time. The search and recruitment process for Mike was set out in detail 
in the Committee Report in the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts. Annette Court, the Board and Committee Chair until the 2023 
AGM, played no part in the recruitment process of the replacement Board Chair. This process was led by Justine Roberts, the then 
Interim Senior Independent Director. Justine was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on a permanent basis with effect from 
31 January 2023.

Fiona Muldoon, Non-Executive Director: Appointed 2 October 2023. Fiona Muldoon joined the Board as Non-Executive Director and, 
having specific and relevant financial experience, became a member of the Audit Committee on 2 October 2023. A summary of the 
recruitment process for Fiona is set out below.

External Recruitment Consultant
Heidrick and Struggles (‘H&S’) was engaged as the external independent recruitment search consultant in the appointments of both 
Mike Rogers and Fiona Muldoon. H&S is committed to promoting diversity in the candidates that it presents on an annual, global 
and cumulative basis and this was reflected in the candidates it identified for the appointments of Mike and Fiona. H&S has no other 
connection with the Admiral Group or its Board Directors.

Fiona Muldoon
Non-Executive Director search and recruitment process 

Candidate criteria and search
January – February 2023

Shortlist and interview
March – June 2023

Approval and appointment
July – October 2023

STEP 4
Shortlisting candidates
H&S prepared an initial longlist of 
candidates which was presented 
to the Committee in March 2023. 
Shortlisted candidates were then 
reviewed at the Committee meeting 
held in April 2023. Following the 
meeting, shortlisted candidates were 
contacted to establish interest and 
an initial interview was undertaken 
by H&S.

STEP 6
Committee recommendation 
and Board approval 
Following the satisfactory receipt of 
references, the Committee met to 
discuss a proposal to recommend 
to the Board the appointment of 
Fiona Muldoon as Non-Executive 
Director and member of the Audit 
Committee. The Board considered 
and accepted the recommendation 
of the Committee. A formal offer was 
put to, and accepted by, Fiona.

STEP 7
Appointment 
Fiona was appointed to the Admiral 
Board and as a member of the 
Audit Committee with effect from 
2 October 2023. Fiona immediately 
embarked on a personalised 
and in-depth induction process. 
Her appointment will be put before 
shareholders for approval at the 
2024 AGM.

STEP 5
Interview process
Following further discussions, the 
leading three candidates were 
interviewed by the sub-committee 
and two additionally met the CFO. 
The merits and suitability of the 
candidates were scrutinised at 
each stage during this process 
against the candidate specification. 
Fiona Muldoon emerged as being 
the Committee’s preferred candidate 
given her strong and relevant skills 
and experience, including relevant 
financial experience. It was agreed 
that she would be a good cultural fit, 
and had the capability to contribute 
effectively to the Group Board. 
Fiona subsequently met with the 
Group CEO.

STEP 1
Identification of role 
requirements
The Committee, led by the Chair, 
gave consideration as to the skills, 
experience, knowledge and diversity 
of the Board and those required 
for optimal Board and Committee 
composition. During this process 
the Committee canvased the views 
of the Board and senior Admiral 
management. From this, Non-
Executive Director (NED) candidate 
criteria requirements were agreed 
at the Committee meeting in 
January 2023. 

STEP 2
Engagement of third party 
advisor
Heidrick and Struggles (‘H&S’), 
experts in the field of search and 
recruitment, were engaged by the 
Committee to assist with the search 
for potential NED candidates. H&S 
was asked to ensure the search 
identified candidates from a diverse 
range of backgrounds and industries. 
Alongside the Committee, H&S 
prepared the Admiral Group plc Non-
Executive Director role specification, 
this included a requirement for 
relevant financial experience to allow 
the candidate to be considered for 
membership to the Audit Committee.

STEP 3
Initial search process
A sub-committee of the Committee 
was formulated consisting of the 
Chair, Non-Executive Directors and 
the Head of People Experience to 
oversee the recruitment process. 
H&S commenced a wide-ranging 
search process and regular updates 
on progress were given to the  
sub-committee.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023150150

151

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

Non-Executive Director induction
Upon appointment, our Non-Executive Directors embark on a bespoke and comprehensive induction programme, comprising common 
elements for all Non-Executive Directors, as well as elements tailored to the individual depending on their role, skills, knowledge and 
experience. The induction process, led by the Company Secretary, covers topics such as the role of a Non-Executive Director and their 
responsibilities, the workings of the Board and the Group’s subsidiary boards, and the Company’s operations. Non-Executive Directors are 
provided with a suite of background reading materials before induction sessions are arranged with individuals from each of the Group 
businesses, again, depending on the individual’s induction requirements. Ongoing professional development needs of newly appointed 
Non-Executive Directors are then monitored via annual individual Director evaluations and the Committee’s oversight of the Non-
Executive Director skills matrix. 

Inductions took place for both Mike Rogers, Chair, and Fiona Muldoon, Non-Executive Director, during the year. Outlined opposite is 
a summary of Mike Rogers’ induction process at Admiral. Fiona also received a comprehensive and bespoke induction similar to that 
outlined opposite.

Board Committee changes, term extensions and internal appointments addressed by the Committee during 2023
The Board, on recommendation from the Committee, agreed to the following proposals/changes during the year:

•  Jean Park retired from the Board including all of her committee memberships on 20 January 2023

•  The appointment of Justine Roberts as permanent Senior Independent Director and permanent member of the Remuneration 

Committee was made effective from 31 January 2023

•  Annette Court retired as Chair of the Board including all of her committee memberships following the 2023 AGM held on 27 April 2023

•  Mike Rogers was appointed as a Chair of the Company and Chair of the Committee effective from 27 April 2023

•  The extension of JP Rangaswami’s three-year term as Non-Executive Director became effective on 29 April 2023

•  Fiona Muldoon was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee effective 2 October 2023

•  Karen Green was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee effective 2 October 2023

•  The appointment of Andy Crossley as Chair of the Group Risk Committee was made permanent on 23 October 2023

•  Approval of internal senior subsidiary board and non-executive appointments

•  Approval of additional external appointments for existing Board Directors

•  Consideration of and recommendation for reappointment of all Directors at 2023 AGM. 

Annual re-election
As set out in the Group’s Articles of Association, all Directors should retire and offer themselves for re-election at each AGM, in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and the Company’s current practice. Therefore, all Directors will be submitting 
themselves for election or re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.

Following a full review and evaluation during the year, the Board is satisfied that all Directors are properly qualified for their election or 
re-election by virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution to the Board and its committees. Further details of why each 
Director’s contribution is, and continues to be, important to the Company’s long-term sustainable success is provided on page 118 and 
within the notes to the Notice of the 2024 Annual General Meeting.

Mike Rogers 
Chair induction process 

Previous Chair 
Prior to Annette Court stepping 
down as Chair, she met with Mike to 
facilitate the smooth transition of 
the responsibilities of Chair. She gave 
an overview as to the workings of 
the Board and its committees, her 
key thoughts from a cultural and 
governance perspective, and the 
challenges and opportunities facing 
Admiral. This also included her work 
as Chair of the Committee.

Senior Independent Director 
As Senior Independent Director, 
Justine Roberts works closely with 
the Chair providing a sounding board 
and additional perspective into Board 
matters. Justine was able to give Mike 
the benefit of her seven years of 
service on the Admiral Board.

CEO 
Mike and Milena Mondini de Focatiis 
met frequently to discuss key areas 
of focus for the Company and the 
Board. Milena briefed Mike on Group 
matters including an overview of 
Group strategy, operations, risks, 
people and culture, markets and 
succession planning.

CFO 
Geraint Jones briefed Mike on all 
Group finance matters including; 
financial performance and 
projections, investor feedback, 
market analysis, investments, capital 
management, budgets, reporting and 
control processes.

External advisors 
Mike met with many of Admiral’s 
key external advisers including our 
external auditor, lawyers and brokers 
to obtain external perspectives of 
the business.

Senior management 
Mike met with key members of 
Admiral’s senior management team 
including the Chief Executives of 
each of our UK and overseas business 
divisions along with the department 
heads of Investor Relations, 
Compliance, Finance & Actuarial, 
Risk Management, Internal Audit, 
IT, Pricing, IT Security and People 
Services to understand these key 
areas of businesses.

Mike Rogers 
Chair Mike joined Admiral as Chair 
following the 2023 AGM held on 
27 April 2023. Mike was subject to a 
comprehensive and bespoke induction 
programme designed to provide him 
with the necessary information to 
effectively take on the role as Chair, 
this process began following the 
announcement of his appointment  
on 31 January 2023.

Company Secretary 
Dan Caunt, spent time with Mike 
explaining the Group governance 
framework; this included all 
operational aspects of the Board 
and its committees as well as 
engagement with stakeholders, 
Admiral’s AGM process, Director 
duties, UK Corporate Governance 
Code requirements, Board policies, 
the results of the most recent Board 
evaluation and areas of Board focus 
for the coming year.

Non-Executive Directors 
Mike met and has continued to 
meet individually with each of the 
Non-Executive Directors who gave 
their insight into Board dynamics, 
culture and governance as well as 
highlighting their backgrounds and 
areas of expertise. Mike also met 
with the Chairs of our subsidiary 
Boards and overseas businesses. 
Board Committee Chairs brought 
Mike up to speed on their respective 
Committee’s business. 

Site visits 
Mike undertook various site visits 
during his first year and met with 
management and colleagues across 
the business as part of his induction 
process, this included our UK sites in 
South Wales, as well as L’olivier offices 
in Paris and Lille, the Admiral Seguros 
office in Seville, AECS in Madrid and 
ConTe in Rome.

Significant shareholders 
Mike has met with a number of 
Admiral’s significant shareholders, 
including the founders of the 
Company, Henry Engelhardt and 
David Stevens, to understand their 
views on the business. Mike regularly 
meets with employee shareholders 
throughout the business and the 
opportunity for individual retail 
shareholders to meet the Chair takes 
place annually at the AGM.

Information and educational 
materials 
A comprehensive suite of educational 
materials was provided to Mike by 
the Company Secretary including, 
for example; Admiral’s business 
plan and strategy, key roles and 
responsibilities of the Board, its 
committees, Directors, guidelines 
and policies for a UK Listed insurance 
Company regulated by the FCA and 
PRA, minutes of meetings, terms of 
reference etc.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023152152

153

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

Our Board composition and how we plan for succession
The composition of the Board is kept under constant review by the Committee. As at 31 December 2023, the Board comprised 11 
Directors: The Chair (who was independent on appointment), two Executive Directors, and eight independent Non-Executive Directors – 
see page 118.

The Committee carefully considers the independence, composition and balance of skills and knowledge of the Board. As a result, 
the requirement to refresh Board and committee memberships in an orderly manner is continually monitored so as to maintain the 
continuity of Board process and the strength of personal interaction which underlies the effectiveness of the Board.

Our Board has a 
broad range of 
skills and experience 
which it uses to 
bring independent 
judgement to bear 
on issues of strategy, 
performance, 
risk management, 
resources and 
standards of conduct 
which are integral 
to the success of 
the Group.

Balance of skills, 
knowledge and 
experience 

Board 
diversity

Board 
composition 
and succession 
planning

Non-Executive  
tenure and  
independence

Annual Board  
evaluation and 
individual  
director appraisals

Time 
committment  
and external  
appointments

Tenure and independence
The table below details the length of service of the Chair and each of the current Directors. It illustrates the balance between experience 
and bringing in fresh perspective, as well as the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors.

Board tenure

Director 
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Rogers (Chair)
Justine Roberts
Andy Crossley
Michael Brierley
Karen Green
JP Rangaswami
Evelyn Bourke
Bill Roberts
Fiona Muldoon
Executive Directors
Milena Mondini de Focatiis

Geraint Jones

Date of appointment

27 April 2023
17 June 2016
27 February 2018
5 October 2018
14 December 2018
29 April 2020
30 April 2021
11 June 2021
2 October 2023

Length of service as a Director  
as at 31 December 2023

Independence

8 months
7 years 6 months
5 years 10 months
5 years 3 months
5 years
3 years 8 months
2 years 8 months
2 years 6 months
3 months

On appointment
Independent
Independent
Independent
Independent
Independent
Independent
Independent
Independent

Director – 11 August 2020
CEO – 1 January 2021
13 August 2014

3 years 4 months

Executive Director

9 years 4 months

Executive Director

The Chair, Senior Independent Director and independent Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for fixed periods of three 
years, subject to election by shareholders. The initial three-year period may be extended for two further three-year periods subject 
to performance review and annual re-election by shareholders. JP Rangaswami’s term of appointment as Non-Executive Director was 
extended by a further three-year period during the year, subject to annual re-election by shareholders. Letters of appointment may be 
inspected at the Company’s registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.

The tenure of the previous Group Board Chair, Annette Court, came to an end at the 2023 AGM held on 27 April 2023. Annette had no 
involvement in the recruitment of her successor, Mike Rogers, as Chair. An explanation as to why Annette’s tenure extended beyond 
the nine years recommended by the Code is provided on page 125. Mike Rogers appointment as Chair of the Board became effective 
following the AGM held on 27 April 2023. On appointment, the Board considered that Mike met the independence criteria set out in 
provisions 9 and 10 of the Code. The Chair’s biography can be found on page 118.

The independence of each Non-Executive Director has been assessed during the year, in line with the independence criteria contained 
within provision 10 of the Code. The Board has identified on page 152 which Directors it considers to be independent. The Board 
considered all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent during the year. For the year ended 31 December 2023, 80% of the Board, 
excluding the Chair, were considered independent Non-Executive Directors. The number of independent Non-Executive Directors meets 
the requirements set out under provision 11 of the Code which requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chair, should be 
Non-Executive Directors whom the Board considers to be independent.

Balance of skills, knowledge and experience
The Directors have a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience and can bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, 
performance, risk management, resources and standards of conduct which are integral to the success of the Group.

The Committee understands that a wide range of complementary skills on the Board will assist in the meeting of Board objectives and 
the delivery of Company strategy. The Committee regularly reviews the Board skills matrix, particularly in the context of succession 
planning and skills that are potentially lost at the end of a Director’s tenure on the Board. The current skills and experience on the 
Board are outlined below and an explanation regarding how this feeds into succession planning follows later in this report.

c
i
g
e
t
a
r
t
S
/
e
v
i
t
u
c
e
x
E

i

p
h
s
r
e
d
a
e
L

l
i
a
t
e
R
/
g
n
i
t
e
k
r
a
M

a
t
a
D
/
l
a
t
i
g
D
/
h
c
e
T

i

l
a
n
o
i
t
a
n
r
e
t
n
I

l
a
i
r
u
e
n
e
r
p
e
r
t
n
E

i

m
u
d
e
M
/
l
l
a
m
S

e
s
i
r
p
r
e
t
n
E

/
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
n
u
m
e
R

e
l
p
o
e
P

i

g
n
d
n
e
L

s
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
p
O

y
t
i
l
i

b
a
n
i
a
t
s
u
S
/
G
S
E

A
&
M

y
t
i
C

e
c
n
a
n
i
F

k
s
i
R

e
c
n
a
r
u
s
n
I

Director
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Rogers (Chair)
Justine Roberts
Andy Crossley
Michael Brierley
Karen Green
JP Rangaswami
Evelyn Bourke
Bill Roberts
Fiona Muldoon
Executive Directors
Milena Mondini de Focatiis
Geraint Jones

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
154154

155

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

Time commitment and external appointments
On appointment, all Directors are advised of, and requested to make, the necessary time commitment required to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively. This time commitment is also outlined in the letters of appointment issued to the Chair and Non-Executive 
Directors. When making new appointments, the Committee takes into account other demands on the Directors’ time. Prior to 
appointment, significant commitments are disclosed by Directors to the Committee and the Board. 

As part of the annual performance evaluation each Director is appraised on their time commitment dedicated to the Company. 
The Committee also reviews the time commitment required of all Non-Executive Directors at least annually to consider whether the 
guidance on time commitment of certain roles needs to be extended due to market or responsibility changes. The Board is satisfied that 
all Directors have dedicated the required amount of time to the Company to effectively fulfil their roles, and that the Company has given 
the Non-Executive Directors sufficient time to perform the duties required of them. 

As well as considering the demands of a Director’s time upon appointment, as required under provision 15 of the Code, there is in 
place a formal procedure for the approval of additional external appointments for Directors through the Committee and the Board. 
The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the external commitments of all the Non-Executive Directors do not conflict with their 
duties and commitments as Directors of the Company. 

Overall assessment of composition
The Board, through ongoing assessment and annual performance review, remains satisfied that it has the appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable it and its committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities 
effectively, as required by the Code. In addition, the Directors are aware of their legal duties under s172 of the Companies Act 2006 to act 
in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders, as well as considering 
the interests of wider stakeholders. Further details of how the Board fulfils its duty in this regard are outlined on page 87.

Board and senior management diversity and inclusion
The Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules were amended to include new disclosure requirements for listed 
companies for financial years starting on or after 1 April 2022. As required under the amended requirements, a table setting out gender 
and ethnicity diversity at Board and senior management level is included on page 156. The Board diversity targets, which are in-line with 
the targets set by the FTSE Women Leader’s Review and the Parker Review, are: at least 40% of the board are women; at least one of 
the senior board positions (Chair, SID, CEO and CFO) is held by a woman; and at least one member of the Board is from a minority ethnic 
background. As set out below, the Committee is content that Admiral meets the targets set out in the Listing Rules and Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules 9.8.6(9)(a).

Gender diversity
Diversity and inclusion and the variety of perspectives that it brings has been proven in studies to increase innovation and creativity, and, 
as a result, improves performance. It also has other positive impacts, such as providing greater awareness, widens the talent pool and 
challenges the views or practices that may have become embedded over time. Admiral depends on all of the above, which are enhanced 
through having a diverse workforce, to successfully implement its business strategy.

During the year, the Committee reviewed the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy and discussed the appropriateness of the measurable 
targets to increase diversity and inclusion at Board, Subsidiary board and senior management level. The wording of our policy has been 
updated to increase the breadth of diversity we aim to see in our business, this includes wording explicitly referencing additional diversity 
aspects such as “ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability and socio-economic background (in addition to the aspects of age, gender 
or educational and professional backgrounds)” and “approach, skills and experience, race, age, gender, educational and professional 
background and other relevant personal attributes”. The Committee seeks to ensure that a clear recruitment strategy for Board and 
senior management appointments is in place and is aligned to this policy.

Measures that are covered under the Policy, including progress updates against each, include:

(i) 

 Having one member of the senior executive team who is responsible and accountable for gender diversity and inclusion at Group 
level. Cristina Nestares (EUI CEO) is the accountable executive for gender diversity

(ii)   Setting internal targets for gender diversity in senior management. Progress against the Group’s target of 40% of women in senior 

management by 2023 is detailed below

(iii)   Publishing progress annually against these targets in reports on the Group’s website. Progress updates on the UK business’ progress 

against the HM Treasury’s Women in Finance Charter commitments are provided on an annual basis on the Group’s website

(iv)   Linking the pay of the EUI CEO to the progress made against internal targets on gender diversity. The Remuneration Committee has 

also approved the linkage of progress against the Women in Finance target within the non-financial performance measures of the EUI 
CEO, Cristina Nestares. 

Women on the Board represented five (46%) of its 11 Director membership as at 31 December 2023, compared with six (55%) as 
at 31 December 2022. Admiral continues to be one of only a few FTSE 100 companies where the Board positions of CEO and Senior 
Independent Director are held by women, demonstrating Admiral’s continued strong support for the progression of women in senior 
leadership roles. Official data published by the FTSE Women Leaders (succeeding the Women on Boards Report and Hampton Alexander 
Review), issued in February 2023, reported that the percentage of women on FTSE 100 Boards was 40.5% improving from 39.1% in 2022, 
this demonstrates Admiral’s outperformance when compared with the average of the FTSE 100. 

Board diversity

Nationality

Age 

Ethnicity

Gender

British 7

Non-British 4

40s 2

50s 5

60s 3

70s 1

White British or other
White (including white
minority groups) 10

Asian/Asian British 1

Male 6

Female 5

As a result of the continued progress to balance gender diversity at Board level and to align with the Women in Finance Charter’s aim of 
increasing female representation at the UK senior executive level to 40% by the end of 2023, and the FTSE Women Leaders target of 
40% representation by 2025, the Committee has aligned the annual target of women in senior management positions at 40%. The aim 
is to achieve this level of gender diversity at an aggregate level across the subsidiary boards too. As at 31 December 2023, women 
represented 33% of all of the subsidiary board appointments. Focus will continue to improve gender diversity at this level during 2024. 
Female representation was 40% of our Senior Executives (Executive Committee equivalent) and 34.4% of their direct reports. Admiral is 
working to ensure it continues to achieve the 40% target by the end of 2025. As at 31 December 2023, the gender diversity split across 
the Admiral Group was 50% female / 49% male. The remaining 1% included non-binary and other genders, and colleagues who’d prefer 
not to say. 

Ethnic diversity
The Committee continues to monitor the requirements of The Parker Review’s report on ethnic diversity in the context of the 
composition of its Board and the new reporting requirements for senior management. It also monitors the initiatives that are being 
implemented across the Group to increase diversity, along with consideration as to how measures to develop a diverse pipeline of talent 
for Board and senior management appointments should be developed and monitored. The Board includes one Director from an ethnic 
minority background, which meets one of The Parker Review’s key recommendations for FTSE 100 companies, as well as Listing Rules 
and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 9.8.6(9)(a). Further information on how the Group is developing a pipeline of ethnically 
diverse candidates is outlined below. 

The Group remains strongly supportive of the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender and ethnicity are important, but not the 
only, aspects. What is also important is diversity of thought, experience and approach and each new appointment must complement 
what already exists around the Board table.

Ethnic diversity amongst senior management and the wider workforce is something that Admiral continued to focus on throughout 
2023. Admiral produced its first ethnicity pay gap report in the UK during the year, further demonstrating its commitment to ethnic 
diversity in the workplace. Whilst the Committee recognises that the workforce is not always comfortable with voluntarily sharing such 
personal information, there have been initiatives introduced to encourage more people to make such voluntary disclosures. As a result, 
we have seen an increase this year to 84% disclosure in the UK. As set out in the table below, the percentage of ethnic diversity at senior 
management levels is 3%. The Committee has discussed The Parker Review recommendations to implement a target for ethnic diversity 
representation at senior management level within the Group by 2027 and will be updating shareholders in this regard in due course.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023156156

157

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

Activity to improve diversity and inclusion in the talent pipeline 
Examples of the work Admiral has undertaken to improve its diversity pipeline during the year are set out below, for further information 
see pages 62 and 132.

1

2

3

Admiral’s recruitment strategy 
aims to increase the number of 
candidates from ethnically diverse 
backgrounds and women onto 
shortlists for leadership roles. 
The ‘Get Discovered’ programme 
focuses on developing talented 
women within the Group to become 
the leaders of tomorrow.

Admiral is designing a talent 
and development program, in 
partnership with McKinsey which 
focuses on finding talented 
employees from ethnically diverse 
backgrounds at different levels and 
supporting these employees into 
leadership roles.

Admiral has signed several pledges 
such as the Menopause Pledge, 
Endometriosis Friendly Employer, 
Neurodiversity Friendly Employer 
and continued a commitment to the 
Race at Work Charter by signing up 
to their extended initiatives.

4

5

6

Admiral has completed its third year 
of the Admiral Aspire Programme, 
an internship aimed at offering 
students from ethnically diverse 
backgrounds and Women in STEM 
(Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Mathematics) valuable work 
experience over 12 weeks.

Admiral has partnered with a global 
diversity and talent consultancy 
called Green Park to undertake an 
in-depth ‘Culture and Inclusion’ 
audit, focused on Equality, Diversity 
and Inclusion (EDI). 

Admiral’s focus on culture and 
inclusion was demonstrated by 
winning the best UK Company 
at the 2023 Best Companies 
awards, being named the 6th best 
super large workplace (1,001+ 
employees) in the UK by the Great 
Place To Work® Institute, the global 
authority on workplace culture. 
Admiral also placed 3rd in the UK’s 
Best Workplaces for Women award 
in 2023. 

Admiral remains committed to providing equal opportunities, eliminating discrimination, and encouraging diversity amongst its 
employees both in the UK and overseas. A breakdown of the gender and ethnicity of Directors and senior employees at the end of the 
financial year together with details of the Group’s Equality, Diversity and Dignity at Work Policy are set out in the tables below.

Gender
Men
Women
Other Category
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of Board 
members
6
5
–
–

Percentage of the 
Board
55%
45%
–
–

Number of senior 
positions on  
the Board
(CEO, CFO, SID,  
and Chair)
2
2
–
–

Number of senior 
positions on  
the Board
(CEO, CFO, SID,  
and Chair)

Number in executive 
management
48
26
–
–

Percentage 
of executive 
management
65%
35%
–
–

Number in executive 
management

Percentage 
of executive 
management

Ethnicity
White British or other White (including 
minority white groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other Ethnic group, including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of Board 
members

Percentage of the 
Board

10
–
1
–
–
–

91%
–
9%
–
–
–

4
–
–
–
–
–

72
–
2
–
–
–

97%
–
3%
–
–
–

Succession planning
The Committee oversees the succession planning strategy and appointment procedure for new Director’s on behalf of the Board. 
The Committee reviews those skills present on the Board in order to understand where there are strengths and potential weaknesses, 
and where there may be the opportunity to bring in complementary skills to improve the functionality and depth of experience 
of the Board. These requirements are then fed through to an independent consultant who will seek out candidates matching the 
skillset provided and draw up a diverse shortlist of candidates for the Committee to review. The Committee will also consider senior 
management appointments on behalf of the Board and consider where these appointments fit in with established Board succession 
planning strategy. Any new recruitment process for the Board is based on merit and assessed against objective criteria. The Committee 
considers diversity in all of its forms as a central consideration to this process. Further information around Admiral Board’s recruitment 
process can be found in the appointment process for Fiona Muldoon set out on page 149.

Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Director succession planning is split into short, medium and longer-term horizons to ensure that all eventualities, as far as 
possible, are planned for.

Horizon: Emergency cover

Description
There are emergency succession plans to ensure that there is sufficient short-term cover or a plan in place for key roles of the Board, 
namely, the Chair, the SID, committee Chairs and, in turn, Committee members if a Committee Chair’s absence is longer than expected. 
These plans take account of any requirements under the respective Committee’s Terms of Reference, as well as any Code requirements.

Horizon: Medium term (3–6 year tenure)

Description
The Committee’s medium-term succession planning involves considering the replacement of Non-Executive Directors over time to 
refresh the Board. The Committee considers (i) each Director’s period of tenure and aims to have staggered departure dates, (ii) the 
skills and experience gaps that will be created as each Director’s tenure comes to an end, and (iii) the diversity gaps that might also 
become present.

Horizon: Longer term (6–9 year tenure)

Description
The Committee’s longer-term succession planning involves the consideration of the skills, experience, and diversity that the Board 
will need over the longer-term, taking into account the Group’s strategy and the main trends and factors that are likely to affect the 
Group’s long-term success.

The regular review of these succession plans provides an opportunity for the Committee to discuss the insights provided by the data 
in order to inform the desired mix of skills, experience and diversity that the Board needs now and in the future, in the context of the 
Group’s strategic objectives.

Executive Directors and senior management
The responsibility for making appointments within senior management rests with the CEO, with direction from the Committee. 
Talent management continues to be a key area of focus for the Committee to ensure that there is a diverse pipeline of talent for senior 
management and Executive Director succession.

During 2023, the Committee considered progress in improving talent management and succession planning within the Group. 
The Committee strongly believes that an effective internal talent management process will ensure the preservation of Admiral’s unique 
culture as far as possible. During the year, the Committee received an update on the succession planning framework which is used across 
the Group. This framework encourages more structured thinking about opportunities across departments and internationally, even in 
circumstances where this is a well embedded practice already within Admiral. Discussions on success profiles have also helped to visualise 
how success will look in the future for the critical senior management roles, whilst also providing future talent with visibility on what 
future development might look like for them. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023158158

159

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

The review of succession planning undertaken during the year concluded that there was a healthy pipeline of talent across the Group, 
with no immediate risk in respect of leadership continuity, and the right level of talent to execute our ‘internally grown leaders’ strategy. 
The Group continues to work to ensure that all areas of the business are working to achieve Admiral’s commitment to diversity at 
all levels in all its forms. The Committee will continue to monitor levels of diversity across the business through 2024 and will work 
to improve the ethnic diversity of entities located in geographies where such diversity should be better represented. For further 
information as to what the Company is doing in relation to diversity see page pages 62 and 154. 

The Committee remains satisfied that effective succession plans for Directors and senior management are in place to ensure the 
continued ability of the Group to implement strategy and compete effectively in the markets in which it operates.

Governance
The Committee also regularly reviews the Group’s governance arrangements, including any changes to the subsidiary board or 
committee structure, changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and FCA Listing Rules, as well as oversight of the regulatory 
applications made under the Senior Managers Regime.

Committee effectiveness review
The Committee’s 2023 annual review was conducted by way of a self-assessment, overseen by the Company Secretary, this involved 
completion of a wide-ranging questionnaire. The questionnaire asked a set of questions designed to provide objective assessment of the 
Committee’s performance, including its effectiveness in monitoring Board composition, consideration of Executive and Non-Executive 
Director succession, overseeing talent management, senior management succession planning and developing directors’ knowledge.

The Committee discussed the output from this performance review at its meeting in December 2023 and concluded that, overall, 
the Committee had performed effectively during the year under review. Areas of focus for the Committee in 2024 were identified, 
this included ensuring effective governance around Admiral’s subsidiary board structure and further oversight in the areas of talent 
management and executive succession planning. 

Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, Board committees and individual Directors
How we assess our Board’s effectiveness 
Each year Admiral conducts an evaluation to assess the skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board to confirm  
it has been able to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively. The composition and diversity of the Board and its 
committees and how well the Directors are working together is considered, as well as the individual performance of the Directors 
and the Chair. In line with the provisions of the Code, Admiral undertakes an externally facilitated evaluation every three years.  
In the two intervening years, internal reviews of the Board, its committees and individual Directors are carried out. This year the 
process was facilitated internally by way of questionnaire led by the Chair in conjunction with the Company Secretary. The 2022 
Board evaluation was conducted by way of external evaluation by Bvalco Ltd. Progress against the Board objectives that stemmed 
from the 2022 Board evaluation process are set out opposite.

2020
Internal Board 
Evaluation

2021
Internal Board 
Evaluation

2022
External Board 
Evaluation

2023
Internal Board 
Evaluation

Progress against 2022 Board evaluation recommendations
In December 2022, the Board undertook an externally facilitated Board, Board Committee and individual Director evaluation of its 
performance for the year ended 31 December 2022, carried out by Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd had no other connections with the Group or its 
Directors. The results of the evaluation were discussed at the Board meeting in January 2023, they demonstrated a Board that appeared 
to be functioning well, with some identified opportunities for improvement. The recommendations from the Board evaluation fed into 
the Board’s agreed objectives for 2023 and were detailed in the 2022 Annual Report as “Principal areas of focus for the Board in 2023”. 
At the June 2023 Board meeting, the Board received a six-month update on progress against these agreed areas for focus. The Board 
discussed the 2022 Board evaluation recommendations at their meeting in December 2023 and agreed good progress had been made 
against all recommendations during the year. This progress is set out in the table below. It was agreed that, where appropriate, the Board 
would continue to focus on these recommendations during 2024 to ensure these were fully implemented and embedded.

Areas of focus during 2023

Progress update 

To review the quality of information 
presented to the Board to ensure 
improved decision-making processes.

Review the balance of allocated 
Board agenda time between strategy 
and governance/regulatory matters.

To ensure Non-Executive Directors have 
opportunities to meet together outside 
of scheduled Board time and also with 
executive management.

Review the value of Board strategy 
sessions and ensure the Board has early 
involvement in the development of 
strategic proposals.

The overall quality of information presented to the Board in terms of clarity and 
context continued to improve throughout the year enabling improved Board 
discussions and effective challenge around key items of business resulting in better 
decision-making processes.

Agenda planners for the Board and Board committees were reviewed and redrafted 
during the year to ensure that the balance between strategic and governance/
regulatory matters was appropriate. Terms of reference were reviewed and updated 
to allow for further delegation of non-strategic matters to Board committees and 
subsidiary boards where appropriate.

Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with the CEO following each 
Board meeting and also have a separate Non-Executive Director only debrief session. 
Board members and other senior management are invited to attend Board dinners, 
this allows for informal conversations to take place outside of normal Board activities. 
A Non-Executive Director session on mobility took place during the year. Opportunities 
for further engagement continue to be considered.

The October Board strategy session was well received with Directors having the 
opportunity for early involvement in the strategic planning process along with the 
option to contribute to the development of the specific proposals. The Board provided 
constructive feedback on individual presentations and topics. The format of Board 
strategy sessions will continue to be reviewed and updated to ensure alignment with 
the requirements of the business.

Ensure required metrics and milestones 
are present to allow the Board to hold 
executives to account on strategic 
implementation.

The Capital Allocation Framework alongside budgets and the five-year plan were 
presented to the Board and discussed in detail during the year to enable the 
measurement of the implementation of strategy against plan and ensure management 
was held to account. 

Consideration of the value of an 
overarching approach to ESG initiatives.

A new Group Head of Sustainability was recruited during the year to ensure the 
co-ordination of ESG initiatives. Significant focus was given to ESG through strategy 
discussions, reporting and risk management which will continue throughout 2024.

The executive team should be canvased 
on key skills required when considering 
Board appointments.

Executive management’s views had been canvassed in respect of the key skills required 
when considering all new Group Non-Executive Director appointments and senior 
management hires during the year. 

Review how hybrid meeting arrangements 
could be improved to allow the full 
participation of all participants in 
meetings.

Scheduled Board and Board committee meetings generally take place in person, 
therefore it is rare for Board members to attend virtually. However, where this is 
necessary, for example where ad hoc, late notice meetings are required, updates to 
technology allow for effective attendance and participation where a member cannot 
attend in person. Where Board members were unable to attend meetings, they were 
able to submit questions and comments in advance to the Chair. 

Contributors to Board agenda items to 
be reminded of the guidelines as to form, 
content and paper submission deadlines. 

The Company Secretary and his team continued to drive improvements in the content 
and delivery of Board papers throughout the year. Improvements in the Board and 
committee meeting preparation process were acknowledged by the Board. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023160160

161

Nomination and Governance Committee Report 
continued

Audit Committee Report

2023 Board evaluation
Having carried out an external Board evaluation in 2022 in accordance with the Code requirement that FTSE 350 companies should 
carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board at least every three years, the 2023 Board evaluation process was facilitated 
internally, led by the Chair with the support of the Company Secretary. The evaluation used a questionnaire developed by the external 
consultancy Independent Audit, who has no other connection with the Group or its Directors. The online questionnaire was used to 
evaluate the Board’s performance and dynamics throughout 2023 and was sent to all Board members as well as regular Board attendees 
in November 2023, it considered:

•  Board dynamics and the interaction between the Chair, Non-Executive Directors and executive management to achieve the 

Board’s objectives

•  Leadership and succession planning, including the oversight of the Group’s processes for managing, developing and retaining talent

•  Understanding by the Board of the prevailing culture within the Group

•  Quality, timeliness of delivery and presentation of Board papers and Board support

•  Time management and operational performance of Board and Committee meetings

•  Risk management and the effectiveness of the Board in considering the Group’s risk management framework and internal controls

•  The effectiveness of the Board’s strategic and operational oversight

•  Priorities for change that would enhance Board performance.

The results of the evaluation were collated by the Company Secretary and discussed at the December 2023 Board meeting. The overall 
impression from the evaluation process was that the Admiral Board and its committees continued to be performing strongly and 
function effectively. The Board was open and inclusive and supported the culture of the Admiral Group with some opportunities for 
improvement identified. A summary of the main recommendations resulting from the 2023 Board evaluation process are set out in the 
table below. Recommendations have fed into the Board’s agreed objectives for 2024 and are detailed under the ‘Principal areas of focus 
for the Board in 2024’ section on page 127.

Outcomes and areas of focus for 2024

Culture

ESG

Control framework

Board reporting

Informal Board interactions

To improve understanding around the impact of hybrid working on the Group’s culture 
and the associated risks.

Focus on environmental, social and governance considerations, including ensuring the 
Board has the correct information to monitor ESG performance, and the setting of ESG 
targets that reflect the Group’s values.

Review of control framework to ensure appropriate focus on compliance and changes  
to the regulatory risk outlook and associated risks.

To ensure standard reporting templates are rolled out across all committees and 
subsidiary Boards for consistency of approach.

Consideration of further opportunities for informal Board and management interactions 
to ensure management was able to benefit from Non-Executive Director insight and 
experience. Group Board Non-Executive Directors to have further engagement with 
subsidiary Board Non-Executive Director’s to ensure sharing of knowledge and experience.

2023 Board Committee effectiveness reviews
Further information on each of the Board Committee’s evaluations of their own performance can be found within the respective Board 
Committee reports.

Individual Director evaluation
The performance of the CFO is appraised annually by the CEO, to whom he reports. The Chair, taking into account the views of the other 
Directors, reviews the performance of the CEO. The Chair also carries out the performance assessments of each of the Non-Executive 
Directors. Each of the Directors were determined to have continued to effectively contribute to the work of the Board in 2023.

The performance of the Chair is reviewed by the Board led by the Senior Independent Director. The latest review took place in December 
2023 and was reported to the December Board. The Senior Independent Director considered and discussed with the Chair the comments 
and feedback that had been received from the Directors as part of the Chair’s evaluation questionnaire and was able to confirm that the 
performance of the Chair from his time of appointment in April 2023 was effective. 

Overseeing
THE IMPLEMENTATION 
OF IFRS 17

Dear Shareholder, 

I am pleased to set out 
in this report an update 
on the main activities of 
the Committee in 2023. 

Areas of focus in the  
reporting period
The Committee considered the economic 
backdrop facing the Group, including 
the geopolitical backdrop and supply 
chain challenges. It gave particular 
consideration to current UK inflationary 
pressures and the impact on the key 
accounting and actuarial judgements 
made by management in relation to the 
valuation of insurance contract liabilities 
and credit loss provisions, as well as the 
potential impact on going concern and 
viability assumptions. The Committee 
also dedicated a significant amount of 
time to understanding and assessing the 
impact of the new IFRS 17 (Insurance 
Contracts) accounting standard on the 
Group’s financial results and ensuring 
appropriate disclosure in the financial 
statements. The Committee monitored 
the continued effectiveness of the 
Group’s key internal controls in a hybrid 
working environment, in particular given 
the implementation of various new 
important systems. 

Significant financial reporting issues 
The setting of insurance contract 
liabilities in accordance with the Group’s 
agreed reserving methodology is a key 
accounting judgement in the Group’s 
financial statements (as set out in 
note 2 to the financial statements), 
and the Committee continues to 
place considerable focus on this area. 
The Committee challenged the key 
reserving assumptions and judgements, 
movements, emerging trends and 
analysis of uncertainties underlying 
the analysis of outstanding claims for 
the UK Car Insurance business proposed 
by management alongside that of the 
Group’s external independent actuarial 
advisers. In 2023, this included the 
impact of inflation on the claims reserves 
as set out in more detail below, future 
scenarios for the Ogden discount rate 
and ensuring the accuracy of claims data 
following the transition to the new claims 
management system. It also focused on 
management’s selection of a confidence 
level for the IFRS 17 risk adjustment held 
within the liability for incurred claims. 
The Committee also received reports on 
the claims reserving processes performed 
for insurance businesses other than UK 
Car and recommended to the Board the 
aggregate claims reserves for inclusion 
in the Group’s financial statements.

In addition to claims reserving, the 
Committee spent time reviewing 
management’s support for a number 
of other significant financial reporting 
matters including the expected credit 
loss provision held in relation to the Loans 
receivable balance held by the Group’s 
consumer lending business Admiral 
Money, other potential provisions and 
contingent liabilities, and the results 
of impairment testing performed in 
relation to the Group Parent Company’s 
investments in Group subsidiaries.

“The Committee 
dedicated a significant 
amount of time to 
understanding and 
assessing the impact  
of IFRS 17 on the 
 Group’s results.”

Karen Green
Chair of the Audit Committee

Eight 
meetings1 
in 2023

Members Attendance 
Member
Karen Green (Chair)
Andy Crossley2
Michael Brierley
Fiona Muldoon

1  Based on scheduled meetings.
2  Andy Crossley missed one meeting due  

to a pre-existing arrangement.

Attendance
8/8 
7/8 
8/8 
2/2 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023162162

Audit Committee Report
continued

IFRS 17 (Insurance Contracts) 
The Group successfully implemented 
the new IFRS 17 (Insurance Contracts) 
accounting standard ahead of the 
1 January 2023 implementation date. 
Given the fundamental changes to 
the Group’s financial statements, the 
Committee dedicated a significant 
amount of time to understanding 
and assessing the impact of the 
standard on the Group’s financial 
results. The Committee reviewed 
and challenged key judgements and 
accounting considerations, as well as 
the financial statement disclosures on 
the impact of the new standard required 
by IAS 8 (Accounting Policies, Changes 
in Accounting Estimates and Errors) 
and related accounting disclosures. 

Corporate governance and  
reporting changes
The Committee was kept informed 
of the Group’s engagement with the 
Department for Business, Energy & 
Industrial Strategy (BEIS) consultation on 
‘Restoring trust in audit and corporate 
governance: proposals on reforms’ 
during 2023 including the proposed 
changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and will continue to monitor 
developments in this area. The Committee 
also oversaw, in conjunction with the 
Group Risk Committee, the Group’s 
progress in further aligning reporting 
with the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published 
recommendations. The Committee 
received a report from the Group’s 
external auditor on TCFD and other 
climate-related reporting and trends in 
the market.

Internal controls
The Committee has continued to review 
the effectiveness of the internal control 
systems across the Group, in particular 
given the implementation of various 
system changes, including areas of 
potential weakness highlighted through 
audit and other assurance reports.

I hope you find the above summary, and 
the more detailed report, both useful 
and informative.

Karen Green
Chair of the Audit Committee

6 March 2024

How the Committee operates
Membership
Membership of the Committee at the 
end of the year was: Karen Green (Chair), 
Andy Crossley, Michael Brierley and 
Fiona Muldoon.

Two of the Committee’s members are 
Fellows of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales, 
and one is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in Ireland. 
Given the insurance and financial services 
experience of the members of the 
Committee, the Board considers that they 
have a broad range of skills, experience 
and knowledge of the insurance and 
financial services sector, which represents 
the principal market in which the Group 
operates, and also the area of consumer 
lending in which the Group has a growing 
business, such that they are able to 
effectively analyse, challenge and debate 
the issues that fall within the Committee’s 
remit. The Board is satisfied that the 
Committee as a whole has competence 
relevant to the sectors in which the Group 
operates and further considers that a 
number of its members have recent and 
relevant financial experience.

Attendance at meetings
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary 
to the Committee. The Group Chief 
Financial Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, 
Director of Group Finance & Chief 
Actuary and Group Head of Internal Audit 
routinely attend all Committee meetings 
(other than certain private sessions). 
Other individuals, such as the Chair of the 
Board, Chief Executive Officer, Head of 
Group Compliance, and representatives 
of different parts of the Group, may be 
invited to attend all or part of any meeting 
as and when appropriate. The Chairs of 
the Audit Committees of the Group’s 
European insurer and US subsidiary also 
attend at least one meeting each year to 
present on their activities. 

The external auditor was invited to 
attend all of the Committee’s meetings 
held in 2023, except in respect of those 
agenda items when its own performance, 
reappointment and fees were reviewed 
and discussed, or where any other conflict 
was identified.

Meetings held
The Committee meets at least six times 
per year and has an agenda planner linked 
to events in the Company’s financial 
calendar and other significant issues that 

arise throughout the year, which fall for 
consideration by the Committee under its 
remit. The Chair of the Audit Committee 
agrees the agenda for each meeting.

There were eight scheduled Committee 
meetings held during the year (with 
two of these meetings focused on 
reserving matters in conjunction with 
the half year and full year reporting and 
another on the approval of the Group’s 
Solvency and Financial Condition Report). 
Two additional meetings were held during 
the year, focused on various matters 
relevant to the Committee’s remit. 

Details of member attendance at the 
Committee meetings held during the year 
are outlined on page 162.

How the Committee  
keeps up to date
The Committee is kept up to date with 
changes to Accounting Standards and 
relevant developments in financial 
reporting, Company law, and the 
various regulatory frameworks through 
presentations from the Group’s external 
auditor, Group Chief Financial Officer, 
Group Chief Actuary and Group Company 
Secretary. In addition, all members 
attend relevant seminars, briefings and 
conferences provided by external bodies. 
The Committee also receives tailored 
reports from management and the 
Group’s external auditors from time to 
time. Topics included the Task Force on 
TCFD and other climate-related reporting 
proposed changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code in 2023.

The Terms of Reference of the audit 
Committee include all the matters 
required under the Code and are reviewed 
annually by the Committee.

The Chair of the Audit Committee meets 
with the Group Head of Internal Audit, 
Group Chief Financial Officer, Director 
of Group Finance & Chief Actuary, Head 
of Reserving, the external auditors and 
UK Head of People Services (who has 
overall responsibility for coordinating the 
Group’s whistleblowing arrangements) on 
a regular basis. The Committee also held 
(i) two private meetings with the Group 
Head of Internal Audit, (ii) one private 
meeting with the Chief Financial Officer, 
and (iii) two private meetings with the 
external auditor during the year.

163

Role and responsibilities  
of the Committee
The Audit Committee’s primary 
responsibilities are to:

Financial reporting
•  Monitor the integrity of the Group’s 

financial statements and any 
formal announcement relating to 
the Group’s financial performance, 
including the Group’s Solvency and 
Financial Condition Report, reviewing 
any significant financial reporting 
judgements which they contain, 
including that of the Group’s Going 
concern status

•  Provide advice (where requested by the 
Board) on whether the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and 
provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business 
model and strategy

•  Oversee the Group Risk Committee’s 

work on climate-related 
financial disclosures.

Internal controls and internal audit
•  Keep under review the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal financial 
controls, internal control and risk 
management systems

•  Monitor and assess the role and 

effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit functions in the context of the 
Group’s overall internal control and risk 
management systems.

External audit
•  Make recommendations to the Board, 
to be put to shareholders for their 
approval at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the 
Group’s external auditor

•  Approve the remuneration and 

terms of engagement of the Group’s 
external auditor

•  Review and monitor the Group external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity, 
and the effectiveness of the audit 
process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements

•  Review the policy on the engagement 

•  Updates from the Group’s consumer 

of the Group external auditor to provide 
non-audit services, ensuring that there 
is prior approval of non-audit services, 
considering the impact this may have 
on independence and taking into 
account the relevant ethical guidance 
in this regard.

Other
•  Oversee the Group’s procedures 

for handling allegations 
from whistleblowers

•  Report to the Board on how it has 
discharged its responsibilities.

Summary of key activities 
during 2023
During the year the Committee reviewed 
the following: 

Financial reporting
•  The Group Annual Report and interim 
results announcement, including key 
accounting judgements and disclosures

•  Parent Company financial statements 
(both annual and interim), and related 
key accounting judgements and 
disclosures, including impairment 
testing of the Parent Company’s 
investments in subsidiaries

•  Reports from the Chair of the Group 
Risk Committee on the principal 
risks faced by the Group and the 
work undertaken by the Group 
Risk Committee to ensure risk is 
appropriately managed

•  Reports from the Chair of the Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited (AICL) and 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(AIGL) Audit Committees on the 
financial statements for AICL and AIGL 
at HY 2023, including key accounting 
judgements and disclosures

•  The Group Solvency and Financial 

Condition Report, including disclosures 
specific to AICL and AIGL

•  Presentations from the Group’s 
actuarial reserving team and 
independent external actuarial 
experts to assist the Committee in 
concluding on the adequacy of the 
Group’s IFRS reserves and Solvency II 
technical provisions

•  Information supporting the Group’s 

Going concern assumption

•  Information prepared by management 
demonstrating risk transfer within 
reinsurance contracts in line 
with the requirements of IFRS 17 
(Insurance Contracts)

lending business on the IFRS 9 
(Financial Instruments) expected credit 
loss provision

•  Reports assessing the accounting and 

disclosure impacts of risk events arising 
across the Group

•  Information supporting the accounting 

treatment of a historic Italian 
tax matter

•  The financial statement disclosures 
on the impact of the new standard 
required by IAS 8 (Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates 
and Errors) (further detail on the 
Committee’s work in relation to IFRS 17 
is set out below)

•  The Group’s disclosures relating 
to climate risk, including those 
disclosures required by the TCFD 
and CFD, and received a report from 
the external auditor on regulatory 
developments in climate-related 
disclosure requirements.

Internal audit and internal controls
•  Reports from the internal audit 

functions within the Group on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control 
procedures and progress against the 
2023 Audit Plan, approval of changes 
requested to the 2023 Plan and the 
Audit Plan for 2024 including resourcing 
levels, details of key audit findings, 
and actions taken by management to 
manage and reduce the impact of the 
risks identified

•  Performance and effectiveness of the 

Internal Audit function

•  A summary of the key findings from all 
reports from Internal Audit, including 
management responses to the 
conclusions set out in the reports

•  Reports on the controls in place, 
including significant breaches or 
incidents, across the Group and its 
overseas subsidiaries

•  European insurance internal audit 

updates, including an update from the 
Chair of the European Audit Committee 
(of the Group’s subsidiary Admiral 
Europe Compañía de Seguros, S.A., 
(AECS) which underwrites the Group’s 
European insurance businesses) on the 
activities of that Committee

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023164164

Audit Committee Report
continued

•  US insurance internal audit updates, 

including an update from the Chair of 
the Audit Committee of the Group’s US 
subsidiary Elephant, on the activities of 
that Committee

•  Reports on the output of the 

assessments of adherence to and 
embedding of the Group Minimum 
Control Standards’ framework and 
planned developments in relation to 
that framework

•  Reports on the various improvements 

underway to the Group’s control 
environment including regular updates 
on work to strengthen the Group’s IT 
access control management and plans 
to further enhance the Group’s Fraud 
and Financial Crime Framework.

External audit
•  Reports from the external auditor 
highlighting system and control 
recommendations, key accounting and 
audit issues and conclusions on the half 
year and full year reporting

•  Confirmation of the external 

auditor’s independence

•  Reports from Deloitte, the external 

auditor, on their proposed audit scope 
and plan

•  Proposed external audit fee and the 
drivers of the year-on-year increase.

Other
•  Updates on tax matters supporting the 
Group Tax Strategy which is available at 
www.admiralgroup.co.uk

•  Progress updates on the BEIS 

consultation relating to audit and 
corporate governance reforms, 
including updates received from the 
external auditor

•  The effectiveness of the Group’s 
Whistleblowing Policy, which sets 
out the arrangements for raising 
and handling allegations from 
whistleblowers, and receiving regular 
reports on instances of whistleblowing 
that have been raised

•  The Committee’s terms of reference

•  The Committee’s effectiveness.

Significant issues considered  
by the Committee 
After discussion with both management 
and the external auditor, the Audit 
Committee determined that the key risks 
of misstatement of the Group’s financial 
statements, as in prior years, related 
to the valuation of insurance contract 
liabilities under IFRS 17. This key risk of 
misstatement can be separated into 
the best estimate of future cashflows 
required to fulfil insurance contracts, 
and the methodology and measurement 
of the risk adjustment for non-financial 
risk. In addition, given the inflationary 
environment referenced above, a specific 
significant risk was agreed in relation to 
inflation assumptions applied to UK Car 
bodily injury claims reserves given the 
long-tail nature of the claims and the 
current higher inflationary environment.

The implementation of IFRS 17 in 
the period also gives rise to a key 
audit matter given that the standard 
introduces a number of new key 
accounting judgements. 

Furthermore, the IFRS 9 provision for 
expected credit losses in relation to 
the Group’s lending business, Admiral 
Money, and the impairment testing 
exercise performed in relation to the 
Group Parent Company investments 
in Group subsidiaries were significant 
financial reporting issues considered by 
the Committee. 

These significant issues were discussed 
with management during the year and 
with the external auditor at the time 
the Committee reviewed and agreed 
the external auditor’s Group audit plan, 
when the external auditor reviewed 
the interim financial statements in 
August 2023 and also at the conclusion 
of the external audit of these full year 
financial statements.

Valuation of insurance 
contract liabilities   
The Committee continued to spend 
significant time reviewing and challenging 
the approach, methodology and key 
assumptions adopted by management 
in setting reserves for insurance liabilities 
in the financial statements to ensure 
consistency with the Group’s stated 
accounting policies, which have been 
updated following the implementation  
of IFRS 17. 

In this context, the Committee challenged 
management on the important 
judgements and assumptions used in 
estimating the best estimate of future 
claims cashflows, including specific 
focus on inflation assumptions applied in 
relation to UK Car bodily injury claims, and 
the measurement of the risk adjustment 
for non-financial risk. Further information 
is set out in more detail in the critical 
accounting estimates section of note 2 to 
the financial statements.

As in previous periods, the Committee 
held meetings specifically focused on 
reserving, receiving presentations on UK 
Car Insurance reserves from the internal 
actuarial reserving and finance teams, as 
well as the independent external actuarial 
advisors. At these meetings management 
provided further information on the 
projected best estimate claims reserves, 
as well as payment patterns used to 
estimate the resulting future claims 
cashflows. Management also presented 
to the Committee on the measurement 
of the risk adjustment for non-financial 
risk including the methods used to 
estimate the reserve risk probability 
distribution and the selection of the 
confidence level in line with the Group’s 
stated 85th – 95th percentile accounting 
policy. The Committee also received 
presentations from the external actuarial 
firm that performed independent 
validation of the best estimate claims 
reserves and the external Big Four 
firm that performed independent 
validation of the reserve risk distribution 
and the appropriateness of the risk 
adjustment at the target confidence 
level. Management were challenged by 
the Committee on the key assumptions 
and judgements made in these processes 
and justification for the movement 
in confidence level since the start of 
the year. 

The Committee reviewed and discussed 
the effects of inflationary pressures on 
claims reserves in relation to both damage 
and bodily injury claims. In addition, 
the move to a new claims system was 
considered as well as scenarios in relation 
to the future Ogden rate and updates 
regarding the FCA’s multi-firm review of 
motor total loss claims. The Committee 
also reviewed management’s assessment 
of the level of uncertainty inherent in 
the claims reserves, and changes to that 
assessment from previous periods as well 
as the results of management’s reserve 
stress and scenario testing.

165

The Committee also received updates 
from the Group’s external auditor, 
Deloitte, on its work in relation to this 
significant audit risk. This included 
reviewing management’s actuarial data 
quality assessments, best estimate 
reserve projections and the risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk, as well 
as assessing management’s qualitative 
and quantitative support for gross 
insurance contract liabilities included 
in the financial statements. Based on 
this work, the auditor was satisfied that 
the financial statement reserves remain 
appropriate and consistent with the 
Group’s accounting policy.

The Committee also received reports on 
the reserving processes for the Group’s 
insurance businesses other than UK Car 
Insurance. Management presented an 
overview of the claims reserving processes 
and resulting recommendations for 
the UK Household and UK Van lines of 
business as well as European and US 
motor businesses, including the results 
of actuarial best estimate reserving 
processes and justification for the risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk for 
each business.

Whilst acknowledging that the setting 
of reserves for claims which will settle in 
the future is a complex and judgemental 
area and having had the opportunity 
to challenge management’s proposal 
in respect of both best estimate 
reserves and risk adjustment held above 
best estimate to cover unforeseen 
deteriorations in the best estimate, 
the Committee is comfortable that an 
appropriate process has been followed, 
and that there has been sufficient 
scrutiny, challenge and debate to give 
confidence that the reserving levels set 
incorporate a risk adjustment for the 
uncertainty in the best estimate which is 
consistent with the Group’s stated IFRS 17 
accounting policies. 

Inflation assumptions applied  
within valuation of UK motor  
bodily injury claims reserves 
The Committee placed focus during the 
year on reviewing and challenging the 
approach, data inputs, methodology 
and key assumptions adopted by 
management in determining an 
allowance for excess inflation on 
bodily injury claims, included in claims 
reserves. Whilst acknowledging that 
ultimate outcome is highly uncertain, 
the Committee had the opportunity to 

challenge management’s judgements 
in respect of selected projections of 
inflation, in particular future wage 
inflation as well as the elements of 
bodily injury claims that will be subject 
to this excess inflation. The Committee 
concluded that the data and underlying 
methodology used in calculating excess 
inflation was reasonable, and in line with 
market practice and that the inflation 
assumptions adopted were appropriate.

Other financial reporting issues
IFRS 17 implementation
IFRS 17 is the new insurance accounting 
standard that came into effect from 
1 January 2023. Given the fundamental 
changes to the Group’s financial 
statements and systems and processes 
that have arisen because of the new 
standard, the Committee dedicated 
a significant amount of time during 
previous financial reporting periods 
to understanding and assessing the 
impact of the standard on the Group’s 
financial reporting process and the 
progress of implementation of chosen 
software solutions.

In 2023, the Group presented interim 
and full year financial statements under 
the new standard, including a transition 
balance sheet as at 1 January 2022, a full 
restatement of 2022 primary financial 
statements and related notes to the 
financial statements as well as revised 
accounting policies and other disclosures. 

Throughout the year the Committee 
continued to dedicate significant time to 
the subject and received regular updates 
on implementation activities, as well 
as reviewing and approving accounting 
policies, methodologies and judgements 
relating to the new standard. Activities of 
the Committee included:

•  Regular updates as to the programme 
status, ahead of the first reporting 
under IFRS 17 in the Group’s interim 
financial statements including 
progress against plans for individual 
workstreams and other issues such as 
resourcing levels

•  Review and approval of the Group’s 

transition balance sheet as at 1 January 
2022, including the work of the 
external auditor Deloitte in respect of 
the transition 

•  Review and approval of the Group’s 
restated 2022 interim and full year 
financial statements under IFRS 17, 
including the work of the external 
auditor Deloitte in respect of 
the restatement 

•  Review and approval of all IFRS 17 

related policies including accounting 
policies and those related to accounting 
judgements and materiality 

•  Review and approval of the Group’s 
revised methodology for estimating 
co-insurance profit commission, which 
is recognised under the accounting 
standard for revenue, IFRS 15. 
Whilst not directly impacted by IFRS 17, 
the loss ratio inputs to the calculation 
were amended to ensure consistency 
with the new standard 

•  Reports setting out management’s 

assessment of key technical accounting 
matters as part of the review of 2023 
interim and final financial statements, 
including the status of the work of the 
external auditor Deloitte in respect of 
those technical issues

•  Updates from the Group’s external 

auditor on their audit of the Group’s 
IFRS 17 work and IFRS 17 developments 
in the market generally.

The critical accounting judgements 
reviewed by the Committee in relation 
to IFRS 17 included management’s 
justification for the use of the simplified 
‘Premium Allocation Approach’, the 
lowest unit of account under IFRS 17 
and the classification and presentation 
of reinsurance contracts under the 
standard. The Committee, having 
reviewed management’s supporting 
papers and hearing from external auditor 
Deloitte on the matters, concluded 
that the judgements were reasonable 
and appropriate. 

The Committee was pleased to note the 
positive findings of the FRC’s thematic 
review of companies’ disclosures relating 
to IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ in the 
interim accounts, which highlighted the 
Group’s disclosures as an example of 
better practice. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Audit fee
During 2023, the Committee reviewed 
and approved the audit fee proposal 
for the 2023 year end Group audit. 
The agreed fee for the audit and other 
assurance related services for 2023 is 
£3.48 million (2022: £2.76 million), with 
the increase reflecting inflation in line 
with market increases, the impact on 
ongoing audit work required relating 
to IFRS 17 (Insurance Contracts) and 
the impact on audit work required 
in relation to new financial systems. 

The Committee approved the fee increase 
having discussed with the auditor the 
rationale for the proposal.

In addition to the agreed fee for 2023, 
the Group incurred a one-off audit fee 
during 2023 of £0.83 million relating 
to the transition to IFRS 17 and the re-
presentation of the Group’s 2022 financial 
statements under the new standard. 

Safeguarding the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity
The Committee reviewed and approved 
its policy on non-audit services in February 
2023 and was satisfied that it continued 
to align with current regulatory guidance. 
Under the policy, the Group’s statutory 
auditor will only be engaged to carry 
out non-audit services in prescribed 
circumstances or where there is a 
regulatory request, and where agreed 
by the Committee. This is to ensure that 
the independence and objectivity of 
the external auditor is safeguarded.

The Committee will continue to monitor 
regulatory developments in this area to 
ensure that its policy on non-audit fees 
adheres to current guidance.

166166

Audit Committee Report
continued

The Committee challenged 
management’s proposal for recognition 
of impairment losses as well as 
conclusions for other subsidiary entities 
where indicators for impairment were 
present but no impairment was deemed 
necessary as a result of recoverable 
amounts being in excess of the carrying 
value of investments.

Misstatements
No material unadjusted audit differences 
were reported by the external auditor. 
The Committee confirms that it is 
satisfied that the auditor has fulfilled 
its responsibilities with diligence and 
appropriate professional scepticism.

After reviewing the presentations 
and reports from management and 
consulting, where necessary, with the 
auditor, the Committee is satisfied that 
the financial statements appropriately 
address the critical judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty (both 
in respect to the amounts reported and 
the disclosures). The Committee is also 
satisfied that the significant assumptions 
used for determining the value of assets 
and liabilities have been appropriately 
scrutinised, challenged and are 
sufficiently robust.

External audit
External auditor appointment
The Group last completed an audit 
tender during 2020/21 when, following 
the completion of a transparent and 
independent audit tender process, 
Deloitte LLP were recommended to 
shareholders as the Group’s auditor at 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in 
April 2021 and a resolution was passed 
to that effect. Deloitte LLP’s overall tenure 
up to and including the 2023 financial 
year is eight years. The Committee 
confirms it is in compliance with the 
provisions of the Statutory Audit 
Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation Order 2014.

On the recommendation of the 
Committee, the Board approved that 
Deloitte should be recommended 
to shareholders for reappointment 
as the Group’s auditors at the 2024 
AGM. A resolution to that effect will be 
proposed at the AGM.

IFRS 9 provision for  
expected credit losses
During the year, the Committee has 
continued to review and challenge the 
IFRS 9 provision for expected credit loss 
arising through the Group’s loans business, 
Admiral Money. Areas of focus included 
the potential impact of UK inflationary 
pressures and the increase in UK market 
interest rates on default experience, 
the assessment of circumstances 
indicating a significant increase in credit 
risk and underlying forward-looking 
economic assumptions.

Further information on the provision and 
key assumptions are found in note 7 to 
the financial statements.

On the basis of the work performed and 
having had the opportunity to challenge 
management’s proposal in respect of 
the provision for expected credit losses, 
the Committee was comfortable that an 
appropriate process has been followed, 
noting the continued enhancements 
made to the provisioning methodology 
reflecting the increasing maturity of 
the business, and that there has been 
sufficient scrutiny and challenge to give 
confidence that the provision has been 
set in line with the IFRS 9 requirements 
and included appropriate allowance for 
uncertainties arising from the current 
macro-economic environment.

Impairment testing for the Group’s 
investment in subsidiaries
During the year, the Committee considered 
management’s work in relation to the 
Group Parent’s investment in subsidiary 
entities. Under the relevant accounting 
standard, IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ 
management identified entities with 
indicators of impairment and performed 
detailed impairment testing in relation to 
those investments, calculating recoverable 
amounts primarily through the use of 
discounted cashflow calculations. 

Management proposed the recognition 
of non-cash impairment losses in 
respect of investments in Elephant, the 
Group’s US insurer, as well as subsidiary 
entities supporting the Group’s newer 
growth businesses in the UK and in 
Italy. The impairment charge relating 
to Elephant followed a similar approach 
to previous periods and was the more 
material of the impairment losses, 
reflecting the reduction in net assets 
of the business (used as a proxy for fair 
value less costs to sell) arising from losses 
incurred during 2023. 

167

The Committee discussed the results of 
the review at its meeting in December 
2023 and concluded that the Committee 
continued to operate effectively and 
within its remit. There were a number of 
areas identified for further improvement, 
such as ensuring that issues and 
risks were prominently presented in 
Committee papers. 

Priorities for the Committee for 2024 
include ensuring that the Committee 
is appropriately briefed on the UK 
Corporate Governance Code change and 
climate-related reporting, requesting the 
relevant business managers to attend 
Committee meetings to answer questions 
on significant internal audit reports and 
reinforcing the use of more effective 
summaries to highlight the issues and 
risks that the Committee needs to 
focus on. 

Whistleblowing
On behalf of the Board, the Committee 
considered and reviewed the 
Group’s whistleblowing policy and 
received quarterly updates on the 
use and effectiveness of the policy, 
whistleblowing metrics and the 
instances of whistleblowing that had 
been raised across the Group during the 
year. During the year, the Committee 
concluded that the Group’s current 
whistleblowing arrangements were an 
appropriate means by which employees 
could raise concerns in confidence 
and anonymously.

Effectiveness of the external  
audit process
The Committee undertakes an annual 
review to assess the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor and the 
effectiveness of the audit process, taking 
into consideration relevant professional 
and regulatory requirements, the progress 
achieved against the agreed audit plan, 
and the competence with which the 
auditor handled the key accounting and 
audit judgements.

As part of its review, the Committee 
considered, among other things, 
the following: submissions by the 
external auditor relating to their 
continued independence, the output 
of a questionnaire completed by all 
Committee members and relevant 
members of the Group’s Finance and 
Internal Audit functions and the findings 
of the FRC Audit Quality Reviews (AQR) 
published in July 2023. Following this 
review, the Committee concluded that 
the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, 
remained independent and that the 
external audit process remained effective.

Internal audit
The Group Head of Internal Audit 
attended all Audit Committee meetings 
and provided a range of presentations 
and papers to the Committee, through 
which the Committee monitored the 
effectiveness of the Group’s material 
internal controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls on 
behalf of the Board.

The Group Head of Internal Audit also 
carries out an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of 
internal control and risk management 
and reports on the outcome of this review 
to the Committee. In February 2024, the 
Group Head of Internal Audit reported 
an adequate level of assurance in relation 
to the Group’s arrangements for risk 
management, control infrastructure, 
governance and fraud prevention controls. 
This was supported by a summary of the 
assurance activity performed by the Line 
2 Risk and Compliance functions and an 
annual assessment of internal controls  
by Line 2. 

The Committee reviewed and approved 
the Group Internal Audit Policy, which 
includes the Group Internal Audit Terms of 
Reference setting out the role, objectives, 
reporting lines and accountability, 
authority, independence, and objectivity 
of the Internal Audit function. 
The Committee also monitored and 
discussed the evolution and development 
of the Internal Audit function, and 
considered the role, competence and 
effectiveness of each internal audit 
function across the Group. The Group 
Head of Internal Audit continues to have 
responsibility to ensure the quality of the 
internal audit activities in the Group’s 
overseas locations. The Chairs of the 
European and US Audit Committees 
each updated the Committee on their 
respective activities during the year. 

Members of the Committee also 
receive all issued internal audit reports, 
enabling them to challenge the reports’ 
content, including the rating, and related 
recommendations. The Committee 
approves the internal audit plan at the 
start of each calendar year and any 
inflight amendments to that plan, whilst 
the effectiveness and workload of the 
internal audit functions and the adequacy 
of available resources are monitored 
throughout the year.

The European operations in Spain, Italy 
and France have a dedicated internal 
audit team and the US business also has 
its own locally based team. All reports 
are evaluated by the Group Head of 
Internal Audit to ensure the quality and 
effectiveness of the reported findings, 
and a summary of the key findings of 
each completed audit is provided to the 
Committee as part of the Group Head 
of Internal Audit’s regular Committee 
update. In addition, the UK internal audit 
function carries out high-level governance 
reviews of all foreign operations, assessing 
the internal control frameworks and 
system of risk management.

Committee effectiveness review
As part of the Committee’s annual review 
of its own performance and processes, 
each Committee member completed a 
comprehensive questionnaire designed 
to provide objective assessment of the 
Committee’s performance, including its 
effectiveness in monitoring internal and 
external audit. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023168168

Group Risk Committee Report

169

Managing
RISK EFFECTIVELY

Dear Shareholder, 

As Chair of the Group Risk 
Committee, I am pleased 
to present the Committee’s 
report for 2023.

The Committee has received updates 
on each of the Group businesses as 
part of the Group’s Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF). 
Developments considered by the 
Committee throughout the year included: 

•  Admiral’s risk strategy and approach 

to risk management including regular 
reviews of the Group’s risk strategy and 
risk appetite, monitoring a suite of  
Key Risk Indicators, and oversight of the 
management of material risk events

•  Ongoing risk assessment and 

monitoring of the impact of inflation, 
market volatility, and economic outlook 
on capital and liquidity risks across the 
Admiral Group

•  The implementation of Consumer Duty

•  Oversight of work required to ensure 

Admiral is prepared to meet the 
challenges of climate change

•  Oversight of material projects and 

change programmes

•  Oversight of Admiral’s technology and 
Information Security work, including 
the future technology strategy

•  Discussions on people risk and 

risk culture

•  The continuing development of the 

Admiral internal model. 

Risk strategy and approach to risk 
management: During the year the 
Committee has discussed and considered 
proposals to enhance the risk strategy 
and the approach to risk management 
in order to continue supporting the 
effective and efficient delivery of the 
Group’s overall strategy. The Committee 
continues to monitor a suite of Key Risk 
Indicators with associated triggers and 
limits against the Group risk appetite. 

The ongoing focus on monitoring and 
reporting customer outcome risks 
continues with the Committee reviewing 
the Group Conduct Risk Framework 
(aligned with the ERMF). The Committee 
also received updates on the Group 
Minimum Standards which continue 
to be enhanced and embedded. 

The Committee has spent time on 
key risks that affect the Group as well 
as reviewing the management and 
outcomes of notable risk events reported 
during the year.

Capital management: The Committee 
has reviewed the Group’s proposed 
dividend level, capital plan and capital 
buffer in line with the Capital Policy. 
The review considered the expected 
impact on the Group’s solvency ratio 
due to a range of different sensitivities, 
and stress and scenario tests. The Group 
continues to make use of Undertaking 
Specific Parameters (USPs) in Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIGL) and 
the Volatility Adjustment (VA) in AIGL and 
its UK insurance entity, Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited (AICL). The Committee 
discussed the capital add-on, and received 
updates on the process and outcome 
during the year. 

“The Group Board is of 
the view that the Group’s 
risk management and 
internal control systems 
have operated effectively 
during the year.”

Andy Crossley
Chair of the Group Risk Committee

Eight 
meetings  
in 2023

Committee members
Members
Andy Crossley (Chair)
JP Rangaswami
Cristina Nestares1
Karen Green
Jean Park2

Attendance
8/8
8/8
7/8
8/8
1/1

1  Cristina Nestares missed one meeting due to a 

2 

preexisting arrangement.
Jean Park retired from the Board and all of her Committee 
memberships on 20 January 2023.

The Committee held eight scheduled 
meetings, with an additional meeting also 
taking place.

Economic uncertainty: The Committee 
has reviewed and continues to monitor 
the Group’s solvency and liquidity 
positions in response to market volatility 
and wider economic uncertainty, 
considering factors such as changes in 
inflation, the wider impact of supply chain 
disruption, banking events, high interest 
rates, and the pressures on individual 
household finances. 

Consumer Duty: The Committee received 
regular updates on the delivery of 
Consumer Duty implementation during 
2023. Since the Duty came into effect in 
July 2023, the Committee has continued 
to receive regular updates, focusing on 
how the Duty is embedding and on the 
delivery of good customer outcomes.

Climate change: The Committee has 
received updates on the work being 
undertaken relating to climate change to 
ensure that Admiral is meeting current 
requirements and is appropriately 
preparing to meet future challenges. 
These updates include commentary 
on risk management, ongoing climate-
related strategic developments, and 
the changes that may be necessary for 
compliance with emerging regulatory 
requirements. This is further described 
in the Viability Statement (page 109), 
and additional information on Admiral’s 
approach to climate change can be found 
in the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (page 73). 

Geopolitical instability: The Committee 
has been apprised of geopolitical 
developments over the course of the 
year. In particular, the Committee has 
considered the effects of the 2022 Russian 
invasion of Ukraine, which continues 
to drive cost of living pressures and 
put supply chains under strain, and the 
added uncertainty from the more recent 
Israel-Hamas conflict. The Committee 
has also considered potential exposure to 
disruption in the global electric vehicle 
(EV) manufacturing industry, which is 
dominated by China, if a geopolitical 
conflict were to develop between China 
and Taiwan or the United States.

Material projects and change 
programmes: As a result of the 
Committee’s oversight of individual 
Group entities, combined with the 
oversight afforded by the Group’s project 
governance framework, the Committee 
has considered and challenged updates 

relating to material projects and change 
programmes within the Group, including 
those designed to accelerate existing 
products. The Guidewire migrations in 
the Group have been the topic of focused 
sessions at GRC, in particular to ensure 
consideration of the published lessons 
learnt from an incident at a peer.

Technology and information security: 
The level of oversight of technology 
risks including operational resilience has 
continued to increase over the year with 
regular reporting and discussion of the 
risk position at GRC. The Committee 
has received regular updates on 
relevant topics including the future 
technology strategy.

People risk and risk culture: The 
Committee has considered the potential 
impact on people and culture when 
reviewing strategic decisions. In addition, 
a number of the Key Risk Indicators and 
supporting commentary are focused on 
people risk.

Progress of Admiral internal model 
(AIM): The Group Risk Committee and 
Board have maintained their focus in 
relation to the Admiral internal model 
during 2023, and have continued to 
receive regular reporting to help drive 
key decisions in relation to the model. 
The UK Car model has been updated in 
2023 to address limitations identified 
during prior independent validation 
reviews. This will help to ensure that the 
model is well placed to support a planned 
regulatory pre-application. The new UK 
Car model will be subject to another 
cycle of independent validation to ensure 
that the updates have been successfully 
implemented prior to the pre-application 
regulatory submission. In parallel, the 
project is continuing a programme to 
expand the model to produce Solvency 
Capital Requirements for Admiral Group, 
AIGL and AICL and to expand its scope 
to include UK Household, UK Van, 
Travel and Pet products. This expanded 
scope partial internal model will be the 
basis of a regulatory full application. 
Regular communications with the PRA 
and GFSC are being held both at senior 
management and project levels to align 
delivery for the pre-application and full-
application regulatory reviews.

Andy Crossley
Chair of the Group Risk Committee 

6 March 2024

Duties and responsibilities 
of the Group Risk Committee
The duties and responsibilities of the 
Committee are set out in the Committee’s 
Terms of Reference, and were reviewed 
and approved by the Admiral Group Board.

The main responsibilities of the 
Committee are: 

•  Overseeing the development, 

implementation and maintenance of 
the Group’s overall Risk Management 
Framework and ensuring that it is 
in line with emerging regulatory, 
corporate governance and best 
practice guidelines

•  Considering and recommending to 

the Board for approval the Group’s risk 
appetite, as well as ongoing monitoring 
and review of the Group’s risk exposures

•  Monitoring the Group’s prudential 

risk exposure, which includes ensuring 
that the Group’s capital resources and 
liquidity profile are appropriate to 
its needs, whilst meeting minimum 
regulatory requirements, including 
overseeing and challenging the design 
and execution of the Group’s stress and 
scenario testing

•  Reviewing the Group’s capacity to pay 

interim and final dividends

•  Reviewing the annual Group ORSA 

Report and any required interim ORSA 
Reports, with recommendations being 
provided to the Board for approval

•  Reviewing and approving the Solvency 

II Actuarial Function Reports on 
Risk Management, Reinsurance and 
Underwriting each year

•  Reviewing the Group’s progress towards 

approval of the Group’s internal 
capital model

•  Monitoring the adequacy and 

effectiveness of the Group’s Risk and 
Compliance functions 

•  Approving the annual plans and 

resourcing for the Group Risk and 
Compliance functions which include 
reviewing regulatory developments and 
any planned meetings between the 
PRA and FCA and the business

•  Reviewing any significant risk issues 
that have a material impact on the 
customers of the business and/or 
concern the regulator

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023170170

Group Risk Committee Report
continued

•  Ensuring the adequacy and 

effectiveness of the Group’s systems 
and controls for the prevention of 
financial crime, and data protection 
systems and controls

•  Reviewing the Group’s compliance with 

Solvency II

•  Annually reviewing and approving the 
Group Minimum Standards Framework 
and required standards

•  Reviewing compliance with Group 
policies, including the Group’s 
Reinsurance Policy, Group ORSA Policy, 
and Group Underwriting Policy

•  Reviewing the proposed risk-based 

adjustments to remuneration for senior 
managers and making subsequent 
recommendations for approval to 
the Group Remuneration Committee, 
as well as providing feedback on the 
Directors Remuneration Policy, and 
commenting on remuneration metrics 
to help ensure there is no conflict with 
risk management objectives 

•  Reviewing reports from the Group 

Risk, Group Compliance, Group Data 
Protection and Privacy, and Group 
Internal Audit functions

•  Formally reporting to the Group 

Audit Committee to facilitate their 
recommendation of the Annual Report 
and Accounts to the Board on the 
following key areas and disclosures; 
principal risks and uncertainties, risk 
management and internal control, 
viability, risks associated with material 
transactions and/or strategic proposals, 
and the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures. 

The Committee Chair reports formally 
to the Board on the Committee’s 
proceedings after each meeting, 
on all matters within its duties and 
responsibilities, as set out in previously 
circulated minutes to the Board. 
The Committee Chair also reports on the 
activities of the Committee in a formal 
written report that is submitted to and 
discussed by the Board annually.

The work of the Committee is supported 
by more detailed work undertaken by 
subsidiary Boards and/or executive 
Risk Management Committees in each 
of the Group’s operational entities. 
At each meeting, the Risk Management 
Committees consider notable: 
movements in the operation’s risk 
profile; risk events; and emerging risks. 
Risk Management Committees also assess 

and monitor regulatory issues, ensuring 
that their resolution and the actions 
taken are appropriately recorded. The Risk 
Management Committees receive 
regular information on Conduct Risk, 
such as complaint handling reports and 
other related management information. 
The Group Risk Management function 
reviews and collates information from 
across the Group for consideration by 
the Committee.

In addition, to ensure that the Committee 
is operating effectively, it conducts a 
periodic review of its performance (last 
reviewed in November 2023) and at 
least annually reviews its constitution 
and terms of reference (last reviewed 
in December 2023). Any changes it 
considers necessary are recommended 
to the Group Board for approval. As part 
of the Committee’s annual review of 
its own performance and processes, 
all Committee members and regular 
attendees were invited to complete an 
online evaluation designed to provide 
objective assessment of the Committee’s 
performance, including its effectiveness.

The Committee discussed the results 
of the review at its meeting in January 
2024 and concluded that, overall, the 
Committee remained effective with 
feedback from the Committee being 
largely positive. Areas of focus and 
improvement for the Committee in 2024 
included greater focus on change risk 
and further examination of the business’s 
ability to manage key/strategic risks. 

Summary of key Group Risk 
Committee activities in 2023
During the year the Committee:

•  Reviewed the Group’s updated risk 

strategy, and ongoing enhancements 
to the risk appetite framework in 
the context of the Group’s agreed 
strategic objectives

•  Recommended the 2023 Group ORSA 
Report and ORSA Policy for Board 
approval prior to submission of the 
report to the regulator

•  Reviewed the Group’s capacity to pay 
dividends, capital plan and capital 
buffer in line with the Capital Policy

•  Received updates on the Group’s 

regulatory capital add-on review as part 
of the Solvency II capital requirements

•  Received regular updates on customer 
outcome risk, the Group Minimum 
Standards, and Policy Framework

•  Received in-depth updates of 

individual Group entities, Admiral 
Europe Compañia de Seguros (AECS), 
EUI, Admiral Money (AFSL), Elephant 
and Able

•  Considered in-depth analysis of a 

number of the Group’s most significant 
risk areas, via stress and scenario testing 
and reverse stress testing

•  Considered the adequacy of risk 

mitigation measures and contingency 
planning including a review of the 
Group’s reinsurance provisions

•  Dedicated a significant amount of time 

to developing the Admiral internal 
model, receiving regular updates on the 
progress of the project and providing 
challenge to key project work streams

•  Monitored climate change-related 
initiatives, including continued 
progress to reduce Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, progress to validating Scope 
3 emissions, and submitting science-
based targets

•  Received regular risk monitoring 

reports on performance of Key Risk 
Indicators within the overall risk 
management framework

•  Received updates on the impact of 
notable risk events throughout 2023

•  Received regular updates in relation 

to key programmes of work including 
Identity and Access Management, 
Guidewire Upgrade and Consumer 
Duty, as part of the Group’s project 
governance framework

•  Considered the annual renewal of the 
Group’s corporate insurance coverage

•  Assisted the Group Board in its 

oversight of M&A opportunities, 
including the acquisition due in 2024 of 
the UK direct Home and Pet personal 
lines insurance operations of RSA.

Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board of Directors confirms that it 
has performed a robust assessment of 
the Group’s principal and emerging risks. 
These risks, along with explanations 
of how they are being managed and 
mitigated, are included in the Strategic 
Report, page 98.

Information on how key risk drivers have 
impacted on the Group’s principal risks 
has been included within the Viability 
Statement, page 109. 

171

Risk management and internal 
control systems
The system of risk management and 
internal control over Admiral’s insurance, 
operational, market, credit and group 
risk is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and breaches of 
risk appetites. 

Furthermore, risk management can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The Group Board is ultimately 
responsible for the Group’s system of 
risk management and internal control 
and the Group Audit Committee (GAC) 
has reviewed the effectiveness of this 
system (a summary of GAC duties and 
responsibilities, as well as key GAC 
activities in 2023 is available on page 161.

The Group Board is of the view: that there 
is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the Group’s risks 
and internal controls; that it has been in 
place for the year ended 31 December 
2023 and that it has operated effectively; 
and that, up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and Accounts, it is regularly 
reviewed by the Group Board and accords 
with the internal control guidance 
for Directors provided in the 2018 UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 

The Group Board confirms that it has 
performed a robust assessment of the 
Group’s principal and emerging risks. 
These risks, along with explanations 
of how they are being managed and 
mitigated, are included in the strategic 
report on page 98, with key risk drivers 
impacting Admiral’s principal risks and 
uncertainties being further discussed 
in the Viability Statement on page 
109. The Group Board is responsible for 
determining the nature and extent of 
the principal risks it is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives. 
This assessment supports the Group 
Board in monitoring the integrity of the 
Group’s reported financial statements.

The Group Board meets at least seven 
times a year to discuss the direction of 
the Group and to provide oversight of the 
Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems. 

The Group Board has delegated the 
development, implementation and 
maintenance of the Group’s overall risk 
management framework to the Group 
Risk Committee (GRC). The GRC reports 
on its activities to the Group Board and 
the GAC, supporting the overall opinion 
provided by the GAC that the Group’s 
internal control, risk management 
and compliance systems continue to 
operate effectively.

The Group Board has delegated to the 
GAC the review of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
financial controls, and internal control and 
risk management systems.

The Group operates a “three lines 
of defence” approach to Risk and 
Internal Control.

1st Line of Defence: The Group 
Board recognises that the day-to-day 
responsibility for implementing policies 
for risk identification, assessment 
and management lies with the senior 
management, whose operational 
decisions must take into account risk and 
how it can be controlled effectively.

2nd Line of Defence: The “second line of 
defence” is led by the Group Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer and comprises 
the Corporate Governance functions and 
Committees that are in place to provide 
oversight of the effective operation of the 
internal control framework. The Corporate 
Governance functions facilitate the 
oversight and operation of the Group 
Policy Framework and Group Minimum 
Standards, covering risk management and 
controls for all notable risks to the Group. 
The Corporate Governance functions 
perform second line reviews, including 
reviews of the capital modelling and 
business planning processes to support 
the Group Board’s assessment of the 
Group’s ongoing viability. Regular reviews 
of risks are undertaken in conjunction 
with senior management, with the 
results of these reviews recorded in risk 
registers and reported to the appropriate 
governance forums and Boards. 

3rd Line of Defence: The “third line of 
defence” comprises the independent 
assurance provided by the Group Internal 
Audit function, overseen by the GAC. 
Internal Audit undertakes a programme 
of risk-based audits covering all aspects 
of both the first and second lines of 
defence. The findings from these 
audits are reported to all three lines, i.e. 
Management, the Executive and oversight 
Committees, and the GAC.

The Subsidiary Boards, GRC, and entity 
Risk Committees receive reports setting 
out key performance and risk indicators 
and consider possible control issues 
brought to their attention by early 
warning mechanisms that are embedded 
within the operational units. They, 
together with the GAC, also receive 
regular reports from the Internal Audit 
function, which include recommendations 
for improvement of the control and 
operational environments.

The Chair of the GRC provides a written 
report to the Group Board of the activities 
carried out by the Committee on an 
annual basis (a summary of GRC duties 
and responsibilities, as well as key GRC 
activities in 2023 is available on page 168). 
In addition, the Group Board receives 
regular reports throughout the year from 
the Chairs of the GRC and GAC as to their 
activities, together with copies of the 
minutes from Subsidiary Board meetings, 
the GRC and the GAC. 

The GAC’s ability to provide an opinion 
to the Group Board depends on the 
provision of periodic and independent 
confirmation, primarily by Group Internal 
Audit, that the controls established by 
Management are operating effectively 
and where necessary provides a high-
level challenge to the steps being 
taken by the GRC to implement the risk 
management strategy.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023172172

Remuneration Committee Report

173

Ensuring
OUR PEOPLE  
ARE SUPPORTED

Dear Shareholder,

On behalf of the 
Remuneration Committee, 
I am delighted to present 
the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 
31 December 2023.

I would like to thank shareholders for 
supporting Admiral’s Annual Report 
on Remuneration at the April 2023 AGM 
with a vote of 88.5%. I look forward 
to welcoming you at our AGM in 2024 
and to your continued support.

2023 business context 
2023 has been a landmark year for 
the Group, celebrating thirty years 
in business, however, it has not 
been without its challenges – both 
macroeconomic and geopolitical.

As Milena has made clear in her statement 
this year, we have continued to deliver 
the right products and service to our 
customers. This is evidenced in 6% growth 
in customer numbers and profit of £443m, 
a solid performance given the challenging 
context. We have been able to deliver 
this performance due to reacting quickly 
and navigating the changing market 
conditions well.

During 2023 we have continued to ensure 
that our people are supported through 
the ongoing cost-of-living challenges. 
We are clear that the continuing success 
of Admiral is possible due to the hard work 
and dedication of the people who work 
for us, and we will continue to ensure they 
are supported for the year ahead.

1.  Justine Roberts joined the Remuneration Committee on 

31 January 2023, she missed two meetings to pre-existing 
engagements made prior to her joining the Committee.

2.  Karen Green was appointed to the Remuneration 

Committee on 2 October 2023.

Remuneration for 2023
Taking into account the approved 
remuneration structure and Admiral’s 
business performance, the Committee 
made the following decisions during 2023.

2021–23 Discretionary Free Shares 
Scheme (DFSS)
Based on our performance for the period 
2021-2023, 43.76% and 43.73% of the 
DFSS award granted in 2021 will vest to 
Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint 
Jones, respectively. This is the lowest 
vesting performance in recent times.

As the 2021 DFSS awards were granted 
during the pandemic period, we needed 
to consider whether windfall gains have 
occurred, as this was a period where share 
prices were generally lower than prior 
years for most companies. The Committee 
is satisfied that no such windfall occurred 
on the basis that the share price at 
the end of the performance period is 
materially lower than the grant price, 
and that DFSS awards are allocated as a 
fixed number of shares, as opposed to a 
percentage of salary.

The full details of the vesting outcomes 
are on page 187.

2023 DFSS bonus
Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint 
Jones will receive a DFSS bonus of 
£296,071 and £172,676 respectively. 
This bonus is equivalent to dividends 
which would have been paid during 
the year on all outstanding DFSS and 
salary shares awarded, but not yet 
vested, plus a 6.43% adjustment for 
performance against a scorecard of 
Non-Financial Metrics. In addition, the 
DFSS bonus is subject to a potential 
downward adjustment to take account 
of any risk events considered to have a 
material customer, regulatory or financial 
impact. For this year there were no such 
risk adjustments. The full details of the 
DFSS bonus calculations are on page 189.

“We are recommending 
policy changes which  
we believe make 
the Executive Directors’  
packages more competitive, 
while reinforcing the 
strong alignment with 
shareholders’ interests and 
maintaining fairness of 
reward approach to reinforce 
Admiral’s unique culture.” 

Evelyn Bourke
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Seven 
meetings 
in 2023

Committee members
Member
Evelyn Bourke (Chair)
Michael  Brierley
Justine Roberts1
Karen Green2

Attendance
7/7
7/7
5/7
1/1

2023 DFSS award
On 28 September 2023, Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis was granted an award of 
90,000 shares and Geraint Jones was 
granted an award of 52,500 shares 
under the DFSS. Using the share price 
on the date of the grant of £23.72, 
this is the equivalent to £2,134,800 
or 290% of Milena’s base salary and 
£1,245,300 or 287% of Geraint’s base 
salary respectively. 

The awards will vest based on: 

•  EPS - 26.67% weighting; 

•  TSR vs. FTSE 350 (excluding investment 

companies) – 26.67% weighting; 

•  RoE – 26.67% weighting; and 

•  the average outcomes of the scorecards 
of Non-Financial Metrics used to assess 
DFSS bonus adjustments over the 
performance period – 20% weighting. 

There will also be the potential for 
downwards adjustment subject to an 
assessment which will take account of 
risk events considered to have a material 
customer, regulatory or financial impact 
over the course of the performance 
period. Further details can be found 
on page 187. 

2024 Remuneration Policy review
The Remuneration Policy was last 
approved by shareholders at the 2021 
AGM, effective for a maximum of three 
years. Consequently, the Committee is 
seeking shareholder support for a revised 
Remuneration Policy at the 2024 AGM. 

In arriving at the planned changes to 
the Remuneration Policy the Committee 
sought to maintain the positioning of 
fixed pay towards the lower end of the 
market while ensuring that the variable 
elements would deliver significant extra 
reward for outperformance. The Chair 
of the Committee consulted extensively 
with shareholders, who were generally 
very supportive of the changes. 

There are three proposed changes 
to highlight:

•  Annual bonus – we propose to remove 
the DFSS Cash bonus in favour of an 
annual bonus plan. The maximum 
bonus potential for the Executive 
Directors is proposed to be 200% of 
base pay, with 40% of any bonus earned 
being deferred into shares for a period 
of three years. Bonus payments will 
be subject to potential downwards 
adjustments to take account of risk 
events, and are subject to malus 
and clawback provisions, in line with 
the Group’s Malus and Clawback 
Framework. Full details of the plan can 
be found on page 193.

•  Pension – there is no change proposed 

to the contribution rate (which is 
consistent with that available to UK 
employees), but we propose the 
removal of the absolute cap on the 
amount of Company contributions.

•  Dividend equivalent on unvested 
DFSS and invested annual bonus 
share awards – we propose to give 
the Committee the flexibility to apply 
dividend equivalent shares to the 
Executive Directors’ unvested awards. 
This would only be deployed for 
Executive Directors if it were also being 
applied across the whole population 
who receive DFSS awards.

2024 remuneration arrangements
Executive Director remuneration 
arrangements for 2024 will operate in 
line with the 2024 Remuneration Policy, 
subject to shareholder vote.

We propose to increase Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis’ salary by 4.97% to £774,000 
and Geraint Jones’ salary by 7.27% to 
£465,000, effective from 1 January 2024. 
For Milena, this increase is in line with 
the proposed base pay changes across 
the UK workforce of the Group, where 
we anticipate the average increase for 
colleagues to be of the order of 5% as we 
continue to support our people through 
the impact of the high inflationary 
environment. For Geraint, the increase 

begins to address the competitiveness 
of his base pay relative to the lower 
quartile of the market. The Remuneration 
Committee intends to increase his salary 
to the lower quartile of the market by the 
end of this policy period, in increments. 
The Remuneration Committee will review 
his increase each year to ensure it is 
appropriate and moves his positioning 
as intended. This means that the increase 
for Geraint may be ahead of those 
generally given to colleagues for the 
duration of the policy.

We propose that Milena Mondini de 
Focatiis be granted an award of 95,000 
shares and Geraint Jones be granted 
an award of 55,000 shares under the 
DFSS for 2024. The Committee will review 
these awards prior to the September 
grant date to ensure the quantum 
remains appropriate.

The Committee reviewed the metrics 
that will apply to DFSS and Annual Bonus 
awards for 2024. Further details are shown 
on page 191.

In summary
The proposed Remuneration Policy will 
be put to shareholders at the AGM in 
2024 and is subject to a binding vote. 
Both the Committee and the Board 
strongly believe that the proposed 
Remuneration Policy will continue to 
serve the Group’s strategic ambitions and 
incentivise executives to create value for 
our shareholders. The Annual Report on 
Remuneration (subject to an advisory 
vote) will also be put to a shareholder vote 
at the AGM. The Committee and I hope 
that you vote in favour of both the report 
and policy. I am happy to discuss our 
Remuneration Policy and Annual Report 
on Remuneration with shareholders.

Evelyn Bourke
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

6 March 2024

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023174174

Remuneration at a Glance

175

“I would like to thank shareholders 
for supporting the Annual Report 
on Remuneration at the April 2023 
AGM with a vote of 88.5%.”

Evelyn Bourke
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Overview of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The following chart shows the operation of the key  
elements of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for  
the 2023 performance year:

Y1

Y2

Y3

Y4

Y5

Base salary

Pension, Benefits & Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP)

Discretionary Free Share 
Scheme (DFSS) Bonus

Performance period

DFSS

Holding period

How did we perform during 2023? 

Profit

£443m 2022: £469m

2022 restated IFRS17: £361m

Earnings per share (pence)

 111.2p 2022: 124.3p

2022 restated IFRS17: 95.4p

Return on equity (%)

36% 2022: 35%

2022 restated IFRS17: 29%

Full year dividend per share (pence)

 103.0p 2022: 112.0p

1 year TSR

33.1% 2022: -26%

How are remuneration outcomes linked to Group Purpose and Strategy?
The table below details how each of the performance measures link to our Group Purpose and Strategy.

Group Purpose

Strategy

Great 
Customer 
Experiences

Successful 
Business

Positive 
impact on 
society

Great place 
to work

Accelerating 
towards 
Admiral 2.0

Diversification

Evolution  
of Motor

Financial 
performance

Non-financial 
performance

Performance measures
EPS
ROE
TSR
Strategic Assessment
Customer Feedback
Customer Outcomes
Trust Index
Diversity
Inclusion

The Committee is committed to ensuring remuneration outcomes for the Executive Directors are commensurate with performance 
and are aligned to the Group purpose, strategic priorities, and shareholders’ interests. Variable pay is subject to stretching 
performance outcomes and is delivered primarily through shares to ensure a long-term focus and alignment with shareholders.

How was performance determined in 2023?
DFSS awards vesting on performance to 31 December 2023
A summary of the outcomes for the Executive Directors in respect of the 2021 DFSS award:

Financial  
Performance measure
EPS growth (33.33%)
TSR vs. FTSE 350 (33.33%)
Return on Equity (33.33%)
Vesting

Non-financial performance 
(20% weighting)

Performance range

Threshold
0.50% 
Median
25%

Maximum
36%
Upper quartile
55%

Actual outturn
-37.70%
56th percentile
41.50%

Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis
69.98%

Geraint 
Jones
69.83%

Total financial performance  
vesting at 80% weighting
Total non-financial performance  
vesting at 20% weighting
Overall Vesting

Outcome as %  
of maximum
0.00%
45.20%
66.40%

Vesting  
Contribution
0.00%
15.07%
22.13%
37.20%

Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis
29.76%

Geraint 
Jones
29.76%

14.00%

13.97% 

43.76%

43.73%

DFSS bonus in respect of 2023
A summary of the 2023 NFM outcomes and associated cash bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors: 

Category

Strategy

Target

16.50%

Customer feedback

8.50%

Customer outcomes

8.50%

25.30%

9.44% (H2)

9.98% (H1)

5.46% (H1)

12.42%(H2)

People (Trust index)

9.00%

9.00% 

Female representation  
at senior level

3.75%

Inclusion survey results

3.75%

Total

Overall scorecard 
multiplier

100.00%

5.63%

62.86% (H1)

69.29% (H2)

105.14% (H1)

107.72% (H2)

120.00%

*  The Committee did not apply discretion to the outcome of the performance measures.

What did our Executive Directors earn in 2023?

•  Pension, benefits and SIP include the 

2023 pension contribution of £15,000 
for the CEO and CFO, respectively.

•  DFSS bonus of £296,017 and £172,676 for 
the CEO and CFO, including an adjustment 
for performance against the scorecard of 
non-financial measures. 

•  DFSS value for the CEO and CFO relates 
to 43.76% and 43.73% of their 2021 
DFSS awards vesting, respectively.

£19,060

CFO

£433,472

£589,791

£172,676

£19,060

CEO

£737,326

£296,017 £1,011,775

Key

Salary

Pension, benefits & SIP

DFSS Bonus

DFSS Shares

Outcome

Maximum

33.00%

17.00%

17.00%

18.00%

7.50%

7.50%

7.50%

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023176176

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Compliance Statement
This Remuneration Report has been prepared according to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), Regulation 11 
and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2018, the 
Companies (Directors’ Remuneration Policy and Directors’ Remuneration Report) Regulations 2019 and other relevant requirements 
of the FCA Listing Rules. In addition, the Board has adopted the principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) and the guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as ISS, the Investment Association, 
and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association. 

Unless otherwise stated, information contained within this Remuneration Report is unaudited. 

The following Remuneration Policy (the “2024 Policy”) will come into effect, subject to shareholder approval, from the April 2024 AGM. 
The policy table below summarises the changes from the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2021 AGM (the 2021 Policy). 

Key Principles of Admiral Remuneration Arrangements
The Group is committed to maximising shareholder value over time in a way that also promotes effective risk management, excellent 
customer outcomes while ensuring that there is a strong link between performance and reward. This is reflected in the Group’s stated 
Remuneration Policy of paying competitive, performance-linked and shareholder-aligned total remuneration packages. These comprise 
basic salaries coupled with participation in performance-based share schemes to generate competitive total reward packages for 
superior performance. 

This policy has been reviewed in 2023 as part of the usual three-year cycle and will be put to a shareholder vote at the 2024 AGM.

The Board is satisfied that this revised policy continues to meet the objectives of attracting and retaining high quality executives  
across the Group.

The Committee reviews the remuneration framework and packages of the Executive Directors and senior managers and recognises the 
need to ensure that the Remuneration Policy is firmly linked to the Group’s strategy, including its risk management approach. In setting 
the Policy and making remuneration decisions, the Committee takes into account pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group. The main 
principles underlying the Remuneration Policy are:

•  Competitive total package – the Group aims to deliver total remuneration packages that are market-competitive, taking into account 

the role, job size, responsibility, and the individual’s performance and effectiveness. Prevailing market and economic conditions 
and developments in governance are also considered, as are general salary levels throughout the organisation. There is sufficient 
opportunity within the variable pay of Executive Directors to reward outstanding levels of performance, taking into account the 
market context, with upper quartile remuneration outcomes;

•  Significantly share-based – our base salaries are typically targeted towards the lower end of market but are combined with 
meaningful annual share awards that vest on long-term performance to ensure strong alignment with shareholders and the 
long-term interests of the Group. Executives are also encouraged to build up significant shareholdings in the Group to maximise 
shareholder alignment;

•  Long-term perspective – a significant part of senior executives’ remuneration is based on the achievement of appropriate but 

stretching performance targets that support the delivery of the Group’s strategy and shareholder value. The extended performance 
and vesting horizons promote a long-term perspective that is appropriate to the insurance sector; 

•  Effective risk management – incentives are designed to ensure they do not encourage excessive risk-taking. They are aligned with the 

delivery of positive customer outcomes and reinforce the Group’s risk policy;

•  Open and honest culture – the Group has a strong culture of focussing on collective success, whilst recognising individual contribution 

to the Group’s performance, and this is reflected in our remuneration structure across the business; and

•  Transparency for stakeholders – the remuneration structure is designed to be easy to understand, and all aspects are openly 

communicated to employees, shareholders, and regulators.

Remuneration Policy table
This table describes the key components of the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation

Opportunity and performance metrics

Base Salary 
To attract and retain 
talent by setting 
base salaries at levels 
appropriate for the 
business.

Salaries are reviewed annually or 
following a significant change 
in responsibilities.

Salary levels/increases take account of:

•  Scope and responsibility of 

the position.

•  Individual performance and 

effectiveness, and experience of the 
individual in the role.

•  Average increase awarded across 

the Group.

Pension 
To provide retirement 
benefits.

The Group operates a Personal Pension 
Plan, a Defined Contribution Scheme. 
This is available to all employees 
following completion of their 
probationary period.

Any salary increases are applied in line with 
the outcome of the review.

For current Executive Directors, that 
increases in cash salary will not normally 
exceed the increase for the general 
employee population over the term of this 
Policy. More significant increases may be 
awarded in certain circumstances including, 
but not limited to: where there has been a 
significant increase in role size or complexity, 
to apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed Executive Director, or where 
the Executive Director’s salary has fallen 
significantly behind market.

Where increases are awarded in excess of 
that for the general employee population, 
the Committee will provide the rationale 
in the relevant year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration.

Executive Directors may receive an employer 
contribution consistent with that received 
by UK employees (currently matched 
contribution up to 6% of base salary)  
or the equivalent value in cash. Base salary  
is the only element of remuneration that 
 is pensionable.

The pension provision and rules are the same 
for Executive Directors and the main body  
of UK staff.

177

Changes

No changes.

No change to 
contribution rate 
(which is consistent 
with that available 
to UK employees) 
but the absolute 
GBP cap has 
been removed.

Other Benefits 
To provide competitive 
benefits.

Includes (but not limited to):

Benefits may vary by role. 

No changes.

•  Death in service scheme

•  Private medical cover

•  Permanent health insurance

•  Relocation, at the 

Committee’s discretion

All benefits are non-pensionable

None of the existing Executive Directors 
received total taxable benefits exceeding 
5% of base salary during the most recent 
financial year, and it is not anticipated that 
the cost of benefits provided will exceed this 
level over the term of this Policy.

The Committee retains the discretion 
to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g., relocation), or in 
circumstances driven by factors outside the 
Company’s control (e.g., material increases in 
healthcare insurance premiums).

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023178

Corporate Governance

Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued

179

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation

Opportunity and performance metrics

Changes

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation

Opportunity and performance metrics

Changes

Maximum annual bonus potential for 
Executive Directors is 200% of base salary.

For a Threshold level of performance, 
a bonus of 25% of the maximum 
potential award is payable and for target 
performance 50% of maximum is payable.

The annual bonus is 
a new arrangement 
which will replace 
the previous 
DFFS Bonus 
arrangement.

Bonuses will be based on a combination of 
financial and non-financial performance 
targets. The Committee has the ability to 
determine the relevant metrics, weightings 
and targets each year based on evolving 
business priorities.

Discretionary Free 
Share Scheme (DFSS) 
To motivate and 
reward longer term 
performance, aid 
long term retention 
of key executive 
talent, use capital 
efficiently, grow profits 
sustainably and 
further strengthen 
the alignment of 
the interests of 
shareholders and staff.

Annual Bonus 
To motivate and 
reward the delivery of 
stretching near-term 
financial and non-
financial targets 
based on the  
business strategy.

Bonus payments are determined after 
the year end and will be based on 
performance achieved against targets 
over the financial year.

40% of any bonus will be deferred into 
shares for a period of three years, with 
the remaining portion paid in cash. 
Any bonus earned is non-pensionable. 
Where any bonus is deferred, dividend 
equivalent shares may be accrued on 
awards during the deferral period, only 
receivable on shares which vest at the 
end of the period.

Bonus payouts are subject to a 
potential downwards adjustment 
based on an assessment of risk events 
considered to have a significant 
customer, regulatory or financial 
impact over the course of the 
performance period. 

Bonus payouts are subject to malus 
and clawback provisions, i.e., forfeiture 
or reduction of unvested awards and 
recovery of vested awards. Events 
which may lead to the application 
of malus and clawback are set out 
in the Group’s Malus and Clawback 
Framework and include material 
financial misstatement, responsibility 
for conduct which results in 
significant losses, material failure 
of risk management, misconduct, 
reputational damage and  
corporate failure. 

The Remuneration Committee has 
discretion to adjust the formulaic 
vesting outcome to ensure the final 
outcome is a fair and true reflection  
of underlying business performance, 
both financial and non-financial.

No changes other 
than providing 
flexibility for 
dividend equivalent 
shares to be 
provided.

Maximum opportunity: A maximum face 
value on award of 500% of base salary 
applies. Threshold performance will result 
in vesting of up to 25% of the maximum 
award.

DFSS shares are granted as a fixed number 
of shares (subject to the quantum limits of 
the plan, as described above). The number 
granted is reviewed and may be adjusted 
by the Committee, for example, if there 
has been a significant change in share price. 
Vesting of DFSS awards is subject to the 
Group’s performance over a three-year 
performance period. The performance 
measures may include EPS growth, ROE, 
relative TSR and a scorecard of non-financial 
metrics selected by the Committee. 
Details of the measures, weightings and 
performance targets used for specific DFSS 
grants are included in the relevant year’s 
Annual Report on Remuneration.

Executive Directors may be granted 
awards annually at the discretion of  
the Committee. 

Awards may be in the form of nil or 
nominal priced options or conditional 
shares. Awards are normally granted 
on an annual basis and vest after a 
minimum of three years subject to 
Group performance and continued 
employment.

A two-year holding period applies 
to vested awards, during which time 
Executive Directors may not sell 
 the vested awards except to cover  
tax liabilities.

Awards are subject to a potential 
downwards adjustment based on an 
assessment of risk events considered  
to have a material customer, regulatory 
or financial impact over the course of 
the performance period.

Awards are subject to malus and 
clawback provisions, i.e., forfeiture or 
reduction of unvested awards and 
recovery of vested awards. Events 
which may lead to the application 
of malus and clawback are set out 
in the Group’s Malus and Clawback 
Framework and include material 
financial misstatement, responsibility 
for conduct which results in significant 
losses, material failure of risk 
management, misconduct, reputational 
damage, and corporate failure.

The Remuneration Committee has 
discretion to adjust the formulaic 
vesting outcome to ensure the final 
outcome is a fair and true reflection of 
underlying business performance, both 
financial and non-financial.

Dividend equivalent shares may be 
accrued on awards during the vesting 
period, only receivable on shares which 
vest at the end of the period.

Approved Free Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) 
To encourage share 
ownership across all 
employees, using HMRC 
approved schemes for 
eligible UK employees.

All eligible UK employees participate 
in the SIP after completing a minimum 
of 12 months’ service. Grants are 
made twice a year based on the 
results of each half year and vest after 
three years subject to continued 
employment.

The SIP is an all-employee scheme and 
Executive Directors participate on the same 
terms as other employees. The acquisition 
of shares is therefore not subject to the 
satisfaction of a performance target.
Maximum opportunity is in line with  
HMRC limits.

No changes.

Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023180180

Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation

Opportunity and performance metrics

Guideline to be met within five years 
of the later of the introduction of the 
guidelines and an Executive Director’s 
appointment.

400% of base salary.

Changes

No changes.

Shareholding required to be maintained 
at the in-employment requirement 
(or number of shares held at time of 
termination, if lower) for a period of 
two years post termination.

400% of base salary (or number of shares 
held at time of termination, if lower).

No changes.

In-employment  
Shareholding  
Requirement 
To align interests of 
Executive Directors  
with shareholders.

Post-termination  
Shareholding  
Requirement 
To further align the 
interests of Executive 
Directors with 
shareholders and 
encourage a focus on 
long-term sustainable 
performance.

The Committee is satisfied that the above Remuneration Policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive 
risk-taking. The Committee retains discretion to make changes required to satisfy legal or regulatory requirements and other non-
significant changes to the Remuneration Policy without reverting to shareholders.

Notes to the Remuneration Policy table
Payments from Existing Awards
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the 2024 
Remuneration Policy. This includes all outstanding awards under the previous 2018 and 2021 Remuneration Policies, or any awards made 
prior to appointment to the Board. Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.

Selection of Performance Measures
Vesting under the DFSS is linked to the following financial measures: EPS growth, ROE, and relative TSR. 

EPS growth has been selected as a performance measure as the Committee feels it is a strong indicator of both long-term shareholder 
return and the underlying financial performance of the business. It is transparent and highly visible to executives. 

ROE has been selected as the Committee believes that a returns metric reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong 
returns for our shareholders, thereby further strengthening the alignment of incentives with Admiral’s strategy. 

Relative TSR has been selected to reflect value creation for Admiral’s shareholders as compared to comparative alternative investments. 

Since the 2019 award, vesting of DFSS awards is also linked to non-financial measures which may include strategic, customer and other 
measures. The Committee believes that the additional emphasis on these measures reinforces Admiral’s focus on our customers and 
on other non-financial Group priorities, whilst also more clearly demonstrating alignment of Group remuneration practices with the 
requirements of Solvency II.

The specific performance measures and their respective weightings for each DFSS award may vary to reflect the strategic priorities at 
the time of the award.

For the annual bonus, forward-looking performance measures, weightings and targets are selected near the start of the year covering 
financial and non-financial measures to align with the Group’s strategic objectives. 

Performance targets are set taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the 
Company operates. The Committee believes the performance targets are stretching and motivational, and that maximum outcomes are 
available only for outstanding performance.

181

Remuneration Policy for Other Employees
The Company’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the role size, complexity, 
experience required, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.

In general, the Remuneration Policy which applies to other senior executives is consistent with that for Executive Directors. 
Remuneration is typically linked to Company and individual performance in a way that reinforces shareholder value creation.

Around 4,300 employees from across the Group, including the Executive Directors, participate in the DFSS. The Committee determines 
DFSS awards for those executives within its remit and on an aggregate basis for all other participants in the DFSS. For the Executive 
Directors, all DFSS share awards are subject to performance conditions. For other senior managers and employees, a proportion of awards 
(ranging from half to two-thirds) are subject to performance, with performance conditions either in line with those described above 
or set based on key performance drivers of the individual’s relevant business unit, and the remainder has no performance conditions 
attached other than the requirement that the recipient remains an employee of the Group at the date of vesting. Award sizes vary by 
organisational level and an assessment of both financial and non-financial performance. 

Most holders of DFSS awards receive a DFSS cash bonus, which is equivalent to the dividend on unvested DFSS share awards. The bonus 
for a number of senior managers is adjusted for performance against a scorecard of customer and other non-financial metrics. 

The Company operates a personal pension scheme which is available to all UK employees once they have completed their probationary 
period. For all employees, including the Executive Directors, the Company matches the employee contribution up to a maximum of 6% 
of salary or provides the equivalent value in cash. 

All UK employees who have served a minimum tenure at Admiral are eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms. Most overseas 
employees receive an equivalent award to the UK SIP awards and these awards have no performance measures attached.

Service Contracts and Leaver/Change of Control Provisions
The Company’s Policy is to limit payments upon termination of employment to pre-established contractual arrangements. In the event 
that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms 
of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans. Under normal circumstances, 
Executive Directors are entitled to receive termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and compensation for loss of 
benefits. The Company has the ability to pay such sums in instalments. The notice period for all Executive Directors is one year.

Executive Director
Geraint Jones
Milena Mondini de Focatiis

Date of appointment
13 August 2014
11 August 2020

Contract duration
Rolling contract, 12-month notice period
Rolling contract, 12-month notice period

There is no provision in the Executive Directors’ contracts for compensation to be payable on early termination of their contract over and 
above the notice period element. The Executive Directors’ service contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office.

When considering termination payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both 
shareholders and participants. The table below summarises how the awards under the DFSS and Annual Bonus scheme are typically 
treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023182182

Corporate Governance

Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued

Plan

DFSS 

Scenario

Resignation.

Death, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement, or any other reasons the 
Committee may determine.

Change of control.

Timing of vesting

n/a.

Normal 
vesting date.

Immediately. 

Treatment of awards

Awards lapse under most circumstances  
e.g., dismissal for cause or resignation.

Any unvested award will be pro-rated for  
time with reference to the proportion 
of the vesting period remaining at termination, 
and performance, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise.

Unless the Committee determines otherwise, 
any unvested award will be pro-rated for time 
with reference to the proportion of the 
vesting period remaining at change of control, 
and extent to which the Committee determines 
that the performance conditions have been 
met or are likely to be met at the point 
of change of control.

Annual bonus

Resignation.

Eligibility forfeited under most circumstances, 
e.g., dismissal for cause or resignation.

n/a

Death, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement, or any other reasons the 
Committee may determine.

Change of control.

Normal 
payment date. 

Immediately.

Any bonus payable will be pro-rated for 
time with reference to the portion of the 
performance period remaining at termination, 
and performance, unless otherwise determined 
at the discretion of the Committee.

Unless the Committee determines otherwise, 
any bonus eligibility will be pro-rated 
for time with reference to the proportion 
of the performance period remaining at change 
of control, and extent to which the Committee 
determines that the performance conditions 
have been met or are likely to be met at the 
point of change of control.

For all leavers (with the exception of termination for cause), vested DFSS awards that are still subject to a holding period will normally 
be released in full at the end of the holding period, though the Committee has discretion to determine otherwise, taking into account 
the circumstances at the time.

Non-Executive Directors
The Company has entered into letters of appointment with its Non-Executive Directors (NEDs).  
Summary details of terms and notice periods are included below. 

NED
Mike Rogers
Justine Roberts
Andy Crossley
Michael Brierley
Karen Green
Jayaprakasa Rangaswami
Evelyn Bourke
Bill Roberts
Fiona Muldoon

Term
3 years
3 years
3 years
3 years
3 years
3 years
3 years
3 years
3 years

Initial date of appointment
1 February 2023
17 June 2016
27 February 2018
5 October 2018
14 December 2018
29 April 2020
30 April 2021
11 June 2021
2 October 2023

Commencement
of current contract
1 February 2023
17 June 2023
27 February 2024
5 October 2021
14 December 2021
29 April 2023
30 April 2021
11 June 2021
2 October 2023

Notice period
Three months
One month
One month
One month
One month
One month
One month
One month
One month

183

C
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e

Details of the 2024 Policy on NED fees are set out in the table below:

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation

Opportunity and performance metrics

To attract and retain NEDs  
of the highest calibre  
with experience relevant  
to the Company

Fee levels are set by reference to NED fees at 
companies of a similar size and complexity.

In the event that there is a material 
misalignment with the market or a change 
in the complexity, responsibility or time 
commitment required to fulfil a NED role, the 
Board has discretion to make an appropriate 
adjustment to the fee level.

The maximum aggregate annual fee for 
NEDs is capped at the limit provided for 
in the Company’s Articles of Association.

Fees are reviewed annually.

The Group Chair fee is determined by the 
Committee after consultation with the 
Executive Directors. The NED fees are 
determined by the Group Chair together 
with the Executive Directors.

Additional fees are payable for acting as  
Senior Independent Director or as Chair or  
member of a Board Committee and may be  
payable as appropriate in relation to other 
additional responsibilities (e.g., attending 
meetings overseas).

Fees are paid in a mix of cash and Company 
shares for the Company Chair, and in 
cash for other Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board retains discretion to vary the mix 
or determine that fees are paid entirely in  
cash or Company shares.

There are no changes to the 2024 Policy on NED fees from the 2021 version.

Pay-for-Performance: Scenario Analysis
The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split 
between the different elements of pay under different performance scenarios in a given year.

Illustrative Scenario Analysis

Group CEO

Minimum

100%

On-target

29%

27%

43%

Maximum

17%

Maximum with
share price growth

14%

Group CFO

Minimum

100%

32%

26%

51%

61%

On-target

30%

28%

42%

Maximum

17%

33%

50%

Maximum with
share price growth

14%

26%

60%

£0

£1,000,000

£2,000,000

£3,000,000

£4,000,000

£5,000,000

£6,000,000

£7,000,000

Key

Fixed remuneration

Annual Bonus

DFSS

The NEDs are not eligible to participate in the SIP, DFSS or Annual bonus scheme and do not receive any pension contributions.

The value of DFSS awards is calculated based on the average share price in the last three months of 2023 £25.69 and the number of DFSS 
shares to be awarded in 2024 (95,000 and 55,000 shares respectively).

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
184

Corporate Governance

Directors’ Remuneration Policy
continued

The performance scenarios are based on the following assumptions:

Fixed remuneration

On-target remuneration

Maximum remuneration
Maximum remuneration with 
50% share price appreciation

Comprising the 2024 base salary, benefits (based on the annualised 2023 single figure for the Group 
CEO and CFO) and a 6% pension contribution (uncapped).
Fixed remuneration plus the value of the Annual Bonus and DFSS achieving on-target performance  
of 50% of maximum.
Fixed remuneration plus the value of the Annual Bonus and DFSS achieving maximum performance.
Maximum remuneration increased to assume a 50% increase to the value of the shares granted 
under the DFSS since the point of grant.

Approach to Remuneration Relating to New Executive Director Appointments
External Appointments
When appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee’s policy is to set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director in 
accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy at the time of the appointment.

In determining the appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will consider all relevant factors to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. Where an individual is appointed on an initial base salary that 
is below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of time, subject to the individual’s performance and 
development in the role. This may result in above-average salary increases during this period.

The Committee may also make an award to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so, the 
Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards and the likelihood of 
those conditions being met to ensure that the value of the buy-out award is no greater than the fair value of the awards it replaces. 
The Committee may also avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.2 R if appropriate for the buy-out of incentive arrangements (i.e., if the terms of 
participation for the prospective Executive Director are similar to all, or substantially all employees who participate in the plan, then 
approval by ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the listed Company in general meeting is not required).

Internal Appointments
Remuneration for new Executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the Policy for 
external appointees, as detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, 
the Company will continue to honour these arrangements. Incentive opportunities for below-Board employees are typically no higher 
than for Executive Directors, but measures may vary if necessary.

Other Directorships
Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments as Non-Executive Directors of companies with the prior approval of the Group 
Board. Approval will be given only where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Group’s activities, and where 
the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual. 

Considerations of Conditions Elsewhere in the Group 
The Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for 
Executive Directors.

Considerations of Shareholder Views 
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies. 
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on the Remuneration Policy. It will continue to monitor trends and developments 
in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the remuneration structure for our Executive Directors remains appropriate.

Considerations of Regulatory Requirements 
The Committee regularly reviews the Remuneration Policy and structure in the context of Solvency II remuneration guidance, and EBA, 
PRA, and FCA expectations regarding the supervision of insurance firms. The Group Chief Risk Officer periodically attends Committee 
meetings as part of this process and provides support to the Committee in understanding any risk-related implications of remuneration 
decisions. Whilst the Remuneration Policy includes several features which help ensure compliance with current regulatory guidance, the 
Committee reserves the discretion to adjust the Remuneration Policy, and its execution, to take into account any developments in such 
regulatory guidance. 

185

C
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e

Annual Report on Remuneration

This section of the report provides details of how Admiral’s Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2023 and 
how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the proposed Remuneration Policy in 2024 (subject to 
shareholder approval).

Remuneration Committee Membership in 2023
The Board sets the Group’s Remuneration Policy and, through the authority delegated to it by the Board, the Committee is responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board on the implementation of the Remuneration Policy. Its remit includes recommending 
the remuneration of the Group Board Chair and the Executive Directors; approving the remuneration of senior management; and 
determining the composition of and awards made under the performance-related incentive schemes.

At the end of 2023 the Committee comprised Evelyn Bourke, Michael Brierley, Justine Roberts and Karen Green. The Committee had 
seven scheduled meetings and it also held a number of ad hoc/late notice meetings to deal with specific issues in a timely manner.

The Group Chair, CEO, CFO and CRO are invited to meetings where the Committee considers it appropriate to obtain their advice on 
Group strategy and performance and senior executive pay strategy. The Group CEO typically attends all meetings. No director is involved 
in deciding their own remuneration outcome. The members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interests (other than 
shareholdings), or any conflicts, that relate to the business of the Committee. The Committee members do not have any day-to-day 
involvement in the running of the Group.

Committee activities
During the year ended 31 December 2023, in addition to its regular activities, the Committee also:

•  Reviewed and proposed revisions to the Remuneration Policy in anticipation of the upcoming binding vote by shareholders at the AGM 

in 2024; 

•  Reviewed the implementation of a set of group-wide non-financial performance measures for the DFSS;

•  Reviewed the performance ranges for the financial measures for the 2023 DFSS; and

•  Reviewed the design of annual incentives as part of the ongoing work on the Group’s reward strategy.

As mentioned in the Governance Report, during the year ended 31 December 2023, the Committee also performed its regular activities:

•  Reviewed the DFSS vesting and bonus arrangements for Executive Directors, senior management and relevant staff (Material Risk 

Takers) covered under Solvency II;

•  Reviewed Admiral’s Gender Pay Gap reporting statistics;

•  Reviewed risk events and their impact on variable pay;

•  Undertook an evaluation of the Committee’s performance during the year;

•  Reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference;

•  Reviewed the Group’s Malus and Clawback Framework; and

•  Reviewed external remuneration trends and market conditions.

Remuneration topics were discussed with employees at the Employee Consultation Group (ECG), which met four times over the year. 
Key themes discussed at the ECG were: Executive Director compensation, Real Living Wage, the ongoing cost of living crisis, employee 
benefits and changes to the HMRC dividend allowance.

On 1 March 2024, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Group Head of Reward met with the ECG to discuss the remuneration 
for the Executive Directors and the proposed changes to the 2024 Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The detail of the Policy was be covered 
in depth, with time set aside for members of the ECG to give feedback and ask any questions they felt were relevant. There was some 
good discussion about how the remuneration for Executive Directors linked to wider colleague pay. 

Shareholder engagement on the 2024 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
In October of 2023, we wrote to our top 35 shareholders, outlining the proposed changes to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and 
the rationale for the changes. This distribution covered around 70% of the shareholder base. Our brokers considered this level of 
engagement to be very thorough. We consulted with our brokers on the list and overall coverage before issuing the letter.

The Committee Chair held follow up meetings with eight investors, received with written responses from two shareholders, and ‘no need 
to meet or positive’ responses from a further five. A further meeting was held in February 2024 with one investor. Additionally, a letter 
was issued to the four main proxy agencies, with meetings happening in January and February 2024.

The overall summary of the feedback from shareholders shows broad support for the policy changes which are being proposed. 
There was a good deal of feedback focusing on the implementation of the policy changes, including ensuring that measures and targets 
in the DFSS and new Annual Bonus Plan are relevant and stretching. Shareholders commented on the distinctive culture of Admiral with 
its high level of share ownership and wanted assurance that the Policy would not lead to unfairness between Executive Directors and the 
wider population. This has been taken into consideration.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
186186

Corporate Governance

Annual Report on Remuneration
continued

Committee effectiveness review
As part of the Committee’s annual review of its performance and processes, each Committee member and regular attendee completed 
a questionnaire designed to assess the Committee’s performance, including the activities and general operation of the Committee. 
The Committee discussed the results of the review at its meeting in December 2023 and concluded that, overall, the Committee 
remained effective. 

To help improve its performance over the coming year, the Committee highlighted the importance of discussing key issues in a timely 
fashion and getting management engagement earlier to ensure sufficient time for management to change direction where needed or 
implement a new plan. It was noted that Committee support had improved.

Advisors to the Committee
During the year, to enable the Committee to reach informed decisions, we obtained advice on market data and trends from independent 
consultants Willis Towers Watson (WTW). WTW reported directly to the Committee Chair and are signatories to and abide by the Code of 
Conduct for Remuneration Consultants (which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). WTW also provided advice to 
the Company on capital modelling, claims metrics, and pricing.

The fees paid to WTW for work supporting the Committee in 2023 (based on time and materials) totalled £75,818.

The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that advisors remain independent of the Company and that the advice 
provided is impartial and objective. The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by WTW is independent.

Summary of Shareholder Voting at the 2023 AGM
The table below shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2022 Annual Report on Remuneration.

Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes

% of votes cast

For
225,445,845
88.50%

Against
29,282,756
11.50%

Total votes cast
254,728,601

Abstentions
4,420

Total Single Figure of Remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each Executive Director for the years ended 31 December 2023 
and 31 December 2022:

Executive Director

Milena Mondini  
de Focatiis 

Geraint Jones

2023
2022
2023
2022

1. 
Base salary 
£737,326
£715,850
£433,472
£416,800

2. 
Benefits
£455
£480
£455
£480

3. 
Pension

Total 
fixed pay
£15,000 £752,781
£15,000 £731,330
£15,000 £448,927
£15,000 £432,280

The figures have been calculated as follows:

1.  Base salary: amount earned for the year.

2.  Benefits: the taxable value of annual benefits received in the year.

3.  Pension: the value of the Company’s contribution during the year. 

4.  SIP: the face value at grant.

4. 
SIP

5. 
DFSS

6. 
DFSS bonus
£3,605 £1,011,775 £296,017
£3,589 £1,139,007 £399,085
£589,791 £172,676
£3,605
£637,324 £260,516
£3,589

Total 
variable pay
£1,311,397
£1,541,681
£766,072
£901,429

Total
remuneration
£2,064,178 
£2,275,5117
£1,214,999
£1,333,709

5. 

 DFSS: the value at vesting of shares vesting on performance over the three-year periods ending 31 December 2023 and 31 December 
2022. For the 2023 figures, given that vesting occurs after the 2023 Directors’ Remuneration Report is finalised, the figures are based 
on the average share price in the last three months of 2023 of £25.69. The 2022 figures have been trued up based on the actual 
share price on vesting of £22.62 for Milena Mondini de Focatiis and £23.92 for Geraint Jones. For 2023, unfavourable movements 
of -£348,942 and -£203,408 are included in the DFSS value, attributable to a decrease in the share price over the vesting period for 
Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones, respectively. For 2022, an increase of £9,567 of the DFSS value is attributable to share 
price appreciation over the vesting period for Milena Mondini de Focatiis. For Geraint Jones, a decrease of £100,981 is attributable 
to share price depreciation over the vesting period. For the purpose of clarity, it should be noted that the awards for the Executive 
Directors were made at different points in 2020, which has led to the difference in these figures. 

187

6. 

 DFSS bonus: the bonus is equivalent to dividends that were paid in respect of the performance year on all outstanding DFSS shares 
awarded but not yet vested. The bonus is paid in two tranches annually: 

i)  for H1 2023: a bonus of £144,778 was paid to Milena Mondini de Focatiis, based on 270,000 unvested shares, a scorecard outcome 

of 105.14% and the interim dividend of 51p per share; and a bonus of £84,454 was paid to Geraint Jones based on 157,500 unvested 
shares and a scorecard outcome of 105.14% and the interim dividend of 51p per share.

ii)  for H2 2023, due for payment in May 2024: a bonus of £148,330 is due to Milena Mondini de Focatiis, based on 270,000 unvested 
shares, a scorecard outcome of 107.72% and the final dividend of 52p per share; and a bonus of £86,526 is due to Geraint Jones 
based on 157,500 unvested shares and a scorecard outcome of 107.72 % and the final dividend of 52p per share.

The payments for H2 2023 are subject to completion of internal governance procedures.

7. 

 Milena Mondini de Focatiis received an Anniversary award of £2,500 during 2022 which is included in the total remuneration number. 
Anniversary payments are made to all colleagues who reach significant milestones in their employment with the Group.

Total Single Figure of Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each NED for the years ended 31 December 2023 and 
31 December 2022. 

Director
Annette Court1
Mike Rogers2
Karen Green
Jean Park3
Justine Roberts4
Andy Crossley5,6
Michael Brierley6
Jayaprakasa Rangaswami7
Evelyn Bourke

Bill Roberts8
Fiona Muldoon9

2023

2022

Total fees

Fees
£82,136
£270,042
£113,000
(£1,477)
£106,045
£188,000
£152,000
£85,955
£95,000

£103,352
£20,928

Taxable benefits10
£879
£889
£2,205
–
£1,253
£5,166
£4,806
£932
£3,605

£25,161
–

Fees
£346,084
–
£103,750
£153,000
£87,875
£170,667
£140,000
£93,583
£95,000

£75,000
–

Taxable benefits10
£1,739
–
£808
£130
£769
£1,918
£992
£528
£1,659

£8,135
–

1  The 2023 fee for Annette Court is £82,136 (a cash fee of £57,495 and a share fee of £24,641) and is reflective of her leave date of 27 April 2023.
2  Mike Rogers was appointed as the Group Chair on 27 April 2023.
3 

Jean Park’s fees for 2023 are reflective of her retiring from the board on 20 January 2023. Additionally, there was an overpayment of fees in 2022, which were corrected and paid back in 2023, 
leading to the negative fee showing for 2023.
Justine Roberts joined the Group Remuneration Committee on 31 January 2023. In addition, Justine was confirmed as Senior Independent Director on a permanent basis effective 31 January 2023, 
having undertaken the role on an interim basis since 22 February 2022.

4 

5  Andy Crossley was appointed Chair of the Group Risk Committee effective from 23 October 2023. This followed a period as interim Chair since 22 February 2022.
6  The fees for Andy Crossley and Michael Brierley include additional fees in relation to their positions as Chair of the EUI Limited Board of Directors and Admiral Financial Services Limited Board of 

Directors, respectively.
Jayaprakasa Rangaswami left the Group Remuneration Committee as an interim member on 31 January 2023.

7 
8  The fee for Bill Roberts includes an additional fee in relation to his position as a NED of the Elephant Board of Directors, which he was appointed to on 1 February 2023.
9  Fiona Muldoon was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and member of the Group Audit Committee on 2 October 2023. 
10  Taxable benefits represent those expense reimbursements relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence in connection with the attendance at Board, Subsidiary and Committee meetings 
during the year, which are deemed by HMRC to be taxable. The amounts in the table are ‘grossed-up’ to include the UK tax paid by the Company on behalf of the Non-Executive Directors.  
Non-taxable expense reimbursements have not been included in the table.

Incentive Outcomes for Financial Year to 31 December 2023 (audited)
DFSS Awards Vesting on Performance to 31 December 2023
On 23 September 2021, Milena Mondini de Focatiis was granted an award under the DFSS of 90,000 shares with a value at the date  
of award of £3,109,500 (based on a grant date share price of £34.55). 

On 23 September 2021, Geraint Jones was granted an award under the DFSS of 52,500 shares with a value at the date of award  
of £1,813,875 (based on a grant date share price of £34.55). 

Vesting of the award was based 80% on the achievement of financial performance measures and 20% on a scorecard of  
non-financial measures.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
188188

Corporate Governance

Annual Report on Remuneration
continued

189

Financial performance outcomes
The performance measures applicable to these awards are, EPS growth, TSR vs. FTSE 350 (excluding investment companies), and ROE, 
weighted equally and all measured over the three-year period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023. 

Over this period there was solid return for our shareholders, with TSR slightly above median vs the FTSE350 benchmark, and with ROE 
of 41.60%. This is in contrast to an EPS growth of -37.7%, which was impacted by the very high EPS for 2020, which was impacted by the 
pandemic period. The combination of these shareholder returns, and EPS growth contributes to a vesting of 37.20% for the financial 
measures. The Committee reviewed this vesting outcome and concluded that it was appropriate.

DFSS bonus for 2023 
In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Group paid a bonus to all holders of DFSS shares in 2023, which was equivalent to the dividend 
payable on all outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not yet vested. The 2023 Bonus for Executive Directors also includes a potential +/- 
20% adjustment to the DFSS bonus based on performance of a set of non-financial performance metrics, which for 2023 was grouped 
into three categories: Strategy, customer and ESG. 

For the customer and ESG strategic pillars, relevant quantitative data was used to assess performance and an outcome was determined. 
For the strategy, the Board members derived a collective view on the progress against the strategic priorities. 

The table below details the Company’s performance against the performance range.

Details of the measures used in the scorecard and outcomes are summarised in the table below:

Actual outturn
-37.70%

Vesting Contribution  
(% of maximum)
0.00%

Category
Strategy

Performance measure
EPS growth

Threshold
0.5% growth

Maximum
36% growth

Performance range

Median

Upper quartile

25%

55%

TSR vs. FTSE 
350 (excluding 
investment 
companies)
Return on 
Equity (ROE)

Vesting

Vesting schedule
10% for achieving 
threshold with straight 
line relationship to 
100% for maximum 
performance
25% for median, with 
straight line relationship 
to 100% for upper 
quartile
25% for achieving 
threshold with straight 
line relationship to 
100% for maximum 
performance

56th percentile

45.20%

41.60%

66.40%

37.20%

Non-financial performance outcomes
The individual vesting contribution of the non-financial measures for Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones are set out in the table 
below. These aggregated to an overall rating across the 3 years of 69.98% and 69.83% respectively and have a weighted outcome of 
14.00% and 13.97%, respectively. 

Further details of the scoring for 2023 can be seen on page 190.

Overall Vesting
The combined vesting outcomes for Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones can be seen in the below table.

DFSS Vesting Component
Financial performance measures:
EPS growth, TSR vs. FTSE 350 
(excluding investment companies) 
and Return on Equity (ROE)
Non-financial performance measures
Total

Award Weighting

Performance outcomes

Vesting (% of maximum)

Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis

Geraint Jones

Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis

Geraint Jones

Milena Mondini 
de Focatiis

Geraint Jones

80.00%

20.00%
100.00%

37.20%

29.76%

69.98% 

69.83%

14.00% 
43.76% 

13.97% 
43.73% 

The Committee reviewed the vesting outcomes and concluded that they were appropriate, and that no adjustments were required.

Based on performance and scorecard outcomes the total amount that will vest in September 2024 to Milena Mondini de Focatiis will 
therefore be 43.76% (i.e., 39,384 shares), and the total amount that will vest to Geraint Jones will be 43.73% (i.e., 22,958 shares), subject to 
their continued employment on the vesting date. 

Vested DFSS awards are subject to clawback provisions. Events which may lead to the application of clawback are set out in the Group’s 
Malus and Clawback Framework and include material financial misstatement, responsibility for conduct which results in significant losses, 
material failure of risk management, misconduct, reputational damage or corporate failure.

Metrics
Overall scoring from the Board on scorecard of 
measures around:
•  Progress towards Admiral 2.0
•  Diversification – existing non-motor product 
development (both top line and KPIs), in 
particular Household and Lending

•  Diversification – development of new products
•  Progress towards defining motor 

mobility strategy

Customer Feedback (NPS)
Customer Outcomes (CRMI)
People (Trust Index)
Diversity (Female representation at Senior level)
Inclusion (Inclusion survey results)

Target

Maximum

H1

H2

Outcomes  
(% out weighting for each category)

16.50%

33.00%

25.30%

8.50%
8.50%
9.00%
3.75%
3.75%
50.00%
100.00%

17.00%
17.00%
18.00%
7.50%
7.50%
100.00%
120.00%

9.98%
5.46%

9.44%
12.42%

9.00%
5.63%
7.50%

62.86%
105.14%

69.29%
107.72%

Customer

ESG

Total
Overall scorecard 
multiplier

The Admiral Group Board makes an annual judgment based on its collective view of progress against the stated strategic measures. 
The Board was satisfied that progress against strategic aims continued to be solid, and having reviewed business context and supporting 
data, assessed this progress was worthy of 76.67% of maximum. 

Customer outcome and feedback scoring is measured against entity set targets, with results assessed for each half year. 
Customer outcomes for the UK business improved markedly in H2 2023 to 70% of maximum vs. 20% for H1 2023, as the pressure on 
claims processing and staff numbers eased through the year. Customer feedback was generally steady through the year, with a slight fall 
in outcomes for Admiral Money and Elephant between the half years; Admiral Seguros’ outcomes for H2 fell below threshold, with 0% 
outcome, compared with 55% for H1.

Trust Index scores are measured relative to the benchmark from the Great Place To Work® (GPTW) survey annually, with outcomes 
determined mechanically relative to benchmark. For 2023, the Group’s score was up 1% compared with 2022, moving to 85% from 84%. 
However, the GPTW benchmark score also increased by 1% from 2022 to 87% for 2023. This means that the score remains 2% below the 
benchmark, giving an outcome of 50% for the 2023 performance year.

The Inclusion survey results are scored on a similar basis to the Trust Index, relative to the GPTW benchmark. Scores improved for 2023 in 
comparison to 2022, with all responses coming at or above the benchmark, meaning 100% outcome for this element.

The Diversity measure outcome based on mechanical scoring against set targets – is slightly down on last year due to headcount 
movements, with a year-end position of 35.29%, which equates to an outcome of 75% of maximum.

The overall outcome of the scorecard was assessed as a 105.14% multiplier to the DFSS bonus paid for H1 2023 and a 107.72% multiplier 
to the DFSS bonus for H2 2023 (to be paid in 2024) for Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones.

In addition, the Executive Directors’ DFSS bonus is subject to a further risk adjustment (downwards only) to take account of risk events 
considered to have a material customer, regulatory or financial impact. 

During the year, and in addition to the above, the Committee took into account relevant trigger events as part of the established risk 
adjustment process, and determined it was not appropriate to apply a downwards adjustment on that basis.

DFSS bonus payments are subject to malus and clawback provisions.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
190190

Annual Report on Remuneration
continued

Scheme Interests Granted in 2023 (audited)
DFSS
On 28 September 2023, Milena Mondini de Focatiis was granted an award of 90,000 shares and Geraint Jones was granted an award of 
52,500 shares under the DFSS. Using the share price on the date of the grant of £23.72, this is the equivalent to £2,134,800 or 290% of 
Milena’s base salary and £1,245,300 or 287% of Geraint’s base salary respectively. 

The three-year period over which performance will be measured is 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2025. The award is eligible to vest on 
the third anniversary of the date of grant i.e., September 2025, subject to performance and to continued employment. Vested awards will 
be subject to an additional two-year post-vest holding period. 

The award will vest on EPS growth, TSR vs. FTSE 350 (excluding investment companies), ROE and a scorecard of strategic, customer 
and other non-financial measures, inclusive of customer outcomes, ESG and strategic measures. There will also be the potential for 
downwards adjustment subject to an assessment of risk events considered to have a material customer, regulatory or financial impact 
over the course of the performance period. The performance conditions are summarised in the table below:

Award Element
Financial 
Performance

Description

Performance measure
Earnings per share (EPS) EPS growth over 
the performance 
period

Performance range

Weighting
26.67%

Threshold
Growth  
of 0%

Stretch
Growth  
of 10%

Maximum
Growth  
of 30%

Vesting
25% for reaching 
Threshold, 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

Return on Equity (ROE) ROE over the 
performance 
period

Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR)

Non-financial 
Performance

Strategy

Strategic
Assessment

Customer Group NPS

ESG

Diversity

Inclusion

TSR ranked on 
a relative basis 
vs FTSE 350 
comparator 
group

The Board’s 
assessment of 
progress towards 
strategic aims.

The outcome of 
the Group NPS, 
weighted by 
entity customer 
headcount.

The proportion 
of women 
in senior 
management 
roles.

The Group’s 
Inclusion scores 
from the GPTW 
Survey, scored on 
a basis relative to 
the benchmark.

26.67%

25%

35%

45% 25% for reaching 

26.67%

Median

N/A

Top 
Quartile

Threshold 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

25% for reaching 
Threshold and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

6.60%

N/A 

N/A

N/A Vesting of between 
0% and 100% based 
on the outcome of the 
Board’s assessment.

6.80%

35

48

55 25% for reaching 

Threshold, 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

3.30%

30%

36%

40% 25% for reaching 

Threshold, 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

3.30%

>10% 
below 
bench-
mark

N/A

At  
bench-
mark

20% for reaching 
Threshold, 40% for  
>6% below benchmark 
and 100% for Maximum 
performance.

DFSS awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, which are set out in the Group’s Malus and Clawback Framework.

191

Setting the 2023 DFSS Financial Performance Ranges
The financial performance targets for the 2022 DFSS scheme were changed more significantly than in previous years due to the 
exceptional earnings per share achieved during 2021 and the impact of the Group’s diversification strategy on ROE. The Remuneration 
Committee chair met with a number of shareholders to hear their views. While understanding the unique circumstances of 2020 and 
2021, most shareholders preferred reversion to the target setting approach of the past. The proposed 2023 DFSS financial performance 
targets are set out below:

Earnings Per Share
The EPS measure was changed to an absolute EPS target range for the 2022 DFSS scheme because a growth target was considered 
unsuitable due to the exceptionally high EPS achieved during 2021. Following feedback from shareholders, the proposed target for the 
2023 scheme has reverted to an EPS growth target.

Return on Equity
The 2023 scheme performance range has been set considering the Group’s strategic objective of long-term growth and diversification, 
which is projected to increase equity and result in a flatter ROE over the next few years. Recognising shareholder feedback, the proposed 
ROE targets for the 2023 scheme are more challenging than the 2022 scheme, with higher targets set for threshold, stretch and 
maximum in the performance range, moving from 20-40% for 2022 to 25-45% for 2023.

Total Shareholder Return
TSR is assessed on relative performance and is therefore considered an appropriate measure of the Group’s return to shareholders. 
Consequently, no changes to the measure were proposed for the 2023 scheme.

SIP
In March 2023, Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones were granted awards under the SIP of 95 shares with a face value of 
£1,787.43, which will mature on 13 March 2026, subject to continued employment.

In August 2023 Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones were granted awards under the SIP of 77 shares with a face value of 
£1,817.97, which will mature on 21 August 2026, subject to continued employment.

Exit Payments (audited)
No exit payments were made to an Executive Director during the year.

Payments to Past Directors (audited)
Following stepping down from the role of CEO on 31 December 2020, David Stevens has continued as an adviser to the Group in a part-
time capacity. During 2023, he earned a salary of £60,090.

He also sits as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Admiral Financial Services Limited for which he receives no fee.

Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2024
Executive Directors
Salary, Pension and Benefits
Salaries for the Executive Directors in 2024 have been determined in line with the proposed Remuneration Policy, subject to shareholder 
approval. Milena Mondini de Focatiis’ salary was increased by 4.97% to £774,000 effective 1 January 2024 and Geraint Jones’ salary was 
increased by 7.27% to £465,000 effective 1 January 2024. 

Consideration was given to ensure these increases are fair relative to the proposed increases for employees across the Group for 2024. 
The average pay review in 2024 is expected to be in the region of 5% as we continue to support our people through the impact of 
the cost of living challenges. The benchmarking of the fixed elements of remuneration for Milena and Geraint indicated that their 
salaries were significantly lower than the lower quartile of peer companies across the FTSE 100 and major UK and European insurers. 
The proposed salary increases are designed to align their salaries more towards the lower quartile of peer salaries.

The Remuneration Committee notes the increase for Geraint Jones is above that which is expected for most colleagues. This increase 
begins to address the competitiveness of his base pay relative to the lower quartile of the market. The Remuneration Committee intends 
to increase his salary to the lower quartile of the market by the end of this policy period, by increments. The Remuneration Committee 
will review his increase each year to ensure it is appropriate and moves his positioning as intended. This means that the increase for 
Geraint may be ahead of those generally given to colleagues for the duration of the policy.

The Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Group Personal Pension Plan on a consistent basis with other employees, where 
employee contributions are matched up to a maximum 6% of base salary. The Company will offer individuals a choice between pension 
contributions and cash in lieu. Both Executive Directors will continue to receive benefits in line with the Policy. Both will benefit from the 
removal of the cap of £15,000 on the absolute amount of contribution.

DFSS
The Committee intends to make awards under the DFSS to Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones in September 2024 of 95,000 
and 55,000 shares, respectively. The Committee will confirm the size for each of the 2024 DFSS awards closer to the award date. 
In determining whether the award size should differ from the above number of shares, the Committee will consider any large share price 
change over the prior year, and in particular whether this is due to external factors out of management control. The actual 2024 DFSS 
awards will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual Report on Remuneration. 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023192192

Annual Report on Remuneration
continued

It is currently anticipated that the vesting of 2024 DFSS awards for Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones will continue to be 
assessed across the three-year performance period using an 75% performance weighting on EPS growth, TSR (measured on a relative 
basis, equally split between the FTSE100 and a subset of insurance peers with substantial general insurance segments) and ROE, and a 
25% weighting on a scorecard of strategic, customer and other non-financial metrics. The measures and performance ranges for the 
2024 DFSS are set out in the table below.

Award Element
Financial 
Performance

Description

Performance measure
Earnings per share (EPS) EPS growth over 
the performance 
period

Return on Equity (ROE) ROE over the 
performance 
period

Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR)

Non-financial 
Performance

Strategy

Strategic
Assessment

Customer Group NPS

ESG

Diversity

Inclusion

TSR ranked on 
a relative basis 
vs FTSE 100 and 
insurance peer 
comparator 
group

 The Board’s 
assessment of 
progress towards 
strategic aims.

The outcome of 
the Group NPS, 
weighted by 
entity customer 
headcount.

The proportion 
of women 
in senior 
management 
roles.

The Group’s 
Inclusion scores 
from the GPTW 
Survey, scored on 
a basis relative to 
the benchmark.

Performance range

Weighting
25.00%

Threshold
0%

Stretch
 35%

Maximum

Vesting

 45% 25% for reaching 

Threshold, 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

25.00%

 30%

 N/A%

 45% 25% for reaching 

25.00%

Median

N/A

Threshold, and 100% for 
Maximum performance.

Top 
Quartile

25% for reaching 
Threshold and 100% for 
Maximum performance.

8.25%

N/A 

N/A

N/A Vesting of between 0% 
and 100% based on the 
outcome of the Board’s 
assessment.

8.50%

35

48

55 25% for reaching 

Threshold, 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

2.06%

30%

36%

40% 25% for reaching 

2.06%

>10% 
below 
bench-
mark

N/A At bench-
mark

Threshold, 75% for 
achieving Stretch and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

25% for reaching 
Threshold, 40% for >6% 
below benchmark and 
100% for Maximum 
performance.

Carbon 
emissions

tbc1

4.13%

tbc1

tbc1

tbc1 tbc1

1  Carbon emissions target to be confirmed, subject to work of base lining the Company’s carbon emissions as set out below.

The Committee intends that this set of financial measures applies to the DFSS awards made throughout this policy period, which is to say 
the awards for 2024, 2025 and 2026.

It has been an aim of the Committee to include carbon emissions targets as part of the NFM scorecard to support the delivery of the 
Group’s net zero targets. For the 2024 scheme, the non-financial measures will comprise, Group NPS, Diversity, Inclusion and carbon 
emissions targets. This is subject to the work of base lining the Company’s carbon emissions which has been delayed due to the agency 
having a back log.

There will be the potential for downwards adjustment subject to an assessment of risk events considered to have a material customer, 
regulatory or financial impact over the course of the performance period.

193

Annual Bonus
Under the 2024 Policy, subject to shareholder approval, Milena Mondini de Focatiis and Geraint Jones will be eligible to participate in an 
Annual Bonus in 2024. The bonus opportunity will be 0-200% of base pay for the Executive Directors, with an on-target award of 100%. 
Performance will be based on the following measures and weightings:

Measure
Financial Measures (75% of total)
Profit
Turnover
Non-financial Measures (25% of total)
Trust Index (people)
Customer Outcomes (CRMI)
Total

Weighting

67.5%
7.5%

12.5%
12.5%
100%

The profit measure will be profit before tax. Turnover is the total value of the revenue generated by the Group. Both Profit and 
Turnover values are reported in the ARA annually, and the values used to determine Annual Bonus outcomes will be consistent with the 
reported figures. 

Customer Outcomes comprise customer measures and associated outcomes from the Group entities for the performance year, in which 
outcomes are scored relative to entity-set performance ranges, with mechanical outcomes based on performance for each month. 
The Trust Index is the average of employee responses to the core survey questions in the Great Place To Work® (“GPTW”) survey. This is 
scored relative to the benchmark of the world’s 25 best workplaces provided by GPTW. 

The Remuneration Committee will follow a two-phase methodology for determining Executive Director Annual Bonus outcomes; the 
formulaic outcome against the measures detailed above followed by a holistic review of the extent to which that formulaic outcome is 
reflective of the overall performance of the Group.

Phase 1: Formulaic Review. At the end of the performance period, the final performance against each measure is assessed on a 
standalone basis. Data for the measures is taken from the Group’s financial reports which are reviewed by the Audit Committee and 
approved by the Board.

Phase 2: Holistic Review. The Committee will then consider the overall fairness of the formulaic Group scorecard outcome in the context 
of the business performance in the prevailing market conditions, which can be assessed against a non-exhaustive basket of measures 
such as:

•  Executive Director personal performance

•  Dividend and/or share price performance

•  Impact on strategic delivery 

•  Risk appetite adherence

•  Loss and/or combined ratio outcomes

•  Financial stability of the Group 

•  Wider ESG performance

•  Inclusion and diversity measures 

•  Delivery of technology milestones. 

The Committee will be able to carefully determine a final bonus outcome for each Executive Director that is fair and appropriate for the 
year’s performance and is in the best interests of shareholders. 

A detailed summary of the factors used to determine bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors will be disclosed in the DRR following 
the performance period.

In line with the position set out in the Policy, 40% of any bonus earned will be subject to deferral into Admiral Group shares for a period  
of three years.

There will be the potential for downwards adjustment subject to an assessment of risk events considered to have a material customer, 
regulatory or financial impact over the course of the performance period.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023194194

Annual Report on Remuneration
continued

Chair and Non-Executive Directors
Fees for the Board Chair and other Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in January 2024 having previously been last reviewed in 2023. 
Increases were made, effective 1 January 2024, to reflect the increased time commitment of these roles.

Chair1
NED base fee
Additional fee for chairing:
•  Audit Committee
•  Group Risk Committee2
•  Remuneration Committee
•  Nomination and Governance Committee
Additional fee for membership of:
•  Audit Committee
•  Group Risk Committee
•  Remuneration Committee
•  Nomination and Governance Committee
Additional fee for being Senior Independent Director

2024 fee (p.a.)
£386,250
£73,500

2023 fee (p.a.)
£375,000
£70,000

£26,250
£45,150
£26,250
£10,500

£15,750
£15,750
£12,600
£8,400
£17,850

£25,000
£43,000
£25,000
£10,000

£15,000
£15,000
£12,000
£8,000
£17,000

1  The 2023 fee shown is for the new Chair, Mike Rogers. The Board Chair does not receive any additional fees (e.g., for committee membership) as these are included in the overall Chair fee.
2  The fee payable for 2024 for Chairing the Group Risk Committee continues to include an additional fee in recognition of the increased time commitment required due to the Admiral Internal 

Model process. It comprises a base fee of £26,250 and an additional fee of £18,900.

New Group Chair Arrangements
It was announced on 31 January 2023 that Mike Rogers was to be appointed as Admiral Group Chair subject to regulatory approval 
and shareholder approval at the Admiral AGM. His fee was set at £375,000. In June 2023, Mike Rogers entered into a Share Acquisition 
Agreement with the Group to purchase an annual amount equal to 30% of the gross amount of the fee, which will continue on this 
basis until he achieves a shareholding equal to 150% of his annual fee. This will be assessed annually, and the agreement contains a top 
up mechanism; if the value of the purchased shares is less than 150% of the gross amount of the fee, the Chair will purchase additional 
shares to maintain a shareholding of 150% of the gross fee.

CEO pay ratio
The table below sets out the pay ratios for the CEO for the periods ended 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2023.

Year
2023
2022

Method

Option A

Lower quartile
75:1
80:1

Median
64:1
69:1

Upper quartile
43:1
45:1

The lower quartile, median and upper quartile employees were determined using calculation methodology A which involved calculating 
the actual full-time equivalent remuneration for all UK employees for 2023. From this analysis, three employees were then identified 
as representing the 25th, 50th and 75th percentile of the UK employee population. Admiral chose this method as it is the preferred 
approach of the Government and investor bodies and Admiral had the systems in place to apply this method. It is also consistent with the 
approach used to calculate the ratios for 2018 to 2022.

The Committee has considered the pay data for the three employees identified and believes that it fairly reflects pay at the relevant 
quartiles amongst our UK workforce. The three individuals identified were full time employees during the year. None received an 
exceptional incentive award which would otherwise inflate their pay figures. No adjustments or assumptions were made by the 
Committee with the total remuneration of these employees calculated in accordance with the methodology used to calculate the single 
figure of the CEO. It should be noted that the lower quartile employee was in receipt of DFSS bonus and/or DFSS vesting in the year.

The employee pay levels for 2023 are detailed below: 

Salary 
Total Remuneration1

CEO
£737,326
£2,064,178

P25 (lower quartile)
£21,392
£27,382

P50 (median)
£26,164
£32,050

P75 (upper quartile)
£42,000
£48,397

1  The single figure of remuneration for the CEO includes actual salary and pension costs paid during 2023, in line with The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) regulations 2018. For other 

employees, salary and pension costs are included on an FTE basis, in line with the legislation. While the basis of calculation differs between CEO and other employees, management considers this a 
fair comparison of remuneration. 

The pay ratio has fallen over the course of 2023. This is due to the slight fall in CEO pay in 2023, compared with 2022. The underlying data 
for employee pay levels is broadly flat compared with 2022, despite an increase in population of c.9%, the majority of which will have 
been at more junior levels of the workforce.

195

A significant proportion of Milena Mondini de Focatiis’ remuneration is dependent on the Company’s performance and therefore it may 
vary more materially, resulting in movements in the CEO pay ratio from year to year. However, the reward policies and structures applying 
to the CEO are broadly aligned with those of the wider workforce and therefore consistent performance is likely to lead to a broadly 
consistent CEO pay ratio.

Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
The table below shows the percentage change in dividends and total employee remuneration spend from the financial year ended 
31 December 2022 to the financial year ended 31 December 2023. 

Distribution to shareholders 
Employee remuneration

2023 
£m
309
501

2022 
£m
465
452

% change

-34%
11%

The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 of 52 pence per share bringing the total dividend for 
2023 to 103 pence per share (2022: 157 pence per share).

Pay for Performance 
The following graph sets out a comparison of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for Admiral Group plc shares with that of the FTSE 100 and 
FTSE 350 indices, of which the Company is a constituent, over the ten-year period to 31 December 2023. The Directors consider these 
to be the most appropriate indices against which the Company should be compared. TSR is defined as the percentage change over the 
period, assuming reinvestment of income. 

10 year TSR performance: Admiral vs. FTSE100 and FTSE350 indices
Growth in value of a hypothetical £100 holding over the 10 years to 31 December 2023
£450

£400

£350

£300

£250

£200

£150

£100

£50

£0

CEO

Incumbent 
CEO single figure 
of Remuneration

DFSS vesting 
outcome  
(% of maximum)

Incumbent 
CFO single figure 
of Remuneration

DFSS vesting 
outcome  
(% of maximum)

Dec-13

Dec-14

Dec-15

Dec-16

Dec-17

Admiral

Dec-18

Dec-19

Dec-20

Dec-21

Dec-22

Dec-23

FTSE 100

FTSE 350

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Henry 
Engelhardt

Henry 
Engelhardt

Henry 
Engelhardt1

David 
Stevens2

David 
Stevens

David 
Stevens

David 
Stevens

David 
Stevens

Milena 
Mondini de 
Focatiis4

Milena 
Mondini de 
Focatiis

Milena 
Mondini de 
Focatiis

£393,260

£397,688

£148,776

£246,023

£395,019

£403,662

£413,724

£421,285 £2,082,1914 £2,275,5115 £2,064,178

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

98.57%

59.24%

43.76%7

CFO

2014

Kevin 
Chidwick

Geraint 
Jones3

2015

Geraint 
Jones

2016

Geraint 
Jones

2017

Geraint 
Jones

2018

Geraint 
Jones

2019

Geraint 
Jones

2020

Geraint 
Jones

2021

Geraint 
Jones

2022

Geraint 
Jones

2023

Geraint 
Jones

£1,204,164

£363,551

£539,704

£599,139

£1,184,445

£1,461,813

£1,773,303

£2,329,513  £1,737,805 £1,333,7096 £1,214,999

70.00%

85.00%

69.00%

50.00%  
and 0.00%

74.20%

87.60%

88.8%

98.5%

93.08%

59.21%

43.73%7

1  Henry Engelhardt stepped down from the Board on 13 May 2016. His 2016 remuneration includes salary and benefits for his service as CEO. 
2  David Stevens was appointed as the CEO on 13 May 2016. His 2016 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits for his service as CEO.
3  Geraint Jones was appointed to the Board as CFO on 13 August 2014. His 2014 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits for his service as CFO, his full year DFSS and his full year 

DFSS bonus. 

4  Milena Mondini de Focatiis was appointed as the CEO on 1 January 2021. Her 2021 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits for her service as CEO.
5  This figure has been trued up since the 2022 report for the value of the 2020 DFSS based on the actual share price on vest of £22.43.
6  This figure has been trued up since the 2022 report for the value of the 2020 DFSS based on the actual share price on vest of £27.71.
7  43.76% of Milena Mondini de Focatiis’ and 43.73% of Geraint Jones’ 2021 DFSS award will vest in September 2024, subject to their continued employment on the vesting date.

There are no annual bonus outcomes to report in the table as the Admiral DFSS bonus is not structured as a traditional annual bonus 
scheme and consequently a vesting outcome (as a percentage of maximum) is meaningless. This will be different for the 2024 Annual 
Report with the new structure of Annual Bonus 

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023196196

Annual Report on Remuneration
continued

197

Annual change of each director’s pay compared to the annual change in average employee pay
The following table summarises the annual percentage change of each director’s remuneration compared to the annual percentage 
change of the average remuneration of the company’s employees, calculated on a full-time equivalent basis.

1  Total includes SIP shares both matured and awarded.
2  Total reflects shares from the 2021 DFSS award (performance test has been applied, and award is due to vest in September 2024).
3  The final column in the above table relates to meeting the current Remuneration Policy requirement of 400% of salary, based on a share price of £26.84 at closing on 29th December 2023.
4  Milena Mondini de Focatiis has 5 years from her appointment as Executive Director (11 August 2020) to meet the guideline.

Financial year-ended 31 December 2023

Director’s remuneration
Executive Directors
Milena Mondini de Focatiis
Geraint Jones
Non-Executive Directors
Annette Court
Mike Rogers
Evelyn Bourke
Karen Green
Jean Park
Jayaprakasa Rangaswami
Justine Roberts
Andy Crossley
Michael Brierley
Bill Roberts
Fiona Muldoon
Percentage change in employees’ remuneration

2023 (% change)

Base salary/fees

Taxable benefits

DFSS bonus

3.00%
4.00%

(76.27%)
N/A
0.00%
8.92%
(100.97%)
(8.15%)
20.68%
10.16%
8.57%
37.80%
N/A
9.01%

(5.21%)
(5.21%)

(49.45%)
N/A
117.30%
172.90%
(100%)
76.52%
62.94%
169.33%
384.46%
209.30%
N/A
(5.31%)

(25.83%)
(33.72%)

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
(43.58%)

The percentage increases for the Non-Executive Director taxable benefits relate to expenses for travel, accommodation and subsistence.

The percentage change in employee base pay is a view across the whole group and is inclusive of colleague internal movements and 
promotions throughout 2023.

Dilution
The Company has previously used newly issued shares to fund the DFSS and SIP shares. The Company has controls in place to ensure that 
shares awarded under the incentive schemes operated by the Company within any rolling ten-year period do not exceed 10% of the 
number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in issue at the time of each award. It is currently anticipated that a combination 
of attrition and actual vesting will result in dilution of less than 10%. As required by the rules of our share schemes, the Company will in 
any event ensure that the actual dilution level does not exceed 10% in any rolling ten-year period by funding of any vested (and future) 
share scheme awards as appropriate with market-purchased shares. 

In 2024 the Company will change the way the employee share schemes are funded. Initially shares already assigned to the trust will be 
used to fund the schemes and then the Company will move to a market purchase funding model (likely from 2026 onwards).

Interests held by Directors (audited)
The Company has adopted Executive Director shareholding guidelines whereby all Executive Directors are required to acquire and retain 
a beneficial shareholding in the Company equal to at least 400% of base salary (excluding salary shares, where applicable), which can 
be built up over a period of five years from the later of the introduction of the guidelines and the individual’s date of appointment. 
Both Executive Directors meet the shareholding requirement.

As at 31 December 2023, the Directors held the following interests:

Shares held

Subject to 
continued 
employment only
39,3842
22,9582

Subject to 
performance 
conditions
180,000
105,000

Shareholding 
requirement 
(% of  
2023 salary)
400%
400%

Current 
shareholding  
(% of  
2023 salary)
>400%
>400%

Requirement
met?3
Yes
Yes

Director’s remuneration
Milena Mondini de Focatiis4
Geraint Jones
Mike Rogers
Evelyn Bourke
Jayaprakasa Rangaswami
Justine Roberts
Andy Crossley
Michael Brierley 
Karen Green
Bill Roberts
Fiona Muldoon

Beneficially
owned outright5
108,1541
143,8411
4,813
7,459
–
–
4,984
4,287
–
9,245
–

There have been no changes in the Directors’ holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 
31 December 2023 and the date of this Report1.

None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of 
the Group.

Executive Directors’ Interests in Shares under the DFSS and SIP and salary share awards (audited)

At start
Type
of year
Milena Mondini de Focatiis 
85,000
DFSS
90,000
DFSS
DFSS
90,000
DFSS

Awarded
during year

Vested/ 
matured
during year

At end
of year

Price at
award (£)

Value at
31 December 
2023
or maturity
(£)

Value at
award date
(£)

Final
vesting/
maturity
date

Date of
Award

–
–

50,354
–
–

90,000

–
90,000
90,000
90,000

£22.43 £1,906,550 £1,138,905 24/04/2020 24/04/2023
£34.55 £3,109,500 £2,415,600 23/09/2021 23/09/2024
£21.59 £1,943,100 £2,415,600 22/09/2022 22/09/2025
£23.79 £2,141,100 £2,415,600 28/09/2023 28/09/2026

SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
Geraint Jones
DFSS
DFSS
DFSS
DFSS

88
68
61
50
72
81
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
95
77

45,000
52,500
52,500

–
–
–
52,500

Salary Shares
Salary Shares

2,500
2,500

SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP
SIP

88
68
61
50
72
81
–
–

–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
95
77

88
68
–
–
–
–
–
–

26,644
–
–

2,500
2,500

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
61
50
72
81
95
77

£20.58
£26.40
£29.44
£36.11
£24.81
£22.25
£18.82
£23.61

£1,811
£1,795
£1,796
£1,806
£1,786
£1,802
£1,787
£1,818

£1,683 13/03/2020 13/03/2023
£1,612 02/09/2020 02/09/2023
£1,637 12/03/2021 12/03/2024
£1,342 01/09/2021 01/09/2024
£1,932 11/03/2022 11/03/2025
£2,174 24/08/2022 24/08/2025
£2,550 13/03/2023 13/03/2026
£2,067 21/08/2023 21/08/2026

–
52,500
52,500
52,500

£27.71 £1,246,950
£637,324 24/09/2020 24/09/2023
£34.55 £1,813,875 £1,409,100 23/09/2021 23/09/2024
£21.59 £1,133,475 £1,409,100 22/09/2022 22/09/2025
£23.79 £1,248,975 £1,409,100 28/09/2023 28/09/2026

–
–

88
68
61
50
72
81
95
77

£20.58
£26.40

£51,450
£66,000

£46,265 13/03/2020 13/03/2023
£59,537 02/09/2020 02/09/2023

£20.58
£26.40
£29.44
£36.11
£24.81
£22.25
£18.82
£23.61

£1,811
£1,795
£1,796
£1,806
£1,786
£1,802
£1,787
£1,818

£1,683 13/03/2020 13/03/2023
£1,612 02/09/2020 02/09/2023
£1,637 12/03/2021 12/03/2024
£1,342 01/09/2021 01/09/2024
£1,932 11/03/2022 11/03/2025
£2,174 24/08/2022 24/08/2025
£2,550 13/03/2023 13/03/2026
£2,067 21/08/2023 21/08/2026

1  The value at maturity relates only to shares vested.
2  For SIP and Salary Shares, the price at award reflects the average closing share price over the five days prior to the award date.

The closing price of Admiral shares on 29 December 2023 was £26.84 per share.

By order of the Board,

Evelyn Bourke
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

6 March 2024

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023198198

Directors’ Report

199

The Directors present their Annual Report and audited Financial Statements for the year ended  
31 December 2023.

Group results and dividends
The profit for the year, after tax but before dividends, amounted to £337.2 million (2022: £285.3 million, restated following the adoption 
of IFRS 17). The Directors declared and paid dividends of £307.1 million during 2023 (2022: £658.3 million). Refer to note 12b for 
further details.

The Directors have proposed a final dividend of £156 million (52 pence per share). Subject to shareholders’ approval at the 2024 Annual 
General Meeting (AGM), the final dividend will be paid on 7 June 2024 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
10 May 2024.

Further information on the Group’s dividend policy is located in note 3 on page 236 and on page 37 of the Strategic Report.

Research and development
Details of costs incurred in respect of research and development can be found in note 11c on page 297.

Political donations
No political donations were made during the year.

Interest capitalised
No interest was capitalised by the Group during the year. 

Significant contracts of material interest to shareholders
The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance contracts to be significant and of material interest to shareholders. A number of the 
Group’s contractual arrangements with reinsurers include features that, in certain scenarios, allow for reinsurers to recover losses incurred 
to date. The overall impact of such scenarios would not lead to an overall net economic outflow from the Group. No other contractual 
arrangements are considered to be significant to the running of the Group’s business.

Financial instruments
The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to financial instruments held by the Group are set out in note 2 to the 
Financial Statements.

Directors and their interests
The present Directors of the Company are shown on page 118 of this Report, whilst Directors’ interests in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 196. A list of Directors in the financial period to 31 December 2023 is shown on 
page 142.

Going concern 
Under Provision 30 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board confirms that it considers the going concern basis of 
accounting appropriate. In considering this requirement, the Directors have taken into account the factors below. 

In particular, as part of this assessment the Board considered updated projections of performance and profitability a number of times 
throughout the year, with some key highlights including:

•  The Group’s profit projections, including:

–  Changes in premium rates and projected policy volumes across the Group’s insurance businesses

–  The impacts of the continued elevated inflationary environment on the cost of settling claims across all of the Group’s 

insurance businesses 

–  The return of motor claims frequency towards pre-pandemic levels 

–  Projected trends in other revenue generated by the Group’s insurance business from fees and the sale of ancillary products 

–  Projected contributions to profit from businesses other than the UK Car insurance business 

–  Expected trends in unemployment in the context of credit risks and the growth of the Group’s consumer lending business

–  The More Than acquisition due to complete in the first half of 2024

–  Assessment of wider market risk and changes in investment performance given the changing interest rates toward the end of 2023.

•  The Group’s solvency position, which has been closely monitored through periods of market volatility. The Group continues to maintain 

a strong solvency position above target levels

•  The adequacy of the Group’s liquidity position after considering all of the factors noted above

•  The results of business plan scenarios and stress tests on the projected profitability, solvency and liquidity positions including the 

impact of severe downside scenarios that assume severe adverse economic, credit and trading stresses

•  The regulatory environment, focusing on regulatory guidance issued by the FCA and the PRA in the UK and regular communications 

between management and regulators

•  A review of the Company’s principal risks and uncertainties and the assessment of emerging risks, including climate related risks. 

Following consideration of all of the above, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report, and that it is therefore 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

Further information is shown in the Viability Statement on page 109.

Share capital, AGM and related matters
Major shareholders
Other than as stated below, as far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the 
Company. Information provided to the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) is published on 
a Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website.

The Company received notifications in accordance with the FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in the 
Company’s issued share capital:

Shareholder
Mawer Investment Management Ltd.
Henry Engelhardt & Diane Briere de I’Isle
BlackRock Inc.
Moondance Foundation
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited
Vanguard Group Holdings
FMR LLC
David & Heather Stevens
Münchener Rückversicherungs- Gesellschaft AG

As at 31 December 2023

Number of Shares
21,727,558
20,277,027
17,849,752
15,400,000
15,322,698
12,560,052
11,711,392
8,422,950
5,297,781

% voting rights
7.2%
6.7%
5.8%
5.1%
5.0%
4.1%
3.9%
2.8%
1.7%

The percentage of voting rights detailed above were calculated at the time the relevant disclosures were made in accordance with the 
DTRs. The DTRs require notification when the percentage voting rights (through shares and financial instruments) held by a shareholder 
reaches, exceeds or falls below an applicable threshold. The information provided below was correct at the date of notification; however, 
the date the notification was received may not have been within the current financial year. It should be noted that these holdings are 
likely to have changed since the Company was notified. However, notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable 
threshold is crossed. 

Notifications received by the Company in accordance with the FCA’s DTRs in the period from 31 December 2023 to 6 March 2024  
were as follows:

Shareholder
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited
Rothschild and Co Wealth Management UK Limited

Date of notification
3 January 2024
5 January 2024
26 January 2024
22 February 2024
28 February 2024
6 March 2024

Number of shares
as at date of
notification
15,310,942
15,316,355
15,296,742
15,320,057
15,315,212
15,321,078

% of voting rights  
as at the date of 
notification
4.99%
5.00%
4.99%
5.00%
4.99%
5.00%

There are no people who hold shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.

Further information on the rights attaching to shares under the employee share schemes are provided in the Remuneration Report.

Shares held in Employee Benefit Trust (EBT)
The EBT does not use its voting rights in respect of the shares it holds in the EBT at general meetings, however, it may choose to do so if 
recommended by the Company via a letter of wishes. If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, the trustee will not be 
obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard to the 
interests of the award holders and will have power to consult them to obtain their views on the offer. Subject to the above, the trustee may 
take action with respect to any offer it thinks fair. The trustee has waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023200200

Directors’ Report
continued

201

Additional information for shareholders
The following provides the additional information required for shareholders in accordance with the Takeovers Directive and the 
respective UK law.

The Board is of the view that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced 
Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of such indemnities. Neither the Deed Poll of Indemnity 
nor insurance cover would provide any coverage in the event that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.

At 31 December 2023, the Company’s issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. Details of the 
share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 12d. The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s ordinary 
shares are set out in the Articles of Association of the Company, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Tŷ Admiral, David Street, Cardiff, CF10 2EH on Thursday 25 April 2024, notice of which will be 
available to shareholders alongside, or at a date near to the publication of the Annual Report.

If a poll is called at a general meeting, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary 
share held. The notice of the general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or 
by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in 
relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Company’s website after the meeting.

There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than:

•  Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws)

•  Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA whereby certain employees and Directors of the Company require the approval of the 

Company to deal in the Company’s securities.

The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the period.

There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occur because of a takeover bid.

There are a number of agreements that alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as 
commercial contracts (entered into in the normal course of business). None are considered to be significant in terms of their impact on 
the business of the Group as a whole.

Powers of the Company Directors
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject to 
the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles. 
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Company’s power to borrow money. Powers relating 
to the issuing of new shares and buyback of shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting each year.

Power to issue shares
At the last Annual General Meeting, held on 27 April 2023, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the 
Company up to a maximum nominal amount of £202,157 representing the Investment Association’s Guidelines limit of approximately 
two thirds of the issued share capital as at 17 March 2023. This authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
25 April 2024 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.

A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company (up to 
a maximum of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company) for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006. This authority also expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 April 2024 and the Directors will seek to 
renew this authority for the following year.

The Board is aware of the principles published by the Pre-Emption Group in November 2022, and their template resolutions published on 
4 November 2022, allowing a Company the ability to seek authority over a further 10% of the issued ordinary share capital on a non-pre-
emptive basis subject to certain conditions. The Board has set out its proposal, in line with the Pre-Emption Group principles, regarding its 
requested authority to allot shares in the Notice of Meeting for the 2024 AGM. 

Appointments of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors. Under the Terms of 
Reference of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Group Nomination 
and Governance Committee for approval by the Board of Directors. The Articles provide that all Directors will retire and offer themselves 
for re-election at each Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Company’s current 
practice. Therefore, all Directors will be submitting themselves for either election or re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.

Articles of Association
The Articles may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.

Directors’ indemnities and insurance
Directors and Officers insurance cover is in place for all Directors to provide cover against certain acts or omissions on behalf of the 
Company. A Deed Poll of Indemnity was executed in October 2015, indemnifying each of the Directors, and Company Secretary, in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities that they might incur in the course of acting as Directors of the Company. The Deed Poll of 
Indemnity is categorised as qualifying third party provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and remains in force 
for all past and present Directors of the Company.

Reporting, accountability and audit
UK Corporate Governance Code
Admiral is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in July 2018 and 
available on their website, www.frc.org.uk. The Company’s Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, addresses the requirements  
of the 2018 Code.

The Code was applicable for the Group during the year under review, and the Group has applied the principles and complied with the 
provisions of the Code except with regard to non-compliance with provision 19 for part of the year from 1 January 2023 to 27 April 
2023, from this date to the 31 December 2023 the Company was in full compliance with the requirements of the Code, as set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 113.

Admiral has reviewed the changes to the revised Code which the FRC published on 22 January 2024 and intends to be effective for 
companies with financial reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025. Admiral intends to be fully compliant with the revised 
Code from 1 January 2025 and will disclose the measures introduced to ensure compliance with the new Code in the 2025 Annual Report 
and Accounts to be published in 2026.

The Directors confirm that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.

The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of risk management and internal control and, through the Audit Committee, 
has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk management arrangements relating to the financial reporting 
process and the principal risks facing the business. The Board is satisfied that the Group’s internal control and risk management 
framework is prudent and effective and that, through the Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee, risk can be assessed, managed 
and assurance given that all material controls are reviewed and monitored.

Information on the composition and operation of the Board and its Committees is located in the following sections:

•  Corporate Governance Report on page 113 in respect of the Board

•  Nomination and Governance Committee Report on page 146

•  Audit Committee Report on pages 161

•  Group Risk Committee Report on page 168

•  Remuneration Committee Report on page 185.

The Group’s gender diversity information for the financial year, together with an explanation of the policies related to diversity, are set 
out in the Strategic Report on page 62 and in the Nomination and Governance Committee Report on page 154.

Branches
The Group has several branches located in Canada, India, France and Italy, through its subsidiary structure. Further details of the 
Company’s subsidiaries, associated undertakings and branches are contained in note 12e.

Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international accounting 
standards and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting 
standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.

Under Company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:

•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently

•  Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent

•  For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the UK

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023202202

Directors’ Report
continued

•  For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company 
financial statements

•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 

in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website.

Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.

Responsibility statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:

•  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and

•  The Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties.

Disclosure of information to auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
that information.

Auditor
Following the Board’s approval of the Audit Committee’s recommendation to reappoint the Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP has 
indicated willingness to continue in office and resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to fix its remuneration will be 
proposed at the AGM.

Index of disclosures 
Information included in the Strategic Report: As permitted by legislation, some matters required to be included in the Directors’ Report 
have instead been included in the Strategic Report as the Board considers them to be of strategic importance. These are identified with 
an asterix (*) in the table below.

Information/disclosure
Agreement for loss of office or employment on takeover
Allotment of shares for cash pursuant to Group employee share schemes*
Amendment of the Articles of Association
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Audit Committee Report
Business review
Business model
Directors in office during the year
Significant agreements impacted by a change of control
Changes in borrowings
Charitable donations
Climate related disclosures, including GHG emissions and energy consumption
Corporate Governance Report
Culture

Pages
181, 200
299
200
201
200, 146
161
32
08
118, 142
200
235, 275
21, 66
71
113
132

Information/disclosure
Details of long-term incentive schemes*
Directors’ insurance and indemnities
Directors’ inductions and training
Directors’ interests in shares
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
Directors’ service contracts
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
Diversity disclosures
Dividends
Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the Company*
Employee engagement
Employees with disabilities
Fair, balanced and understandable
Financial risk management
Financial instruments
Future developments of the business
Going Concern Statement
Group Risk Committee
Independent Auditors’ Report
Interest capitalised by the Group*
Nomination and Governance Committee Report
Non-Financial Information Statement
Political donations and expenditure
Post-balance sheet events
Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares
Powers of Directors
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Related undertakings 
Reappointment of Auditor
Remuneration Committee Report
Rights attaching to shares
Risk management and internal control
s172 Statement
Share capital
Shareholder engagement
Shareholder waiver of dividends and future dividends*
Significant related party agreements*
Significant shareholders
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Strategic Report
Sustainability Report
Viability Statement
Voting rights

* 

Information required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.4R is marked with an asterisk (*).

Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by

Dan Caunt 
Company Secretary  

6 March 2024 

Geraint Jones
Chief Financial Officer

6 March 2024

203

Pages
172
200
146
196
201
181
202
154
198, 299
87
62, 89
62
201
228
198, 268
22
198, 306
168
205
205
146
96
198
301
200
200
98
300
185
185
199, 298
98, 161, 201
87
199, 298
90, 136
199, 299
200, 301, 312
199
125, 201
14
56
109
200

Corporate GovernanceCorporate GovernanceAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
204204

205

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

In this section

205 Independent Auditor’s Report
216 Consolidated Income Statement
217 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
218 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
219 Consolidated Cashflow Statement
220 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
221 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
303 Appendix to the Group Financial Statements (unaudited)
305 Parent Company Financial Statements
306  Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements

Additional Information

316  Glossary

Independent Auditor’s Report

to the members of Admiral Group plc

Report on the audit of the Financial Statements

1. Opinion

In our opinion:

•  the financial statements of Admiral Group plc (the ‘Parent Company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view 
of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;

•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international 

accounting standards;

•  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 

Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and

•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

•  the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements;

•  the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income;

•  the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position;

•  the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement;

•  the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity;

•  the related notes 1 to 13 to the Group financial statements, excluding the capital adequacy disclosures in note 3.2.3 calculated in 

accordance with the Solvency II regime which are marked as unaudited; and

•  the related notes 1 to 14 to the Parent Company financial statements.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced 
Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

2. Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of 
our report. 

We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public 
interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The non-audit services 
provided to the Group for the year are disclosed in note 9c to the financial statements. We confirm that we have not provided any  
non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to the Group or the Parent Company.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Financial StatementsAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial StatementsAdmiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023