Viability statement continued

Assessment of viability
The Board’s assessment of the Group’s prospects, as described 

on this page, has been made with reference to current market 

Based on the current commercial outlook, Scenario 2 is 

considered extremely severe and has been prepared for the 

purpose of creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten 

conditions and known risk factors, as described in principal risks 

the viability of the Group.

and uncertainties on pages 36 to 44.

The Board has considered the Group’s financial performance in 

2023, and the risk factors noted above and consider that the key 

risks which could have a major impact on the delivery of the 

Group’s financial objectives are as follows:

•  Socio-economic or geopolitical risks impacting conversion of 

the sales pipeline and/or spending by existing customers;

•  Risks to people, teams and skills impacting our capacity to 

deliver services to customers;

•  Pressure on margins due to increased cost base, or through 

increased competition;

•  Competitive pressure leading to a loss of market share in our 

target markets.

Conclusion
It was determined that none of the individual risks would, in 

In the case of such a scenario crystallising the Group would be 

required to take some mitigating actions largely related to the 

level of headcount in the business, the level of partner usage and 

discretionary spending. In addition there are many other different 

levers that could be pulled to further minimise the financial 

impact and maintain liquidity to continue in operation.

Revenue and profitability are clearly affected in this alternative 

scenario, however based on the Group’s existing cash reserves, 

combined with incremental cost reduction measures, the 

business would retain sufficient cash reserves to continue in 

operation throughout the three-year forecast period, with the 

lowest cash balance modelled in this period of £9.4m.

Whilst it is acknowledged that there is continued uncertainty 

over future economic conditions, based on the assessment of 

prospects and viability, the Directors confirm that they have a 

reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 

isolation, compromise the Group’s viability. The Directors 

operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-

therefore reviewed the outputs of the alternative forecasts 

year period ending 31 December 2026.

which were produced to model the effect on the Group’s liquidity 

and solvency of severe but plausible combinations of the 

principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business.

Scenario 2 reflects the combination of all risk factors identified 

and is considered a ‘worst case scenario’. The Directors consider 

that this scenario addresses the key risk factors outlined above.

46

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Scenario 1:

Scenario 2:

This scenario assumes no conversion of sales pipeline, 

This scenario assumes no conversion of sales pipeline 

a 25% reduction in uncontracted work for existing 

as well as a significant loss of customers including 

customers and prices held constant in order to retain 

cancellation of two major ongoing customer projects 

customers, resulting in a 32% reduction from base case 

during 2024 and termination of subscription contracts 

revenues by 2026.

representing 20% of subscription revenues. This scenario 

results in a 50% reduction from base case revenues 

Employee retention rates reduced by 12% p.a. resulting in 

by 2025.

a 20% reduction in headcount from base case by 2026 and 

partner usage is reduced by 60% from base case in 2026.

Employee retention declines by 17% from base case in this 

Direct costs relating to partner usage and Cloud hosting 

made; this results in a 29% reduction in headcount from 

services are significantly reduced in line with customer 

base case by 2026. Partner usage is reduced by 65% from 

scenario but recruitment continues and no redundancies 

activity, however salary costs per person increase as a 

base case in 2026.

result of labour market factors and the need to retain 

personnel. Overheads including SG&A salaries reduced in 

Direct costs are reduced further than in Scenario 1 as well 

line with headcount, and the level of bonuses and profit 

as further reductions in operating and capital expenditure 

share are also reduced in line with performance.

in line with headcount. Salary increases are maintained 

In this scenario there would be no payment of special 

profit share reduced in line with performance.

dividends, however annual ordinary dividends and share 

purchases for option vestings would continue as 

In this scenario there would be no payment of special 

planned and no other mitigating actions take.

dividends, however annual ordinary dividends and share 

in order to retain personnel. No bonuses are paid and 

purchases for option vestings would continue as planned 

and no other mitigating actions taken with other operating 

costs remaining in line with the base case.

47

Strategic reportCorporate governanceFinancial statementsOther informationEmployees

Investors

Customers

Communities and 
environment

Suppliers and 
Partners

Our employees are central to everything 

we do. Listening to our employees, being 

flexible, supportive and inclusive, are our 

routes to growing and retaining Alfa’s talent 

pool, enabling us to deliver against our 

strategic priorities and develop our people.

The Board places great importance on 

having positive relationships with all our 

investors and seeks to ensure there is 

an appropriate and constructive dialogue 

with all our investors.

Our customers are central to our business 

and we aim to deliver our leading-edge 

technology to them making our customers 

future-ready. 

We have a responsibility to add value to the 

communities in which we operate. We have 

employee-led community groups that 

are safe spaces for colleagues to promote 

issues, support each other and contribute 

to organisational change.

Building trusted partnerships and 

developing relationships with suppliers 

through ongoing dialogue helps us to 

better understand the needs of our 

partners and to develop and improve 

our offering.

Engaging with our stakeholders

Section 172 statement
This section of the Strategic report and 

the pages to which it refers, comprise 

the Company’s section 172(1) statement 

together with the statements set out 

earlier in this report as to how the 

Directors have engaged with employees 

and have regards to their interests, and 

how the Directors have had regard to 

the Company’s business relationships 

with its customers, suppliers and 

external stakeholders.

The Board is responsible for leading 

stakeholder engagement and ensuring 

that we fulfil our obligations. Our key 

stakeholders are those who influence or 

are affected by our day-to-day activities. 

These stakeholders groups have varying 

needs and expectations; our aim at 

Alfa is to engage effectively with all 

stakeholders, to develop and maintain 

positive and productive relations. 

The Board, together with the Directors, 

considers any current risks or emerging 

risks with regard to each stakeholder 

group as part of the overall principal risk 

assessment, which is contained on pages 

36 to 45. 

For each matter that comes before the 

Board, the Board considers the likely 

consequences of any decision in the long 

term, identifies stakeholders that may 

be affected and carefully considers 

their interests and the potential impact 

of the decision-making process.

Engagement with our shareholders and 

wider stakeholder groups plays a vital role 

in Alfa’s business. Alfa’s key stakeholders 

and why they are important to us are set 

out opposite:

48

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023How the Board fulfils 
its section 172 duties
Our Directors

The Board of Directors of Alfa has always 

taken decisions for the long term, and 

collectively and individually our aim is to 

uphold the highest standards of conduct.

The needs of our stakeholders and the 

consequences of any decision in the 

long term are taken into consideration 

by the Board when making decisions. 

The differing interests of stakeholders 

are considered in the business decisions 

we make across Alfa, at all levels, and are 

reinforced by the Board setting the right 

tone from the top. 

Considerations in Board decisions

In performing their duties during the year, 

the Directors have had regard for the 

matters set out in Section 172(1) of the 

Companies Act 2006. Examples of how 

the Directors have oversight of 

stakeholder matters and had regard for 

these matters when making decisions is 

included throughout the Strategic report 

and Corporate Governance sections of 

this Report.

Establishing our culture, values 

and strategy

The Board is responsible for the long-term 

success of the Company, through setting, 

overseeing and driving the Company’s 

culture, values and strategy. By discharging 

the above responsibilities effectively, all 

our stakeholder groups are impacted 

positively, whether it be by providing an 

environment where our employees thrive, 

or by requiring the highest standards of 

services and partnership to our customers 

and suppliers, or by managing the business 

effectively to generate returns to investors, 

and the communities we are part of. 

Information to the Board

The Board receives information on how 

we engage with our stakeholders, which 

they review regularly throughout the year, 

to ensure that the long-term impact on 

any of these groups is considered.

Monitoring

Where the Board does not engage directly 

with our stakeholders, it is kept updated 

so that Directors maintain an effective 

understanding of what matters to our 

stakeholders and can draw on these 

perspectives in Board decision making 

and strategy development.

Stakeholder 
group

Consistently strong employee 

engagement in 2023

82% 

overall engagement

83% 

say excellent culture

Three dividends paid, returning 

c. £20m 

to shareholders

Dedicated customer  

user focus groups

As part of our journey towards net-zero, 

our targets were validated by the 

Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)

Launched the  

Alfa Suppliers Code of Conduct

49

Strategic reportCorporate governanceFinancial statementsOther informationEngaging with our stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

The following pages set out key stakeholder 
categories, the forms of Board engagement 
with those stakeholders, and the wider 
business engagement and the impact of 
such activities conducted during the year.

Gender pay gap and the 
Women’s Community
During 2023, the People team 

collaborated with Alfa’s Women’s 

Community to gather feedback 

through focus groups, with input 

from female colleagues and allies 

that make up the Community’s 

membership. Potential actions for 

reducing our gender pay gap were 

identified and explored, with open 

discussion and great ideas were 

tabled. The key relevant themes 

and action areas (such as career 

development and recruitment), 

have been built into a Gender 

Pay Gap Action Plan, which was 

presented to the Board by our 

Chief People Officer in December 

2023. The Women’s Community 

is continuing work alongside 

central teams to take the agreed 

actions forward in 2024 and we 
look forward to seeing the positive 

impact these initiatives will have.

50

Employees
Why we engage

Engagement with employees is paramount to maintaining the 

strong culture at Alfa. Employee engagement is fundamental to 

our success, employees who feel valued are more likely to 

contribute innovative ideas and solutions. We continue to 

cultivate a culture of innovation and empowerment and, we are 

proud that our people are highly engaged and supportive of 

each other and of the organisation’s aims. 

How the Company engages
•  We maintain our commitment to diversity, equity and 

inclusion, keeping this front of mind when making decisions. 
We launched our diversity, equity and inclusion employee 
survey, which sought feedback from colleagues on how we’re 
doing and suggestions for areas to work on.

•  Internal communications are enhanced to consistently 
align with Alfa’s strategy and core themes, providing 
clarity and focus. 

•  Regular global and regional Company meetings, conferences 
and Town Hall meetings are held to bring employees up to 
speed with the latest projects, strategy and performance. 
The objectives and progress of our corporate objectives 
were also cascaded to the wider management team for 
onward communication.

•  We conduct a quarterly employee engagement Pulse survey. 
The survey is anonymous to encourage employees to be 
candid in their responses. Focus groups were established to 
look at particular topics arising from the survey. Output from 
the survey and focus groups is regularly provided to the Board 
by the CEO and CPO. 

•  We have a flexible inclusive working structure that creates 
opportunities for teams to come together to connect, 
collaborate, and innovate. Striking the right balance makes 
it possible for the Group to achieve great outcomes for 
colleagues, customers, and the community.

How the Board engages
•  The Board reviewed the Gender pay gap report and initiatives 

identified by the action plan. 

•  Members of the Board attended the EMEA Company 

meeting, which provided interaction between the Board 
with a wide range of employees across functions, leading 
to a deeper understanding of the daily objectives, challenges 
and opportunities. 

•  The Board reviewed the results of the Pulse surveys during the 
year, which allows for greater insight into colleague sentiment 
across the Group and provides direct feedback on areas that 
can be improved. 

•  The Board attended an event which hosted a number of new 

hires and graduates. 

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Investors
Why we engage

Engaging with investors, ensures that the interest of our 

investors is aligned with the Company’s strategic direction and 

Q1 2023

•  Preliminary results investor roadshows

purpose. Engagement helps our investors to understand Alfa’s 

•  AGM engagement

Q2 2023

•  Meetings with investors – potential offer

•  Investor office visit

Q3 2023

•  Interim results Investor roadshows

•  Meeting with SID and ARC chair

•  Meetings with Investors – potential offer

Q4 2023

•  Directors’ Remuneration Policy consultation

strategy, which, underpins our future growth plans and how the 

financial and operating performance of the business enhances 

long-term shareholder value and sustain growth.

How the Company engages
•  An open dialogue was maintained with institutional investors, 

updating investors on progress and keeping the Board 
informed about investors views and priorities.

•  Shareholder engagement is the responsibility of the CEO 

and CFO, they manage and foster Alfa’s relationships with 
investors and analysts.

How the Board engages
•  The CEO and CFO hold regular meetings with existing and 

potential institutional investors and analysts to understand 
their views and policies. These meetings cover a range 
of topics, including our long-term strategy, operational and 
financial performance, and increasingly broader societal 
issues. The Board receives regular updates to ensure it 
considers the views of shareholders.

•  Capital allocation: the share buy-back programme concluded 
in June 2023, since the commencement of the share-buyback, 
the Company has repurchased 4,646,312 shares. The 
Company paid two special dividends and one final dividend, 
returning approximately £20m to shareholders.

•  Held over 40 investor meetings plus Directors’ Remuneration 

Policy consultation.

•  Consultation with investors to discuss the unsolicited bid 
approaches. Individual meetings held with the Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director and the Chair of the Independent 
Bid Committee.

•  At each Board meeting, the Board receives an Investor 

Relations update.

•  The Company’s brokers regularly attend Board meetings, 

and provide reports to those meetings, in order to keep the 
Board apprised of shareholder and wider market sentiment 
regarding the Company. 

•  At the Alfa AGM, all Board Directors are present, which 

provides a key opportunity for the Board to engage with 
shareholders and for shareholders to vote on the resolutions 
put to them.

51

Strategic reportCorporate governanceFinancial statementsOther informationEngaging with our stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement continued

Customers
Why we engage

Communities and environment
Why we engage

We engage to understand our customers better so we can 

Making a meaningful contribution to the wider society enables 

provide a better product to them. This helps their business 

us to create stronger communities and generate positive 

improve, and also helps Alfa by allowing us to identify new 

environmental and social impacts. Engagement with 

potential products and win new business. Our customers have 

organisations such as non-governmental organisations and 

direct channels to engage with all levels of the organisation and 

community groups helps us to address our impact on the 

by actively listening to customer feedback and understanding 

wider society and support ways in which we can work together 

their needs, Alfa can tailor our products to better meet individual 

to make a valuable, positive contribution. 

customer requirements. We continue to build on our long-term 

relationships with our customers, which enables Alfa to 

How the company engages

anticipate and adapt to changing market demands effectively. 

•  Our Environmental Policy includes a commitment to continue 

How the Company engages
•  Our Markets and Products team has worked with our client-

facing teams, and has led multiple user group sessions, along 
with a multitude of liaison and product strategy alignment 
sessions with our customers. 

•  We demonstrated our commitment to delivering cutting-edge 

solutions as we achieved a record seven new customer go-lives 
across the globe.

•  Regular monitoring of customer focus groups helps Alfa to assess 
customer sentiment and identify areas where we can refine the 
customer experience.

•  Investment prioritisation focuses on aligning the agile 

approach of our Alfa Development Model and optimising 
value, with committed resources for the top priority items 
and a longer tail of lower priority initiatives which will be 
delivered in smaller increments. 

•  We continue to innovate and evolve, empowering our 

customers to do more business and secure the edge over 
their competition.

to engage and educate employees on possible actions to 

combat climate change.

•  Alfa demonstrates the pathway to achieve 2030 climate 

commitments through a robust net-zero Transition Plan. Alfa’s 

emission targets were validated by the Science Based Targets 

initiative (SBTi) in 2023.

•  Our ESG Steering Group, made up of members from across 

the business globally and including our CFO and CPO, meets 

monthly to focus on goals to report and record progress, and to 

support the direction of Alfa’s employee-led Communities. The 

CEO has ultimate responsibility to the Board for all ESG matters. 

Support has been given to carbon-offsetting projects and 

investment has been made into external consultancy for 

ESG measurement and guidance. 

•  We continue to fundraise for charities and support causes close 

to our colleagues’ hearts. 

 How the Board engages

•  The Board has oversight of the initiatives of the Alfa 

•  We released the first of the six pillars of Alfa Systems 6, which 

Communities and the impact they have on the external factors.

delivers important changes in performance and function to help 
address previous challenges and develop future opportunities.

•  The Board oversees the Company’s broader sustainability 

reporting within the Annual Report and through the Audit 

and Risk Committee.

•  Alfa was able to expand its TCFD disclosures after the progress 

made in strengthening governance and the integration of 

climate-related objectives in executive remuneration, leadership 

performance, and risk management.

How the Board engages

•  Regular updates from the CEO and COO are provided to the Board 

on the operational priorities in place to deliver a high-quality 

customer experience.

•  The Board hears regular updates on key customer measures 

across the Group and key themes from customer feedback.

•  Regular cyber security updates are provided to the Board and 

this year the Board’s understanding of Alfa’s work to reduce 

cyber risks across the business was enhanced by an AI 

presentation in August 2023.

•  An overview of Alfa Systems 6 was provided to the Board 

during the year to help Board members understand how 

the development of Alfa Systems were evolving to meet 

52

customer needs.

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Partners and suppliers
Why we engage

Key Board decision in 2023 and how 
stakeholders were considered
This statement describes a material example of how a 

principal decision was taken by the Board during 2023. 

Engaging with our partners and suppliers is paramount for the 

Other key Board decisions are set out on page 87.

development of our business relationships. Increasing our use 

of partners is a key element of our longer-term strategy for 

increasing the number of implementations we can deliver and 

providing us with a more flexible implementation resource. We 

are working with partners to help cultivate operational agility 

and engaging with suppliers to ensure that ethical and 

environmental standards are upheld. 

How the Company engages

•  We launched our Supplier Onboarding process and 

Procurement Policy and Procedures. This ensures that the 

suppliers we choose to work with share our values, in particular 

those in relation to ESG, as well as meeting our compliance and 

due diligence requirements. 

•  We launched a supplier review to ensure we are supporting 

carbon reduction projects across the world, with a level of 

transparency on what the project is doing.

•  We have grown our partner ecosystem, agreeing engagement 

terms with a notable global professional services organisation for 

the combined marketing and delivery of the Alfa Systems platform.

•  We are focused on engaging with suppliers to understand our 

emissions data.

How the Board engages

•  The Board supports the continuing development of our 

partner training and learning programme, which aims to 

deliver a comprehensive training schedule including Alfa 

Systems training, our delivery methodology and simulation-

based implementation workshops. 

•  The Board supports continued scaling of our existing 

partnerships as well as extending our partner ecosystem 

to strengthen our coverage in core markets.

•  The Board has oversight of the road to net-zero, and is focused 

on regulatory, supplier and consumer pressures which are 

initiating changes to reporting, financial products and compliance. 

Unsolicited offers for the Company

Board discussion
Following the unsolicited approaches from EQT Fund Management 
S.à r.l (EQT) and Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (THL) regarding a 
possible offer for the Company, the Board was required to 
consider the impact on all stakeholders of its decision to 
recommend, or not recommend, the transactions to shareholders.

The Board was mindful of its duty under Section 172 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to promote the success of the Company for 
the benefit of its members as a whole and had regard to all the 
factors under Section 172 when reaching its decision, in particular 
the likely consequences of any decision in the long term. See below 
for further information on the specific factors considered.

Following the initial proposal from EQT, and the potential conflict of 
interest of the Company’s controlling shareholder (whose directors 
are Andrew Page, Executive Chairman, and Andrew Denton, CEO), the 
Board approved the establishment of an Independent Bid Committee 
(IBC), and its members would comprise exclusively the Company’s 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The role of the IBC was to 
principally decide whether or not to recommend the final terms of 
any offer to the Company’s shareholders in accordance with the 
requirements of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. 

Stakeholder considerations and impacts
Stakeholder impacts were considered throughout the offer periods. 
The interests of the Company’s employees were considered at 
length, both in terms of the impact of negotiations with potential 
bidders as well as the impact of any potential transaction once 
completed. Updates were provided to employees on the situation 
as and when permitted under the City Code on Takeovers and 
Mergers. The proposals were considered in relation to the potential 
effects of the employees, including stability and long-term cultural 
fit of the Company. The Directors considered the impact on 
business relationships, in particular existing and late-stage pipeline 
customers. The Executive Directors communicated with the 
majority of customers to update them on the situation and reassure 
them that the Company would continue operating as usual.

The IBC thoroughly evaluated the offers, ensuring its commitment 
to treating all shareholders equally and maintaining the principles 
of equity and impartiality. The Senior Independent Director and 
Chair of the IBC, served as a point of contact for shareholders and 
provided oversight to ensure that governance practices remained 
robust and transparent. The Chair of the IBC facilitated 
communication between the IBC and the Board and ensured that 
Shareholder interests were protected and decisions regarding 
potential offers were made with their best interests in mind. 

Stakeholder

Outcome
EQT announced that it did not intend to make a firm offer to the 
shareholders of Alfa. Alfa confirmed that it had terminated 
discussions with THL.

53

Strategic reportCorporate governanceFinancial statementsOther information 
 
 
 
Environmental, Social and Governance

At Alfa, the pursuit of success goes beyond financial achievements. Our commitment 
to sustainability, responsible business practices, and solid corporate governance lies at 
the core of our operations. The Alfa culture underpins all that we do in the ESG space. 
We are pleased to present this dedicated section in our Annual Report, outlining our 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance and initiatives.

We aim to have a small company feel, but 

Our ESG initiatives align with our five 

Materiality

make a big impact, wherever we work. 

chosen United Nations Sustainable 

In addition to our chosen UN SDGs, our 

Our Employee Resource Groups (which 

Development Goals. 

ESG Steering Group also continues to 

focus on the key areas identified by 

we call ‘Communities’), bring energy and 

Alfa’s ESG Steering Group, comprising 

SASB as materially impacting the software 

passion to a host of causes. 

colleagues from across the business 

industry: Energy Management, Customer 

globally and including our Chief Financial 

Privacy, Data Security, Employee 

This year we have made great strides in 

Officer and Chief People Officer, meets 

Engagement, Diversity & Inclusion, 

our journey to net-zero and we’ve taken 

each month to focus on terms of 

Competitive Behaviour and Systemic 

leaps towards making our product more 

reference, report and record progress, 

Risk Management.

sustainable than ever before.

and to support the overall direction of 

ESG at Alfa.

We invite you to explore this section of 

our annual report, from People to Planet 

to Product, and join us on our path 

towards a more sustainable and 

responsible future.

People

Planet

Product

We’re growing – and not just in 

2023 marked a pivotal moment for 

We’ve launched new functionality 

headcount. We are offering more 

Alfa in our journey towards net-zero, 

within Alfa Systems, offering 

development opportunities than ever 

as our targets were validated by the 

customers the ability to track and 

before, and are focused on keeping 

Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). 

report on their portfolios’ Scope 3 

our special culture alive. 

greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 

  Find out more on page 58

  Find out more on page 66

  Find out more on page 68

54

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals

Goals

Goal 5: 

Gender Equality.

Achieve gender 

equality and empower 

all women and girls.

Goal 8: 

Decent Work and 

Economic Growth.

Read more about how we are tackling the 

gender pay gap and initiatives that will help 

us attract female talent on pages 62-63.

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion remains high 

Aspirations for 2024…
Next year we expect to 

publish our first standalone 

sustainability progress report.

We are exploring signing 

up to the United Nations 

on our list of priorities, with partnerships 

Global Compact. 

and projects to support making Alfa a great 

Promote sustained, 

place to work. We attract, develop and 

inclusive and 

retain the best in the business and 

We will increase our focus on 

green and sustainable software 

sustainable economic 

celebrate diversity of thinking. Find out 

engineering.

growth, full and 

more on pages 58-61.

productive 

employment and 

decent work for all.

Goal 10: 

We’re global in our thinking and streamline 

Reduced Inequalities

our policies around the world wherever 

Reduce inequality 

within and among 

countries.

possible. Alfa is proud to partner with 

several organisations that help us build 

relationships with those from any and all 

backgrounds.

Goal 12: 

Responsible 

Sustainability has always been a passion 

for Alfa and our people. From charity 

Consumption and 

donations to new software functionality, 

Production

read more about our practices on 

Ensure sustainable 

pages 64-69.

consumption and 

production patterns.

Goal 13: 

This year we’ve made significant progress 

Climate Action

and commitments to taking climate action. 

Take urgent action to 

Find out more on pages 64-69.

combat climate change 

and its impacts.

We will continue to explore 

partnerships with organisations 

that will support diversity in our 

recruitment opportunities.

We will create a detailed ESG 

strategy based on a chosen 

ESG framework, and begin to 

execute it.

Supplier Engagement will also 

be a key focus, partnering with 

customers to refine our 

emissions data.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 

will remain a pillar in our plans, 

with projects ongoing to improve 

gender representation and 

ethnicity pay gap reporting.

55

Strategic reportCorporate governanceFinancial statementsOther informationCommittee membership

A Audit

N Nomination

R Remuneration

R Committee chair

Steve Breach
A   N   R
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 

Adrian Chamberlain
A   N   R
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 

Charlotte de Metz
A   N   R
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 

Chris Sullivan
A   N   R
Senior Independent 
Director
Appointment to the Board: 

August 2019

April 2020

April 2020

July 2019

Skills and experience
Steve is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales, having qualified 
with EY in 1993 where he focused 
on providing corporate finance 
advice to technology businesses in 
the UK and internationally. Steve 
has 17 years’ experience as Chief 
Financial Officer of a number of 
businesses. Between 2010 and 
2016, Steve was CFO of Tribal 
Group PLC, a leading international 
provider of student management 
software to the education market. 
Steve has subsequently pursued 
a portfolio career, acting as 
advisor to a number of privately 
owned companies.

Steve has held a number of 
CFO roles and has extensive 
experience in corporate finance.

Skills and experience
Adrian is the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director of iomart 
Group PLC. In 2023, Adrian stood 
down as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
of Cambridge University Health 
Trust, one of the country’s largest 
NHS Trusts. He previously has 
held senior executive positions 
in a number of private and public 
hi-tech and telecommunications 
companies including Chief 
Executive Officer of Messagelabs 
and Achilles Ltd, a member of the 
Board of Cable & Wireless and 
Bovis Lend Lease, and a member of 
the Operations Board at Symantec. 
He was the Executive Chairman of 
eConsult Ltd, a leading cloud-based 
medical triage company. 

Adrian has extensive experience 
internationally in both the private 
and public sectors, particularly 
in strategy formulation and 
execution, technology and 
Software-as-a-Service. He holds an 
MA in History from Trinity College, 
Cambridge and an MBA from 
the London Business School.

Skills and experience
Charlotte is the Chief People 
Officer at Keyloop which focuses 
on software for the automotive 
industry and which she joined in 
2021. She previously served as 
Chief People Officer at Synamedia 
where she led a large-scale global 
transformation. Prior to that, 
Charlotte was Executive Vice 
President at Finastra, a global 
fintech where she was responsible 
for Executive Talent, corporate 
social responsibility, culture and 
values, and diversity, equity and 
inclusion. Prior to joining Finastra in 
2012 Charlotte spent over 11 years 
at Ventyx, a global provider of 
software solutions for the energy, 
utility and other asset-intensive 
businesses. During her tenure at 
Ventyx she held various HR roles, 
latterly as Human Resource 
Manager for Rest of World.

Charlotte has a strong track record 
in delivering innovative employee 
development, engagement, and 
retention practices. She also has 
extensive experience in managing 
high-impact, enterprise-wide 
transformations in challenging, 
fast-paced environments.

Other appointments
Director of Elucid Partners Limited 
and ANDigital Limited

Other appointments
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director of iomart Group PLC 

Other appointments
CPO, Keyloop Limited

Skills and experience
Chris was Chief Executive of the 
Corporate & Investment Bank at 
Santander UK during the years 
2015-2018, and prior to this held 
various CEO roles during a 40-year 
career at The Royal Bank of 
Scotland and NatWest. His 11 years 
on the Group Executive Committee 
included leading Corporate 
Banking, Retail Banking, Direct Line 
and Retail Direct and culminated in 
appointment to the post of Deputy 
Group Chief Executive in March 
2014. A recipient of the Leasing Life 
European Lifetime Achievement 
Award, Chris brings expertise in 
the auto and equipment finance 
industry, having spent nearly 
30 years with the Lombard Group 
in a number of directorate roles 
including as CEO. Chris was the 
Senior Independent Director for 
DWF Group PLC, which delisted in 
October 2023.

Chris has extensive experience of 
corporate, investment and retail 
banking and asset financing 
together with general management 
and listed company experience.

Other appointments
Chairman of the Westminster 
Abbey Investment Committee, 
Non-Executive Director of 
Cannaray Ltd and DVCP Limited

S
t
r
a
t
e
g

i
c

r
e
p
o
r
t

C
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
g
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e

i

F
n
a
n
c
i

a

l

s
t
a
t
e
m
e
n
t
s

O

t
h
e
r

i

n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n

79

 
 
 
 
Company Leadership Team

Andrew Denton 
Chief Executive Officer
Joined Alfa August 1995

Duncan Magrath 
Chief Financial Officer
Joined Alfa March 2020

Matthew White 
Chief Operating Officer
Joined Alfa June 1999

80

Richard Dewire 
Chief Revenue Officer
Joined Alfa January 2001

Vicky Edwards
Chief People Officer
Joined Alfa March 2020

Relevant experience/

Relevant experience/

previous roles
Richard has over 20 years in the 
auto and equipment finance 
industry and an in-depth 
knowledge of Alfa Systems through 
many years of implementation, 
with extensive knowledge of Alfa’s 
sales and commercial process. He 
was previously Director of Strategy 
and Investment.

previous roles
Vicky joined Alfa in March 2020, 
bringing 26 years of experience 
in consultancy businesses. 
A commercially focused HR leader, 
Vicky has held leadership roles 
across HR, commercial and 
operations functions, as well 
as C-suite level positions in the 
professional services, technology 
and energy sectors.

Andrew Flegg
Chief Technology Officer
Joined Alfa February 2005

James Paul
Chief Delivery Officer
Joined Alfa September 1999

Relevant experience/

Relevant experience/

previous roles
Andrew brings over 35 years of 
programming experience, over 
25 years in commercial software 
development and over 15 years 
in the auto and equipment finance 
industry. He was previously Alfa’s 
Global Director of Platforms, 
covering internal IT systems, 
cloud, information security 
and solution architecture.

previous roles
James is accountable for all 
implementations across the globe 
and has responsibility for support, 
resourcing and partnering. 

James has over 20 years’ 
experience implementing in 
auto and equipment finance 
for organisations of all sizes.

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Our governance framework 

Our corporate governance framework clearly defines responsibilities and ensures that the Group has the right systems and controls 

to enable the Board and its Committees to effectively oversee the business, providing challenge where necessary.

Board of Directors

The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company. The business of the Company is managed by the 

Board who may exercise all of the powers of the Company. The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board 

which is available on the Company website. Although the Board retains overall responsibility, it delegates certain matters to the 

Board Committees, and the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects 

of the business to the Company Leadership Team.

Audit and Risk Committee

Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Provides independent assessment and 

Reviews the size, composition, tenure 

Determines the remuneration, bonuses, 

oversight of financial reporting processes. 

and skills of the Board. It also leads the 

long-term incentive arrangements, 

It oversees, on behalf of the Board, the 

process for new appointments, monitors 

contract terms and other benefits in 

risk management strategy, risk appetite 

Board and senior management succession 

respect of the Executive Directors, the 

and the effectiveness of internal 

planning, reviews the talent pipeline 

Chairman, the Company Secretary and 

control processes. It also oversees 

and talent management, and considers 

senior management. Oversees the 

the effectiveness of the internal and 

independence, diversity, equity and 

remuneration and workforce policies 

external audit functions.

inclusion, and governance matters.

and takes these into account when setting 

the policy for Directors’ remuneration.

The Company Leadership Team (CLT) is responsible for the day-to-day running of the business, carrying out and overseeing 

operational management, and implementing the strategies that the Board has set.

Company Leadership Team

Governance Committees

These governance committees are chaired by a member of the Company Leadership Team and report to the Company Leadership 

Team, and the Board or Board Committees as appropriate.

Investment Committee

Disclosure and 
Governance Committee

Deal Committee

ESG Steering Group

The Investment Committee 

The Disclosure and 

The Deal Committee 

The ESG Steering Group 

ensures that Strategic 

Governance Committee 

determines standard 

supports the CLT in 

Investment initiatives align 

maintains an overview of 

guidelines for an acceptable 

implementing ESG 

with Alfa’s business strategy.

the corporate structure and 

deal in terms of financial 

strategy and managing 

oversees the disclosure of 

position and key 

relevant matters relating 

information by the Group 

contractual terms.

to our communities 

to meet its obligations as 

a listed company.

covering environmental 

and social matters.

Governance framework 
Half of the Board is made up of Independent Directors whose diverse experience enables appropriate debate and challenge at Board 

and Committee discussions. The Board has an approved governance framework of systems and controls which enables the effective 

discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. 

81

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceOur governance framework continued

How the Board engages
Directors have a duty to promote the 

Employee engagement 
The Board monitors and assesses 

Shareholder engagement
The Board is accountable to shareholders 

success of the Company under section 172 

engagement with all stakeholders, 

for ensuring the Group is appropriately 

of the Companies Act 2006. Our dedicated 

with particular attention on employee 

managed and achieves its objectives in a 

stakeholder engagement and section 172 

engagement. Employee Pulse surveys 

way that is supported by the right culture 

statements on pages 48 to 53 set out how 

provide regular understanding of wider 

and behaviours. The Board spends time 

the Board engages with, and balances the 

views, and an ‘open door’ approach to 

understanding the views of its key 

interests of, stakeholders. 

feedback and communication also allows 

shareholders when discussing matters 

Board engagement 
A fundamental role of the Board is to 

consider the balance of interest between 

our stakeholders, including shareholders, 

our customers, our colleagues and the 

communities in which we operate. 

The Board recognises its responsibilities 

to engage with, and incorporate the views 

of, key stakeholders in strategic planning 

and decision making, and the importance 

of stakeholder trust in building resilience 

and long-term sustainability. Although 

the Board retains overall responsibility 

for stakeholder engagement, there is 

interaction at various levels of the 

business so that it is carried out by those 

most relevant to a particular stakeholder 

group or particular issue. The Board 

recognises the importance of considering 

all stakeholders in its decision making, 

although the weight given to each 

stakeholder group may vary depending 

on the subject in question. Through 

engagement and greater understanding 

of the interests of stakeholders, the 

Board is able to assess the long-term 

consequences of decisions on 

stakeholders and the business.

We continue to work on embedding 

practices across Alfa so that consideration 

of stakeholder interests in decisions is 

second nature at all levels of the business.

for frequent two-way conversation and 

at Board meetings and these views form 

insight. Throughout 2023 our regular 

an integral part of decision making. 

Town Hall updates and Company 

Meetings kept colleagues informed on 

Our 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) 

all the news from around the business 

was held in London and all resolutions 

and supported engagement across the 

were passed. Shareholders were encouraged 

organisation. Each region gathered for 

to vote by appointing the Chair as proxy if 

their annual two-day Company 

they were unable to attend in person. The 

Conferences to incorporate valuable 

Board also encouraged shareholders to 

time with colleagues, and networking 

submit questions in advance and these 

opportunities to keep us all connected. 

were responded to individually. 

All Board meetings feature updates 

on People matters and engagement 

The 2024 AGM is planned to be a physical 

levels. Given the Board’s visibility of 

meeting held in London. The Board looks 

the engagement channels and efforts, as 

forward to meeting with and hearing from 

well as its accessibility to the workforce 

shareholders at the AGM this year. 

through the initiatives and events as 

mentioned, it is confident at this time 

that appropriate effective measures 

are in place as an alternative to Provision 

5 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance 

Code. We believe that our strong culture 

is a unique strength and we see the 

benefits in employee engagement, 

retention and productivity. This reflects 

the Alfa ethos that we are all striving 

towards the same goal and to reward our 

employees, Alfa operates a discretionary 

profit share scheme through which most 

employees share in a percentage of the 

profits of the Company.

Employee engagement survey

Our employee engagement survey, 

Pulse, remains an important tool to 

measure employee sentiment and 

identify areas for improvement and 

celebration of our achievements. 

Other stakeholder engagement
The Board and each Committee chair 

actively encourages and engages with key 

stakeholders and considers this to be 

paramount to the long-term success and 

performance of the business. During 

2023, there were no significant matters 

to discuss with shareholders in relation 

to the Nomination and Audit and Risk 

Committees. Our section 172 statement 

on pages 48 to 53 explains how section 

172 matters, including this engagement, 

are taken into consideration by the Board 

in its decision making. The Board 

recognises the contribution Alfa makes 

to society, the environment, and its key 

stakeholders. It seeks to understand their 

views and predominantly engages with 

them through the Executive Directors, 

who ensure that the Board is kept 

informed of any key issues or changes. 

It also keeps ways of engagement under 

constant review to ensure that they 

remain effective. 

82

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Division of responsibilities

Division of responsibilities
Alfa is led and controlled by the Board, 

The Board responsibilities
We have clear and documented roles 

which is collectively responsible for the 

and separation of duties between the 

long-term and sustainable success of the 

Chairman and the CEO. The Alfa CEO, 

Group. The structure and the roles of the 

Andrew Denton, is responsible for 

Board and its Committees ensures that 

executing the Alfa strategy and day-to-day 

control and oversight give a balanced 

operations, and leading the CLT. Andrew 

approach to risk and are aligned with 

Page, as Executive Chairman, provides 

Alfa’s culture. This assists the Board with 

oversight and guidance to Andrew Denton 

carrying out its responsibilities and is 

on the strategic direction, key commercial 

designed to ensure that focus is 

and contracting decisions in addition to 

maintained on strategy, monitoring the 

his responsibilities for running an 

performance of the Group, governance, 

effective Board. All Directors have access 

risk and control issues.

to the advice of the Company Secretary 

and, in appropriate circumstances, may 

The Board is collectively responsible 

obtain independent professional advice 

for the long-term success of the Group 

at the Company’s expense. In addition, a 

and for ensuring leadership within 

Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 

a framework of effective controls. 

policy is maintained for all Directors and 

The key role of the Board: 

indemnity. The appointment and removal 

each Director has the benefit of a deed of 

Setting the strategic 
direction of the Group

Overseeing 
implementation of the 
strategy by ensuring that 
the Group is suitably 
resourced to achieve its 
strategic aspirations

Providing leadership 
within a framework of 
effective controls which 
enables risk to be 
assessed and managed

Ensuring that the 
necessary financial and 
human resources are in 
place for the Group to 
meet its objectives

Reviewing the Group’s 
culture supported 
by its values

of the Group Company Secretary is 

a matter for the Board as a whole.

Matters reserved for the Board
The Board has adopted a formal Schedule 

of Matters specifically reserved for its 

decision making and approval. The 

matters that the Board considers suitable 

for delegation are contained in the Terms 

of Reference of each Board Committee. 

There are certain key responsibilities that 

the Board does not delegate and which 

are reserved for its consideration. The 

full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the 

Board is available under the Corporate 

Governance section on our website.

The Company Secretary, through the 

Chairman, is responsible for advising 

the Board on all governance matters 

and for ensuring that Board procedures 

are followed, that applicable rules and 

regulations are complied with, and that 

due account is taken of relevant codes 

of best practice. The Company Secretary 

is also responsible for ensuring 

communication flows between the Board 

and its Committees, and between senior 

management and Non-Executive Directors.

Workforce policies and practices

Our people bring a diverse range of 

experience, expertise and perspectives 

that contribute to the values and culture 

of Alfa and are essential for the delivery 

of our strategic objectives. A positive 

environment where our people feel 

valued, motivated and able to thrive 

is essential to Alfa’s continued success. 

The Board recognises the value of, 

and supports, significant investment 

of time and resources in our colleagues 

to allow Alfa to attract and retain talent 

and develop the skills of our employees. 

One central policy in creating this 

environment and culture is Alfa’s Ethics 

and Code of Conduct Policy (the ‘Code 

of Conduct’) which clearly sets out a 

zero-tolerance policy for dishonest and 

corrupt behaviour among our employees 

and seeks to educate team members 

on unlawful and unethical conduct. 

Compliance with the policy maintains 

Alfa’s reputation in the marketplace 

as well as our relationship with our 

colleagues, investors, customers and 

other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct 

provides clear guidance to employees in 

respect of legal and ethical issues which 

they may come across while conducting 

Alfa business, and what Alfa expects in 

respect of our employees’ behaviour. 

It also provides important information 

on working at Alfa to help embed the 

behaviours and values alongside more 

practical information to enable our 

employees to work effectively and 

efficiently. The Board is responsible for 

overseeing the Company’s arrangements 

for the workforce to be able to raise 

matters of concern and seeks to foster 

an environment where individuals can 

be confident about speaking up about 

concerns without fear of retaliation. The 

Board monitors this area through reports 

on the number and types of concerns 

raised through the whistleblowing 

process and the outcomes of the 

concerns raised. Whistleblowing and 
incident reporting mechanisms are in 

place to allow issues to be formally 

reported and investigated.

83

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceDivision of responsibilities continued

There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board and the business. The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, 

Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Independent Director and independent Non-Executive Directors are set out in 

separate role statements.

Role

Principal responsibilities

Executive Chairman
Andrew Page

Chief Executive 
Officer
Andrew Denton

Chief Financial 
Officer
Duncan Magrath

The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership of the Board and maintaining a culture 

of openness and transparency at Board meetings. The Chairman also promotes effective 

communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and ensures all Directors 

effectively contribute to discussions and feel comfortable in engaging in healthy debate and 

constructive challenge. The Chairman ensures all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 

information to assist them to make their decisions and identifying training and development needs 

as required.

The Chief Executive Officer has day-to-day responsibility for the effective management of Alfa and 

for ensuring that Board decisions are implemented. He plays a key role in defining and guiding the 

strategy, once agreed by the Board, whilst ensuring the successful delivery against the strategic 

plan and other key business objectives, allocating decision making and responsibilities accordingly. 

The CEO is also tasked with providing regular operational updates to the Board on all matters of 

significance relating to the Group’s operations and for ensuring effective communication with 

shareholders and other key stakeholders. The CEO identifies and executes new business 

opportunities and assesses potential acquisitions and disposals.

He manages the Group with reference to its risk profile in the context of the Board’s risk appetite 

and is responsible for the oversight of the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives.

The Chief Financial Officer has overall responsibility for management of the financial risks of the 

Group. The CFO is responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial 

reporting to the Board and shareholders. The CFO ensures effective financial compliance and 

control, while responding to regulatory developments, including financial reporting, effective 

allocation of capital, management of liquid resources, investor relations and corporate 

responsibility. The CFO has responsibility for the ESG reporting.

Chief Operating 
Officer
Matthew White

The Chief Operating Officer is responsible for day-to-day operational activities. The COO plays a 

key role in developing key business operational models, monitoring performance against KPIs and 

ensuring adequate staffing recruitment to deliver development and systems implementation. The 

COO is responsible for software development, systems implementation delivery and the delivery 

of HR resourcing and planning.

Senior Independent 
Director
Chris Sullivan

Non-Executive 
Directors
Steve Breach

Adrian Chamberlain

Charlotte de Metz

The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an 

intermediary for the Non-Executive Directors. The Senior Independent Director is available to 

shareholders should they have any concerns, where communication through normal channels has 

not been successful or where such channels are inappropriate. The Senior Independent Director 

meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least annually when leading the Non-Executive 

Directors’ appraisal of the Chairman’s performance.

The Non-Executive Directors bring insight and experience to the Board. They have a responsibility 

to constructively challenge the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors; scrutinise the 

performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives; and play leading roles 

in the functioning of the Board Committees, bringing an independent view to the discussion.

84

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Board leadership and Company purpose

How the Board operates
During the year, the Board considers a 

Board meetings
The Board held six scheduled meetings 

comprehensive programme of regular 

in 2023 and a number of ad hoc meetings, 

matters covering operational and 

which included presentations by a 

financial performance reporting, strategic 

member of the CLT on each of the 

reviews and updates, and various 

business areas. During the year, the 

governance reports and approvals.

Board and its Committees conducted 

each meeting in person, with Directors 

attending remotely if necessary, enabling 

the Board to continue to function and 

Board and Committee meetings and attendance

Board

Audit and Risk 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Andrew Page
Andrew Denton
Duncan Magrath
Matthew White
Steve Breach
Adrian Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz
Chris Sullivan

6/6
6/6
6/6
6/6
6/6
6/6
6/6
6/6

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

2/2

2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

maintain the integrity of our governance 

structure. Materials for meetings are 

circulated electronically in advance, to 

give Directors an appropriate amount of 

time to fully consider the Board matters 

before the meeting takes place.

Non-Executive Directors meet without the 

Chairman at least annually to appraise 

the Chairman’s performance and the 

Chairman also holds meetings with 

the Non-Executive Directors without 

the Executive Directors being present. 

The table opposite records the number 

of meetings held by the Board and 

each Committee during 2023 and the 

number of meetings attended by each 

member. There was 100% attendance 

at each meeting.

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

The Board is responsible for providing 

overall direction for management, 

debating strategic priorities and setting 

Alfa’s culture and values. Maintaining 

Unsolicited offers for the Company
As shareholders will be aware, we received a number of unsolicited proposals from 

EQT Fund Management S.à r.l (EQT) and Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (THL). Following 

the initial approach from EQT, the Board decided to establish an Independent Bid 

Committee to consider matters relating to this approach and subsequent approach 

from THL. The Independent Bid Committee would principally decide whether or not to 

recommend the final terms of any offer to the Company’s shareholders in accordance 

with the requirements of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. 

In addition to the scheduled meetings, there were four additional Board meetings 

arranged for the Board to review the offers from EQT and THL for the Company. In 

addition, the Independent Bid Committee met four times to discuss the approaches, 

with the relevant advisors in attendance. As announced on 7 July 2023, EQT reported 

that it did not intend to make a firm offer to the shareholders of Alfa. On 3 October 

2023, Alfa confirmed that it had terminated discussions with THL. 

Andrew Page
Andrew Denton
Duncan Magrath
Matthew White
Steve Breach1
Adrian Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz
Chris Sullivan

1.  Steve Breach was appointed as Chair of the Independent Bid Committee.

Board

Independent 
Bid Committee

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

good governance is essential to support 

the delivery of Alfa’s strategic objectives, 

and to ensure that the business is run well 

for the benefit of all stakeholders and for 

sustainable long-term value. The Board 

receives an update on key elements of the 

People strategy which provides insight 

into a variety of areas including culture, 

diversity, inclusion, talent management, 

future capability, succession planning 

and colleague engagement. The Board 

continues to monitor the framework, so 

that it remains appropriate to the 

business. The governance framework 

embeds our values into the policies and 

processes of Alfa and therefore helps to 

strengthen the corporate culture.

Corporate governance 
framework
Having an effective corporate governance 
framework defines responsibilities, helps 

the Board to deliver the Group’s strategy 

and is vital to its decision making. It 

supports long-term sustainable growth 

while operating within a framework of 

effective controls. Having the right 

systems and controls in place ensures the 

85

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governancePromoting a positive culture
The Board recognises the importance 

of a good culture and the role it plays in 

delivering the long-term success of the 

Company. Alfa employees want to work 

for a company that values them and 

provides them with the opportunity to 

be themselves and to thrive. The Board 

Holdings Limited in January 2024; and 

CHP Software and Consulting Holdings 

Limited and CHP Software Holdings 

Limited each adhered to the Relationship 

Agreement. Under the Relationship 

Agreement, two Non-Executive Directors 

can be appointed to the Board for as long 

as the Controlling Shareholder holds 20% 

and CLT strive to create a positive culture 

or more of the voting rights over the 

Board leadership and Company purpose continued

Board and its Committees effectively 

oversee the business, maintain the 

highest standards of corporate 

governance and allow Directors to 

provide challenge where necessary.

The Board has overall responsibility for 

ensuring adequate resource is available for 

Alfa to deliver on its strategic priorities. 

The Board has established a risk 

management framework to manage and 

report the risks we face as a business, 

which are reviewed on at least an annual 

basis. The Board also undertakes a robust 

assessment of the Company’s emerging 

and principal risks. Efficient internal 

reporting, effective internal controls, and 

oversight of current and emerging risks are 

embedded into our business processes, 

which align to our strategic priorities, 

purpose and values. The Board, with the 

support of its Committees, places great 

importance on ensuring we achieve a high 

level of governance across the Group. 

Strategy
The Board provides support in 

at Alfa, providing employees with the 

opportunity to grow, experiment and 

innovate in an inclusive environment.

To create the right culture, it is important 

that employees live and breathe Alfa’s 

values, and this starts with our leaders. 

The Board sets the tone from the top to 

demonstrate and promote these values, 

which are a critical element in achieving 

our purpose of knocking down barriers 

so everyone can thrive. The Board uses 

several tools to monitor the culture, 

through surveys, Town Hall sessions, and 

formal and informal engagement activities. 

In addition, to monitor whether our culture 

is and remains aligned with our values, the 

Company seeks feedback from customers 

implementing strategic priorities as well as 

to understand what they experienced 

oversight and constructive challenge on the 

during the sales process and through the 

running of the business. Through reporting, 

various stages of software implementations  

including the use of both financial and 

and provision of services.

non-financial metrics, the Board is able 

to evaluate and guide the progress and 

performance of the Company. 

During the year, the Company has 

continued to embed across the business 

the purpose and values as set out in the 

Strategic report on pages 1 to 73 of this 

report. The Board continues to monitor 

the strategic direction of the Company 

and the key investments we need to make 

to remain in a leading position in an 

ever-changing market, and ensures we 

have the resources and the right people, 

in the right place operationally, to ensure 

we remain relevant to the markets in 

which we operate. This brings focus to 

strategic objectives and translates into 

better decisions, driving competitive 

advantage, stronger performance and 

a sustainable business model. 

Shareholders’ agreement
The relationship between the Board 

and the controlling shareholder of the 

Company (the ‘Controlling Shareholder’), 

CHP Software and Consulting Holdings 

Limited, is governed by the Relationship 

Agreement (dated 26 May 2017, as 

amended by deeds of adherence dated 

10 January 2024 and 15 January 2024). 

This agreement is a framework under 

which the Controlling Shareholder, and 

the shareholders of the Controlling 

Shareholder will operate to protect 

the rights of the non-controlling 

shareholders. There were no changes to 

the Relationship Agreement during 2023. 

As part of a corporate restructuring, the 

Controlling Shareholder entity changed 

from CHP Software and Consulting 

Limited to CHP Software and Consulting 

86

Company’s shares.

One Non-Executive Director can be 

appointed to the Board for so long as 

the Controlling Shareholder holds 10% 

or more but less than 20% of the voting 

rights in respect of the Company’s shares.

If none of the Controlling Shareholders 

are members of the Nomination 

Committee, the Controlling Shareholder 

can appoint an observer to the Nomination 

Committee. Andrew Page is designated 

as the first appointed Director of the 

Controlling Shareholder. Andrew Denton 

has not been appointed as a designated 

Director by the Controlling Shareholder. 

It has been agreed that for as long as the 

Controlling Shareholder has the right to 

appoint two Directors to the Board, and 

whilst Andrew Denton is a Director of the 

Company, the Controlling Shareholder will 

not exercise its right to appoint a second 

Director to the Board. There have been no 

Board observers appointed either under 

the Relationship Agreement, or otherwise.

For further details of the Relationship 

Agreement, see page 131 of the 

Directors’ report.

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Board activities and key discussions in 2023
The table below sets out the key areas of Board focus during the year and how these align with the Group’s strategy. It also sets out 

which of Alfa’s key stakeholders have been considered and are relevant in the Board’s discussions.

Strategy and operations

Leadership, people and culture

Key stakeholders

Link to strategic  
objectives
1   2   3   4

Activities
•  CEO and COO present an operational update to each Board meeting 

with operational, key stakeholder and innovation updates. 
•  Monitored the performance of the Company against agreed 

strategic objectives, including key financial targets. 
Individual objectives reviewed at each Board meeting.

• 
•  Three-year strategic plan, with updates on Group 

strategic execution.

•  Deep dives on specific areas of the business and their challenges 

and opportunities.

•  Applied the Board’s strategic understanding of principal risks 

to key challenges and opportunities.

•  Evaluated two unsolicited approaches regarding a possible offer 

for the Company. 

Key stakeholders

Link to strategic  
objectives
1   2   3  

Activities
•  Received updates on employee views and engagement levels.
•  Continued to monitor senior executive talent management and 
development plans to provide succession for all key positions.
•  Received updates from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 

on its activities, recommendations regarding remuneration 
strategy and decisions regarding the Executive Directors’ and 
senior management pay.

•  Reviewed people and talent reports, including updates on 
talent development programmes and diversity, equity 
and inclusion programmes.

•  Received presentations from each member of the CLT.
•  Received recommendations from the Nominations Committee 

on the re-election of Directors and the structure, size and 
composition of the Board.

Finance

Key stakeholders

Link to strategic  
objectives
1   2   3   4

Governance

Key stakeholders

Link to strategic  
objectives
1   4

Activities
•  Business planning and budget approval.
•  Reviewed financial key performance indicators (KPIs).
•  Approved full-year results, half-year results, trading 

Activities
•  Monitored and reviewed the Company’s approach to corporate 
governance, its key practices and its ongoing compliance with 
the 2018 Code.

updates and the Annual Report and Accounts.

•  Reviewed the results from the internal Board and Committee 

•  CFO report on the Company’s financial performance.
•  Approved two special dividends and recommended 

a final dividend to shareholders for approval.

effectiveness evaluation and confirmed actions.
•  Reviewed climate change risks and TCFD disclosures.
•  Reviewed the global insurance programme and D&O 

•  Reviewed the key risks to Alfa and the controls in place 

liability insurance.

for mitigation.

•  Considered and monitored the Group’s risk appetite 

•  Approved the Company’s section 172 statement.
•  Reviewed and approved matters reserved for the Board 

and principal risks and uncertainties.

and its Committees’ Terms of Reference.

•  Reviewed internal controls.
•  Approved the viability and going concern statements.
•  Developed and monitored the ESG reporting framework.

•  Received a presentation from the corporate broker and 
considered feedback from shareholder engagement.
•  Reviewed and approved the modern slavery statement.

Key stakeholder groups

 Customers  

 Employees  

 Communities and environment  

 Suppliers  

 Investors

Strategic priorities

1  Strengthen   2  Sell   3  Scale   4  Simplify

87

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition, succession and evaluation

Board composition
During the year, the Board reviewed 

Director re-election
Each Director is required under the 

the overall balance of skills, experience, 

Articles of Association to retire at every 

independence and knowledge of the 

Annual General Meeting and submit 

Board and Committee members. We 

themselves for re-election by the 

consider that the skills and experience of 

shareholders. This report, and in particular 

our individual Directors, particularly in the 

the Board biographies on pages 78 to 79, 

areas of financial services, people and 

sets forth the contribution of each 

external appointments or other 

significant commitments as they arise. 

These are monitored to ensure that each 

Director has sufficient time to fulfil their 

obligations and Chairman approval is 

required prior to a Director taking on 

any additional external appointment.

software, are fundamental to the pursuit 

Director on the Board to the Company, 

Each individual’s commitment to their role 

of our objectives. Further details of this 

and on this basis, the Board, and 

review, including actions taken, are set 

specifically the Chairman, believes each 

out in the Nomination Committee report 

Director proposed for re-election at the 

on pages 91 to 94. 

AGM should be reappointed. The Board 

has based its recommendations for 

As required by provision 11 of the Code, 

re-election, in part, on its review of the 

at least 50% of the Board, excluding 

results from the Board evaluation 

the Chairman, are independent 

process outlined on the next page, 

Non-Executive Directors. The Board is 

and the Chairman’s review of individual 

currently comprised of eight members: 

evaluations. It has assessed whether a 

the Executive Chairman, three Executive 

Director has demonstrated substantial 

Directors and four independent Non-

commitment to the role (including time 

is reviewed annually and any external 

appointments or other significant 

commitments of the Directors require 

the prior approval of the Board. The 

Board will take into consideration the 

time commitment required by the Non-

Executive Director in their role as a Board 

Director, Committee Chair or Committee 

member in giving any such permission.

Directors’ conflicts of interest
Each Director is required to disclose 

Executive Directors. Details of the skills 

for Board and Committee meetings noted 

conflicts and potential conflicts to the 

and expertise of each member of the 

in this report) and other responsibilities. 

Chairman and the Company Secretary 

Board is set out in the Board biographies 

Whilst, taking into account a number of 

as and when they arise. As part of the 

on pages 78 and 79. 

considerations including outside 

induction process, a newly appointed 

The Board reviews the independence 

during the period.

of interest to the Company. Thereafter, 

commitments and any changes thereof 

Director is asked to disclose any conflicts 

of its Non-Executive Directors as part of 

the annual Board and Director evaluation 

process. The Nomination Committee 

also considers Non-Executive Director 

independence on an ongoing basis as part 

of its consideration of the composition 

of the Board. The Board has determined 

that all the Non-Executive Directors were 

independent as outlined in the Code. 

The Board also believes that each of 

the independent Non-Executives has 

retained independence of character 

and judgement and has not formed 

associations with management or 

others that may compromise their ability to 

exercise independent judgement or act in 

the best interests of the Group. 

External commitments
The Company is mindful of the time 

commitment required from Non-

Executive Directors in order to effectively 

fulfil their responsibilities on the Board, 

particularly providing constructive 

challenge and holding management to 

account, and utilising their diverse skills 

and experience to benefit the Company 

and provide strategic guidance.

Prior to their appointment, prospective 

Directors are asked to provide details of 

any other roles or significant obligations 

that may affect the time available for 

them to commit to the Company. The 

Chairman and the Board are then kept 

informed by each Director of any proposed 

each Director has an opportunity to 

disclose conflicts at the beginning of 

each Board and Committee meeting 

and as part of an annual review. 

None of the Directors declared to the 

Company any actual or potential conflicts 

of interest between any of their duties to 

the Company and their private interests 

and/or other duties. The Companies Act 

2006 provides that Directors must avoid 

a situation where they have, or can have, 

a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, 

or possibly may conflict, with the Company’s 

interests. Boards of public companies 

may authorise conflicts and potential 

conflicts, where appropriate, if their 

company’s Articles of Association permit.

88

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Chairman’s and Directors’ 
performance
During the year, the Senior Independent 

Director evaluated the performance of 

the Chairman. In addition, the Non-

Executive Directors met independently 

from the Executive Directors to discuss 

with the Chairman the overall functioning 

of the Board and the Chairman’s 

contribution in making it effective. 

In addition, the Chairman holds regular 

meetings with individual Directors at 

which, among other things, their 

individual performance is discussed. 

Informed by the Chairman’s continuing 

observation of individual Directors, these 

discussions form part of the basis for 

recommending the reappointment of 

Directors at the Company’s AGM, and 

include consideration of the Director’s 

performance, contribution and commitment 

to the Board and its Committees.

Board evaluation and performance review
To ensure the Board remains effective, a performance evaluation is carried out 

each year to review the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and Directors. 

The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough evaluation process to reflect on its 

strengths and the challenges it faces, and to identify opportunities to continuously 

improve its effectiveness.

The evaluation for 2023 was conducted by the Company Secretary in conjunction with 

the Chairman. The Directors were asked to complete a detailed Board performance 

evaluation questionnaire to assess the performance of the Board and the Committees 

over the year. Each questionnaire was analysed and a summary of the results and the 

Board’s performance was presented to the Board for discussion.

The Board considers this exercise to be of significant value, and focus is placed on 

reviewing the quality of information provided to the Board at the Board’s discussions, 

the effectiveness of the Board, the composition of the Board, including the skillset 

of the various Directors, highlighting whether there are any gaps in the breadth and 

depth of the Board that should be addressed by the Nomination Committee as part 

of its succession planning, and to ensure that the Board is best placed to deliver on 

its strategic goals and ensure the long-term sustainable success of the Company.

The evaluation confirmed that there was a strong emphasis on the welfare of 

employees, with active consideration of fairness to employees and their rewards, 

and a recognition of the need to support wellbeing.

The overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board and its Committees remain 

strong and effective, with a clearly defined role and purpose. The evaluation found that 

the Board is chaired well, demonstrated by Board discussions which were rigorous and 

open, combined with constructive challenge, allowing for diversity of opinion.

Focus area
Education and training

Recommendation and plan
•  Maintain a commitment to ongoing learning and 

development opportunities as a Board.

Engagement

•  Facilitating increased contact between the Board 

and the business, and between the Non-Executive 

Directors and senior management colleagues. 

Consider building unstructured time between 

Board and Committee sessions.

Succession planning

•  Succession planning will continue to be an area of 

priority for the Board. Broaden focus on development 

of talent and succession mapping for CLT and senior 

management. Maintain focus on exposure of the Board 

to future leaders in the talent pipeline.

Risks and opportunities

•  Focus on continuing to enhance understanding of 

external and emerging risks, opportunities, and trends 

specific to Alfa and the industry, and developments 

and potential disrupters to the business. Maintain 

focus on Alfa’s competitive performance.

89

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceComposition, succession and evaluation continued

Board diversity
It is the Board’s policy that appointments 

to the Board will always be based solely 

on merit without any discrimination 

relating to age, gender or any other 

matter that has no bearing on an 

individual’s ability to fulfil the role of 

Director. This principle of Board diversity 

is strongly supported by the Board, 

recognising that diversity of thought, 

approach and experience is an important 

consideration as part of the selection 

criteria used to assess candidates to 

achieve a balanced Board. While the 

2023, the Board has not met the targets 

strategy. The Board continues to support 

in Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) that at least 40% 

diversity of thought and ensures 

of the Board should be female, one senior 

appropriate challenge, interpretation, 

position should be held by a women, and 

and interactions between members. 

that there should be a Director from a 

minority ethnic background. 

The disclosures required under Listing 

Rule 9.8.6 are set out on page 130 of the 

The Board promotes an open, honest and 

Directors’ report. 

inclusive culture in Board and Committee 

meetings, during which all Directors are 

The charts below set out the demographic 

encouraged to share their views based 

information of the Board and the gender 

on their own different experiences 

diversity of the Board, CLT, the direct 

and backgrounds. The Board remains 

reports to the CLT and Company-wide 

confident that it currently has the right 

employees. 

Board is mindful of the targets as set out 

by the FCA’s Listing Rules, in respect of 

balance of backgrounds, skills and 

experience to fulfil the Company’s 

Diversity overview

Board composition

Board tenure

Age of the Board

Executive 

Chairman
12.5%
Executive Director 37.5%
Independent 

Director

50%

3–4 years
5–6 years
6–7 years

37.5%
37.5%
25%

40–49
50–59
60–69

25%
37.5%
37.5%

Gender diversity Board

Gender diversity  
– CLT1 

Gender diversity 

– CLT direct reports

Gender diversity

Company-wide

Male

Female

87.5%

12.5%

Male

Female

75%

25%

Male

Female

52%

48%

90

1.  Alfa gender balance is captured through voluntary and confidential self-disclosure.
The CLT composition data excludes the three Executive Directors who are part of the CLT.

Male

Female

Non-binary

67.2%

32.2%

0.6%

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Nomination Committee Report 

“ We promote an open and 
inclusive culture in Board and 
Committee meetings, where 
all Directors are encouraged 
to share their views and where 
their views are considered, 
without bias or discrimination.”

Chris Sullivan, 

Nomination Committee Chair

Meetings held during 2023

Member 
since
2019
2019

Meetings 
attended 
2023
2/2
2/2

Chris Sullivan
Steve Breach
Adrian 

Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz
Andrew Page

2020
2020
2017

2/2
2/2
2/2

The full Terms of Reference for the 

Committee are reviewed annually 

and can be found at: 

www.alfasystems.com/investors/

governance.

Committee purpose and 
responsibilities
The Committee is accountable for 

reviewing the structure, size, and 

composition of the Board, and ensuring 

that the Board and its Committees have 

the most suitable balance of skills, 

knowledge, and experience, taking 

account of each individual Director’s time 

commitment. The Committee ensures 

that formal, rigorous, and transparent 

procedures are in place for Board 

appointments and that plans are in place 

for orderly succession planning to Board 

positions. It oversees the recruitment 

process and advises the Board on the 

identification, assessment, and selection 

of candidates; drives the diversity, equity, 

and inclusion agenda; and confirms that 

all appointments are made on merit 

against objective criteria.

The Committee also provides oversight 

on succession planning activities of 

senior management. The Committee 

is responsible for ensuring that a 

comprehensive induction programme is 

delivered on the appointment of a new 

Non-Executive Director and leads the 

annual evaluation process of the Board.

Introduction
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 

to present our Nomination Committee 

Report for 2023, which summarises our 

key activities during the year. 

During 2023, the Committee continued to 

recognise the importance of building an 

experienced, effective and open Board 

working together with the Company 

Leadership Team (CLT) to achieve Alfa’s 

strategic objectives. The Committee 

ensures that the Board and the CLT have 

the right balance of skills, knowledge 

and experience to both discharge 

their responsibilities and to respond 

appropriately to emerging challenges 

and opportunities. With this in mind, 

the Committee continued its succession 

planning for the Board, Executive 

Directors and CLT, and considered Alfa’s 

approach to the development of the 

wider talent pipeline and, in particular, 

key senior management.

The Committee acknowledges the 

importance that growing talent internally 

plays in the Company’s diversity 

ambitions. Directors are encouraged to 

contribute to the development of a 

diverse range of future leaders. The 

Committee increased its focus on the 

talent management and development of 

all Alfa employees. 

I, as Chair of the Nomination Committee, 

have overseen and extensively reviewed 

the composition of the Board and the 

Directors’ relevant skills and experience, 

to ensure that we have the right balance 

to fulfil the Company’s strategy. We 

recognise that an optimal board of 

directors should reflect a diverse range of 

views, insights, perspectives and opinions, 

which facilitates constructive discussion 

and enables enhanced decision making 

and effectiveness, and we believe that the 

current Alfa Board epitomises these 

principles. We promote an open and 

inclusive culture in Board and Committee 

meetings, where all Directors are 

encouraged to share their views and 

where their views are all considered, 

without bias or discrimination. 

The Committee and Board as a whole is 

mindful that the composition does not 

currently meet the requirements of the 

FCA’s diversity rules. For this reason, it 

pays particular attention in its oversight 

of employee engagement to ensure there 

are no cultural or structural barriers 

for women and ethnic and other under-

represented groups. It is satisfied that the 

Company continues to promote diversity, 

equity and inclusion, and it expects to see 

an increasingly diverse talent pipeline that 

will feed into its workforce with more 

people from minority groups. 

Chris Sullivan
Nomination Committee Chair

91

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceNomination Committee Report continued

Committee role and 
membership
The Committee comprises the Executive 

Chairman and the Non-Executive 

Directors, and is chaired by Chris Sullivan, 

the Senior Independent Director. The 

Nomination Committee is responsible for 

ensuring the composition and structure 

of the Board remains effective, balanced 

and optimally suited to the Company’s 

strategic priorities. In practice, this 

involves overseeing the nomination, 

induction, evaluation and orderly 

succession of Directors. This is achieved 

through effective succession planning, the 

identification and development of internal 

talent, and a clear understanding of the 

competencies and capabilities required 

to support the delivery of Alfa’s strategy. 

The Committee also ensures the 

Company’s governance structure 

facilitates the appointment and 

development of effective management 

that can deliver shareholder value over 

the long term.

The Committee’s performance was 

reviewed as part of the 2023 internal 

Board and Committee effectiveness 

review, which is detailed on page 89. 

The evaluation established that the 

Committee functions well in terms of 

planning succession to Board roles, 

Company Leadership Team and the 

future talent pipeline.

Skills and experience
During 2023, the Committee reviewed 

the balance of skills and experience 

of the Board. For Non-Executive 

Directors, independence in thought 

and judgement is vital to facilitating 

constructive and challenging debate 

in the boardroom and is essential to 

the operational effectiveness of the 

Alfa Board and its Committees. 

The Board is satisfied that it has the 

appropriate range of skills, experience, 

independence and knowledge of the 

Company to enable it to effectively 

discharge its duties and 

responsibilities.

The Directors completed a self-

capability assessment, which supports 

our ongoing succession planning 

work. The output is shown in the 

matrix below.

The chart below demonstrates the skills 

and experience of the Board members: 

For professional ongoing development, 

the Board receives presentations 

relevant to the Company’s business 

and updates on any changes to 

markets, or regulations, which may 

affect the Company’s operations.

The Company Secretary supplies all 

Directors with information on relevant 

corporate governance and best 

practice. As part of their annual 

performance evaluation, Directors 

are given the opportunity to discuss 

training and development needs. 

Additional training is available on 

request, where appropriate, so that 

Directors can update their skills 

and knowledge as applicable. The 

Committee is confident that Board 

members have the knowledge, 

ability and experience to perform 

the functions required of a Director 

of a listed company.

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Environmental and 

sustainability

Financial

Governance and 

risk management

Human resources and 

talent management

International business

Operational

Strategy development 

and implementation

Technology and 

cyber security

92

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Succession planning
The Committee keeps under review the 

leadership needs of the organisation, and 

both the Executive and Non-Executive 

Directors, with a view to ensuring the 

continued ability of the organisation to 

compete effectively in the marketplace. 

The Committee undertakes comprehensive 

reviews of the leadership needs of the 

Company, to ensure the continued ability 

of the organisation to compete effectively 

in the marketplace, and keeps informed 

of the strategic issues and commercial 

challenges affecting the Company and 

the market in which it operates.

In addition, the wider talent and 

succession programmes remained a key 

focus of the Committee during the year. It 

evaluated the succession plans for the CLT 

and the senior management structure, 

and reviewed employees identified by 

management as having the potential to 

develop in the longer term into future 

leaders of the business, taking into 

account future challenges and 

opportunities. The Committee has 

ensured that there are plans in place for 

short and medium-term succession for 

the Board and CLT.

The Board and the Committee believe 

We continue to cultivate a Board, which 

that diversity is a wider topic than simply 

emphases diversity of thought, to ensure 

gender. In order to achieve the Group’s 

that there is appropriate challenge, 

future growth aspirations, Alfa remains 

interpretation, and interactions to reflect 

committed to building a pipeline of 

a greater variation in approaches to 

diverse talent and regularly reviewing HR 

problems and unique perspectives. 

processes, including recruitment and 

We promote an open and inclusive 

performance management frameworks. 

culture in Board and Committee 

The Committee will take into account a 

meetings, where all Directors are 

variety of factors before recommending 

encouraged to share their views and 

any new appointments to the Board, 

where their views are all considered, 

including relevant skills to perform the 

without bias or discrimination. Data on 

role, experience, knowledge and diversity. 

these targets in the required standardised 

Alfa endeavours to achieve appropriate 

form can be found in the Directors’ report 

diversity, including gender diversity, 

on page 130. The Committee considered 

throughout the Company. It is part of the 

the gender balance of the CLT and its 

Committee’s remit when making new 

direct reports, and received information 

Board appointments to consider the 

on these from the Chief People Officer 

importance of diversity on the Board, 

on a regular basis. 

including gender and ethnicity. This is 

considered in conjunction with experience 

The Alfa Inclusion and Diversity Charter 

and qualifications in relation to the 

sets out our pledge to eliminate 

balance of the Board and its Committees.

discrimination of any kind in our 

organisation. The aim is for our 

The Committee acknowledges that it does 

employees to be truly representative of 

not have a formal Board diversity policy in 

all sections of society and our customers, 

place in accordance with DTR 7.2.8AR. As a 

and for everyone to feel respected and 

Board, we believe firmly in the principle of 

able to give their best. In 2023, we 

appointing Directors based on merit, skill 

launched our first-ever Diversity, Equity 

and expertise, regardless of demographic 

and Inclusion employee survey, seeking 

factors. We believe that emphasising 

feedback from colleagues on how we’re 

The Committee considers the implications 

merit-based appointments fosters an 

doing and seeking suggestions for areas 

of the requirements relating to the 

development of a diverse pipeline for 

succession for the Board and the CLT 

contained within the 2018 Code. 

Discussions were held about initiatives 

taken to increase the diversity in the 

hiring process, including drawing on NEDs’ 

experience in other organisations of 

attracting diverse talent.

Diversity, equity and inclusion
The Company is committed to increasing 

diversity across our operations and has 

a wide range of activities to support the 

development and promotion of talented 

individuals, regardless of factors such as 

gender, age, ethnicity, disability, sexuality 

and religious belief. 

environment of fairness, transparency, 

to work on. Some great ideas were 

and accountability, where each Director is 

submitted and, in 2024, we will enhance 

selected for their ability to contribute 

our DEI plans to incorporate some of the 

meaningfully to the Company’s success. 

themes raised, including a focus on raising 

This ensures that the Board is highly 

awareness of parents within our network 

competent, well-rounded, and capable of 

and some of the challenges they might 

making informed decisions in the best 

face, as well as looking at voluntary 

interest of all stakeholders. While we do 

diversity pay gap reporting and many 

not subscribe to quotas as a means of 

more initiatives.

achieving diversity, we remain committed 

to promoting inclusivity and diversity 

Alfa continues to work to build a more 

through proactive initiatives, recruitment 

inclusive workplace at all levels of the 

practices, and fostering an inclusive 

Company. The Committee supports the 

culture within the Company. 

diversity, equity and inclusion and 

initiatives set by the Company, and 

The Committee acknowledges that the 

recognises that the Company is evolving 

Board does not meet the targets set by 

in this space. Recruitment is continually 

the FTSE Women Leaders Review, nor 
the target set by the Parker Review with 

reviewed to ensure equality during 
the process.

regard to ethnic diversity at Board level. 

93

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceNomination Committee Report continued

Appointment of Directors
There is a formal, rigorous and 

External directorships
All Directors are required to request 

transparent procedure for the 

approval from the Board before accepting 

appointment of new Directors under 

any new external directorships. The Board 

which the Committee is responsible 

will consider the time commitment 

for leading this process and making 

required for the role under review and 

recommendations to the Board. The 

any potential conflict of interest. There 

search process for new Non-Executive 

were no new public appointments in 

Directors is to appoint an external search 

relation to the Directors during 2023.

firm to secure a strong and diverse list of 

candidates. A shortlist of candidates is 

The Board believes, in principle, in the 

shared with the Committee, meetings are 

benefit of Executive Directors accepting 

scheduled and then, once the candidates 

Non-Executive Directorships of other 

responsibility for reviewing the 

procedures for assessing, managing and, 

where appropriate, recommending the 

approval of any conflicts of interest to the 

Board. The Committee reported to the 

Board that the current procedures are 

appropriate and that they have operated 

effectively during the year.

The Committee is satisfied that the 

external commitments of the Board’s 

Chairman and members do not 

conflict with their duties as Directors 

have been identified, confirmation is 

companies in order to widen their skills 

of the Company. 

provided of the time commitment 

and knowledge for the benefit of the 

required and the disclosure of any other 

Company. All such appointments require 

business interests is requested from the 

the prior approval of the Board and the 

candidates. If discussions relate to the 

number of public company appointments 

appointment of a Chairman, then Chris 

is limited to one.

Sullivan, as Senior Independent Director, 

will lead the recruitment process. When 

the Committee has found a suitable 

candidate, the Chair of the Committee 

will make a proposal to the Board, 

which retains responsibility for all such 

appointments. The Committee, on behalf 

of the Board, regularly assesses the 

balance of Executive and Non-Executive 

Directors, and the composition of the 

Board in terms of skills, experience, 

diversity and capacity.

Induction and ongoing 
professional development
To ensure that each Director receives 

Conflicts of interest 
and independence
The Board operates a policy to identify 

and, where appropriate, manage any 

potential conflicts of interest that 

Directors may have. It is the role of the 

Committee to monitor and determine 

actions to address any potential, or actual, 

conflicts that may arise. The Committee 

reviews all potential conflicts of interest 

on an annual basis and when new 

Directors are formally appointed. No new 

conflicts of interest were noted in the year 

and to the date of this Annual Report.

appropriate support on joining the Board, 

On behalf of the Board, the Committee 

there is a comprehensive and tailored 

reviewed the independence of each 

induction programme, including the 

Non-Executive Director and is satisfied 

provision of background material on the 

that all Non-Executive Directors, including 

Company and briefings with relevant CLT 

the Chair, remain independent under 

members. The induction programme will 

the definition in the Code. Furthermore, 

continue to be reviewed and updated on 

the Committee is satisfied that each of 

a regular basis.

94

the Non-Executive Directors commits 

sufficient time to meet their Board 

responsibilities. All Directors are required 

to submit an annual declaration of 

conflicts of interest and to declare any 

new conflicts as they arise. The Board 

delegates to the Committee the 

Election and re-election 
of Directors
The re-election of Directors is subject to 

their continuing commitment to Board 

activities and satisfactory performance. 

All Directors will stand for re-election 

annually in accordance with the provision 

of the 2018 Code. Following discussion 

of the skills and contribution of each 

Director, and in conjunction with the 

Board performance evaluation, the 

Committee supports the proposed 

re-election of all Directors standing for 

re-election at the AGM in 2024. The 

Committee has confirmed to the Board 

that the contributions made by the 

Directors offering themselves for 

re-election at the 2024 AGM continue to 

benefit the Board and the members are 

invited to support their re-election.

Non-Executive Directors are appointed 

initially for three years and Non-Executive 

Directors may, subject to Board approval, 

remain in office for a period of up to six 

years, or two terms in office, with 

discretion for the Board to extend the 

term for one further three-year term, 

to a maximum of nine years.

Chris Sullivan
Chair, Nomination Committee
13 March 2024

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Audit and Risk Committee Report

Principal activities in 2023
•  Reviewed the 2022 year-end financial 

We have continued to review and 

challenge the assumptions and 

statements and Annual Report.

•  Reviewed the half-year financial 

results and trading updates.

•  Approved the Company’s risk 

management framework, risk 

appetite and risk register.

judgements made by management in 

the preparation of published financial 

information and to oversee the internal 

control environment, including 

oversight of the external and internal 

audit processes. Throughout the year, 

the Committee’s primary focus was to 

•  Reviewed key findings from 2023 

maintain the integrity and transparency 

internal audits and considered the 

of the Company’s internal and external 

2024 internal audit plan.

•  Review of information and cyber security.

•  Review of the company’s insurance 

arrangements.

•  Tax compliance status review.

financial reporting. We continued to 

spend time assessing the application 

of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts 

with Customers’, alongside careful 

consideration of the Company’s risk 

management framework, internal controls 

•  Reviewed Internal and External 

and management information systems.

Audit effectiveness.

•  Considered key accounting matters.

Areas of focus for 2024
•  Continue to monitor legislative and 

regulatory changes that may impact 

the work of the Committee.

•  Continue with oversight of internal 

audit activities and findings.

•  Continue oversight of the Company’s 

risk management framework.

The Company continued to make strong 

progress during the year, incrementally 

improving the efficacy and efficiency of its 

governance and control frameworks, and 

further enhancing insightful management 

information across its business.

Alongside core financial controls, Alfa’s 

cyber and information security resilience 

is critical. The Committee has continued 

to pay close attention to management’s 

•  Monitor the continued progressive 

work to enhance Alfa’s cyber security 

enhancements to Alfa’s systems and 

control environment.

“ Supporting progressive growth 
with a measured control 
environment.”

Steve Breach, Chair of the 

Audit and Risk Committee

Meetings held during 2023

Member 
since

Meetings 
attended 
2023

Steve Breach 

(Chair)
Adrian 

Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz
Chris Sullivan

2019

2020
2020
2019

4/4

4/4
4/4
4/4

The Committee’s members are all 

independent Non-Executive Directors.

internal controls across all key functions 

of the business.

The full Terms of Reference for the 

Committee are reviewed annually 

and can be found at: 

www.alfasystems.com/investors/

governance.

Dear shareholders,
I am pleased to present our Audit and Risk 

Committee Report for the year ended 

31 December 2023. The Report explains 

the work of the Committee during the 

year, as well as setting out expected key 

areas of focus for 2024.

The Committee has an annual work 

plan linked to the Company’s financial 

reporting cycle, which ensures that it 

considers all matters delegated to it 

by the Board.

Committee members’ skills and 

experience are set out on pages 78 to 79. 

The Board is satisfied that the Committee 

meets the requirement to have recent and 

relevant financial experience, and that, 

as a whole, its members have experience 

of the auto and equipment finance 

and enterprise software sector and 

corporate governance.

As a result of its work during the year, 

the Committee has concluded that it 

has acted in accordance with its Terms 

of Reference.

Steve Breach
Chair of the Audit and 
Risk Committee

95

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee Report continued

Key responsibilities of 
the Committee
The Board has delegated to the 

Committee responsibility for overseeing 

financial reporting, the review and 

•  Advising the Board on the Company’s 

auditor (and, where appropriate, the 

risk strategy, risk policies and current 

internal auditor) for a private discussion 

and emerging risk exposures, including 

regarding the audit process and 

the oversight of the overall risk 

relationship with management.

management framework and systems.

assessment of the effectiveness of the 

•  Assessing the adequacy and security 

internal control and risk management 

of the Company’s arrangements for its 

systems, and maintaining an appropriate 

employees and contractors to raise 

relationship with the external auditor.

concerns, in confidence, about possible 

The Committee has adopted Terms of 

Reference, which are available to view 

at www.alfasystems.com/investors/

governance. The Terms of Reference 

provided the framework for the 

Committee’s work in the year and key 

responsibilities of the Committee are 

summarised as follows:

•  Overseeing the relationship with the 

Company’s external auditor, monitoring 

its effectiveness and independence, 

and making recommendations to the 

wrongdoing in financial reporting or 

other matters and to ensure 

proportionate and independent 

investigation of such matters.

•  Making recommendations to the Board 

as it deems appropriate on any area 

within its remit where action or 

improvement is required.

•  Providing advice on whether the Annual 

Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 

is fair, balanced and understandable.

Board in respect of its remuneration, 

•  Developing and implementing policy on 

appointment and removal. The 

the engagement of the external auditor 

Committee also reviews the findings 

to supply non-audit services.

from the external auditor, including 

discussion of significant accounting 

and audit judgements, levels of errors 

Meetings
During the year, the Committee met four 

identified and overall effectiveness of 

times and met privately with the external 

the audit process.

•  Reviewing the financial statements of 

the Company, including its annual and 

half-yearly reports and, if applicable, any 

other formal announcements relating to 

its financial performance. The Committee 

will also consider significant financial 

auditor once. The Committee operates to 

a forward agenda linked to the financial 

calendar which ensures that the 

responsibilities and duties of the 

Committee are discharged in accordance 

with the Terms of Reference and the 

requirements of the UK Corporate 

reporting issues, accounting policies and 

Governance Code.

The Chair of the Committee holds regular 

meetings with the external auditor, which 

has an opportunity to discuss matters 

with the Committee without management 

being present, and also with the CFO (who 

has responsibility and custody of the 

internal audit function).

Meetings of the Committee are scheduled 

close to the end of the half and full year, 

as well as before the publication of the 

associated half-year and full-year financial 

reports, so as to ensure the Committee is 

informed fully, on a timely basis, on areas 

of significant risks and judgement. The 

Board has confirmed that it is satisfied 

depth of financial and commercial 

expertise. For the year ended 

31 December 2023, Steve Breach, the 

Chair of the Committee, was determined 

by the Board as having recent and 

relevant financial experience.

The Committee is satisfied that it receives 

sufficient information and has access to 

relevant and timely management 

personnel to allow the Committee 

members to engage in an informed 

debate during Committee meetings 

and to fulfil its responsibilities.

Significant financial 
reporting judgements
As part of its monitoring of the integrity of 

•  Reporting to the Board on how it has 

that Committee members possess an 

discharged its responsibilities.

appropriate level of independence and 

key areas of judgement or estimation. 

This review also includes consideration 

of the clarity and completeness of 

disclosures of the information presented 

in the financial statements.

•  Overseeing the accounting principles, 

policies and practices adopted by 

the Company.

•  Monitoring and reviewing internal 

audit activities, reports and findings.

In addition to the Committee members, 

by invitation, the meetings of the 

Committee may be attended by the CFO. 

the financial statements, the Committee 

The Chairman of the Board, CEO and COO 

reviews whether suitable accounting 

may also attend meetings. The Company’s 

policies have been adopted and whether 

external auditor and the internal audit 

management has made appropriate 

services provider are also present at all 

estimates and judgements and seeks 

Committee meetings, to ensure full 

communication of matters as they 

support from the external auditor to 

assess them. The Committee considered 

relate to their respective responsibilities. 

the following significant judgements, and 

•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the 

At the end of each Committee meeting, 

other areas of audit focus in respect of the 

Company’s system of internal financial 

Committee members have the 

financial statements for the six months 

controls and internal control systems.

opportunity to meet with the external 

ended 30 June 2023 and year ended 

31 December 2023.

96

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023These areas have been identified as being significant by virtue of their materiality or being accounting items which are new for 

the current financial year or the level of judgement and/or estimation involved. In order to ensure the approaches taken were 

appropriate, the Committee considered reports from both management and the external auditor. The Committee challenged 

judgements and sought clarification where necessary. The Committee received a report from the external auditor on the work 

it had performed to arrive at its conclusions and discussed in detail all material findings contained within the report.

Area of focus

Assessment

Review of the Committee

Conclusion/
Action taken

Revenue 

recognition

The Group’s operations include 

In advance of the half-year and full-year 

The Committee agreed 

complex software implementation 

results, the Committee received reports 

with the revenue 

programmes and service activities.

from management that outlined the key 

judgements and key 

The delivery of these contracts 

typically extends over more than 

one reporting period, and often 

the original project plans are 

amended as the implementation 

programme progresses. 

In addition, from time to time, 

judgements that were likely to be 

sources of estimation 

required to be included in the results. 

uncertainty adopted by 

These reports were reviewed and the 

management.

key points within them, including key 

sources of estimation uncertainty, were 

discussed, with the external auditor 

commenting where relevant.

the Company is entitled to 

As part of the process of approving the 

one-off licence income uplifts 

issuing of the half-year and full-year 

or changes to maintenance 

results, these reports were updated 

income entitlements. Contract 

and issued by management to the 

modifications also occur from 

Committee with management’s final 

time to time. 

positions documented. These were 

considered carefully by the Committee 

In recognising customised licence 

in conjunction with input from the 

revenue, management must apply 

external auditor.

a number of judgements to 

allocate the overall transaction 

price across the multiple 

performance obligations that have 

been identified within these 

projects. Estimates are applied in 

this assessment for example when 

assessing the standalone 

selling price.

97

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governance 
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Area of focus

Assessment

Review of the Committee

Conclusion/
Action taken

Development 

The Group continues to invest 

The Committee reviewed reports from 

The Committee noted 

costs

in the development of the Alfa 

management detailing the costs that 

that the amounts being 

Systems product. The majority 

had been identified as appropriate 

capitalised remained 

of development effort is 

for capitalisation.

undertaken in partnership 

with customers and therefore 

is specific to that implementation 

or customer’s process.

Judgement is required to assess 

whether any development is 

substantially new in either design 

or functionality, and whether it 

would be commercially viable in 

the open market. Therefore, 

management assesses the 

likelihood of capitalisation of 

such costs prior to initiation of 

the investment project and also 

performs regular assessments of 

the development work that has 

been undertaken to determine if it 

meets the criteria set out in IAS38 

for capitalisation.

Goodwill and 

The Group has goodwill on its 

The Committee reviewed and 

carrying value 

balance sheet and the Company 

challenged management’s 

of investments

holds investment in subsidiaries. 

impairment assessment.

These need to be reviewed 

annually to assess whether the 

recoverable amount exceeds the 

book value and, in the case of 

investment in subsidiaries, also 

to see if a previous impairment 

should be reversed.

relatively modest 

compared with the 

total expenditure on the 

product during the period. 

The Committee concurred 

with management’s 

approach on the amounts 

to be capitalised in both 

the half-year and full-

year results.

The Committee agreed 

that no impairment was 

required in the current 

year for both goodwill and 

the carrying value of the 

investment in subsidiaries.

98

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Area of focus

Assessment

Review of the Committee

Conclusion/
Action taken

Going concern 

The Directors must satisfy 

The Committee reviewed 

Following this evaluation 

and Viability 

themselves regarding the Group’s 

management’s budget and forecasts, 

and analysis, the 

statement

long-term viability and confirm 

including an overview of the 

Committee was satisfied 

that they have a reasonable 

assumptions made in the preparation 

with the judgements made 

expectation that the Group will 

of the base case supporting the going 

and that the continued use 

continue to operate and meet its 

concern and Viability statement. This 

of the going concern basis 

liabilities as they fall due for the 

included the Group’s 2024 budget and 

was appropriate, and the 

Viability statement was 

prepared appropriately.

foreseeable future.

also plans for 2025 and 2026.

The Committee discussed and 

challenged the budget and 

forecasts before agreeing with the 

reasonableness of the three-year period.

The Committee assessed this in light of 

the principal risks and uncertainties as 

disclosed on pages 36 to 44 in the 

Strategic report.

The Committee discussed and 

challenged the downside scenarios 

modelled as part of the Viability 

statement as disclosed on pages 45 to 

47 in the Strategic report, the funding 

headroom available, the feasibility of 

mitigating actions, the dividend policy, 

and the speed of implementation of any 

cost-saving measures following future 

management decision making.

The Committee noted the 2018 Code 

requirement for the Directors to state 

whether they consider it appropriate 

to adopt the going concern basis of 

accounting for a period of at least 12 

months from the date of approval of 

the 2023 financial statements.

99

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee Report continued

opportunity to review the Annual Report 

as a whole and discuss, prior to the March 

risk management and internal control. 

Further details of the risk management 

Fair, balanced and 
understandable
The Committee has undertaken a careful 

review to ensure that the Annual Report is 

‘fair, balanced and understandable’ and 

provides the necessary information for 

shareholders to assess the Company’s 

consolidated position, performance, 

business model and strategy, in line 

with the requirements of the 2018 Code.

The Committee members were consulted 

at various stages during the drafting 

process and provided input at the 

planning stage, as well as having the 

2024 Committee meeting, any areas 

requiring additional clarity or better 

balance in the messaging. In forming its 

opinion and recommendation to the 

Board in respect of the above matters, 

the Committee assessed the following:

•  A qualitative review of disclosures 

and a review of internal consistency 

throughout the Annual Report 

and Accounts;

•  A review by the Committee of all 

material matters, as reported 

elsewhere in this Annual Report 

and Accounts;

•  Disclosures in relation to the Task Force 

on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 

(TCFD);

•  A risk comparison review, which 

assesses the consistency of the 

presentation of risks and significant 

judgements throughout the main areas 

of risk disclosure in this Annual Report 

and Accounts;

On the basis of this work, together with 

•  Clear delegation of authority 

the views expressed by the external 

throughout the Company, starting with 

auditor, the Committee recommended, 

the matters reserved for the Board.

and in turn the Board confirmed, that it 

could make the required statement that 

the Annual Report is ‘fair, balanced and 

understandable’.

Risk management
The Board has overall responsibility 

for determining the nature and extent 

of its principal and emerging risks and 

the extent of Alfa’s risk appetite, and 

for monitoring and reviewing the 

effectiveness of the Company’s systems of 

objectives and process are on pages 32 to 

35. The principal risks and uncertainties 

facing the Company are addressed in the 

Strategic report in the table on pages 36 to 

45. The Board has delegated to the 

Committee the responsibility for 

monitoring the effectiveness of the 

systems of risk management.

Internal control
The Board determines the objectives 

and broad policies of the Company and 

•  A formal process for ensuring that key 

risks affecting operations across the 

Company are identified and assessed 

on a regular basis, together with the 

controls in place to mitigate those risks. 

Risk consideration is embedded in 

decision making processes at all 

levels and the most significant risks 

are periodically reviewed by the Board. 

The risk process is reviewed by the 

Audit and Risk Committee.

•  The preparation and review of the 

annual budget.

•  The monthly reporting of actual results 

and their review against the budget, 

forecasts and the previous year, 

with explanations obtained for all 

significant variances.

•  Controls in respect of financial 

reporting and the production of the 

consolidated financial statements are 

well established. Group accounting 

policies are consistently applied, and 

review and reconciliation controls 

operate effectively.

meets regularly, when a set schedule of 

•  The Finance Manual which outlines key 

matters which are required to be brought 

control procedures and policies to apply 

to it for decision is discussed. Overall 

management of the Company’s risk 

appetite, its tolerance to risk and 

throughout the Company and Group. 

This includes clearly defined policies 

and escalating authorisation levels for 

discussion of key aspects of execution 

all procurement activity including 

of the Company’s strategy remain the 

responsibility of the Board. The Board 

capital expenditure and investment.

has delegated to the Audit and Risk 

During 2023, the Board, through the 

Committee the responsibility for 

overseeing the system of internal 

Committee, has continued to monitor the 

Company’s risk management and internal 

controls to ensure these are appropriate 

control, and it has also reviewed their 

to the business environments in which 

effectiveness. Throughout 2023, Alfa’s 

•  A review of the balance of good and bad 

the Company operates.

financial, operational and compliance 

controls continued to operate as 

news; and

•  Ensuring it correctly reflects:

•  the Company’s position and 

performance as described on 

pages 144 to 183;

•  the Company’s business model, as 
described on pages 14 to 15; and

100

•  the Company’s strategy, as described 

on pages 16 to 25.

Key elements of this system include 

intended.

the following:

•  A clearly defined organisation structure 

for monitoring the conduct and 

operations of the business.

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Internal audit
The Audit and Risk Committee supports 

External audit
The Committee oversees the Company’s 

review that could lead to its objectivity 

and independence being compromised 

the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities 

relationship with, and the performance 

on behalf of the Company.

to review the activities, resources, 

of, the external auditor. This includes 

organisational structure and operational 

responsibility for monitoring its 

effectiveness of the internal audit 

independence, objectivity and compliance 

activities. Following discussion with the 

with ethical and regulatory requirements. 

Committee Chair and the CFO, BDO LLP 

The Committee is the primary contact 

presents its internal audit plan for approval 

with the external auditor. The Committee 

to the Committee at the start of each new 

also has responsibility for approving the 

financial year and provides an update and 

nature of non-audit services which the 

further plans at the mid-year stage.

external auditor may or may not be 

The Committee monitored and reviewed 

the fees paid for these services (subject 

the scope, extent and effectiveness of 

to de minimis levels).

allowed to provide to the Company and 

the internal audit plan in line with the 

Company’s key risks and strategy. Internal 

audit is a standing agenda item at each 

Committee meeting and BDO LLP presents 

an update on audit activities, the progress 

of the audit plans and the outcomes of all 

audits with action plans to address any 

issues. Activities of the internal audit 

during 2023 included the following areas 

of focus:

Independence and 
performance of the 
external auditor
The Committee is responsible for 

reviewing the independence of the 

Company’s external auditor, RSM, 

agreeing the terms of engagement 

and the scope of its audit.

•  Compensation approach

•  Pricing

RSM has a policy of partner rotation, 

which complies with regulatory standards, 

and RSM operates a peer review process 

•  Financial Controls – Treasury

for its engagements, to ensure that its 

•  Cyber security – follow-up

•  Talent Development, succession 

planning and performance 

management

•  Follow-up on prior recommendations.

independence is maintained. The 

Committee reviewed a report from 

the external auditor describing its 

arrangements to identify, report and 

manage any conflicts of interest.

The Committee performed an 

effectiveness review of internal 

audit during the year.

As part of this review referenced above, 

and considering management’s opinion, 

the Committee was satisfied that the 

internal audit function remains effective 

and fit for purpose.

Maintaining an independent relationship 

with the Company’s external auditor is a 

critical part of assessing the effectiveness 

of the audit process. The Board has 

approved a policy which is intended 

to maintain the independence and 

objectivity of the external auditor. The 

policy, which was updated in the year, 

governs the provision of audit, audit-

related services and non-audit services 

provided by the auditor. Committee 

approval is required for any service with 

an expected cost in excess of £10,000. 

During 2023, the external auditor 

confirmed to the Committee that it did 

not provide any non-audit or additional 

services other than for the half-year 

Details of audit, audit-related fees and 

non-audit fees are included in note 9 to 

the consolidated financial statements.

The Committee notes that audit partner 

rotation every five years facilitates 

independence and objectivity within the 

External Audit team. The current External 

Audit Engagement Partner is Graham 

Ricketts, who was appointed to lead the 

audit in July 2020. The Committee is 

satisfied with the performance and 

effectiveness of RSM as external auditor, 

taking into account the Committee’s 

own assessment and feedback. The 

Committee has concluded that RSM 

displays the necessary attributes of 

independence and objectivity.

Assessment of the 
audit process
The scope of the external audit is formally 

documented by the auditor. It discusses 

the draft plan with management before 

it is referred to the Committee, which 

reviews its suitability and holds further 

discussions with management and the 

auditor before final approval. The 

Committee has reviewed the quality of 

the audit plan and related reports for 

the 2023 audit and is satisfied with the 

quality of these documents.

The Committee discussed the quality of 

the half-year review and audit work since 

RSM’s appointment and considered the 

performance of the external auditor, 

taking into account feedback from various 

stakeholders across the business and 

the Committee’s own assessment. The 

evaluation focused on: robustness of 

the audit process; quality of delivery; 

reporting; and people and services. The 

Committee reviewed the independence 

of the external auditor and concluded 

that it complies with UK regulatory and 

professional requirements and that its 

objectivity is not compromised.

101

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee Report continued

Assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Committee
The Committee’s effectiveness in respect of 

2023 was evaluated as described on page 

89. The key issues that were identified in the 

Committee evaluation were discussed by 

the Committee to ensure these were 

adequately addressed and the Chair 

provided an update where appropriate.

Focus for 2024
In 2024, as well as the regular cycle of 

matters that the Committee schedules for 

consideration each year, the Committee 

will continue to monitor legislation and 

regulatory changes, including those that 

affect the audit market that may impact 

the work of the Committee. The 

Committee will also continue with 

oversight of internal audit activities 

and findings as well as monitoring the 

continued progressive enhancements 

to Alfa’s systems and internal controls.

Steve Breach
Chair, Audit and Risk Committee
13 March 2024

The Committee does not intend to put 

the external audit out to tender in the 

coming financial year as the appointment 

of RSM occurred in 2020 and therefore 

the Company has complied with the 

Competitions and Markets Authority 

requirement in relation to audit tenders 

every 10 years. The Committee will 

continue to keep this under review as 

part of its review of effectiveness of the 

external auditor.

Going concern and 
Viability statements
The Committee reviewed the updated 

wording of the Company’s longer-term 

Viability statement, set out on pages 45 

to 47. To do this, the Committee ensured 

that the financial model used was 

consistent with the approved three-year 

plan and that scenario and sensitivity 

testing aligned clearly with the principal 

risks of the Company. Committee 

members challenged the underlying 

assumptions used and reviewed the 

results of the detailed work performed. 

The Committee was satisfied that the 

analysis supporting the Viability 

statement had been prepared on an 

appropriate basis. The Committee also 

reviewed the going concern statement, 

set out on page 31 and confirmed its 

satisfaction with the testing methodology.

102

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Remuneration Committee Report

Principal activities in 2023
•  Reviewing remuneration of the 

Our performance
During 2023, Alfa performed strongly 

Executive Directors and members 

both operationally and financially. During 

of the Company Leadership Team 

the year, the Board upgraded estimates to 

(including salary, benefits and 

shareholders and with continuing strong 

variable incentives).

•  Reviewing and approving the 

performance outturns against the 

financial and non-financial measures 

for the 2022 Annual Bonus, and 

approving pay-outs.

•  Reviewing and approving the 2023 

Long-Term Incentive Plan proposal 

and grant.

•  Reviewing and approving the 2023 

annual bonus framework and 

measures, and award opportunities.

“ Our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy is designed to deliver 
balanced outcomes for our 
stakeholders, driving long-term 
sustainable performance for the 
benefit of all our stakeholders.”

Adrian Chamberlain, 

Chair, Remuneration Committee

•  Approving the 2022 Directors’ 

Remuneration Report, including the 

Gender Pay Gap report and CEO 

pay ratio.

cash generation, this enabled us to pay 

two special dividends along with a final 

dividend to shareholders.

Further detail on our overall performance 

during 2023 is set out in the CEO’s review 

on pages 8 to 11 and the CFO’s Financial 

review on pages 28 to 31.

Our people
During 2023, the Committee undertook 

a review of remuneration and related 

policies for the wider workforce and 

deemed that remuneration for Executive 

Directors is aligned to the wider 

workforce. This was achieved by applying 

consistent pay principles across the entire 

Meetings held during 2023

Member 
since

Meetings 
attended 
2023

2020
2019
2020
2019

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

Adrian 

Chamberlain
Steve Breach
Charlotte de Metz
Chris Sullivan

The full Terms of Reference for 

the Committee can be found at: 

www.alfasystems.com/investors/

governance.

•  Overseeing employee share plans, 

workforce, and application of the annual 

including the UK (ShareSave) and 

pay review process consistently across 

US (ESPP).

all employees.

The Committee receives updates from 

the Group’s Chief People Officer on our 

People strategy and talent management, 

which provides valuable input into the 

Committee’s decision making around 

Executive Director remuneration. We are 

pleased with the continued progress 

made during the year in these important 

areas and I look forward to further 

development in the future.

•  Reviewing the Terms of Reference.

Introduction
On behalf of the Remuneration 

Committee, I am pleased to present 

our Remuneration Committee Report 

for 2023, which summarises our key 

activities during the year. This year, the 

Committee’s focus was on reviewing the 

current Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 

line with the Group’s long-term business 

strategy. In this Report, I have set out 

information on the business context and 

the wider operating environment, details 

of executive remuneration outcomes in 

2023, the intended implementation of 

the Policy for 2024 and the key focus 

areas for the Committee during 2023.

103

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

Shaping our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy
In line with the normal three-year cycle, 

Incorporating ESG into the 
incentive framework
The Committee is aware that many 

Alfa’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy 

stakeholders now expect ESG to be 

(the ‘Policy’) will be presented 

formally reflected in executive 

to shareholders at the 2024 AGM. In 

remuneration, particularly in relation to 

advance of this, the Committee reviewed 

climate change. The Company has used 

the current Policy and its implementation 

external expertise to assess its own 

to ensure it remains fit for purpose and 

environmental impact across Scopes 1 

aligned to Alfa’s strategic intentions. This 

and 2 emissions, as well as its total 

review considered Alfa’s strategy and the 

footprint including Scope 3. The outcome 

views and expectations of our employees, 

of that work has been to clearly set out 

shareholders and other stakeholders. 

that the business has limited Scope 1 and 

Following this review, a consultation 

2 emissions, with Scope 3 emissions 

process was undertaken with our largest 

representing 99.5% of its total emissions, 

2023 incentive outcomes
As a result of Alfa’s continued strong 

performance, the Committee approved 

annual bonus payments for Duncan 

Magrath and Matthew White in respect 

of 2023. In reaching this decision, the 

Committee considered the formulaic 

outcome against the targets set at the 

start of the year, and the broader 

underlying performance of the Company. 

In accordance with the Remuneration 

Policy, 50% of the bonus earned by 

Duncan Magrath and Matthew White will 

be paid in cash, and the remaining 50%, 

after the deduction of tax, will be deferred 

shareholders and wider shareholder 

where the Group has more limited ability 

in Alfa shares for three years.

bodies, to discuss our current Policy and 

to influence them. The Group has 

the changes we were considering to the 

committed to setting a target for its Scope 

revised Policy. It was evident that 

1 and 2 emissions, and also Scope 1, 2 and 

Shareholders were comfortable with the 

3. The Committee supports Alfa’s 

existing Policy, and were supportive of the 

commitment to net-zero, as we continue 

enhancements proposed in the new 

to improve our data and disclosures to 

Policy, the details of which, are outlined 

align with our sustainability goals. Further 

on page 106.

details can be found in the ESG, Planet 

section on pages 66 and 67. The 

Our revised Policy is designed to deliver 

Committee believes that ESG measures 

balanced outcomes for our stakeholders, 

within remuneration should be clearly 

driving long-term sustainable 

tied to strategy, and while climate issues 

performance for the benefit of all of our 

are clearly an important part of our 

stakeholders: employees, investors, 

governance framework and an area of 

customers, communities and society, 

focus for the wider Company and other 

regulators and government. In overseeing 

stakeholders, they are not currently a core 

remuneration outcomes, the Committee 

driver for strategic success. There are 

ensures that performance is assessed in 

other areas within our ESG framework 

the round and over time through 

which are directly linked with strategy: if 

stakeholder lenses.

the Group has an engaged and motivated 

workforce, and satisfied customers, that 

All variable remuneration will continue 

will underpin the achievement of its 

to be subject to appropriately stretching 

strategy. The Committee believes the 

performance targets, which are set to 

inclusion of the employee engagement 

reflect the risk appetite of the business 

score and a number of diversity initiatives 

with a focus on delivery of long-term 

will ensure that we continue to attract and 

sustainable performance. 

retain the best talent are much more 

important strategic metrics. 

As we develop our ESG framework, we 

have set longer-term targets and will 

look to set interim shorter term targets 

in relation to our net-zero ambitions 

and incorporate these into our 

variable incentives.

With regard to the Group’s longer-term 

Incentives, performance conditions 

attached to Long-Term Incentive Plan 

(LTIP) awards made on 30 April 2021 were 

tested to 31 December 2023. The award is 

based equally on growth in EPS and Total 

Shareholder Return (TSR). TSR over the 

three-year period was 69.6%, which 

ranked Alfa at the 70th percentile against 

its benchmark. Diluted EPS for 2023 of 

7.9p exceeded the maximum target of 

7.6p. Accordingly, 91.95% of the award will 

vest in April 2024, and will be subject to a 

mandatory two-year holding period. 

Further details, including the value of 

these awards, are included on pages 111 

to 115. The Committee is satisfied that 

overall pay outcomes in respect of the 

year ended 31 December 2023 are 

appropriate and reflect Alfa’s strong 

financial and operational performance, 

and the experience of all key stakeholder 

groups. The annual bonus outcome for 

the year reflects strong financial 

performance in 2023, while vesting of the 

awards granted under the 2021 LTIP 

reflects long-term, strong performance 

for shareholders during the period. The 

Committee has therefore not exercised 

any discretion in relation to its 

assessment of the outcome of the 

variable pay schemes, or to overall 

remuneration levels this year.

104

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20232024 annual bonus
The 2024 annual bonus will operate on a 

similar basis as last year, and will include 

revised ESG measures. Maximum 

opportunities are 125% of salary for the 

CFO and COO, with half of any amounts 

earned deferred in shares for three years. 

As we move forward, the Committee 

will keep under review the options to 

broaden our ESG targets to include 

other measures which are aligned to 

our strategy. For the 2024 bonus, the ESG 

As stated in the 2021 Remuneration 

Report, the Chairman and CEO requested 

that the Committee approve their 

proposal to reduce their salaries to the 

legal minimum level, and waive their 

rights to an annual bonus or LTIP. Both the 

Chairman and CEO are significant 

shareholders in the Company and 

expressed a desire to align their future 

remuneration with those of the other 

shareholders. The proposal was accepted 

and the salaries for the Chairman and 

CEO continue to be aligned to the London 

measure will consist of two elements. The 

Living Wage.

first element will continue to assess 

overall employee engagement. The 

introduction of a new second measure will 

UK Corporate Governance Code
When making decisions relating to 

assess a number of diversity initiatives, 

remuneration, the Committee continues 

and achievement will be evaluated based 

to be mindful of the guidance in the UK 

on the overall progress of these initiatives. 

Corporate Governance Code around 

We believe any metric used should be 

clarity, simplicity, risk, predictability, 

quantifiable, measurable and ideally 

proportionality and alignment to culture. 

externally comparable. As our 

As detailed in this report, the Committee 

benchmarking and measurement of 

takes various steps to ensure that the 

these metrics matures, we will also 

approach to remuneration is consistent 

consider whether environmental targets 

with these principles, although we will 

should be included in our annual bonus 

always use discretion to deliver the right 

scheme, our Long-Term Incentive Plan, 

outcome for the business where we deem 

or both. 

2024 – Looking ahead
We have undertaken our annual review 

of the Executive salaries and awarded 

a 1.8% salary increase to the CFO and 

COO (effective 1 January 2024). From 

2023, the Company car scheme was 

disbanded for the wider workforce, to 

promote the use of low emission vehicles 

or other forms of transport. For 

employees who were eligible to receive a 

car cash allowance this was rolled into 

salary from 1 January 2023. In order to 

align the Executive Directors salary with 

the wider workforce, the Committee 

approved that the Company car cash 

allowance of £6,000 would be rolled into 

salary with effect as of 1 January 2024.

that appropriate. The Committee will 

continue to monitor market 

developments throughout 2024 and will 

consider how any emerging trends may 

affect Alfa. This will include working 

closely with the Board to understand if 

and how to evolve the role for ESG targets 

in our executive incentives to drive our 

priorities in this area. I will be happy to 

answer any questions you may have at 

the upcoming AGM.

Adrian Chamberlain
Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee

105

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy

The Alfa Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the Alfa AGM to be held on 1 May 

2024 and, if approved, will apply from this date. It is intended that the Policy will apply for a period of up to three years and will need 

to be re-approved at the 2027 AGM at the latest. The Policy was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee. As part of 

the process, the views of our larger shareholders and other shareholder advisory bodies were sought. In addition, the thoughts of 

other Board members, management and external advisors were considered. 

Changes from the current Policy
The key changes between this Policy and the policy which was approved by shareholders at the Alfa 2021 AGM are as follows:

•  Salary – Any increase in Executive Directors’ salaries will generally be no higher in percentage terms than for the broader 

employee population.

•  Company Share Options Plan – There is no intention to incentivise Executive Directors with a CSOP award. Removed from the 

2024 Policy.

•  Post-employment shareholding requirements – Directors are required to continue to hold their shareholding requirement or, 

if their level of shareholding is below the requirement, their actual holdings, for a period of two years. 

Any other changes in wording or presentation are considered to be immaterial to the operation of the Policy.

Fixed elements of remuneration for Executive Directors

Salary

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

To attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the calibre required to deliver the Company’s strategy and drive 
business performance. 

Base salaries will be reviewed at least annually, and assessed, taking into account the scope and requirements of the role, 
experience of the incumbent and the total remuneration package. Any increases will typically be effective from 1 January. 

Account will also be taken of the performance of the business, the salary increases awarded to the wider employee 
population, and remuneration arrangements in other listed companies of comparable scale and sector.

Maximum 
opportunity

There is no overall maximum for, or increase to, salary levels. Any increase in Executive Director salaries will generally 
be no higher in percentage terms than that for the broader employee population. In appropriate circumstances, the 
Committee may award increases outside this range. 

These may include: 

•  A change in role and/or responsibilities; 
•  Performance and/or development in the role of the Executive Director; and 
•  A significant change in the Company’s size, composition and/or complexity. 

In addition, where an Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at a starting salary which is lower than the 
typical market rate, larger increases may be awarded as their experience develops, if the Committee considers such 
increases to be appropriate.

Performance

Personal performance will be taken into consideration when determining any salary increases.

Benefits

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

To provide market competitive benefits which help to recruit and retain high-calibre Executive Directors.

The Committee’s policy is to provide Executive Directors with competitive levels of benefits, taking into consideration 
the benefits provided to Alfa’s employees and those offered by its peers. Benefits are in line with those for the broader 
workforce and currently include (but are not limited to) private medical insurance for individual and family, (if applicable); 
and death-in service life assurance. The Company may award additional benefits where the Committee considers it 
appropriate (e.g. travel, accommodation and subsistence allowances). These may include national and international 
relocation benefits such as (but not limited to) accommodation, family relocation support and travel in line with our 
policy for other employees in similar situations.

Maximum 
opportunity

Given that the cost of benefits depends on the Executive Director’s individual circumstances, there is no prescribed 
maximum monetary value. 

The cost of the benefits provision will be reviewed by the Committee on a periodic basis to ensure it remains appropriate. 

Other payments such as legal fees or outplacement costs may be paid if it is considered appropriate.

Performance

There are no performance conditions.

106

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Pension

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance

To encourage and assist with responsible, secure retirement provisions, thereby facilitating the recruitment of high-calibre 
Executive Directors to deliver the Company’s strategy.

May be provided by way of contribution into a Company pension scheme or a cash supplement in lieu of pension 
contributions into this scheme (or such other arrangement the Committee determines has the same economic effect).

The maximum Company contribution for Executive Directors will not exceed the contribution (as a percentage of salary) 
available to the broader employee population (currently 6% of salary).

There are no performance conditions.

Variable elements of remuneration for Executive Directors 

Annual bonus and Deferred Bonus Share Plan (DBSP) 

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

Incentivises and rewards the achievement of annual financial and non-financial objectives integral to the Company’s strategy. 

The part deferral of earned bonus into shares provides alignment with shareholders’ long-term interests.

The Committee will set the performance measures and their weighting, and targets annually to reflect the key financial 
and non-financial priorities for the business in the relevant year. 

Annual bonus outcomes will be determined by the Committee, and the Committee may use its discretion at the end of 
the performance period to adjust the final bonus outcome if it considers that the outcome does not reflect the underlying 
performance of the business during the year, or if it considers the payment is not appropriate in the context of unforeseen, 
unexpected or exceptional circumstances. 

Where exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders in the relevant Annual Report. 

Not less than 50% of any bonus will normally be satisfied by way of an award of shares under the DBSP. 

Deferred shares will be subject to a three year holding period from the date of the award, but no further performance 
conditions will apply. Directors may sell sufficient shares to satisfy the respective tax liability but must retain the net 
number of shares until the end of this three year period. 

Malus and clawback provisions will apply (see explanatory notes).

Maximum 
opportunity

The maximum bonus opportunity may be up to 150% of salary for the Executive Directors for each financial year. On-target 
performance will typically pay out up to 50% of the maximum opportunity. 

Performance

Full details on the annual bonus for Executive Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration in respect 
of the relevant year. 

Performance measures will comprise a combination of financial and non-financial objectives, and the measures may vary 
from year to year. At least half of the annual bonus will be based on financial measures. The non-financial performance 
measures may include a combination of strategic and/or personal objectives. 

Further details on, and the rationale for, the measures used in the annual bonus will be disclosed in the relevant Annual 
Report (and the targets set will normally be disclosed retrospectively, subject to these being considered not to be 
commercially sensitive).

Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

Incentivises and rewards the achievement of the Company’s long-term strategic objectives for the business, through the 
use of share-based awards. Encourages long-term shareholdings to retain Executive Directors and provide alignment with 
shareholders’ interests.

Awards granted under the LTIP vest subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions measured over at 
least a three-year period. LTIPs may be made as conditional share awards or in other forms (e.g. nil cost options) if it is 
considered appropriate. 

The Committee may use its discretion at the end of the performance period to adjust the final vesting outcomes if it 
considers that the formulaic outcome does not reflect the underlying performance of the business during the 
performance period, or if it considers the payment is not appropriate in the context of unforeseen, unexpected or 
exceptional circumstances. Where exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders in 
the relevant Annual Report. 

Awards that vest are subject to a further two-year holding period after the vesting date. Directors may sell sufficient 
shares to satisfy the respective tax liability but must retain the net number of shares until the end of this two-year period. 

The Committee retains the discretion to allow dividends to accrue over the vesting period in respect of any awards that 
vest (see explanatory notes).

Maximum 
opportunity

The maximum value of shares (at grant) which can be made under an award to an individual in respect of a financial year is 
150% of salary.

107

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Performance

Performance measures will be determined by the Committee at the time of making each award to ensure alignment with 
the long-term success of the business. 

The performance conditions may include, but are not limited to, market measures, financial measures, and strategic 
long-term objectives. 

For performance between threshold and maximum, awards vest on a straight-line basis. 100% of an award will vest for 
maximum performance and typically 25% will vest at threshold.

All-employee share plans

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance

All-employee share plans are designed to encourage share ownership across the wider workforce.

Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any all-employee share plan, on identical terms to other participants. 
In the case of UK tax qualifying plans, these will be operated in line with HMRC guidance.

Participation in any approved all-employee share plans will be subject to the same limits as for other eligible employees and, 
in the case of any UK tax qualifying plan, will be subject to the maximum limits permitted by the relevant tax legislation.

The Committee may apply conditions to participation in all-employee share plans, which will apply to all employees.

Shareholding requirement

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Operation

Maximum 
opportunity

To drive long-term, sustainable decision making for the benefit of the Company and our shareholders.

The Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary to align with the long-term 
interests of shareholders. Until the requirement is met, 50% of any share awards vesting (after any sales to cover tax 
liabilities) should be retained.

Executive Directors are required to hold shares equivalent to 200% of their salary in value.

Post-employment, Executive Directors will normally be expected to maintain a minimum shareholding of 200% of 
salary (or actual shareholding if lower) for two years. The Committee retains discretion to waive this guideline if 
it is not considered to be appropriate in the specific circumstance.

Performance

There are no performance conditions.

Non-Executive Director remuneration

Fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors 

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Fees are set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out duties as 
members of the Board and its Committees, and to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre 
with relevant commercial and other experience.

Operation

Fees for Non-Executive Directors will be determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. 

Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairs, or for undertaking other duties. 
Fee levels will be reviewed (though not necessarily increased) annually and set with reference to the time commitment and 
responsibility of the position as well as taking into consideration market data for roles in other companies of a similar size 
and complexity. 

Benefits appropriate to the role may be provided. The Non-Executive Directors will have the benefit of a qualifying third 
party indemnity from the Company and appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance. Travel and reasonable 
expenses incurred (including any tax gross-up) in the course of performing their duties may be paid by the Company 
or reimbursed.

Maximum 
opportunity

Details of the current fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. There 
is no prescribed maximum annual increase. Total fees will not exceed the maximum amount provided in the Company’s 
Articles of Association.

Performance

There are no performance conditions.

Prior arrangements 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and/or payments for loss of office (including exercising any 

discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above 

where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual (or other person to whom this Policy applies) 

was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual 

becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes, ‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable 

remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted. 

108

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Selection of performance conditions
For the annual bonus, the Committee believes that a mix of financial and non-financial targets is most appropriate for the Company. 

Strategic and personal objectives may be included where appropriate to ensure delivery of key business milestones. The Committee 

will determine the measures and weightings each year, based on the key financial and strategic priorities for the Company. 

Performance under the LTIP will typically be based on a combination of market and non-market measures. This is so that the 

Committee can assess the Company’s performance with reference to a mix of underlying financial and stock market performance, 

and encourages a focus on long-term financial growth as well as returns to shareholders. The Committee will keep the measures 

and weightings under review prior to the start of each cycle to ensure that these remain effective in driving the Executive Directors 

to deliver long-term success. 

Explanatory notes 
Awards under any of the Company’s share plans referred to in this report may: 

a.  Be granted as conditional share awards or nil cost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same 

economic effect; 

b.  Have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes 

the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially 

less difficult to satisfy;

c.  Incorporate the right to receive an amount (in cash or additional shares) equal to the value of dividends which would have been 

paid on the shares under an award that vests up to the time of vesting (or where the award is subject to a holding period, time of 

release). This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Company’s shares on a 

cumulative basis; 

d.  Be settled in cash at the Committee’s discretion – although the Committee has no intention to cash settle any Executive Directors’ 

awards and would do so only in exceptional circumstances (such as where there was a regulatory restriction on the delivery of 

shares) or to settle tax liabilities arising in connection with the acquisition of shares; and 

e.  Be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Company’s share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event 

that may affect the Company’s share price. 

Discretion, malus and clawback
Our incentive plans provide the Committee with discretion in respect of vesting outcomes that affect the actual level of reward 

payable to individuals. Such discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances and, if exercised, the rationale for this 

discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders in the relevant Annual Report. 

Variable pay awards may be made subject to adjustment events. At the discretion of the Committee, an award may be adjusted 

before delivery (malus) or reclaimed after delivery (clawback) if an adjustment event occurs.

Malus will apply to awards under the DBSP and LTIP. Clawback will apply to all vested awards under the DBSP and LTIP and the part of 

the annual bonus which is paid in cash. These provisions may be invoked at the Committee’s discretion at any time within three years 

of the payment of cash bonuses and six years of the grant of DBSP and LTIP awards. 

109

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

The Committee has the discretion to invoke these provisions in the following circumstances: 

•  Where there is a material misstatement of any Company financial results;

•  Where an error in assessing performance conditions is discovered;

•  Where there is misconduct on the part of the individual; and

•  Where a material failure of risk management by the Company is identified, or in the event of serious reputational damage 

to the Company. 

Shareholding requirement 
The Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equal to at least 200% of salary, to align with the long-term interests 

of shareholders. Until the requirement is met, 50% of any share awards vesting (after any sales to cover tax liabilities) should be 

retained. In order to generate alignment with shareholders beyond departure and to drive risk-conscious stewardship, a post-

cessation shareholding requirement will be placed on Executive Directors. The post-cessation requirement relates to those awards 

awarded through incentive schemes by the Company. Executive Directors will typically be required to maintain a shareholding equal 

to the lower of their in-post guideline and their actual holding, for two years.

Approach to recruitment remuneration 
The Committee will seek to align a new Executive Director’s remuneration package with the Policy as set out in the Policy table. When 

determining a remuneration package for a new appointment, the Committee will take into consideration the size and scope of the 

role, the skills and expertise of the candidate, the external market rate for a candidate of that experience, as well as the importance 

of securing the preferred candidate. Benefits will be limited to those outlined in the Policy, with relocation assistance provided where 

appropriate. Awards under the LTIP that may be awarded to a new Executive Director will not exceed 200% of salary and the bonus 

opportunity will not exceed 150% of salary. Special consideration may be given in the event that incentives accrued at a previous 

employer are due to be forfeited on the candidate’s leaving that company, in which case the Committee retains the discretion to 

grant awards with vesting on a comparable basis to the likely vesting of the previous employer’s award; any such award is excluded 

from the maximum value of incentives referred to above. For internal candidates, long-term incentive awards granted in respect of 

the prior role would be allowed to vest according to their original terms. For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive 

Director, the fee would be set in accordance with the approved Policy in force at that time. The length of service and notice periods 

would be set at the discretion of the Board, taking into account market practice, corporate governance considerations and the skills 

and experience of the particular candidate at that time. 

Service contracts and appointment letters 
The service contracts of the Chairman and the Executive Directors do not have a specific duration but can be terminated by not less 

than six months’ notice in the case of the Chairman and the COO and by not less than 12 months’ notice for the CEO and CFO by 

either party. Under the service contracts, the Executive Directors are entitled to a salary (reviewed annually), pension contribution 

and benefits, in addition to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties. 

The service contracts for Executive Directors make no provision for termination payments, other than for payment in lieu of salary. 

The Non-Executive Directors’ appointments are for a fixed term of three years and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 

Under their letters of appointment, their appointment is terminable by either party on three months’ written notice except where the 

Non-Executive Director is not reappointed by shareholders, in which case termination is with immediate effect. The Non-Executive 

Directors are entitled to the reimbursement of reasonable business expenses. 

110

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Illustrations of potential remuneration outcomes 2024 
The following charts illustrate the remuneration that could be received by each of the Executive Directors for varying levels of 

performance in 2024. The charts are based on the following assumptions: 

Pay scenario
Maximum +50% 

Purpose and link to strategy
Assumes 100% pay-out under the annual bonus 

share price growth 
Maximum

Assumes 100% pay-out under the LTIP plus 50% share price growth 
Assumes 100% pay-out under the annual bonus 

On-target

Minimum

Assumes 100% pay-out under the LTIP 
Assumes 50% pay-out under the annual bonus 

Assumes 25% pay-out under the LTIP (aligned with threshold performance) 
Fixed elements of remuneration only – base salary, benefits and pension

Termination of office 
If the employment of an Executive 

Director is terminated, any compensation 

payable will be determined by reference 

to the terms of the service contract in 

force at the time. As variable pay awards 

are not contractual, treatment of these 

awards are determined by the relevant 

rules. The Committee may structure any 

compensation payments beyond the 

contractual notice provisions in the contract 

in such a way as it deems appropriate. 

The Company may at its discretion make 

termination payments in lieu of notice 

and contractual benefits. The service 

agreements for the CEO, CFO and COO 

allow for garden leave during their notice 

period. The appointment letters for the 

Non-Executive Directors provide that no 

compensation is payable on termination. 

The Committee has a policy framework 

for payments for loss of office by an 

Executive Director, in relation to the 

service contract and incentive pay 

through the annual bonus and LTIP, 

which is summarised on page 112.

2024 single figure outcomes
Andrew Page (£000)

Maximum 
+ 50% share 
price growth

Maximum

Target

Fixed pay

Andrew Denton (£000)

Maximum 
+ 50% share 
price growth

Maximum

Target

Fixed pay

100%

£27

100%

£27

100%

£27

100%

£27

100%

100%

100%

100%

£31

£31

£31

£31

Duncan Magrath (£000)

Maximum 
+ 50% share 
price growth

Maximum

23%

28%

28%

33%

49%

£1,371

39%

£1,146

Target

52%

30%

18%

Fixed pay

100%

Matthew White (£000)

Maximum 
+ 50% share 
price growth

Maximum

28%

32%

33%

38%

30%

Target

55%

32%

13%

Fixed pay

100%

Fixed

Bonus

LTIP

£620

£320

39%

£922

£802

£470

£259

111

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Category A 
Voluntary resignation and 

termination for cause 

Category B 
Agreed terms 

Category C 
Death or cessation by reason of ill-health, 

disability, injury or redundancy

Tax advantaged 
Schemes 

Unvested options will lapse and 
savings will be returned on 
cessation of employment. 

Vested options not exercised will 
also lapse if the Executive Director’s 
employment is terminated for cause. 

Treatment will normally 
fall between A and C, 
subject to the discretion 
of the Committee, the 
terms of any termination 
agreement and the 
reasons for the Executive 
Director’s departure.

Fixed pay

Paid only until employment ceases.

Paid for the notice period.

Annual
bonus

There is no contractual entitlement to 
payments under the annual bonus.

Bonuses delivered in shares 
represent the bonus the Executive 
Director has already earned and 
carry no further performance 
conditions. Awards will normally be 
released in accordance to the usual 
schedule, unless the Committee 
determines that awards should be 
released at the time the individual 
ceases employment. Awards will 
normally be released in full unless 
the Committee determines 
otherwise.

Unvested awards will lapse on 
cessation of employment. Vested 
awards subject to a holding period 
will also lapse if the Executive 
Director’s employment is 
terminated for cause.

LTIP awards

Treatment will normally 
fall between A and C, 
subject to the discretion 
of the Committee, the 
terms of any termination 
agreement and the 
reasons for the Executive 
Director’s departure.

Treatment will normally 
fall between A and C, 
subject to the discretion 
of the Committee, 
the terms of any 
termination agreement 
and the reasons for 
the Executive 
Director’s departure.

Options can be exercised immediately, or up to six 
months of savings can be made before exercising 
options. The Committee may determine that the options 
should be exercised at the time the individual ceases 
employment and be released at that time or should be 
released at some other time after cessation and before 
the original release date. If the participant dies, options 
will normally vest at the time of their death on the same 
basis as for other good leavers. Vested options may be 
exercised at any time within the six months after the 
date of cessation, after which they will lapse.

Paid only until employment ceases or for notice 
period depending on the reason for cessation.

Cessation during the financial year or after the financial 
year end, but before payment date, may result in bonus 
being payable (pro-rated for the proportion of the 
financial year worked unless the Committee determines 
otherwise). Such bonuses may be settled wholly in cash.

Bonuses delivered in shares represent the bonus the 
Executive Director has already earned and carry no 
further performance conditions. Awards will normally 
be released in accordance to the usual schedule, unless 
the Committee determines that awards should be 
released at the time the individual ceases employment. 
Awards will normally be released in full unless the 
Committee determines otherwise. If the participant 
dies, awards will normally be released at the time of 
their death on the same basis as for other good leavers.

Awards will normally vest and be released at the usual 
time. However, the Committee may determine that 
awards should vest at the time the individual ceases 
employment and be released at that time or should 
be released at some other time after cessation and 
before the ordinary release date – such as following the 
end of the performance period in the case of an award 
to which a holding period would otherwise apply. The 
extent of vesting will take into account the extent to 
which the relevant performance conditions have been 
met. Awards are usually scaled back pro-rata to take 
account of the proportion of the original performance 
period that has elapsed when the individual leaves (but 
with the Committee having discretion not to scale back 
or to reduce the scaleback). If the participant dies, 
awards will normally vest at the time of their death on 
the same basis as for other good leavers. Vested awards 
subject to a holding period will be released from that 
holding period at the usual time, unless the Committee 
determines the holding period should end when the 
individual leaves employment.

Other
payment

None.

Possible disbursements 
such as legal costs and 
outplacement services.

Possible disbursements such as legal costs and 
outplacement services.

112

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Change of control policy 
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the LTIP awards will vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into 

account the extent that the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been satisfied and, unless the Committee 

determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed. DBSP awards will normally be released in full, 

unless the Committee determines otherwise. Alternatively, the Committee may permit an Executive Director to exchange their 

awards for equivalent awards over shares in a different company. If the change of control is an internal reorganisation of the 

Company, Executive Directors will ordinarily be required to exchange their awards (rather than awards vesting), and the Committee 

may also require the exchange of awards in other circumstances, as it considers appropriate. If other corporate events occur such 

as a winding-up of the Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion of the Committee, may 

materially affect the current or future value of the Company’s shares, the Committee may determine that awards will vest on the 

same basis as set out above for a change of control. 

Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee consulted with the Company’s largest shareholders prior to finalising this Policy. The Committee will continue to 

monitor shareholder views when setting future executive remuneration strategy and will consult with shareholders prior to any 

significant changes to the Policy. The Committee takes full account of the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views 

in determining the remuneration arrangements in operation within the Company. 

Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company 
The Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of the wider employee population across the Company when 

setting Executive Director remuneration, and considered this as context when reviewing the Policy. While the Committee has not 

consulted employees directly on the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, the Committee is made aware of information such 

as workforce demographics, diversity initiatives, training programmes, engagement levels and cultural initiatives, as well as the 

remuneration principles and policies that apply to the wider workforce. It is expected that future salary increases for Executive 

Directors will be ordinarily no greater in percentage terms than those awarded to the general employee population, except in 

exceptional circumstances. 

Members of the Company Leadership Team are invited to participate in the LTIP, in order for there to be alignment between the 

objectives of the Executive Directors and senior management. We also continue to encourage employees to become investors in 

the Company by retaining legacy share awards and through its all-employee share schemes. 

External appointments 
Executive Directors may hold external directorships if the Board determines that such appointments do not cause any conflict of 

interest. Where such appointments are approved and held, it is a matter for the Board to agree whether fees paid in respect of the 

appointment are retained by the individual or paid to the Company. 

113

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued
Alignment of Remuneration Policy

Alignment of Remuneration Policy with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code

Governance in practice

The Remuneration Committee is committed to good corporate governance and as such takes into account a broad range of factors 

when determining its Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The Committee considered both legal and regulatory requirements, 

associated guidance, and the views of shareholders and their representative bodies. Below is an outline of how the Committee 

works to ensure the principles of Provision 40 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code are met.

Clarity

Remuneration arrangements should 

Alfa is committed to clear and transparent reporting and communication with 

be transparent and promote effective 

its stakeholders. The Committee actively engages with our shareholders on key 

engagement with shareholders and 

decisions and Policy matters, when required. 

the workforce.

The Alfa Remuneration Policy is aligned with longer-term shareholder interests 

and structured to promote the Group’s financial and strategic priorities. 

Simplicity

Remuneration structures should avoid 

Alfa’s approach to its remuneration framework focuses on simplicity. The framework 

complexity and their rationale and 

operation should be easy to understand.

comprises three core elements to remuneration: 
Fixed pay. This element comprises base pay, taxable benefits and pension. 
Short-term incentives. This element relates to an annual performance-related 
bonus which incentivises delivery against both financial and non-financial measures. 

In total, 50% of any bonus earned is paid in cash with 50% deferred into shares. 
Long-term incentives. This element relates to longer-term value creation through 
the LTIP. 

Risk

Remuneration arrangements should ensure 

The remuneration arrangements are split between short-term and long-term rewards 

that reputational and other risks from 

coupled with holding periods, deferred elements, and malus and clawback provisions 

excessive rewards, and behavioural risks 

to drive the right behaviours to incentivise the Executive Directors to deliver long-

that can arise from target-based incentives 

term sustainability of the business and shareholder returns. 

plans are identified and mitigated.

As a wider control, malus and clawback provisions apply to all participants of our long-term 

incentive plans. The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to override formulaic 

outcomes where these are not considered reflective of underlying performance. 

Predictability

The range of possible values of rewards 

The Remuneration Policy sets out scenario charts illustrating base pay, short-term 

to individual Directors and any other 

incentives and longer-term incentive outcomes under threshold, target and maximum 

limits or discretions should be identified 

performance scenarios.

and explained at the time of approving 

the Policy.

Proportionality

The link between individual awards, 

The Committee assesses performance against a range of financial and non-financial 

the delivery of strategy and the long-

measures linked to our business strategy. 

term performance of the Company 

The Committee has the ability to override formulaic calculations and apply discretion. 

should be clear. Outcomes should 

The Committee regularly reviews pay policies for the wider workforce and is mindful 

not reward poor performance.

of this when setting remuneration for Executive Directors. 

Alignment to culture

Incentive schemes should drive 

These should include consideration of performance metrics, governance 

behaviours consistent with Company 

requirements and engagement with stakeholders.

purpose, values and strategy.

114

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Annual Report on Remuneration 2023

This section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration earned in 2023 and the proposed remuneration 

for 2024, and will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2024 AGM. The following sections on pages 115 to 125 have been audited: 

Single figure remuneration, Long-Term Incentive Plan – awards vesting in the year, Pension entitlements, Payments for loss of Office, 

Payments to past Directors and Statement of Directors’ Shareholdings and Scheme interests.

Single total figure of remuneration
The audited table below sets out the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company during 1 January 2023 

to 31 December 2023 and for comparison, the amounts earned during the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022.

£’000s
Executive Directors
Andrew Page1

2023
2022
Andrew Denton1 2023
2022
Duncan Magrath 2023
2022
Matthew White 2023
2022

Non-Executive Directors
Chris Sullivan

2023
2022
2023
2022
2023

2022
2023

2022

Steve Breach

Adrian 

Chamberlain
Charlotte 

de Metz

Salary  
and fees

Benefits2

Pension3

Total fixed 
remuneration

Annual
bonus4

Long-term
incentives5

Total variable 
pay

Total figure 
remuneration

25
23
25
23
289
275
231
220

65
65
65
65
65

65
55

55

1
5
3
4
13
13
14
14

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
17
16
14
13

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

26
28
28
27
319
304
259
247

65
65
65
65
65

65
55

55

–
–
–
–
147
265
121
171

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
– 
–
420
1,201
224
480

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
567
1,412
345
630

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

26
28
28
27
886
1,770
604
898

65
65
65
65
65

65
55

55

1.  From 2022 Andrew Page and Andrew Denton received reduced salaries, which were set at the London living wage.
2.  Benefits for Executive Directors corresponds to the taxable value of benefits receivable during the relevant financial year and principally include 

Company car allowance (or cash equivalent), life assurance, travel insurance and private medical insurance.

3. Pension – Andrew Page and Andrew Denton have opted out of the pension scheme. Duncan Magrath and Matthew White receive a cash payment 

in lieu of a pension contribution.

4. Annual bonus – corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the relevant financial year. For the CFO and COO, the values disclosed in the table 

above include the gross value of the amount of bonus deferred into shares.

5.  The 2022 LTIP figure: the value of the award has been restated using the share price at the date of vesting. The 2023 figure: relates to 91.95% of the 

2021 LTIP awards which will vest on 29 April 2024 following the achievement of the TSR and EPS targets for the three-year period ended 
31 December 2023. The value of these awards has been calculated using the three-month average share price to 31 December 2023 of 1.55p.

All-employee workforce remuneration at Alfa 
The Committee takes into consideration the reward, incentives and conditions available to colleagues when considering the 

remuneration of Executive Directors and senior management. Our remuneration principles are consistent for all our employees. The 

key difference in our executive remuneration, compared to the approach to remuneration across our workforce, is that remuneration 

for our Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay and linked to the delivering of strategic objectives.

115

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

Approach to remuneration across Alfa

Salary

Set considering market rates, roles, skills, experience, and individual performance. Alfa continues 

to review salaries Company-wide to ensure that we remain a competitive employer within the 

Allowances and benefits

local market.
Alfa provides a number of financial benefits and allowances, including travel insurance, life 

Pension

Annual incentives

Long-term incentives

assurance, smart working allowance and Company loan scheme.
Alfa offers employees access to a Self Invested Personal Pension, in which Alfa will match employee 

contributions up to 6%.
Alfa operates a discretionary profit share bonus scheme which reflects the Alfa ethos that we are all 

striving towards the same goal and share in the profits of the Company.
Senior grades participate in a long-term incentive arrangement, with both performance shares and 

restricted shares, recognising the markets in which we compete for talent. At other levels, awards 

are typically made in restricted shares only.

During the year, the Committee received reports from the Chief People Officer on pay and conditions across Alfa, and on 

the recruitment and retention experience. We took these into account when determining executive remuneration. We have 

established channels in place to inform our colleagues and help them understand how executive remuneration and wider pay 

policies are aligned, although we continue to develop how best to engage with employees. Further detail on Alfa’s approach to 

employee engagement is provided on page 52.

Rewarding our people and wider workforce engagement
Alfa’s approach to all-employee reward is focused on providing a competitive package to attract, retain and incentivise our 

employees to deliver for our customers, business and shareholders. Salaries for Executive Directors, senior managers and the rest 

of the workforce are all determined with reference to the same factors such as technical expertise, experience and performance, 

and increases across these populations are reviewed to ensure they are broadly aligned. The Committee also took an active role 

in determining rewards for the Company Leadership Team. Further information on key initiatives for our people and what makes 

Alfa unique can be found in the People section on pages 52 to 66. In addition to a competitive salary, all employees receive the 

opportunity to earn a performance-related bonus, private medical care, matched contribution pension and death-in-service life 

assurance. The Company Leadership Team and certain employees are eligible to participate in long-term incentive schemes. During 

the review of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Committee sought input from the Executive Directors, ensuring that any 

conflict of interest was suitably mitigated. It was concluded that the existing model of base salary; annual bonus; and a three-year 

LTIP with a two-year holding period was well understood by the business, supported Alfa’s culture and continued to be appropriate 

to drive business performance going forward.

Context to remuneration decisions
The Committee’s decision-making this year has taken into account a range of internal and external factors including the Committee’s 

responsibility for reviewing remuneration and related policies for employees throughout the Group. This ensures we take the reward, 

incentives and conditions available to colleagues into account when considering the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior 

management. The business acted in line with the section 172 governance guidelines while continuing to deliver exceptional results 

for shareholders. In particular, the Committee was mindful that: (i) During the year the Board upgraded estimates to shareholders 

and the continuing strong cash generation enabled the payment of two special dividends along with the regular dividend to 

shareholders; and (ii) The business has continued to take appropriate actions to support our colleagues and neutralise the impact on 

business performance of the effects of the macroeconomic climate and continued uncertainty surrounding the impact of, in 

particular, the rise of interest rates, inflation and increasing energy costs.

116

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Base salary
The Committee determined that the salary increase for the CFO, Duncan Magrath, and COO, Matthew White, for the period from 

1 January 2023 would be 5%. The Chairman, Andrew Page, and CEO, Andrew Denton, continued to receive the legal minimum salary 

requirement, which reflected the London Living Wage.

2023 annual bonus
The 2023 annual bonus performance measures were selected to reflect the Company’s annual and long-term objectives and its 

financial and strategic priorities, as appropriate. Performance targets are set to be stretching, taking into account a range of 

reference points, including the Company’s budget and third party analyst forecasts, as well as the Group’s strategic priorities. 

Duncan Magrath and Matthew White both participated in the 2023 annual bonus (which combines a cash award and conditional 

deferred shares award). The Executive Chairman and CEO have waived their entitlement to a bonus for the 2023 performance year.

In respect of the annual bonus, the targets were weighted towards financial metrics, with 75% of the award measured on the revenue 

and operating profit of the Company. The outcome of this element of the bonus can be decreased by a modifier based on the 

operating free cash flow conversion, being cash flow generated from operations after deducting capital expenditure as a percentage 

of operating profit EBIT. A new ESG measure was introduced for the 2023 annual bonus. The ESG measure consists of two individual 

elements, one assessing overall employee retention and the other overall employee engagement, which have a combined weighting 

of 5% of total bonus opportunity. The remaining 20% is subject to achievement of individual personal objectives. Further details on 

performance outcomes for the non-financial measures are shown in the second table.

The following table sets out the targets, actual performance against these targets and accordingly, the applicable pay-out for the 

2023 annual bonus:

2023 annual bonus outcome

Performance 
measure

Weighting 
(based on 
100% max)

Threshold 
performance

50% Target 
performance 
required

Maximum 
performance 
required

Actual 
performance

Maximum opportunity (% salary)

Annual 
Bonus value 
for threshold 
and 
maximum 
performance 
(% of max)

Percentage 
of maximum 
performance 
achieved

37.5%
37.5%
Modifier

£101.8m
£26.5m
90%

£105.5m
£30m

£109.2m
£31.9m
100%

£102.0m 0% – 100%
£30.1m 0% – 100%
0.9 – 1.0

115%

2.2%
54.6%
1.0

Actual annual bonus value 
achieved (% of salary)

Duncan 
Magrath
125%
1.0%
25.6%
1.0

Matthew 
White
125%
1.0%
25.6%
1.0

Revenue
Operating profit 
Cash flow 

conversion
TOTAL financial 
ESG measures
Employee 

retention
Employee 

engagement
Personal 

performance

TOTAL
Total payable (£)

90%

80%

97%

80.5%

2.5%

2.5%

20%

100%

21.3%

26.6%

26.6%

100%

3.1%

3.1%

100%

3.1%

3.1%

0% – 100%

18.2%

19.3%

51.0%
£147,473

52.1%
£120,519

117

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

Performance against non-financial measures
We introduced our first annual bonus ESG performance measures in 2023, which assessed two individual elements, one overall 

employee retention and the other overall employee engagement. Both achieved measures which have a combined weighting of 5% 

of total bonus opportunity. 

Employee engagement, based on the average quarterly results from the 2023 Pulse survey, achieved 80.5%. This assessment of 

employee engagement underpins our commitment to addressing any concerns proactively, thereby prioritising employee well-being. 

Such prioritisation is essential for achieving high employee retention and cultivating a loyal and motivated workforce. In 2023, our 

retention rate stood at 97%, exceeding the threshold of 90%. This accomplishment reflects our ongoing efforts to create a positive 

and fulfilling work environment, which serves as a fundamental metric for our company’s sustained success and stability. Together, 

these metrics highlight our commitment to maintaining a consistent and engaged workforce.

The Committee considered a performance assessment report for the CFO and COO showing the extent of their achievement against 

the individual personal strategic and operational measures agreed by the Committee. As with the financial elements of the Annual 

Bonus, the Committee was satisfied that the scale of Executive Directors’ achievements this year. The personal measures described 

above are assessed with reference to the following objectives:

Duncan 

Magrath

Objective
Finance structure

Commentary on performance achieved
•  Built greater resilience into the Finance team through improved documentation of processes, 

enhancement of core skills, and cross regional support. 

•  Improved speed of delivery of information and improved forecasts and analysis to support 

business decisions.

Strategic

•  Developed a comprehensive strategic model from key insights and learning to effectively 

inform strategic thinking during the Board Strategy Day.

Investor relations

•  Increased investor relations activities, engaging with multiple new shareholders, leading to 

the addition of a number of new entrants on the share register.

Risk and Insurance •  Reviewed risk and insurance arrangements. Transitioned to a new insurance broker, resulting 

Matthew 

People

White

in improved cover and savings on renewal premiums.

Achievement 
•  The target to build a comprehensive client facing team of over 370 employees was met.

72.7%

•  A comprehensive review of the talent management process was undertaken to clarify 

the approach and simplify the process. This was re-launched to the organisation and 

well received.

Software

•  Consistently delivered software enhancements meeting expected timelines, maintaining high 

quality standards, and adhering to estimated costs.

•  Defined and implemented our Alfa Development Model, improving flow and value to our 

customers. Significant changes were implemented to the structure of the Product Engineering 

team, and processes were streamlined to facilitate easier collaboration and enhance clarity 

in roles.

Delivery

•  Successful execution of implementation projects, demonstrating excellent progress in 

delivery throughout the year.

•  Confirmed plans for the move to partner-led delivery. Started the implementation of those 

plans, including the assignment of one partner team member to an Alfa Start implementation.

Strategy

•  Confirmed market definition and sizing for tier 2 and 3 US auto finance, refined Alfa Start 

strategy for this market. 

•  Reviewed further strategic opportunities, updated Alfa’s documented strategy, and defined 

further projects for 2024.

Achievement  

77.1%

118

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Performance against annual bonus targets
Based on the achievements listed above, the Committee agreed that the final vesting under the 2023 bonus would be 51.0% 

of the maximum for Duncan Magrath and 52.1% of the maximum for Matthew White. In confirming this outcome, the Committee 

took into consideration the broader financial and operational performance of Alfa during the year, and the strong and effective 

leadership demonstrated by the Executive Directors. It was determined that no adjustments were required to the formulaic 

outcome. In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, 50% of these bonus amounts will be paid in cash, with the remaining 

50%, after deduction of tax, to be deferred into an award of Alfa shares with a minimum holding period of three years.

Executive
Duncan Magrath
Matthew White

Base salary
£288,750
£231,000

Maximum
opportunity
(% salary)
125%
125%

Performance
outcome
(% of maximum)
51.0%
52.1%

Bonus outcome
£
147,473
120,519

Long-Term Incentive Plan – awards vesting in the year
Awards granted to Executive Directors in April 2021 were subject to EPS growth and relative TSR performance over a three-year 

period ended 31 December 2023.

The EPS targets (applying to 50% of each award) required EPS for the year ending 31 December 2023 of 5.4p for 25% of that element 

to vest, rising to full vesting if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2023 was 7.6p or higher. The Group’s 2023 EPS outturn of 7.9p 

warrants 100% vesting of this element of the award.

The TSR element (applying to 50% of each award) required the Group’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median against the 

constituents of the FTSE Small Cap index (excluding investment trusts and the Company) for 25% of that element to vest, rising to 

full vesting if Alfa’s TSR ranked at or above the upper quartile against the comparator group. Alfa’s TSR over the period was 69.6%, 

which was at the 70th percentile versus the comparator group. This outcome warrants 83.9% vesting of this element of the award.

The Committee determined, after careful consideration of business performance and the interests of Alfa’s stakeholders such as 

shareholders, customers, and employees, that the formulaic outcome was appropriate. Consequently, 91.95% of the total award 

will vest.

Awards are scheduled to vest on 29 April 2024, and both Executive Directors’ awards will be subject to a two-year holding period, 

with a release date of 29 April 2026. Details of the awards to Executive Directors are set out in the table below:

Duncan Magrath
Matthew White

No. of
shares
granted
300,218
160,116

Proportion of
award vesting
(% maximum)
91.95%
91.95%

No. of
shares
vesting
276,050
147,227

Value attributable
to share price
growth1
£40,855
£21,789

Face value
of shares
vesting2
£420,148
£224,078

1.  The value of the award which is attributable to share price growth. Based on the share price at grant of £1.374.
2.  The amounts shown are indicative vesting values based on the average share price for the three-month period to 31 December 2023 of £1.522.

119

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

Long-Term Incentive Plan – awards granted in the year
Share awards were made to the Executive Directors under the LTIP on 6 April 2023 equivalent to 150% of salary for the CFO and 100% 

of salary for the COO. The Executive Chairman and CEO have waived their entitlement to participate in the 2023 LTIP.

Executive

Date of award

Face value  
(% of salary)

Number of
shares granted

Average share
price at grant 
(£)

Award value

Threshold of
vesting (% of
face value)

Duncan Magrath

6 April 2023

150%

320,833

1.35

£433,125

25%

Performance period
1 January 2023 to  

31 December 2025
1 January 2023 to  

Matthew White

6 April 2023

100%

171,111

1.35

£231,000

25%

31 December 2025

1.  The share price used to calculate the number of performance shares was £1.35, the average five-day share price preceding the date of the award 

(6 April 2023). This represents the face value of the share awards.

The LTIP awards are subject to two equally weighted performance metrics:

Measure
2023
Total shareholder return

Description

Weighting

Threshold/target Maximum target

Measured with reference to the FTSE Small Cap index 

50%

Median

Upper quartile

(TSR)
Earnings per share (EPS) Measured with reference to EPS performance in the 

excluding investment trusts and the Company

50%

9.36p

11.4p

year ending 31 December 2025

Straight-line vesting occurs between threshold and maximum for both TSR and EPS elements of the award.

The three-year period over which performance will be measured begins on 1 January of the year the awards are granted and ends on 

31 December of the third year. Any awards vesting for performance will be subject to an additional two-year holding period, during 

which malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.

Pension entitlement
The only element of remuneration that is pensionable is basic annual salary. A cash payment in lieu of pension contributions are 

payable to the CFO and COO, at a rate of 6% of salary as aligned with the broader workforce.

External appointments
Executive Directors are allowed to accept one appointment outside the Company, with the prior approval of the Board. Any fees may 

be retained by the Director, although this is at the discretion of the Board. During 2023 and up to the date of this report, none of the 

Executive Directors who held office during the year under review held external appointments for which they received a fee.

Payments for loss of office
There were no payments for loss of office during the year or prior year.

Payments to past Directors
There were no payments to past Directors for loss of office during the year or prior year.

120

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Fees for the Non-Executive Directors
The fees were agreed on appointment. The Board reviewed the rates of pay for Non-Executive Directors over the year to ensure 

they remain aligned with market levels. No changes are proposed to NED fees for 2024. A summary of current fees is shown below:

£’000s
Steve Breach
Adrian Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz
Chris Sullivan

Basic fee
55
55
55
–

Audit and Risk Chair
10
–
–
–

Remuneration Chair
–
10
–
–

Senior Independent Director
–
–
–
65

There is no additional fee payable to the Chair of the Nomination Committee.

Percentage change in Executive and Non-Executive Director remuneration
The table below shows the percentage increase/decrease in each Director’s salary/fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 

2020 and 2023 compared with the average percentage increase in each of those components of pay for the UK-based employees of 

the Group as a whole.

Disclosure for all Directors in addition to the CEO has been added in 2020 in line with the requirements under the EU Shareholder 

Rights Directive II and, over time, a five-year comparison will be built up. Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC employs only the 

Directors and therefore a subset of the Group’s employees has been used.

% change for the end of the comparative period to the end of the reporting period

Andrew 
Page 
(Chairman)

Andrew 
Denton 
(CEO)

Duncan 
Magrath 
(CFO)

Matthew 
White 
(COO)

Steve 
Breach 
(NED)

Adrian 
Chamberlain 
(NED)

Charlotte 
de Metz 
(NED)

Chris 
Sullivan 

(NED) Employees

2023

% change in salary/fees
2023 

% change in benefits
2023 

% change in annual bonus
2022 

% change in salary/fees
2022 

% change in benefits
2022 

% change in annual bonus
2021 

% change in salary/fees
2021 

% change in benefits
2021 

% change in annual bonus
2020 

% change in salary/fees
2020 

% change in benefits
2020 

8%

8%

(71)%

(30)%

5%

0%

5%

0%

n/a

n/a

(44)%

(30)%

(93)%

(92)%

(58)%

(69)%

0%

0%

0%

0%

n/a

n/a

(16)%

(17)%

(8)%

(8)%

0%

0%

(8)%

(12)%

43%

40%

n/a

0%

n/a

0%

(7)%

(6)%

12%

16%

n/a

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

0%

7.8%

n/a

1.5%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

0%

n/a

n/a

9%

8%

n/a

5%

7%

n/a

9%

13%

(1)%

% change in annual bonus

n/a

n/a

1.  Duncan Magrath joined the Board in March 2020, the first year he received a bonus was in April 2021, in relation to the 2020 financial year.
2.  Matthew White joined the Board in October 2019, the first year he received a bonus was in April 2021, in relation to the 2020 financial year.
3. Duncan Magrath, Adrian Chamberlain and Charlotte de Metz joined Alfa partway through 2020. In calculating the increase in salaries, the figures 

for 2020 have been adjusted as though they started on the 1 January of that year.

121

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

Director contracts
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are set out below. 

All Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and at 

the AGM up until the start of the meeting.

Steve Breach
Adrian Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz
Andrew Denton
Duncan Magrath
Andrew Page
Chris Sullivan
Matthew White

Date of appointment
9 August 2019
24 April 2020
24 April 2020
6 April 2017
24 April 2020
4 May 2017
18 July 2019
9 October 2019

Executive Directors‘ contracts operate on a six or 12-month rolling notice basis. Non-Executive Directors’ contracts are for fixed 

periods of three years, which may be renewed for up to a maximum of nine years in total.

Total shareholder return (for the period from 25 May 2017 to 31 December 2023)
The graph below shows Alfa’s TSR performance from Admission in May 2017 to 31 December 2023 against the TSR performance of 

the FTSE small cap index (excluding investment trusts). The graph on page 123 shows the rebased TSR performance from 1 January 

2021 to 31 December 2023. The graphs show the total shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the 

reinvestment over the same period of dividend income. As Alfa is a constituent member of the FTSE Small Cap index, the Committee 

considers that it is the appropriate index for comparative purposes. These graphs have been calculated in accordance with the 

Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations.

May-17

Dec-17

Dec-18

Dec-19

Dec-20

Dec-21

Dec-22

Dec-23

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC

FTSE Small Capitalisation Index Ex Investment Trusts

Value

175

140

105

70

35

0

122

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023TSR for the period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023

Value (£) (rebased)

160

120

80

40

0

Jan-21

Dec-21

Dec-22

Dec-23

Alfa rebased

Small Cap rebased

Total CEO single figure of remuneration and variable pay outcome
The table below shows the CEO single figure of total remuneration during financial years from 2017 to 2023.

2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017

CEO single figure 
of remuneration
£27,814
£26,998
£310,236
£337,174
£338,129
£337,944
£349,478

Annual bonus pay-out 
(as a % of maximum opportunity)
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 

LTIP vesting 
(as a % of maximum opportunity)
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 

1.  The CEO waived any eligibility for a bonus from 2017 to 2023.
2.  The CEO waived any eligibility to participate in the long-term incentive awards in respect of the 2017 to 2023 performance years.
3. The CEO agreed to a reduction in salary effective 1 December 2021.

123

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

CEO pay ratio
The table below sets out the pay ratios for the CEO in relation to the equivalent pay for the lower quartile, median and upper 

quartile employees (calculated on a full-time equivalent basis). The ratios have been calculated in accordance with the Companies 

(Miscellaneous Reporting) Requirements 2018. The CEO pay ratio data will be built upon annually until a rolling 10-year dataset is 

produced. The methodology adopted for calculating the ratio was ‘Option A’ which entailed calculating the total full-time equivalent 

(FTE) pay and benefits for all UK employees on the 2023 payroll. Employees were then ranked based on their FTE remuneration 

from low to high in order to identify those whose remuneration placed them at the 25th, 50th (median) and 75th percentile points. 

The CEO’s single total figure of remuneration (STFR) was then measured against these percentiles, to produce the three pay ratios. 

Option A was chosen because it was deemed to be the most statistically accurate method for this reporting purpose. Having 

reviewed the analysis, the Company believes the median pay ratio to be consistent with the Company’s general employee pay, 

reward and progression policies. The Company carries out annual salary reviews and annual reviews of benefits packages. Salary 

awards are made with reference to the outputs of annual industry benchmarking exercises. As per guidance, data relating to 

employees who left part way through the year and/or employees on secondment were excluded from the data set and analysis. 

Information calculated as at 31 December 2023.

Pay ratio table

Year
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019

Year

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

Method
A
A
A
A
A

25th percentile
(lower quartile)
0.5:1
0.6:1
6.1:1
5.7:1
5.7:1

50th percentile 
(median)
0.3:1
0.4:1
4.0:1
4.3:1
4.4:1

75th percentile
(upper quartile)
0.2:1
0.3:1
3.2:1
3.2:1
3.2:1

£’000s

25th 
percentile

50th
percentile

75th
percentile

Total remuneration
Salary only
Total remuneration
Salary only
Total remuneration
Salary only
Total remuneration
Salary only
Total remuneration
Salary

58.8
52.0
51.4
47.2
50.9
46.8
59.5
55.1
59.0
57.1

88.2
80.3
78.2
70.0
77.1
72.2
78.5
73.2
76.2
71.2

118.2
100.7
108.4
91.5
96.7
86.2
106.7
98.1
106.3
95.7

This is the fifth financial year in which the Company has reported information on ratios between CEO and average staff pay under 

the amendments to the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations in 2018. There has been a significant decrease in the pay 

ratio, due to the fact that the CEO agreed to reduce salary to the minimum level in December 2021. As a result, the CEO’s STFR is 

lower in 2022 and 2023 than in previous years. 

Notes:
1.  The CEO advised the Committee that due to his holding in CHP Software and Consulting Holdings Limited, the main significant shareholder in the 
Company, he elected to reduce his salary to the minimum statutory level of remuneration with effect from 1 December 2021. This resulted in the 
CEO’s SFTR being lower in 2022 and 2023 than in previous years. 

2.  The CEO has waived his right to any bonuses or LTIPs, the value of any employee equivalents have been excluded from the employee remuneration 

figures used.

3.  Total remuneration includes benefits receivable during the relevant financial year and principally include life assurance, travel insurance and private 

medical insurance.

124

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and scheme interests
Executive Directors are expected to build and hold Alfa shares of at least 200% of their annual salary to align with the long-term 

interests of shareholders, with a requirement to retain 50% of any share awards vesting until the 200% requirement is met. 

Under the Policy, a post-employment shareholding requirement will apply whereby 100% of the shareholding requirement 

must be held for the first year following departure from Alfa and 50% for the second year. There are no share ownership 

requirements for the Non-Executive Directors. Shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors during 

the year and as at 31 December 2023 are set out in the table below:

Shares owned 
outright at 
31 December 
2022
177,272,843
14,643,305
892,729
230,668
159,649
43,983
14,380
–

Interests in share 
incentive schemes 
which are 
performance-
tested
but unvested3
–
–
147,227
276,050
–
–
–
–

ShareSave
without
conditions2
–
–
11,718
11,718
–
–
–
–

Interests in share 
incentive schemes 
with performance 
conditions
–
–
304,525
570,984
–
–
–
–

Shares owned 
outright at 
31 December
2023
166,635,559
9,280,589
1,083,261
674,992
317,649
43,983
14,380
–

Shareholding 
requirement (% of 
requirement
achieved)1
achieved
achieved
achieved
achieved 
n/a
n/a 
n/a
n/a

Andrew Page
Andrew Denton
Matthew White
Duncan Magrath
Chris Sullivan
Steve Breach
Adrian Chamberlain
Charlotte de Metz

1.  Calculated using the share price of £1.40 (as at 29 December 2023).
2.  Duncan Magrath and Matthew White elected to join the Company ShareSave share scheme for which an option to acquire 11,718 ordinary shares 

at an option exercise price of £1.536 per ordinary share was granted on 30 November 2021. Subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the 
entitlement to exercise the ShareSave option arises during the period 1 January 2025 to 30 June 2025.

3. The 2021 LTIP awards (which vest based on performance to 31 December 2023) will vest on the third anniversary of grant on 29 April 2024.

There have been no changes to shareholdings of the Directors between the year end and the date of this report.

Dilution
Awards under Alfa incentive plans may be satisfied by treasury shares, shares held by the employee benefit trust, the issue of new 

shares or the purchase of shares in the market. Under Investment Association guidelines, the issue of new shares or reissue of 

treasury shares under a plan, when aggregated with awards under all of a company’s other schemes, must not exceed 10% of the 

issued ordinary share capital (adjusted for share issuance and cancellation) in any rolling 10-year period. As at 31 December 2023, 

no new shares or reissue of treasury shares had been used to satisfy awards, and so this limit had not been exceeded.

All-employee share plans
The Company proposes to issue a new ShareSave Scheme each year and all Executive Directors will be entitled to participate on the 

same basis as all other employees.

Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates Alfa’s returns to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy-backs in relation to spend on pay for all 

employees for the period and last financial year.

Total personnel costs (£m) (note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) 
Average number of employees (note 7 to the consolidated financial statements)
Returns to shareholders (£m) (see note 31 for total dividends and value of shares 

purchased during the year taken from the consolidated statement of changes in 

2023
53.1
463

2022
47.1
420

Change
12%
9.7%

equity on page 146)

24.5

28.1

13.7%

125

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceRemuneration Committee Report continued

Implementation of the Remuneration Policy 2024
2024 Executive Directors’ base salary

The Executive Directors’ salaries were reviewed in December 2023. The Chairman, Andrew Page, and CEO, Andrew Denton, indicated 

that they would continue to receive the legal minimum salary requirement, as they are significant shareholders in the Company and 

want to align their future remuneration with those of the other shareholders. The base salary of the Chairman and CEO will increase 

by 10% as at 1 January 2024 to remain in line with the London Living Wage.

In 2022, the Company undertook a review of the Company car scheme and decided that the Company car scheme would be 

disbanded to promote the use of low emission vehicles or other forms of transport. For employees who were eligible to receive a car 

cash allowance, this was rolled into salary with effect from 1 January 2023. To align the Executive Directors with eligible employees, 

the car allowance benefit of £6,000 will be rolled into salary with effect as of 1 January 2024.

The Committee carried out a review of the CFO‘s and COO’s remuneration packages in December 2023 and determined that there 

would be a base salary increase of 1.8%. 

The table below shows the salaries for the Executive Directors as at 1 January 2024, which includes an adjustment for car allowance, 

which will be rolled into salary as of 1 January 2024, and the salary increase in comparison to base salary at 1 January 2023: 

Andrew Page
Andrew Denton
Duncan Magrath
Matthew White

1 January 2023
£24,860
£24,860
£288,750
£231,000

1 January 2024
£27,360
£27,360
£294,000
£235,250

Car allowance 
effective 1 
January 2024 
n/a
n/a
£6,000
£6,000

Underlying % 
salary increase
10%
10%
1.8%
1.8%

1 January 2024 
(including car 
allowance)
£27,360
£27,360
£300,100
£241,300

Salary % increase 
(including car 
allowance)
10%
10%
3.9%
4.4%

2024 annual bonus
The Chairman and CEO have elected to waive their bonus opportunity. The CFO and COO will be entitled to a maximum annual bonus 

of 125% of salary for 2024. The following measures have been selected for the 2024 annual bonus performance year:

Measure
Operating profit
Revenue
Operating free cash flow conversion
Personal performance
ESG

Weighting
37.5%
37.5%
Modifier
20%
5%

The Committee determined that the existing Bonus measures of revenue, operating profit and personal objectives continue to be 

appropriate for the business. 

Each bonus measure has a target. Failure to meet a minimum percentage of the revenue and operating profit target will result in no 

bonus being awarded for that element. Achieving a stretch of operating profit and revenue target will result in the maximum bonus 

being awarded under the formula (subject to the minimum operating profit target being achieved). The operating profit and revenue 

bonus elements can be decreased by the operating free cash flow conversion modifier, if cash performance falls below target based 

on a 24-month period. The ESG measure would consist of two individual elements, one will assess the overall employee retention 

and the second will assess a number of diversity initiatives, the achievement of which, will be evaluated on the overall progress at the 

end of the year. The ESG measure will have a combined weighting of 5% of total bonus opportunity.

As described earlier, the final determination is made by the Committee taking all available factors into account. The detailed bonus 

targets for the coming year are considered to be commercially sensitive. However, the Committee will provide an appropriate 

explanation of the bonus outcomes in the 2024 Directors’ Remuneration Report. In accordance with the Policy, 50% of any bonus 

earned will be deferred into shares for a three-year holding period.

126

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20232024 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The award opportunity will remain at 150% of salary for the CFO and 100% of salary for the COO. Following vesting, awards will be 

subject to a subsequent holding period of two years, with the entirety of any award vesting released after two years. For 2024, the 

Executive Chairman and CEO have elected to waive their LTIP opportunity. The maximum LTIP opportunity under the Policy is 150% 

of salary.

The Committee has agreed TSR and EPS measures for the LTIP, with an equal weighting applied to each measure. EPS targets have 

been calculated based on growth targets from previous year’s actual EPS. The EPS targets set for the 2023 LTIP grant ignored the 

unfavourable impact from the changes in the UK Corporation Tax rate. Despite pre-tax profits in 2023 being higher than 2022, the 

impact of changes in tax rates means that EPS in 2023 was lower than 2022. Consequently, applying the same growth targets to the 

2023 EPS figure has resulted in lower EPS targets for the 2024 LTIP grant compared with the 2023 LTIP grant. 

The comparator group for the TSR is the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap index, excluding investment trusts. Median performance 

over the three-year performance period will result in 25% vesting, with 100% vesting if upper quartile performance is achieved. In 

each case, threshold vesting will be 25% of the maximum. Straight-line vesting occurs between threshold and maximum for both TSR 

and EPS elements of the award.

Measure
2024
Total shareholder return 

Description

Weighting

Threshold/target

Maximum target

Measured with reference to the FTSE Small 

50%

Median

Upper quartile

(TSR)

Cap index excluding investment trusts and 

the Company

Earnings per share (EPS) Measured with reference to EPS performance 

50%

9.2p

11.1p

in the year ending 31 December 2026

Pension and benefits
For 2024, the CFO and COO, in lieu of a pension contribution, will receive a cash allowance of 6% of salary in line with the pension 

contribution available to the wider workforce. As outlined on page 126, from 1 January 2024, the Company car allowance for the CFO 

and COO would be rolled into base salary. There are no further changes proposed to the benefits provided.

2024 Non-Executive Director remuneration
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Company’s share incentive arrangements, nor do they receive any benefits. 

Fees for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually, and are set by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. Following the 

annual review of Non-Executive Director fees, no changes are proposed for the 2024 fees. It was determined that the fees will remain 

at the following level:

Base fee
Additional fee for chairing Audit and Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee 

(subject to maximum fees of £65,000)
Fee for the Senior Independent Director (including chairing Committees)

£55,000

£10,000
£65,000

Remuneration Committee membership
All current members of the Committee are deemed to be independent. Accordingly, the Committee continues to comply with the 

independence requirements set out in the Code. During 2023, there were four formal meetings of the Remuneration Committee, 

all of which achieved full attendance by the Committee members.

The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the corporate governance section of the Annual Report on pages 74 to 134. 

The Executive Directors and the CPO may be invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee in its deliberations, as appropriate. 

No person is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration or is involved in deciding their own remuneration.

127

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governance 
Remuneration Committee Report continued

Remuneration consultants
During the year, the Remuneration Committee and the Company retained independent external advisor to assist on various aspects 

of the Company’s remuneration and share schemes. The Company has continued to retain the services of Ellason LLP as external 

advisors to the Committee for executive remuneration advice and updates on market practice. Ellason’s fees for 2023 were £19,845 

(2022: £23,790). Ellason do not provide any other services to the Group or any of the Directors, and the Committee is satisfied that 

they remain independent. Ellason is a member and signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct, which 

requires that its advice be objective and impartial and does not have any other connection with the Company or its Executive 

Directors.

Statement of shareholding voting
The 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. The Director’s Remuneration Policy was 

approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM. The votes cast were as follows:

Directors’ Remuneration Report (FY2022)
Directors’ Remuneration Policy

For
100%
98.50%

Against Votes withheld
0
0.00%
0
1.50%

As ever, the Committee welcomes any enquiries or feedback shareholders may have on the Policy or any aspect of the work of 

the Committee.

Adrian Chamberlain
Chair, Remuneration Committee
13 March 2024

128

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023Directors’ report

The Directors of Alfa present their report and the audited financial statements for 

the year ended 31 December 2023. This report includes information required by 

the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules 9.8.4R of the UK Financial Conduct 

Authority’s Listing Rules and forms part of the management report as required by the 

Disclosure and Transparency (DTR) Rule 4. Additional information which is incorporated 

by reference into this Directors’ report can be located by reference in the tables below. 

As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Directors’ report includes the disclosures 

in the Strategic report on:

Performance and future development in the business
Important events affecting the Group since the financial year
Climate change emission reporting
Long-term Viability statement
Stakeholder engagement
Employee engagement
Directors who held office during the year

Location in Annual Report 
(page)
1 to 73
182
64 to 67
45 to 47
48 to 53
52 to 53
123

The Group is required to disclose certain information under Listing Rule 9.8.4R in 

the Directors’ report or advise where such relevant information is contained. This 

information can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts:

Listing rule requirement
Details of any long-term incentive schemes
Details of waiver of Director emoluments 

and future emoluments
Shareholder waiver of dividends and 

future dividends
Details of any contract of significance

Location in Annual Report (page)
127

117 and 120

131
See section below headed 

Board statement in respect of Relationship 

‘Relationship Agreement with 

Principal activities
The principal activity of the Alfa Group is 

the provision of software and software-

related services to the auto and equipment 

finance industry. Alfa is a public company 

limited by shares and is incorporated and 

domiciled in England. Its shares are listed 

on the London Stock Exchange. The 

registered office is Moor Place, 1 Fore 

Street Avenue, London, EC2Y 9DT, United 

Kingdom. Alfa’s registration number is 

10713517. The principal activity of the 

Company is that of a holding company. 

The Company’s registrar is Equiniti Limited 

situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, 

Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.

Directors’ interests
The Directors’ interests in and options 

over ordinary shares in the Company are 

shown in the Directors’ Remuneration 

Report on page 103. There has been no 

change in Directors’ interests from the 

end of the financial year and to the date 

of this report.

In line with the requirements of the 

Companies Act, each Director has notified 

the Company of any situation in which 

they have, or could have, a direct or 

Agreement with the controlling shareholder

Controlling Shareholder’

indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly 

Corporate governance statement
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found on page 77 of the 

corporate governance report. The report forms part of this Directors’ report and is 

incorporated by cross reference.

2024 Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 3pm on Wednesday, 1 May 2024 at 

Alfa’s head office at Moor Place, 1 Fore Street Avenue, London, EC2Y 9DT. The Notice of 

Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed at the 2024 AGM, together with 

explanatory notes, will be sent to shareholders as a separate document and made 

available on the Company’s website www.alfasystems.com/en-eu/investors/

shareholder-information.

Amendment of the Articles
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s 

shareholders in a general meeting.

may conflict, with the interests of the 

Company (a situational conflict). These 

were considered and approved by the 

Board in accordance with the Articles 

and each Director was informed of the 

authorisation and any terms on which 

it was given. All Directors are aware of 

the need to consult with the Company 

Secretary should any possible situational 

conflict arise, so that prior consideration 

can be given by the Board as to whether 

or not such conflict will be approved.

129

Financial statementsOther informationStrategic reportCorporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Diversity data as at 31 December 2023
Our gender identity and ethnicity data in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(10) in the 

Financial risk management
The financial risk management objectives 

format set out in LR 9 Annex 2.1. Data is collected by self-disclosure directly from the 

and policies of the Group and the Company 

individuals concerned.

Gender identity or sex

Men
Women
Not specified/prefer not 

to say

No. of 
senior 
positions 
on the 
board 
(CEO, CFO, 
SID and 

Chair) No. in CLT1 
3
1

4
–

% of CLT
75%
25%

No. of 
Board 
members
7
1

% of the 
Board
87.5%
12.5%

–

–

–

–

1.  The CLT composition data excludes the three Executive Directors who are part of the CLT.

Ethnic background

No. of 
senior 
positions 
on the 
board 
(CEO, CFO, 
SID and 

Chair) No. in CLT1

% of CLT

No. of 
Board 
members

% of the 
Board

8
–
–

–

–

–

100%
–
–

–

–

–

4
–
–

–

–

–

4
–
–

–

–

–

100%
–
–

–

–

–

White British or other 

White (including minority-

white groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/

Black British
Other ethnic group, 

including Arab
Not specified/prefer not 
to say

and the exposure of the Group and the 

Company to price risk, credit risk, liquidity 

risk and cash flow risk are disclosed in note 

3 to the financial statements.

Internal controls
Further details of our internal control 

framework can be found in the Audit 

and Risk Committee Report on page 100.

Interest capitalised in 
the period
No interest has been capitalised by Alfa in 

the year ended 31 December 2023 or 

at 31 December 2022.

Profits and dividends
The consolidated profit after tax for 

the year ended 31 December 2023 was 

£23.5m (FY22: £24.5m). The results are 

discussed in greater detail in the Financial 

review on pages 28 to 33. Information on 

dividends is shown in note 31 of the 

financial statements and is incorporated 

into this report by reference. Subject to 

approval at the Annual General Meeting 

on 1 May 2024, a 2023 final dividend of 1.3 

pence per share will be paid on 27 June 

2024 to holders on the register on 31 May 

2024. The ordinary shares will be quoted 

ex-dividend on 30 May 2024. 

1.  The CLT composition data excludes the three Executive Directors who are part of the CLT.

In addition, the Board has decided to 

Research and development
The Group continued to invest in product research and development throughout the 

year. The product is enhanced by both specific customer-driven requirements, some 

of which are paid for by customers, but also by internal development using the skills 

and knowledge from the Development teams but also using feedback from the 

Implementation teams. The amount expensed in the profit and loss account for 

research and development is shown in note 6 to the consolidated financial 

statements. In addition, amounts are capitalised as Other intangible assets, 

which are shown in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.

declare a special dividend of 2.0 pence per 

share, with an ex-dividend date of 2 May 

2024, a record date of 3 May 2024 and a 

payment date of 30 May 2024. This 

follows the payment of two special 

dividends of 1.5 pence and 4.0 pence 

on 9 May 2023 and 6 October 2023 

respectively.

Directors’ insurance and indemnities
Each Director of the Company has the benefit of a qualifying indemnity, as defined by 

section 236 of the Companies Act, and as permitted by the Articles, as well as Directors’ 

130

and Officers’ liability insurance.

Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023