52

Sustainable business
continued

The DEI highlights for our people  
in FY23 include:

 a Investing in technologies to improve 

accessibility, and launching a 
Barrier-Free Experian campaign to make 
progress towards an inclusive and 
barrier-free workplace, and solutions for 
our people, customers and consumers 
with visible or non-visible disabilities.
 a Publishing a Global Approach to Mental 
Health and Wellbeing, supported by a 
new Global Wellbeing Hub, to showcase 
our commitment to providing a 
psychologically safe and healthy 
environment where everyone has good 
mental wellbeing. We have now trained 
over 400 Mental Health First Aiders, 2% 
of our employees and double our 1% 
target.

 a Continuing to support recruitment and 

development of women, to move towards 
our gender-diversity targets for FY24 
(see the table to the right). In FY23, 
representation of women increased to 
34% of our senior leaders. Women 
account for 36% of our mid-level leaders 
and 44% of our total workforce. In 
addition, we continued our focus on 
increasing the representation of Black 
and Hispanic/Latino employees in our US 
business, which increased from 16.9% in 
FY22 to 17.5% in FY23. We will continue 
to drive our focus on reinforcing our 
culture of inclusion and belonging within 
our Asian representation, which 
currently makes up 20.4% of our 
employee population in the USA.
 a Expanding benefits in some regions, 
such as enhanced parental leave in 
North America and Spanish Latin 
America, and menopause healthcare in 
the UK and Ireland, to become more 
inclusive and remove barriers for our 
people.

 a Introducing a global voluntary 

self-identification programme to help us 
better understand our people, so we can 
make more-informed decisions on 
inclusivity and representation. The Count 
Me In programme invites our people, if 
they feel comfortable doing so, to 
disclose some of the things that make up 
their identity, like gender and ethnicity. 

Gender diversity metrics and targets

Representation of women

Senior Leaders1
Mid-Level Leaders
Total workforce1
Directors2

FY21 
Actual
32%
35%
44%
36%

FY22 
Actual
33%
36%
44%
36%

FY23 
Actual
34%
36%
44%
45%

FY24 
Targets 
40%
42%
47%

1  These percentages are based on a total of 22,000 employees globally, of whom 1,068 are senior leaders.
2  Of 11 directors. Please refer to page 94 for more details.

Find out more: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Report

Awards

Find out more: For a full list of awards, please see 
our website

Employee resource groups (ERGs) continued  
to play an important role in our DEI efforts this 
year and supported global campaigns, such  
as our annual Your Mind Matters week to raise 
awareness of mental health. They also ran 
regional activities to celebrate events, 
including International Women’s Day, 
International Men’s Day, International Day of 
Persons with Disabilities, Pride Month, Black 
History Month and Hispanic History Month.

We are working towards a stronger global 
structure for the ERGs. In FY23, we created a 
global portal to showcase all our ERGs and 
associated events, and enable employees to 
join an ERG at the click of a button. The portal 
provides access to a comprehensive resource 
library complete with event replays, podcasts, 
books and articles, and it increases awareness 
of product initiatives employees can get 
involved in to support financial inclusion.  
In FY24, we aim to significantly increase 
membership of our ERGs, connect them  
with development opportunities and enable 
volunteering to support specific communities. 
We will also invite ERG feedback on new 
products and services before taking them  
to market.

Engaging our people 
We run an annual global survey with Great 
Place to Work (GPTW) to understand employee 
sentiment and identify opportunities to 
maximise employee experience. In FY23,  
70% of our employees participated in our 
second annual GPTW survey, up from 58% the 
previous year, demonstrating that our people 

are keen to let us know their views. We  
saw promising improvements, and overall 
engagement increased by four points to 82%.

We also carry out regular pulse surveys to  
look at and measure leadership effectiveness, 
flexibility, culture and simplicity, to help us 
make ongoing improvements for our people. 

Taking part in the GPTW survey is a key part  
of our People strategy, as it helps to position  
us internally and externally as a top tech 
employer based on real feedback from our 
people. Our survey scores and workplace 
practices mean we are now certified as a 
Great Place to Work in 22 countries. In addition, 
Experian was again included in the Fortune 
100 Best Places to Work in 2022 in the USA, 
UK's Best Workplaces 2023 and Best 
Companies to Work for in IT 2023 in Brazil.  
We have also received further external 
recognition for specific aspects of our people 
agenda, including our commitment to inclusion 
of women and LGBTQ+ colleagues, disability 
equality and mental health (see above and  
our DEI Report for more).

We communicate regularly with our people 
through townhalls, listening forums and 
colleague events. Horizon, our market-leading 
employee communications platform, remains 
popular with employees, with 97% registered 
and 88% regularly active on the platform.

We also encourage our people to contribute 
their ideas through our global hackathons.

Experian plc Strategic report53

The Experian Way

The Experian Way represents our values, and the behaviour we expect from 
all our employees in their daily activities.

Delight  
customers

Innovate 
to grow

Collaborate 
to win

Safeguard 
our future

Value 
each other

Find out more: See our website for The Experian Way in full

Rewarding and recognising our people
We continue to celebrate our Experian Way 
behaviours (see above), resulting in us handing 
out over 32,000 employee-nominated 
recognition awards in FY23. 

2. Growing world-beating leaders 
We have created a new global standard for 
leadership across the business this year, 
defining the characteristics of great leadership 
to help develop our leaders across the Group. 
This year, we launched the Leadership 
Exchange – an online portal with access to 
on-demand development and support. Content 
was co-created with our leaders and supported 
by content from external providers such as 
Harvard Mentor Manager and Bravely Coaching. 

We also refreshed our Experian Business 
Network leadership programme and launched 
a new CEO Forum which offers development 
support and access to top leaders within 
Experian. 

In the FY23 annual GPTW survey, our 
leadership-effectiveness score increased two 
points to 82%. In the February 2023 Pulse 
survey, this score further increased to 87%, 
which places us above the World’s Best 
Workplaces Top 25 benchmark for the first time. 

3. Focusing on tech talent 
Attracting, retaining and developing the best 
tech talent is essential for us to realise our 
ambition of becoming a world-class product 
organisation.

With skills gaps in technical talent being felt 
all around the world, we have had to look to 
alternative avenues to grow and develop  
these skills.

We have continued to expand our early-in-
careers programmes to develop young, 
diverse talent through the organisation. 
For example, our Transforme-se (transform 
yourself) programme in Brazil provides 
young people and under-represented groups, 
such as women, people from low economic 
backgrounds and people with disabilities, with 
technical skills training and apprenticeships.  
To date, we received c.8,000 applications and 
have awarded 280 scholarships.

In the UK and Ireland, we doubled the number 
of graduates and apprentices in our 2022 
cohort to over 100, and have strengthened 
our relationships with local schools and 
universities to support students interested 
in STEM subjects.

For FY23, we continued to use 
SmartRecruiters global applicant-tracking 
system. This supported 949,000 global 
applications and helped us facilitate 5,575 
hires. Our top three sourcing channels were; 
LinkedIn (67%), Glassdoor (14%), and the 
Experian global careers site (10%). These 
channels generated a significant amount of 
reach and engagement, building our brand 
attractiveness and awareness. Glassdoor 
had an impressive 6,900,000 interactions with 
our Experian Glassdoor profile pages and 
advertised jobs. Our Experian global careers 
site had 292,000 unique visitors during FY23.

We have a global talent pool within Experian 
for critical technology skills, and we have been 
focusing on creating a world-class digital 
curriculum for tech talent through 
partnerships with Pluralsight and DataCamp. 
We have seen strong uptake rates of these 
learning resources, and we will continue to 
develop the offering and extend it to all 
colleagues.

Transforme-se 
In Brazil, our Transforme-se programme 
provides women, people from low economic 
backgrounds and people with disabilities, with 
technical skills training and apprenticeships.

4. Preparing our organisation  
for growth
We are taking a stronger approach to our 
workforce planning, so we are clearer on what 
skills we need, where we need them, how 
many people we need, and what timeframe we 
need these skills in. This will enable us to plan 
a strategy to ‘buy, build, borrow or bot’ the 
skills required to meet our business objectives. 

We also aim to close key skills gaps by further 
developing our existing employees. Our global 
frameworks help us identify the skillsets we 
have in the organisation, to make sure the right 
people are working on our most critical 
projects at any given time, as well as providing 
employees with a way to view and compare 
potential roles, identify their own skills gaps, 
and access personalised learning paths. 

5. Supporting colleagues with their 
career development 
With top talent increasingly looking for career 
development opportunities within their 
organisations, we have an opportunity to set 
ourselves apart by becoming somewhere 
people come to grow.

We held our second Global Careers Week in 
January 2023, which was attended by 13,000 
employees. This year’s strapline was 'Ignite 
Your Career' which brought to life elements 
that are critical for career development, such 
as knowing yourself, planning your journey, 
learning, and upskilling to deliver excellence. 
Throughout the week, the sessions reinforced 
our commitment to developing our people, our 
investment in our engineering talent and how 
colleagues can take advantage of the learning 
resources that are available to everyone via 
our internal Career Hub (a world-class digital 
curriculum for our people and a one-stop shop 
for career development needs). During the 
week, the Leadership Exchange portal was 
launched to all people managers and senior 
leaders, and more than 1,000 leaders joined a 
fireside chat with our CEO, Brian Cassin, about 
making leadership our competitive advantage.

Our focus on improving employability is 
already bringing positive results. In FY23  
27.7% of our people moved jobs within 
Experian, up from 18.9% last year, and we want 
to grow this further. In this year’s GPTW survey, 
74% of participating employees agreed with 
the statement that ‘I am offered training or 
development to further myself professionally’ 
– up six points from the previous year overall, 
and for tech talent specifically this score 
increased by nine points to 73%.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023Strategic report54

Sustainable business
continued

Working with integrity
Working with integrity is one of our core values. Our Global Code of Conduct, 
available in several languages, sets out clear guidance to help everyone at 
Experian make the right decisions. We regularly review it to determine if 
updates are required and we will publish our next update in the coming year.

The Global Code of Conduct is supported by 
detailed policies on specific topics such as 
anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, gifts and 
hospitality, fraud management, complaint 
management, fair treatment of vulnerable 
consumers, product development and 
marketing, whistleblowing and tax. 

We are committed to creating and maintaining 
a robust, effective and appropriate control 
environment to recognise where opportunities 
for financial crime exist and mitigate the 
associated risk. We establish and maintain 
processes and procedures to monitor, detect 
and prevent acts of financial crime against 
Experian by third parties or employees, or 
through the unlawful use of or access to our 
products, services or data. If any employees 
are found to have committed any financial 
crime, we will take appropriate disciplinary 
and legal action against those involved. 

Our commitment to doing business 
responsibly includes our approach to tax 
affairs, as set out in our Tax Policy, which is 
included in our annual Tax Report. The report 
explains how we manage taxes and how tax 
fits into our broader ESG agenda, provides 
information on our tax governance and details 
our regional corporate tax contributions.

Scan me  
To view our policies and 
statements, including our  
Code of Conduct

Anti-bribery and corruption 
We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery 
and corruption, reinforced by our Global Code 
of Conduct and Global Anti-Corruption 
Framework. We prohibit anyone acting on 
behalf of Experian – including employees, third 
parties and suppliers – from offering or 
accepting a bribe, or making a facilitation 
payment to officials, in connection with our 
business. 

Our Global Gifts and Hospitality Policy sets out 
strict ethical standards relating to gifts, 
entertainment, hospitality, sponsorship, travel 
expenses and donations. We also have 
controls to ensure we conduct any 

Scan me  
To view our 2023 Tax Report

sponsorships, charitable contributions, 
lobbying or political donations ethically and in 
compliance with all relevant laws. 

Suppliers are contractually obliged to ensure 
their employees, agents and subcontractors do 
not pay or receive improper bribes, facilitation 
payments, gratuities or kickbacks. If we 
identify any suppliers as high risk for bribery 
or corruption, we refer them to the Compliance 
team for further due diligence, including an 
assessment of corruption, regulatory and 
reputational risks. 

We conduct periodic assessments to check for 
and mitigate corruption risks as part of our 
Compliance Management Programme. We 
also follow rigorous due diligence procedures 
to identify any risk of improper payments 
during mergers and acquisitions, or when 
we enter into joint ventures. 

Our Finance and Global Sourcing teams have 
training and controls to detect and stop 
improper payments, with support from our 
Global Internal Audit team. If we identify any 
concerns, we promptly investigate them and 
take appropriate action.

Training and compliance 
We strive to create a culture of integrity that 
empowers our people to make the right 
choices. Our Global Code of Conduct clearly 
states that everyone at Experian is accountable 
for managing operational risk across our 
business effectively to safeguard our future. 

All employees (including part-time employees 
and contractors) have to confirm they have read 
and understood our Global Code of Conduct 
when they first join Experian. They are then 
required to acknowledge their understanding of, 
and confirm their commitment to, the Global 
Code of Conduct every year, and we make sure 
they do so through our performance review 
process. We also expect managers to be role 
models for ethical behaviour. 

Any breaches of our Global Code of Conduct 
or associated policies could undermine our 
reputation and the trust of our stakeholders. 
Our Three Lines of Defence risk management 
model reinforces our culture of compliance. 
We encourage people to report any suspected 
policy breach or unethical activity without fear 
of reprisal. Anyone who knows about a 
potential violation, and does not report it, 
could face disciplinary action.

We ask employees to talk to their manager in 
the first instance if they have concerns. They 
can also report any concerns, anonymously if 
they choose, through our externally-facilitated 
24-hour Confidential Helpline. The Helpline is 
open to both employees and third parties, and 
provides support in local languages.

We take any allegations of ethical breaches 
very seriously. All reported concerns are 
investigated promptly by relevant functions, 
such as Human Resources, our Global Security 
Office or Global Fraud Investigations, to identify 
root causes and take appropriate corrective 
action. This year, 71 concerns were reported. 
The majority of these (94%) concerned matters 
related to human resources.

Respecting human rights 
We are committed to upholding the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
(UDHR), the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), the 
International Labour Organization (ILO) 
Standards and the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 

Our commitment to respecting and promoting 
human rights is reflected in our Code of 
Conduct and associated compliance policies – 
which everyone at Experian must confirm their 
commitment to every year. These policies 
make clear that we do not tolerate any 
infringement of human rights in our business 
or our supply chain. 

We have identified the following salient human 
rights for Experian: healthy and safe working 
conditions; workplace security; freedom of 
association; diversity, equity and inclusion; 
absence of modern slavery and forced labour; 
access to grievance mechanisms; data 
protection and privacy; environment and 
carbon emissions. Our statement on salient 
human rights sets out our approach to each of 
these. We recognise that other human rights 
issues may become relevant to Experian in the 
future and we review our salient issues 
regularly, based on best practice.

We are committed to treating all our people 
fairly and with respect. Experian is an 
accredited Living Wage employer in the UK, 
going beyond the legal minimum wage to pay 
employees the amount the Living Wage 
Foundation has calculated to support 

Experian plc Strategic report55

We conduct a risk assessment of all the third 
parties we work with, including suppliers and 
indirect clients. Overseen by our Third Party 
Risk Management team, we assess risks 
related to data security and privacy, business 
continuity, compliance and reputation 
(including bribery and corruption). We will not 
work with – and routinely reject – third parties 
that do not uphold our standards on critical 
issues, such as data security. 

Of the thousands of third parties we work with, 
most fall into the minor or moderate risk 
category in our initial risk assessment. Those 
we consider higher risk – based on factors 
such as the type of product or service they 
provide and the type of data they have access 
to – are subject to more in-depth assessments, 
oversight and controls.

As our first line of defence, the business 
function that has the relationship with the third 
party is responsible for identifying, tracking 
and resolving any issues. We test our controls 
periodically, logging and resolving any issues 
identified through our centralised global 
governance, risk and compliance system. 

We strive to support diverse suppliers through 
our strategic sourcing process, which is 
designed to offer a level playing field for all 
third parties. In the USA, we work with 
organisations such as Disability:IN, the 
National Minority Supplier Development 
Council, the National LGBT Chamber of 
Commerce, the National Veteran-Owned 
Business Association, the US Small Business 
Association and the Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council. These 
organisations support our year-on-year 
growth of registered diverse and small 
business supplier relationships. This year, we 
launched a new supplier diversity website that 
informs potential suppliers in North America of 
our approach to supplier diversity and invites 
diverse suppliers to register with us.

Scan me  
To view the supplier diversity 
website

Experian North America 
achieved a perfect score in 
the Disability Equality Index 
and retained its rating in the 
Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation’s Corporate 
Equality Index as one of the 
best places to work for 
LGBTQ+ employees

a reasonable living. As set out in our updated 
Global Code of Conduct, we support our 
employees’ right to affiliate or not affiliate 
with legally sanctioned organisations or 
associations without unlawful interference.

DEI remains a key focus for Experian, not only 
in relation to our people (see pages 51-52), but 
for our clients, consumers and communities. 
Our focus on improving financial health for all 
supports efforts to close the financial wealth 
gap of underserved communities (see page 
42). We are a signatory to the UN Women’s 
Empowerment Principles and our commitment 
to DEI received further recognition this year. 
For example, we were named in Equileap’s Top 
100 Globally for Gender Equality. Experian 
North America achieved a perfect score in the 
Disability Equality Index and retained its rating 
in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 
Corporate Equality Index as one of the best 
places to work for LGBTQ+ employees. We also 
received a Silver Award from Stonewall for our 
commitment to inclusion of LGBTQ+ people in 
the workplace in the UK and Ireland. Our Global 
DEI Report provides more information on our 
strategy and performance in this area. 

Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out clear 
standards on human rights, and we include 
clauses in our contracts that oblige suppliers 
to protect workers’ rights and freedoms. We 
monitor compliance through our third-party 
risk management framework. We also expect 
suppliers to set similar requirements for their 
own suppliers and subcontractors, to extend 
high standards throughout the supply chain. 

Tackling modern slavery
We recognise that modern slavery can occur 
in any sector, anywhere in the world. We are 
doing all we can to eliminate the practice. 
Experian is a founding member of the 
Slave-Free Alliance (SFA), which brings 
together businesses working towards a 
slave-free world. 

Following implementation of a three-year 
improvement plan based on an initial 
comprehensive assessment by the SFA, we 
have completed a second assessment with the 
SFA this year to identify further opportunities 
to improve our approach to tackling modern 

slavery risks in our business and supply chain. 
A quarterly steering group, headed by our 
Group Chief Procurement Officer, reviews 
and tracks progress.

We undertake an annual assessment of 
high-risk suppliers to ensure they have 
policies and procedures in place to minimise 
the risk of modern slavery. Our process 
involves supplier segmentation, self-
assessment questionnaires, interviews and, 
where appropriate, on-site visits. This year, 
we followed up with a supplier to get further 
evidence related to procedures for visa 
applications for overseas nationals and 
involved our own visa experts to support our 
engagement. Our Modern Slavery Statement 
provides further information on our 
commitment, policies and actions to tackle 
modern slavery risks in our business and 
supply chain. 

Our partnership with Hope for Justice 
supported 544 survivors of modern slavery, 
since October 2020, through advocacy and 
advice services – including helping them prove 
their identity, access credit reports and resolve 
fraudulent debts racked up in their name. An 
additional 13,465 people at risk of exploitation 
have also been engaged through community 
outreach and training to equip them with the 
tools and skills to identify and report modern 
slavery.

Working with suppliers
Our Supplier Code of Conduct represents the 
minimum ethical, labour, human rights and 
environmental standards that all our suppliers 
must meet. As part of their contracts with us, 
all suppliers must confirm they accept our 
standards or have their own equivalent 
standards in place. 

ESG criteria are integrated in our supplier 
selection process alongside commercial 
considerations, including requirements for 
satisfactory governance of areas such as 
bribery, corruption and modern slavery that 
are built into our review processes. We also 
engage with suppliers on climate to help us 
measure and progress towards our Scope 3 
emissions reduction target (see page 60). 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023Strategic report56

Sustainable business
continued

Protecting the environment
We will help tackle climate change and reduce our impact on the 
environment.

As an information services business, our most 
material environmental impact is the carbon 
footprint of our operations and value chain. The 
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) statement sets out our 
commitment to mitigating climate-related 
risks and harnessing opportunities for our 
products and business to support wider 
climate action, in line with the 
recommendations of the TCFD. We also 
monitor and manage other environmental 
impacts. 

External recognition in FY23

CDP Climate Change: ‘A-’ rating

CDP Supplier Engagement Rating: 'A-' rating 

Financial Times: Experian has been named one 
of Europe’s Climate Leaders for 2023 by the 
Financial Times and Statista for the second year 
in a row.

TCFD statement

The climate-related financial disclosures set 
out on pages 56-62 are consistent with the 
TCFD recommendations and recommended 
disclosures (against TCFD categories): 

 a governance (a) and (b) 
 a strategy (a), (b) and (c)
 a risk management (a), (b) and (c) 
 a metrics and targets (a), (b) and (c). 

For strategy disclosures (a) and (b), as we 
continue to upskill internal stakeholders on 
climate change impacts and see our climate 
data and cross-functional collaboration 
mechanisms mature, we expect our approach 
to meeting TCFD recommendations to evolve 
in parallel. 

Governance
The Board oversees our climate strategy, 
including climate-related risks and 
opportunities presented in this TCFD 
statement, and progress towards our targets 
(including our science-based target). See page 
103 for more on the division of responsibilities 
across the Board. 

The Group Operating Committee receives 
regular updates on our climate action plan, 
including progress on strategic drivers to 
address climate-related issues, such as our 
science-based target, the development of our 
Net Zero Transition Plan and our TCFD 
reporting.

The ESG Steering Committee, chaired by the 
Chief Financial Officer, has overall 
responsibility for assessing and monitoring the 
management and performance of all areas of 
ESG, including climate-related risks and 
opportunities. Climate items addressed by the 
ESG Steering Committee this year included 
performance against our targets, development 
of Experian’s Net Zero Transition Plan and 
revision of our Scope 3 emissions methodology 
(see page 60), as well as updates on relevant 
legislation and reporting frameworks. 

The Chief Sustainability Officer is responsible 
at management level for ensuring successful 
implementation of our climate plans and our 
wider ESG strategy, with support from relevant 
teams. See page 39 for more on our ESG 
governance and organisational chart.

Any significant climate-related risks are 
reviewed by the Executive Risk Management 
Committee and the Audit Committee, and 
presented to the Board. We also enter specific 
climate-related risks into our environment 
management systems at Group, country and 
site level, and these become part of our Aspect 
and Impact Register, with plans defined to 
manage the risks, monitor performance and 
drive improvements.

Risk management
We are committed to identifying, assessing and 
managing risks and opportunities presented by 
climate change, both now and in the future.

We manage climate-related risks – strategic, 
financial, operational or regulatory – in the 
same way as our other business risks, as part 
of our overall risk management process for the 
business (see page 78). We apply our 
established four-step framework for managing 
business risks to identify, assess, respond to, 
and report and monitor climate-related risks 
as well as climate-related opportunities:

Step 1: Identification
We identify potential climate-related risks and 
opportunities based on: relevant climate 
change publications and data specific to the 
regions where we operate; disclosures by peer 
companies on their identified climate-related 
risks and opportunities; TCFD guidance and 
reviews on potential risks and opportunities; 
and climate-related risks and opportunities 
previously identified for Experian.

Step 2: Assessment
We evaluate the materiality of identified risks 
and opportunities at least once a year by 
undertaking scenario analyses to assess our 
exposure and vulnerability to climate change 
risks and potential opportunities – in the short 
term (pre-2025), medium term (2025-2030) 
and long term (2030+) – and quantifying the 
potential financial impact of each risk or 
opportunity for our business (see tables on the 
next three pages). These timeframes have 
been chosen taking into account the models 
already used by our Strategy and Risk teams, 
as well as the recognition that climate change 
is an issue that spans beyond 2030.

Step 3: Response
We develop controls to mitigate or adapt to 
identified risks, if these are not already in 
place, as well as measures to capitalise on 

Experian plc Strategic report57

identified opportunities. See more on our 
business management response to specific 
risks and opportunities in the tables below and 
on the following pages. 

Step 4: Reporting and monitoring
Our process for reporting and monitoring 
climate-related risks and opportunities within 
the business, up to Board level, is part of our 
overall ESG governance as described on page 
39. We disclose our most material 
climate-related risks and opportunities in our 
Annual Report and our CDP response. 

Strategy
We assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities across our business units and 
the regions where we operate. Our most 
material risks and opportunities are detailed in 
the tables below and on the following pages.

Material risks are defined as those that have 
the potential to have a significant effect on our 
operations, strategy or financial performance 
if they are not suitably controlled. Material 
opportunities are those that have the potential 
to enhance the financial performance of the 
business. 

This year, we refreshed our assessment of 
material climate-related risks and 
opportunities to take into account changes in 
climate trends or science, as well as emerging 
risks and opportunities. We modelled our 
latest analysis on two climate warming 
scenarios:

 a High-carbon scenario (4°C): A ‘worst-case’ 

scenario of climate change where 
governments fail to introduce policies to 
address climate change beyond those 
already in place, which projects global 

greenhouse gas emissions continuing to rise 
(based on Representative Carbon Pathway, 
RCP8.5). In this scenario, transition risks are 
limited but there are significant physical 
risks associated with rising temperatures 
and weather extremes. RCP8.5 is the 
scenario most widely used by companies, 
governments, and academia. This means a 
high availability of model projections and 
studies to pull from, but also allows for 
comparability. RCP8.5 has several 
assumptions including: high population 
growth, increased coal burning, and a 
continued heavy reliance on fossil fuels. 
However, removing these assumptions, the 
outcomes of RCP8.5 are consistent and 
plausible when compared to other climate 
models.

 a Low-carbon scenario (1.5°C): An ‘aggressive 
mitigation’ scenario that sees early decisive 
policies and action towards a low-carbon 
economy that is sufficient to limit global 
warming to 1.5°C by the end of the century 
(based on the International Energy Agency’s 
(IEA) Sustainable Development Scenario). In 
this scenario, physical risks are limited and 
transition risks predominate. The IEA’s 
Sustainable Development Scenario explores 
a pathway for bringing global energy 
systems to net-zero emissions by 2070. 
Following this pathway would limit global 
warming to 1.8°C (with a 66% probability) 
and would present the best chance of 
limiting warming to 1.5°C by the end of the 
century. The scenario assumes a reduction 
of emissions to 10bn tonnes of CO2e by 2050, 
mostly stemming from the transport and 
power sector, and driven by technological 
progress and regulatory action.

We used these scenarios as they represent 
two opposing pathways: one of rapid policy 
and technological change that helps to limit the 
extent of the physical impacts of climate 
change, and one representing ‘worst case’ 
from a policy perspective such that rising 
greenhouse gas emissions result in significant 
physical climate impacts. We also selected 
these scenarios because of their wide-ranging 
scope, which aligns with the broad range of 
geographies we serve.

Identified risks and opportunities remain 
largely unchanged from previous 
assessments, but we have enhanced our 
disclosures this year to include further 
information on potential financial impacts and 
mitigation activities in relation to each risk and 
opportunity, as set out in the tables below and 
on the following pages. 

Where potential financial impacts are 
quantified, these are based on assumed 
ranges of causal events that preclude 
application of a strict materiality analysis. We 
anticipate a materiality analysis will be enabled 
in future as we further refine our approach to 
quantifying climate-related risks and 
opportunities. In the meantime, we disclose 
estimated ranges, based on plausible 
projections, to indicate an order of magnitude 
of financial impacts associated with specific 
climate-related risks and opportunities. At 
present, there is no material impact of 
climate-related matters on the Group’s 
financial results.

We highlight some of the solutions we have 
developed in relation to climate-related 
opportunities on page 61.

Transition impacts: Risks and opportunities arising from the process of adjusting to a low-carbon economy

Type
Policy and legal

Risk and opportunity factor 
Climate change regulations

Experian risk category 
Operational and regulatory

Time horizon 
Short term

Maturity of assessment 

Potential risks and opportunities

Business management response

Risk: Increased operational expenses  
(less than 1%* of annual revenue)
New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, changes 
to existing regulations or heightened regulatory scrutiny 
could affect how we operate. We could be subject to 
penalties for non-compliance or see an increase in 
operating costs to finance our efforts to meet regulatory 
obligations. Enhanced obligations for climate reporting 
could increase expenses associated with emissions 
tracking, reporting and verification.

We monitor, and engage legal experts on, regulatory and 
industry developments. We have created new roles and 
partnerships to help us understand and prepare for new 
climate-compliance obligations across our regions. Our 
governance and assurance processes are designed to 
help avoid any misstatements in external reporting.

Comprehensive understanding of risk drivers and control measures in place to mitigate, adapt to risk, capitalise on opportunity.

*  These estimates are provided to indicate an order of magnitude of financial impact only. These are not intended to be, nor should they be perceived as, predictions.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023Strategic report92

Board of directors

Nm

Re

Mike Rogers (58)
Chair
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2017, and as 
Chair (and Chair of the Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee) on 24 July 2019.
Other current roles: Mike is the non-executive 
Chair of Admiral Group PLC and Aegon UK.
Skills and contribution: Mike brings over 
30 years of banking and financial services 
experience, with a reputation for strategic 
insight and focused execution. His current and 
previous board-level experience, both executive 
and non-executive, is of huge value to the 
Experian Board.
Experience: Mike was Group Chief Executive 
Officer of LV= Group from 2006 until 2016, during 
which time he grew the organisation into a 
significant player in the life and general insurance 
market. Before that, Mike was with Barclays plc 
for more than 20 years, holding a number of 
senior roles, most recently as Managing Director, 
UK Retail Banking. He was previously a 
non-executive director of the Association 
of British Insurers and NatWest Group plc. 

Brian Cassin (55)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer on 30 April 2012, and as Chief Executive 
Officer on 16 July 2014.
Other current roles: Brian is a non-executive 
director (and the Senior Independent Director) 
of J Sainsbury plc. He also sits on its Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Skills and contribution: Brian brings strong 
leadership, a clear view of strategic objectives 
and decisive management skills to this role. 
He has strong financial and commercial 
acumen and a broad range of operational 
competencies. His non-executive role 
augments his strong board-level experience.
Experience: Brian was previously the Chief 
Financial Officer of Experian and, before that, 
Managing Director at Greenhill & Co. He has 
also held various senior roles at Baring 
Brothers International and the London 
Stock Exchange.

Lloyd Pitchford (51)
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014.
Other current roles: Lloyd is a non-executive 
director (and chairs the Audit Committee) of 
Bunzl plc.
Skills and contribution: Lloyd is a qualified 
accountant and holds an MBA. He has deep 
financial, operational and strategic skills, 
built through a career working in a diverse 
range of globally complex growth-oriented 
organisations. He brings additional perspectives 
to Experian from his non-executive role with 
Bunzl plc. Lloyd sponsors Experian’s 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
and employee mental health programmes.
Experience: Lloyd has over two decades of 
experience in financial and commercial 
leadership positions across a range of dynamic 
industries; including 13 years as Group Chief 
Financial Officer. Before joining Experian, Lloyd 
held a wide portfolio of finance, technology and 
operational responsibilities: as Chief Financial 
Officer of Intertek Group plc; in senior finance 
roles (including Group Financial Controller) at 
BG Group plc; and in financial and commercial 
roles at Mobil Oil. 

Au

Nm

Re

Au

Nm

Re

Au

Nm

Re

Caroline Donahue (62)
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Other current roles: Caroline is on the Board of 
GoDaddy Inc., Versapay and Emerge America.
Skills and contribution: Caroline brings 
extensive experience of international markets 
and technology as well as knowledge of 
consumer sales and marketing, innovation and 
consumer-centricity. The Board also benefits 
from her insight and extensive experience in 
mass-market, digital, multi-channel and B2C 
distribution, marketing, and brand and sales 
management.
Experience: Caroline previously held roles at 
Intuit where she was Executive Vice President, 
Chief Marketing and Sales Officer; Senior Vice 
President, Sales and Channel Marketing; and 
Vice President and Director of Sales. She also 
held sales and channel management roles at 
Knowledge Adventure, NeXT Computer and 
Apple, Inc. Caroline was previously on the 
Executive Committee of Northwestern C100, 
the Board of the Computer History Museum, 
and a mentor for She-Can.

Luiz Fleury (66)
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board on 8 September 2015.
Other current roles: Luiz is a Board member 
of DOTZ S.A.
Skills and contribution: Luiz has spent most 
of his career in financial services and has 
extensive insight and deep local knowledge of 
the Brazilian financial market. His considerable 
boardroom experience adds to the strength, 
depth and effectiveness of our Board.
Experience: Luiz has held Chief Executive roles 
at Cetip S.A., Banco Ibi and Redecard, together 
with senior finance and investment positions at 
Banco Citibank S.A., Banco Marka S.A. and C&A 
Brenninkmeyer Brasil. Luiz was President and 
a member of the Executive Board at Cetip S.A., 
and a Board member of Grupo Sequóia de 
Logística, Eneva S.A., Discount Malls do Brasil, 
Banco Ibi, FHV Holdings Ltda., Magnopus, Inc. 
and Carrefour Brazil (the trading name of 
Atacadão S.A.).

Jonathan Howell (60)
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2021, and as 
Chair of the Audit Committee on 1 July 2022.
Other current roles: Jonathan is the Chief 
Financial Officer of The Sage Group plc.
Skills and contribution: Jonathan has a wealth 
of financial, strategic, technology and regulatory 
expertise, encompassing both B2B and B2C, 
which is of huge benefit to Experian. He is a 
highly regarded FTSE 100 Chief Financial Officer, 
and also brings considerable executive and 
non-executive UK-listed boardroom experience. 
Jonathan's financial expertise and experience 
ensure effective leadership of our Audit 
Committee.
Experience: Jonathan was previously an 
independent non-executive director and Chair 
of the Audit and Risk Committee of The Sage 
Group plc., for five years while serving as Group 
Finance Director of Close Brothers Group plc for 
ten years until November 2018. Before that he 
was Group Finance Director at London Stock 
Exchange Group plc for nine years and has also 
been a non-executive director of EMAP plc and 
Chair of FTSE International. The early part of 
Jonathan's career was at Price Waterhouse 
where he qualified as a chartered accountant.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Board LeadershipCraig Boundy (48)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board on 21 July 2022. 
Skills and contribution: Craig has excellent 
commercial and operational expertise, and 
will continue to progress Experian’s journey 
of innovation-led growth. He has a strong 
commitment to fostering diversity, equity and 
inclusion within Experian, and is the global lead 
for race and ethnicity.
Experience: Craig’s roles at Experian have 
included Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of 
Experian North America, and Managing Director 
of Experian UK and Ireland. Previously, he was 
CEO of Global Operations at Logica UK, Chief 
Operating Officer (COO) at Cable & Wireless’ 
businesses in Europe, US and Asia, and Sales 
Director and COO at Energis. His early career 
was with BT.

93

Au

Nm

Re

Kathleen DeRose (62)
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2022.
Other current roles: Kathleen is a Professor at 
the New York University (NYU) Stern School of 
Business, the Director of the NYU Stern Fubon 
Center for Technology, Business, and Innovation 
and the Director of its FinTech Initiative. She is 
a non-executive director of London Stock 
Exchange Group plc, Voya Financial, Inc. and 
Enfusion, Inc.
Skills and contribution: As well as bringing 
significant FinTech experience to the Experian 
Board, Kathleen brings financial services 
expertise with a focus on investment 
management. She also has considerable 
non-executive listed boardroom experience.
Experience: Prior to her current roles, Kathleen 
had an extensive career in global financial 
services, including at Credit Suisse, Hagin 
Investment Management, Bessemer Trust, 
Deutsche Asset Management, and Chase 
Manhattan Bank.

Au

Nm

Re

Alison Brittain (58)
Senior Independent Director
Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2020, 
and as Senior Independent Director and Chair of 
the Remuneration Committee on 21 July 2022.
Other current roles: Alison is Chair of English 
football's Premier League and Dunelm Group 
plc (where she chairs the Nominations 
Committee), a non-executive director of British 
Airways plc, and Chair and a Trustee of the 
Prince's Trust Group.
Skills and contribution: Alison is a highly 
versatile business leader and general manager, 
who holds an MBA and brings considerable 
experience of operating in consumer-facing 
service environments. She has over 25 years’ 
senior management experience in major 
financial institutions and consumer businesses. 
The Board benefits from her significant 
board-level experience.
Experience: Alison was previously CEO of 
Whitbread PLC, group director with Lloyds 
Banking Group and a board director of 
Santander UK PLC. She held senior roles at 
Barclays Bank, and was a non-executive director 
of Marks & Spencer Group PLC. She has been 
a member of the UK Prime Minister's Advisory 
Councils, under several administrations and 
was awarded a CBE in the 2019 UK New Year 
Honours list.

Au

Nm

Re

Au

Nm

Re

Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCG

Independent Auditor: KPMG LLP, Chartered 
Accountants and Recognized Auditor

Member of the Audit Committee

Member of the Nomination and 
Corporate Governance Committee
Member of the Remuneration Committee

Au

Nm

Re

Committee Chair

Esther Lee (64)
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board on 31 March 2023.
Other current roles: Esther is a non-executive 
director (and Chair of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee) of The Clorox Company 
and a non-executive director of Pearson plc.
Skills and contribution: Esther brings strong 
brand development, and consumer 
engagement and communication perspectives 
to the Experian Board, as well as extensive 
knowledge in consumer and trends. The Board 
benefits from her significant executive and 
marketing expertise in developing consumer 
and customer strategies to enable growth, 
drive customer-centric innovation and business 
transformation, and enhance global marketing 
and branding.
Experience: Esther previously held several 
corporate executive roles. At MetLife, she was 
Executive Vice President and Global Chief 
Marketing Officer. She has also held senior 
leadership roles at AT&T and The Coca Cola 
Company. Prior to her corporate career, Esther 
spent several years in leadership roles in the 
advertising industry at global agency networks 
such as WPP and Havas.

Louise Pentland (51) 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2022.
Other current roles: Louise is a non-executive 
director of Hitachi, Ltd and Pacific Mutual 
Holding Company.
Skills and contribution: Louise brings significant 
legal and regulatory experience from FinTech, 
technology and digital industries, and also has 
listed non-executive boardroom experience. 
Having spent many years as a senior executive 
at leading global technology companies, Louise 
has a deep understanding of business, law, 
human resources (including remuneration 
committee management), leadership, innovation 
and culture.
Experience: Louise was most recently Executive 
Vice President and Senior Adviser to the CEO at 
PayPal Holdings, Inc. Responsibilities included 
leading its legal and regulatory requirements 
across all markets working with international 
regulators, overseeing PayPal's ESG strategy and 
impact, running the Human Resources function 
and leading intellectual property and innovation 
activities. Prior to PayPal, she held a wide range 
of senior roles at Nokia Corporation, and had 
also spent time at Avon Cosmetics following 
qualification as a solicitor.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership94

Corporate governance report

Board
Composition
The Board currently comprises the Chair, 
Mike Rogers, three executive directors and 
seven independent non-executive directors, 
including the Senior Independent Director, 
Alison Brittain. On 21 July 2022, Deirdre 
Mahlan, George Rose and Kerry Williams 
retired as directors, and Craig Boundy was 
appointed as a director. There were also 
changes to the Chairs of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees in July 2022, 
and Alison Brittain was appointed as 
Senior Independent Director. Kathleen DeRose 
and Louise Pentland were appointed as 
independent non-executive directors on 
1 November 2022. Esther Lee joined the 
Board on 31 March 2023. On 31 January 2023, 
Dr Ruba Borno stepped down from the Board. 
The directors’ biographical details are set out 
on pages 92 and 93.

Corporate governance at a glance
The composition of the Board is subject to 
ongoing review, with considerations including 
diversity and maintaining the correct balance 
of skills, experience, knowledge and tenure. 
All appointments result from a formal and 
rigorous search, responsibility for which is 
delegated to the Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee. It is recognised that 
a diverse Board with a range of views, insights, 
perspectives, and opinions enhances Board 
decision-making and effectiveness. The Board 
is satisfied that its current composition 
exhibits a diverse mix of skills, professional 
and industry backgrounds, geographical 
experience and expertise, gender, age, tenure 
and ethnicity. 

Board and senior management diversity
Diversity and inclusion are embedded within 
our culture. The Board remains committed 
to having an inclusive culture that recognises 
the importance of gender, social and ethnic 
diversity, and the benefits gained from 
different perspectives.

This section outlines the key diversity and 
inclusion metrics for Board members and 
executive management (as at 31 March 2023, 
being the chosen reference date within this 
accounting period, as required by the Listing 
Rules LR 9.8.6(9)–(11)). This section also 
includes details of tenure, age, skills and 
experience.

Gender and ethnic diversity
The FCA, in its capacity as the UK Listing 
Authority, introduced new rules during 2022 
that require listed companies to publish 
information on female and ethnic representation 
on the Board and in senior management. This 
year is our first year to report on these new 
requirements. The tables opposite outline the 
current gender and ethnic diversity of the 
Board and executive management.

Gender identity

Board

Executive management

Men

Women

Men

Women

Board members
Number
6
5
–
–

Number of Board 
senior positions1
3
1
–
–

%
55
45
–
–

Executive management2

Number
11
4
–
–

%
73
27
–
–

Men
Women
Other
Not specified/prefer not to say

Ethnic background

Board

Executive management

White British or other 
White (including 
minority-white groups)
Asian/Asian British

Other ethnic group,
including Arab

White British or other 
White (including 
minority-white groups)
Other ethnic group, 
including Arab

Board members
Number

Number of Board 
senior positions1

%

Executive management2

Number

White British or other White 
(including minority-white 
groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/
Black British
Other ethnic group, 
including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

9
—
1

—

1
—

82
—
9

—

9
—

4
—
—

—

—
—

12
—
—

—

3
—

1  As defined by the FCA, senior positions on the Board comprise the Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 

Senior Independent non-executive Director. 

2  Executive management comprises the members of the Group Operating Committee, including the Chief Executive Officer, 

the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Operating Officer.

All information on the Board and Executive management gender identity and ethnic background was manually gathered.

%

80
—
—

—

20
—

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose95

Board age

Balance of executive and 
non-executive directors

Board nationality

C

A

B

A

B

C

D
D

C
C

A
A

B
B

A. 40 to 49 
B. 50 to 59 
C. 60 to 69 

1
5
5

1
A. Chair 
B. Executive 
3
C. Independent non-executive directors  7

A. American 
B. Brazilian 
C. British 
D. Irish 

3
1
6
1

Gender diversity of Group Operating 
Committee and direct reports

Board tenure

Men

Women

10y 11m

73%

27%

8y 6m

7y 7m

6y 3m

5y 9m

2y 7m

1y 11m

i

n
s
s
a
C
n
a
i
r
B

d
r
o
f
h
c
t
i
P
d
y
o
l

L

y
r
u
e
l
F
z
i
u
L

e
u
h
a
n
o
D
e
n

i
l
o
r
a
C

s
r
e
g
o
R
e
k
M

i

i

n
a
t
t
i
r
B
n
o
s

i
l

A

l
l
e
w
o
H
n
a
h
t
a
n
o
J

8m

y
d
n
u
o
B
g
a
r
C

i

5m

5m

e
s
o
R
e
D
n
e
e
l

h
t
a
K

d
n
a
l
t
n
e
P
e
s
u
o
L

i

<1m
e
e
L
r
e
h
t
s
E

The length of time each of the directors has served on the Board, as at 31 March 2023.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96

Corporate governance report
continued

Non-executive directors’ key skills and 
experience
The Board recognises the relationship 
between the delivery of the Company strategy 
and objectives and the skills needed on the 
Board now and in the future. The mix of key 
skills, experience and knowledge of the 
non-executive directors set out opposite 
provides insight for the Board and the 
Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee to ensure the Board and its 
committees are optimally composed to 
maximise their effectiveness.

Role of the directors 
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership 
and sets the Company’s purpose, strategy and 
values, ensuring these are aligned with our 
culture. It is responsible for monitoring 
progress against Experian’s strategic 
objectives, approving proposed actions and 
ensuring that the necessary resources are 
available for long-term sustainable success, to 
generate value for shareholders and contribute 
to wider society. The Board is supported by its 
committees, the executive directors, key 
operating subsidiaries and the Group 
Operating Committee, while retaining exclusive 
control and oversight over the decisions set out 
in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the 
Board. 

Strategic and budget planning process

Non-executive directors’ key skills and experience

Financial 
Services

FinTech

Consumer

Technology/ 
Information

Financial 
qualification

Legal/ 
Regulation

Serving listed 
executive

Mike Rogers

Alison Brittain

Kathleen DeRose

Caroline Donahue

Luiz Fleury

Jonathan Howell

Esther Lee

Louise Pentland

January  
Board strategy review 
Two-day strategy presentations  
from senior leaders within the Group

October to November  
Financial planning and prioritisation
Refinement and costing of plans and 
prioritisation of opportunities

March  
Board budget review 
Ensuring the correct resources are in  
place to deliver the Group strategy

September  
Group Operating Committee strategic review
Including detailed strategic plans

June 
Group Operating Committee review meeting
Offsite strategy session to focus on key 
strategic issues

September 
Board strategy review 
Mid-year review of progress

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose97

In addition, the Board has reserved decisions 
about certain key activities to itself, including:

A. Strategy and management – approval and 
oversight of Experian’s long-term objectives 
and commercial (and ESG) strategy, approval 
of annual operating and capital expenditure 
budgets, and oversight and monitoring of 
operations. 

B. Structure and capital/Financial reporting 
and controls/Risk management – changes in 
the Group capital or corporate structure. 
Approval of the Group’s results, dividends, 
dividend policy, significant changes in 
accounting policy, tax policy and treasury 
policy. 

C. Contracts – approval of major or strategic 
capital projects, and of major acquisitions, 
disposals and investments. 

D. Communication – approval of key 
stakeholder documents, circulars, 
prospectuses, and reviewing investor 
sentiment. 

E. Board membership/Delegation of 
authority/Corporate governance/Policies 
– approval of changes to Board composition, 
ensuring adequate succession planning, 
reviewing reports from Board committees, 
reviewing governance arrangements, and 
approval of various policies. 

Details of the activities of the Board during the 
year under these headings are on page 99. 

A high-level statement of the types of decisions 
that have been delegated by the Board is 
shown in the Governance framework diagram 
on page 102. 

The strategic framework considered by the 
Board includes details of the foundations that 
allow us to deliver our growth aspirations, 
for example embedding a high-performance 
culture, ensuring sustainability through strong 
client relationships and reinvestment following 
productivity improvements. The Board also 
reviews strategy and major initiatives 
throughout the year (as indicated on the 
Strategic and budget planning process chart). 

The budget discussions in March are focused 
on ensuring that we have the right resources 
to deliver the agreed strategy. These 
discussions include detailed focus on both 
regional and global business budgets. The 
Board continually monitors management and 
financial performance against the Group’s 
objectives. To enable it to do this the Board 
receives updates, at every scheduled Board 
meeting, on operational and financial matters 
as well as any major initiatives underway. The 
Board also receives relevant between-meeting 
updates, to allow for appropriate oversight 
and monitoring. The Board conducts post- 
investment reviews on an agreed timeline, for 
any acquisitions it has previously approved.

You can read about the Board’s procedures 
to manage risk, oversee the internal control 
framework, and determine the nature and 
extent of the principal risks the Company 
is willing to take to achieve its strategic 
objectives, in the Risk management and 
internal control systems section on pages 119 
and 120. 

The Board delegates management of the 
Group’s day-to-day activities but is accountable 
to shareholders for delivering financial 
performance and long-term shareholder 
value. To achieve this, the Board has put in 
place a framework of controls, including 
clear and robust procedures and delegated 
authorities, which enables the Group to 
appraise and manage risk effectively. This 
framework is illustrated in the Governance 
framework diagram on page 102. 

The Board sets the Group’s strategy, and in 
January 2023 reviewed the proposed strategic 
plan presented by senior management. Our 
high-level strategy is unchanged from that 
which we set out in January 2022 (and in 
previous years): front and centre is the 
purpose that Experian was built on – being 
a force for financial wellbeing and inclusion 
that brings financial power to all is central 
to our brand, articulated by our people and 
mutually reinforced by our culture. Across 
the organisation, our people take pride in the 
positive impacts we have across the markets 
and societies in which we operate. The core 
of our strategy remains having the deepest, 
broadest and most unique datasets available 
in our markets. Over the past decade, we have 
invested strongly in our people and the 
organisation, creating a unique foundation for 
future growth. We have redefined Experian in 
the eyes of many stakeholders, while entering 
new spaces and stretching the boundaries of 
our ambition. As always, there is more to do to 
strengthen the business and realise our vision. 
The growth opportunities for Experian remain 
large and we believe we are well positioned for 
the future. 

This year, the strategy presentations took 
place, face-to-face, over two days at our North 
America operational headquarters in Costa 
Mesa, California, with senior leaders from 
across the Experian business. This time allows 
the Board to critically assess the proposed 
strategy with management, before considering 
it for approval. This year’s presentations 
included regional and business updates. The 
business strategic updates included the newly 
formed Experian Software Solutions (ESS) 
business. Regional strategic updates included 
the EMEA and Asia Pacific transformation 
journey, and North America, including a deep- 
dive into various business units.

In March 2023, the Chief Technology Officer 
presented the Board with a review of the 
technology strategy. The Board also received 
and discussed an ESG strategy update with 
the Chief Sustainability Officer. The update 
included details of how we are operationalising 
our ESG strategy: continuing to drive progress 
across the breadth of ESG, ensuring we have 
robust execution plans to achieve our existing 
commitments, while considering where 
additional commitments may be needed. In 
July 2022, the Board travelled to the UK and 
visited our UK and Ireland operational 
headquarters and reviewed the regional 
strategy with management. In September 
2022, the Board spent time in São Paulo, Brazil, 
where they reviewed the Latin America 
strategy. 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose98

Corporate governance report
continued

Board meetings 
The Board meets sufficiently regularly to 
discharge its duties, and holds additional 
meetings when required, for example for a 
specific transaction. Each scheduled meeting 
is normally held over two or three days, with 
Board committee meetings also taking place 
during this time. Spending this time together 
further enhances the effectiveness of the 

Board and its committees and contributes 
to the cohesive and collegiate Board culture. 
The Board met overseas twice this year, 
which allowed management and employees 
to present to it and to meet the directors 
informally. In September 2022, the Board spent 
three days in São Paulo, Brazil, and held Board 
and committee meetings during the visit and 
reviewed the Latin America strategy. The 

Board spent time at our North America 
operational headquarters in Costa Mesa, 
California, USA, in January 2023. In July 2022, 
the Board also travelled to the UK and visited 
our UK and Ireland operational headquarters 
in Nottingham, and reviewed the regional 
strategy with management before holding 
Board and committee meetings in Dublin, 
Ireland.

May
Board and 
committee meetings

July
Board and 
committee meetings, and 
strategy presentations from 
UK and Ireland regional 
management

September
Board and 
committee meetings 
in Brazil, briefings and 
presentations and review of 
Latin America strategy

November
Board and 
committee meetings

January
Board and 
committee meetings in the 
USA, including two days 
of strategy presentations 
from global and regional 
management

March
Board and 
committee meetings,  
and Global Technology and 
ESG strategy updates

Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings

Mike Rogers
Brian Cassin
Lloyd Pitchford
Craig Boundy (appointed 21 July 2022)
Alison Brittain
Kathleen DeRose* (appointed 1 November 2022) 
Caroline Donahue
Luiz Fleury
Jonathan Howell**
Esther Lee (appointed 31 March 2023)
Louise Pentland (appointed 1 November 2022)
Past directors
Dr Ruba Borno (to 31 January 2023)
Deirdre Mahlan (to 21 July 2022)
George Rose (to 21 July 2022)
Kerry Williams (to 21 July 2022)

Board
6/6 – 100%
6/6 – 100%
6/6 – 100%
4/4 – 100%
6/6 – 100%
2/3 –   66%
6/6 – 100%
6/6 – 100%
5/6 –   83%
n/a
3/3 – 100%

4/5 –   80%
2/2 – 100%
2/2 – 100%
2/2 – 100%

Nomination 
and Corporate 
Governance 
Committee
6/6 – 100%
n/a
n/a
n/a
6/6 – 100%
3/3 – 100%
6/6 – 100%
6/6 – 100%
4/6 –   66%
n/a
3/3 – 100%

4/5 –   80%
2/2 – 100%
2/2 – 100%
n/a

Remuneration 
Committee
4/4 – 100%
n/a
n/a
n/a
4/4 – 100%
2/3 –   66%
4/4 – 100%
4/4 – 100%
2/4 –   50%
n/a
3/3 – 100%

2/3 –   66%
1/1 – 100%
1/1 – 100%
n/a

Audit 
Committee
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
4/4 – 100%
2/2 – 100%
4/4 – 100%
4/4 – 100%
3/4 –   75%
n/a
2/2 – 100%

3/3 – 100%
1/1 – 100%
1/1 – 100%
n/a

*  Kathleen DeRose was unable to attend the January 2023 Board and Remuneration Committee meetings, due to a prior commitment, which was known before her appointment in November 2022.

**  Jonathan Howell was unable to attend certain Committee meetings in November 2022, and March 2023 Board and committee meetings, due to unplanned surgery.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose99

D. Communication 
 a Reviewed investor relations, external 

communications and media updates at each 
scheduled Board meeting, and reviewed and 
discussed a market and investor update 
from corporate brokers.

 a Reviewed and discussed draft full-year and 
half-year financial results presentations for 
analysts and institutional shareholders. 

 a The Remuneration Committee Chair met 

with the Experian People Forum in the UK in 
March 2023.

 a More detail is contained in the Shareholder 
and stakeholder engagement section, 
including details of Chair/shareholder 
meetings.

E. Board membership/Delegation 
of authority/Corporate governance/ 
Policies 
 a Considered the annual environmental, and 
health and safety, updates and approved 
associated policy statements.

 a Discussed the external Board evaluation 
findings and agreed areas of focus, 
authorised Board members’ potential 
conflicts of interest and approved the 
election and annual re-election of Board 
members.

 a Considered and approved the Notice of 

Annual General Meeting (AGM) for issue to 
shareholders, and the arrangements for the 
2022 AGM. 

 a Received details of Board members’ 

external appointments and share dealings, 
and updates regarding a shareholder 
reunification programme.

 a Reviewed and approved the Group’s tax and 

treasury policies. 

What did the Board do this year

The Board’s key activities during 
the year were:

A. Strategy and management
B. Structure and capital/Financial reporting 
  and controls/Risk management

C. Contracts

D. Communication

E. Board membership/Delegation of 
  authority/Corporate governance/Policies

F. Other

F

E

D

C

A

B

A. Strategy and management
B. Structure and capital/Financial reporting 
  and controls/Risk management
C. Contracts
D. Communication
E. Board membership/Delegation of 
  authority/Corporate governance/Policies
F. Other

A. Strategy and management 
 a Evaluated and debated presentations from 
management during the two-day strategy 
presentations, approved the Group’s 
strategy, and also reviewed and supported 
the Group’s ESG strategy.

 a Received and considered key initiatives and 
strategy updates as part of the ongoing 
strategic planning cycle, and deep-dive 
competitor and venture updates. 

 a Reviewed operational and financial updates 
from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief 
Operating Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer at each scheduled Board meeting – 
these included trading, consumer credit, 
people and ESG updates, as well as details 
of global key initiatives, new business and 
competitors. 

 a Reviewed monthly Board reports, including 
details of performance against budget and 
the Group’s financial position, and 
stakeholder updates. 

 a Reviewed and approved a proposal 

regarding the Group’s cloud policy, which is 
a key foundational element in delivering 
enhanced competitive advantage.

 a Discussed and reviewed market volatility, 
inflation sensitivity and tax updates with 
senior management. 

B. Structure and capital/Financial 
reporting and controls/Risk 
management 
 a Approved the Group’s Annual Report and 

full-year and half-year financial results and 
carefully considered dividend payments and 
a share purchase programme. 

 a Approved the annual update to the Group’s 
Euro Medium Term Note programme, and 
the issue of notes. 

 a Discussed and approved the Group’s budget 
presentation for FY24 and received updates 
on Group insurance and pension 
F
A
arrangements. 

E
 a Considered and approved the viability 
D

B

statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.

C

 a Reviewed risk reports, the appropriateness 
of preparing the financial statements on the 
going concern basis and the Audit 
Committee’s advice on making a ‘fair, 
balanced and understandable’ (FBU) 
statement in the Annual Report. 

 a Reviewed and discussed regulatory and 

compliance matters with the Group General 
Counsel and the Chief Global Privacy, Ethics 
and Regulatory Compliance Officer at Board 
and Audit Committee meetings, including 
updates on ongoing engagement, current 
issues, potential impacts and plans. 

 a The Audit Committee received, considered 
and approved strategic updates from 
Experian’s key second line of defence 
functions – Group Risk, Cyber Security, and 
Privacy, Ethics and Compliance. 

 a Reviewed and approved risk appetite 

statements for the Group. 

C. Contracts 
 a Reviewed and discussed the corporate 
development pipeline at each Board 
meeting, including an update at the July 
2022 Board meeting on our minority 
investment programme, which provides 
unique insight and knowledge into emerging 
trends in technology and business models.

 a Approved the acquisition of the remaining 
stake in the Arvato Financial Solutions Risk 
Management Division and the acquisition of 
Flexpag, a Brazilian company specialising in 
digital payment solutions for utilities bills. 

 a Conducted formal post-investment reviews 
on acquisitions that were completed in 2020, 
including RewardStock, Tapad and the initial 
60% purchase of the Arvato Financial 
Solutions Risk Management Division.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose 
 
100

Corporate governance report
continued

Culture
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
emphasises the importance of the role of 
the Board regarding culture, with specific 
recommendations that the Board assesses 
and monitors culture, and ensures that 
workforce policies, practices and behaviours 
are aligned with the Company’s purpose, 
values and strategy. We are confident that the 
information the Board and its committees 
review, the activities that Board members 
engage in, and Experian’s existing structures 
and processes, mean that Experian and the 
Board are meeting the recommendations 
of the Code. 

One of the primary ways the Board can 
experience, assess and evaluate culture 
is through meeting with colleagues in the 
business. This year, we were able to achieve 
this with the Board meeting senior regional 
leaders and employees in Nottingham, UK, 
São Paulo, Brazil and Costa Mesa, USA. 
As well as this, the Board continued to engage 
with employees as much as possible during 
the year: for example, all Group Operating 
Committee members attended the strategy 
presentations with the Board in January 2023, 
and the Board received a number of updates 
from management during the year.

As part of their induction programmes, 
Kathleen DeRose and Louise Pentland visited 
the Experian DataLab in the USA. Alison 
Brittain, our Remuneration Committee Chair, 
met in person with the Experian People Forum 
in Nottingham, UK in March 2023. In addition, 
to celebrate International Women’s Day 2023, 
employees were invited to join Brian Cassin 
and Jennifer Schulz (Chief Executive Officer, 
North America) for an interactive webcast 
discussion with Kathleen DeRose and Louise 

Kathleen DeRose and Louise Pentland visited the Experian DataLab in the USA.

Pentland, two of our non-executive directors, 
to hear their stories. Employees were also 
given the opportunity to mark International 
Women’s Day by being asked to nominate 
women who had been an inspiration, 
supportive, had excelled in their achievements 
or had gone above and beyond. Management 
encourages all employees to challenge gender 
stereotypes, call out discrimination, draw 
attention to bias, and seek out inclusion. 

Each year at its September and March 
meetings, the Audit Committee reviews calls 
made to the Confidential Helpline. All calls 
are investigated by Global Internal Audit, 
in conjunction with HR or Compliance, as 
appropriate. As the business has moved to 
a hybrid model of working, communications 
have been reviewed and refreshed to ensure 

sufficient awareness of the Confidential 
Helpline. This includes notifications in different 
languages, inclusion in email newsletters, 
computer lock screens, and email and intranet 
reminders.

In addition to the above, Experian and the 
Board promote a positive and supportive 
culture in other ways, including: 

 a Turkey and Syria were hit particularly hard 
with a devastating earthquake in February 
2023. Experian has employees who are 
from that region and who have relatives 
and friends that were impacted. Our top 
priority was the safety and health of our 
employees as well as their loved ones 
and we monitored the situation closely. 
The Experian Cares Fund (which provides 
financial assistance) is available for 
employees or their immediate family, should 
they have been affected by a traumatic life 
event, such as a natural disaster, accident, 
domestic abuse, illness or other unforeseen 
circumstances. Ahbap, a well-known local 
NGO, supported people affected by the 
earthquake in accessing first aid, shelter, 
and essential products and rebuilding 
their homes. Experian made a corporate 
donation and was able to facilitate and 
match employees’ donations directly to 
Ahbap via Benevity, our online giving portal. 

Lunar New Year event in California attended by the Board.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose101

>400 

certified Mental Health First 
Aiders; we are also training our 
HR Business Partners across 
Experian

 a Experian empowers consumers with social 

innovation. The heart of Experian is 
ultimately to innovate new products and 
services that help people improve their 
financial health and progress in their 
financial lives. For example, in Brazil, our 
product Limpa Nome helps people engage 
with banks to help them settle old debts that 
are still held against them. This year 
Experian has helped millions of people 
settle nearly US$9bn of debt.

US$9bn

Experian has helped millions 
of people settle nearly US$9bn 
of debt

 a Experian is committed to having the right 
range of resources available to support 
employees’ mental wellbeing. We now have 
a community of over 400 certified Mental 
Health First Aiders; we are training our HR 
Business Partners across Experian; we have 
a Global Wellbeing Hub that brings together 
all global and regional resources, and tools 
around wellbeing; and we have Employee 
Assistance Programmes (EAPs) in each of 
our regions to help our people be mentally 
well and thrive within the business. This 
approach sits at the heart of our broader 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
commitment, which is about helping people 
be their whole self at work.

 a During the year, Experian partnered with 
Out & Equal in our commitment to build a 
more inclusive workplace. The Out & Equal 
Workplace Summit is a recognised event 
that brings together corporate, government 
and non-profit leaders from around the 
world to advance workplace fairness for 
LGBTQ+ employees. At the summit, leaders 
from our Experian Pride Employee Resource 
Group (ERG) participated in several panel 
discussions focused on improving diversity 
and inclusion efforts for LGBTQ+ employees. 
We also shared the ways we are building 
financial products to improve financial 
inclusion for underserved communities 
with Experian Boost and Experian Go. 

Scan me  
To view the video: Experian’s 
Partnership with Out & Equal is 
#Unstoppable

Additional ways that the Board monitors and assesses culture

Who
The Board

What
 a The Chief Executive Officer’s report, circulated before every scheduled Board meeting, contains a detailed People update, 

Board members

which includes culture, and an ESG update. 

 a The Board regularly considers the results of people sentiment and pulse surveys.
 a Board meetings in FY23 in São Paulo, Brazil and Costa Mesa, California enabled the Board to engage with employees and 
senior regional management. The Board also spent time with our UK and Ireland business and colleagues in July 2022.

 a Visiting Group business locations enables the Board to spend time with employees of varying seniority and assess 

culture in a local context. All Board meetings during the year were held in person, and these allowed the Board to engage 
with the business.

 a Two of our new non-executive directors, Kathleen DeRose and Louise Pentland, spent time at the DataLab in San Diego, 

California as part of their induction programme in January 2023. 

Audit Committee

 a The Committee’s oversight of interactions with government and regulators, and the perspective provided by Global 

Remuneration Committee

Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee

Internal Audit, can give an indication of culture. The Committee and the Board receive relevant updates at every meeting, 
and management is transparent and responsive to challenge.

 a Twice a year, the Committee reviews calls made to the Confidential Helpline.
 a The Committee reviews an ‘Overview of employee pay and related policies’ paper, designed to provide an overview of pay 
structures at Experian and their alignment with our purpose, values and strategy. This allows the Committee to ensure 
that relevant policies and practices are consistent with Experian’s values. 

 a The Committee Chair met with the UK and Ireland Experian People Forum in March 2023, and feedback was provided to 
the Board. The key points/topics from the update included employee feedback on how the Company had addressed the 
issue of cost-of-living support and broader reflections on culture in Experian. 

 a The Committee reviews our UK gender pay gap disclosures every year, on behalf of the Board.
 a In January 2023, the Committee considered the annual People Strategy, Talent and Culture update from the Chief People 
Officer, which included details of global people strategy progress, talent and leadership, culture and the employee value 
proposition, and the priorities for FY24. 

 a The Committee also received a DEI update from the Chief People Officer and Global Chief DEI Officer which included 

details on DEI progress, diversity in senior leader hires and an update on the three-year strategy. 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose102

Corporate governance report
continued

Governance framework

Global Delegated Authorities Matrix
This key Group governance document 
comprises the schedule of matters reserved to 
the Board, the Board committees’ terms of 
reference and the authority levels for the 

Group’s principal subsidiaries, directors and 
senior executives. For matters not reserved to 
the Board, the matrix prescribes the cascade 
of authorities delegated throughout the Group 
by respective Group companies, together with 

their monetary limits. The Board monitors the 
exercise of delegations to the Group’s principal 
subsidiaries, which are reported to it at each 
Board meeting. Regional matrices are also in 
place.

Delegated authority flow

Board

See Board of 
directors  
on pages 92 
to 93

Principal subsidiaries 
These are Group companies to which the Board has delegated 
certain decision-making powers, for example: implementing 
decisions agreed in principle by the Board; executive 
management of the operations of the Group within the strategy 
and budget approved by the Board; acquisitions and disposals 
with a value up to US$50m; and capital expenditure projects.

Executive 
management team

Operating 
businesses

Board committees

Executive committees/functions

Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee

See report on  
page 108

Audit Committee

See report on  
page 113

Group Operating Committee (OpCo) 

The OpCo comprises the most senior executives from the Group. Its remit includes identifying, debating and achieving 
consensus on issues involving strategy, growth, people and culture, and operational efficiency. It also focuses on 
ensuring strong communication and co-operative working relationships among the top team. Its meetings tend to be 
issues oriented and focus on selected Group issues worthy of debate.

Risk management committees (executive and regional) 

 a Executive Risk Management Committee (ERMC) comprises senior Group executives, including the executive 
directors and the Company Secretary. Its primary responsibility is to oversee the management of global risks. 
The regional risk management committees oversee the management of regional risks, consistent with Experian’s 
risk appetite, strategies and objectives, and are comprised of senior regional leaders. 

Remuneration Committee
See report on  
page 121

 a Security and Continuity Steering Committee (SCSC) is a sub-committee of the ERMC. The SCSC’s primary 

responsibility is to oversee management of global information security, physical security, and business continuity 
risks, consistent with Experian’s risk appetite, strategies and objectives.

Tax and Treasury Committee (TTC)

This committee comprises senior executives with financial and tax expertise, and includes the Chief Financial Officer. 
The TTC oversees the management of financial risk, including tax, liquidity, funding, market and currency risks. 

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee

The dedicated ESG committee comprises senior executives from a wide range of areas throughout the Group, and is 
chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The purpose and primary duty of the ESG Steering Committee is to support the 
definition, approval and integrated delivery of the Group’s ESG strategy.

Strategic project committees (global and regional)

These committees comprise the most senior global and regional executives. Their remit is to oversee a process to 
ensure that all strategic projects are appropriately resourced, risk assessed and commercially, financially and 
technically appraised. A similar body, the Investment Committee, performs the same function in respect of proposals 
regarding minority investments. Depending on the outcome of the discussions, the committees’ conclusions are then 
considered by the board of the relevant Group company for approval.

Global Internal Audit (GIA)

GIA conducts a range of independent audit reviews throughout the Group during the year and is represented at each 
Audit Committee meeting. GIA’s plans, results and key findings are presented to, and discussed with, the Audit 
Committee. The internal audit programme and methodology are aligned to the risk categories and risk assessment 
parameters established by Global Risk Management. GIA also makes use of risk assessment information at a business 
level, in planning and conducting its audits.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Board Leadership and Company Purpose103

Division of responsibilities

The Code principles regarding the role of the Chair, the desired characteristics of the Chair and his/her duty regarding Board relations and 
contributions are outlined in the Chair’s letter of appointment. A summary appears in the table below. The table also summarises how there is a clear 
division of responsibilities between the leadership of the Board and the executive leadership of the business.

Chair  
Mike Rogers

 a Runs the Board effectively and ensures that the Board plays a full and constructive part in developing and determining 

the Group’s strategy (including ESG strategy) and overall commercial objectives

 a Promotes the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Group and particularly at 

Board level

 a Ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information on the Group’s performance and its issues, 

challenges and opportunities

 a Ensures effective communication with the Company’s shareholders by the CEO, the CFO and other executive 

management; and ensures that the Board develops an understanding of the views of the Company’s major shareholders

 a Facilitates the non-executive directors’ effective contribution to the Board, and ensures constructive relationships 

between the executive and non-executive directors

 a Primarily responsible for the Board’s leadership and governance, and ensures its effectiveness
 a Responsible for the Group’s day-to-day business, in line with the strategy, risk profile, objectives and policies set by the 

Board and its committees

 a Accountable to the Board for the Group’s development and its operations
 a Runs the Group’s business and develops the Group’s strategy (including ESG strategy) and overall commercial objectives
 a Implements, with the executive team, the decisions of the Board, its committees and the principal subsidiaries
 a Maintains a dialogue with the Chair on the important and strategic issues facing the Group, and alerts the Chair to 

forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues
 a Leads the communication programme with shareholders
 a Chairs the Group Operating Committee
 a Responsible for managing the financial affairs of the Group, including tax, corporate finance and treasury
 a Works closely with the CEO and COO to manage the Group’s operations, and oversees information security and 

operational risk management

 a Acts as executive sponsor of the Group’s overall ESG programme and chairs the Group’s dedicated ESG Steering 

Committee

 a Member of the Group Operating Committee
 a Oversees the Company’s business operations
 a Ensures the Group has effective operational procedures and controls
 a Responsible for driving the evolution of the Group’s technology and innovation strategy
 a Member of the Group Operating Committee
 a Provides support and guidance, acts as a sounding board for the Chair, and serves as an intermediary for other directors
 a Acts as a contact point for shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through discussion with the Chair, 

CEO or CFO

 a Evaluates the performance of the Chair
 a Constructively challenge and help develop Group strategy
 a Scrutinise management performance against agreed goals and objectives 
 a Uphold the highest standards of integrity and probity and support the Chair in instilling the appropriate culture, values 

and behaviours in the Group

 a Ensure the integrity of financial information and that there are robust financial controls and systems of risk 

management; determine executive remuneration and succession planning

 a Secretary to the Board and its committees
 a Provides support and guidance to the Board and the Chair, and acts as an intermediary for non-executive directors
 a Responsible for: corporate governance; listing rules, prospectus rules, and disclosure guidance and transparency rules 

compliance; statutory compliance and reporting; shareholder services; and sustainability

 a Member (and secretary) of the Group Operating Committee
 a Responsible for overseeing Experian’s global legal, regulatory compliance and government affairs functions
 a Provides the Board and Audit Committee with legal advice, leads on legal and regulatory reporting, and active in public 

policy advocacy

 a Member of the Group Operating Committee

Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  
Brian Cassin

Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
Lloyd Pitchford

Chief Operating Officer (COO)  
Craig Boundy

Senior Independent Director  
Alison Brittain

Non-executive directors  
Alison Brittain, Kathleen DeRose, 
Caroline Donahue, Luiz Fleury, 
Jonathan Howell, Esther Lee, 
Louise Pentland

Group Company Secretary  
Charles Brown

Group General Counsel  
Darryl Gibson

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Division of Responsibilities104

Corporate governance report
continued

Timeline of shareholder engagement

19 May to 
9 June 

23 June

21 Jul

17 Nov  
to 5 Dec

31 Jan to
2 Feb

Feb

1 April
2022

11 May

20 Jul

15 Sep

10 Nov

Nov

26 Jan

Investor virtual conferences and meetings

AGM

Investor and media relations reports provided to the Board

Remuneration engagement

ESG virtual roadshow

Wealth roadshow

31 March
2023

21 Mar

20-24 Feb 
Scotland, 
London and 
virtual

Private shareholders – The Company 
Secretary, Charles Brown, oversees 
communication with private shareholders, and 
ensures direct responses as appropriate in 
respect of any matters raised by shareholders. 
The Company issues a ‘Shareholder Questions’ 
card each year, together with the AGM 
documentation. The Company responded to 
shareholders directly, as appropriate, following 
the 2022 AGM. 

Investor relations app – This contains 
information about our financial performance, 
together with reports, presentations and news 
of upcoming events. 

Website – Our website is an important channel 
for communicating with all stakeholders, 
including shareholders. All material 
information reported to the regulatory news 
services is published at www.experianplc.
com/investors/regulatory-news, together 
with copies of full-year and half-year results 
announcements and trading updates.

Shareholder and stakeholder 
engagement 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
encourages boards to have a clear 
understanding of the views of shareholders. 
Companies are also encouraged to seek 
regular engagement with major shareholders 
in order to understand their views.

In addition, the Code states that the Board 
should understand the views of the Company’s 
other key stakeholders and describe how their 
interests have been considered in discussions 
and decision-making. Details regarding key 
stakeholders are on page 105. 

Shareholders
We are committed to open and regular 
communication and engagement with 
shareholders at any time of the year, and our 
communications with shareholders (and proxy 
advisory bodies) will always offer invitations 
to meet with the Chair or any of the Board 
Committee chairs. 

Board – Investor relations, and external 
communications and media, reports are 
circulated before every Board meeting. 
The investor relations report contains a 
commentary on key events in Experian’s 
main markets, share price performance, 
market movements, investor feedback from 
management/analyst meetings, broker and 
analyst forecasts and recommendations, 
investor relations activities (including ESG), 
and shareholder analysis. The external 
communications and media update provides 
details of the focus of external communication 
activities, which has included innovation, 
financial health, data security and integrity, 
and people. The Chief Communications Officer 
provides regular updates at Board meetings. 

Engagement with investors – The Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee wrote to our major 
shareholders and the main UK and US proxy 
advisory bodies in November 2022 and again 
in February 2023. She outlined the changes 
made to the Remuneration Policy since 2017 
and our continued commitment to employee 
support. The Board Chair also made himself 
available to meet with shareholders during the 
year, and met with shareholders to discuss 
governance, strategy and risk oversight. 

Investors and analysts – The executive team 
runs an ongoing programme of dialogue with 
institutional investors and analysts, through 
which they discuss a wide range of issues 
including strategy, performance, management 
and governance. Experian also engages with 
investors through industry conferences and 
by hosting events with members of the senior 
management team. The announcements of 
the full-year and half-year results and trading 
updates provide opportunities for us to answer 
questions from analysts, covering a wide 
range of topics. This year, executive 
management attended conferences and 
investor meetings virtually and in person 
(Scotland and London). 

Annual General Meeting – The AGM provides 
a valuable opportunity for the Board to 
communicate with shareholders. The majority 
of directors attended the 2022 AGM, including 
the Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination and 
Corporate Governance Committee chairs. 
The 2023 AGM will take place on Wednesday 
19 July 2023 in Dublin, Ireland. Shareholders 
are encouraged to use proxy voting on the 
resolutions put forward, all of which (except 
for procedural resolutions) are taken by a poll. 
In 2022, voting levels at the AGM were 75.89% 
of the Company’s issued share capital.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Division of Responsibilities105

Other stakeholders

Information on Group-wide engagement with key stakeholders is on pages 16-19 in the Strategic report. Board activities regarding key stakeholders, 
including engagement, are summarised in the table below. Shareholder engagement has been considered earlier. 

Stakeholder
Our clients and 
consumers

Responsibility
Board

Our communities Board

Relevant activities during FY23
 a The Board report in March includes an 
update on clients and consumers, 
including (for clients) Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) metrics, top-performing 
NPS attributes and areas that require 
improvement.

 a For consumers, the reporting includes 
brand awareness, trust in the Experian 
brand and the level of complaints.
 a The Chief Executive Officer reports on 
ESG and our actions to support our 
communities at each scheduled Board 
meeting.

 a The Chief Sustainability Officer 

presented an ESG strategic update to 
the Board in March 2023. 

Our people

Board, Nomination 
and Corporate 
Governance 
Committee, 
Remuneration 
Committee

 a People and sentiment survey and Pulse 

survey updates to the Board. 

 a Board reporting at every scheduled 

Board meeting (People section of Board 
report). 

 a People Strategy, Talent and Culture 

update to the Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee.

 a Direct feedback to the Board from 
Alison Brittain, Remuneration 
Committee Chair, who met with the UK 
and Ireland Experian People Forum in 
March 2023. 

 a Confidential Helpline updates to the 

Summary of stakeholder views/actions
 a A large number of our clients strongly agree that we are an innovative 

company.

 a Our brand and reputation as a Trusted Company ranked as the most 

important brand driver for the seventh year in a row.

 a Our account management achieved the highest ratings across the 

client journey.

 a The ESG Steering Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, 
Lloyd Pitchford, and brings together the work undertaken across the 
Group into one, co-ordinated programme. 

 a Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions have reduced by 65% since 2019. 
 a Our community investment contributions totalled US$17.6m this year, 
exceeding our annual goal of 1% of benchmark profit before tax, 
including US$1m in cash and product donations contributed to various 
non-profit agencies to help refugees displaced by conflict. Experian 
employees volunteered 47,000 hours of their time (in and outside 
working hours) to help their communities, including sharing their 
expertise to support programmes designed to improve financial 
health.

 a Taking part in the Great Place to Work survey globally for a second 
year. Last year’s feedback resulted in the launch of our Career Hub 
alongside our global Careers Week; more regular and ongoing career 
development and growth conversations; a stronger focus on Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion; and over 400 people being trained as Mental 
Health First Aiders to increase our wellbeing support globally.
 a We run regular global Pulse surveys, so we can keep finding 
opportunities to improve our people’s experience at Experian.

 a A confidential helpline, facilitated by an external provider, is available 

for employees who wish to raise any concerns. Calls to the 
Confidential Helpline, and any actions required, are reviewed by 
the Audit Committee, in conjunction with HR or Compliance, as 
appropriate, at least every six months.

Our suppliers

Board

 a Annual update to the Board on 

 a During the year we approached 98 suppliers to complete 

Audit Committee.

Government

Board, Audit 
Committee

suppliers, which includes details of 
digitalisation, engagement, the Group’s 
Supplier Relationship Management 
(SRM) programme and the Global 
Procurement Hub.

 a Annual Board review of the Group’s 
Modern Slavery Statement as 
presented by the Global Chief 
Procurement Officer.

 a Board members receive regular Board 
and Audit Committee updates from the 
Group General Counsel regarding 
regulatory engagement, and any 
ongoing regulatory matters. 

 a There is ongoing privacy, ethics and 
compliance reporting to the Audit 
Committee, including Compliance 
training. 

 a Audit Committee risk management 
reporting includes legislative/ 
regulatory matters. Any relevant 
government affairs matters are also 
considered by the Audit Committee 
and the Board.

questionnaires and then conducted follow-up discussions with 13 of 
them to further understand their responses and share best practice 
on modern slavery and employment practices.

 a We continue to develop our reporting capabilities, creating interactive 
dashboards to help identify opportunities, better understand spend 
and enable us to see trends. FY24 will see an increase in the pace of 
automation of our administrative processes.

 a Our SRM programme has been refined and continues to develop. 

We focused on 25 key suppliers with regular, collaborative meetings 
(sponsored by senior executives). The meetings focused on 
performance and opportunities for deeper collaboration. 

 a There were ongoing regulatory inquiries in respect of certain matters 
during the year, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular 
updates on the matters being considered by regulators. Our response 
to these inquiries takes into consideration the regulatory position on 
the relevant inquiry.

 a Updates were provided to the Board and Audit Committee on a 

number of matters, as well as engagement with regulators including 
the UK Financial Conduct Authority, and the US Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau. 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Division of Responsibilities106

Corporate governance report
continued

Timeline of workforce engagement

11 May

20 Jul

15 Sept

10 Nov

26 Jan

21 Mar

1 April
2022

31 March
2023

19 Jul

13 & 14 
Sept

9 Nov

24, 25 & 26 
Jan

29 Mar

All-employee pay and workforce policies review

UK and Ireland Experian People Forum (face-to-face meeting)

People, talent and culture Board update; people and 
sentiment survey updates and people matters reporting

Board visits to various business sites

Workforce engagement
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires 
companies to select one or a combination of 
prescribed methods for the Board to engage 
with the workforce. If a particular method is 
not appropriate for a company, it may explain 
the alternative arrangements in place and why 
these are considered effective. The Board has 
always felt well informed about workforce 
views and matters, including in relation to 
pay and related policy arrangements for the 
broader employee population. As a result, 
no single approach recommended in the Code 
was considered appropriate for our business. 
The Board instead adopted a combination 
of methods to comply with the Code’s 
requirements. These are summarised below, 
and include:

 a There are regular people and sentiment 

survey updates to the Board, and reporting 
at every scheduled Board meeting on people 
matters. People, talent and culture updates 
are also provided to the Nomination and 
Corporate Governance Committee, offering 
a valuable insight into workforce matters. 

 a Any relevant business cases reviewed by 

the Board include an evaluation of potential 
impacts of the transaction on the Group’s 
stakeholders, including employees. 

 a The Remuneration Committee annually 
considers an extensive paper setting out 
details of all-employee pay and workforce 
policies across Experian. The discussions 
on this topic provide helpful insights for 
framing pay considerations. 

 a The Remuneration Committee Chair 

annually attends a meeting of the UK and 
Ireland Experian People Forum (see Our 
people, in the table on page 105), providing 
the opportunity to gain first-hand feedback 
in two-way discussions with the workforce, 
which is invaluable. The employee insights 
and views gathered are shared with the full 
Board, allowing the Board to hear directly 
from the wider workforce. 

 a The Board meets with employees in person 
outside the Boardroom environment during 
the year. 

In coming to this approach, the Board is 
satisfied that the approach is appropriate for 
Experian and that the Board keeps workforce 
considerations to the fore in its deliberations. 

Considering our stakeholders in our 
decision-making 
The Code also recommends that the Board 
should describe how stakeholder interests 
have been considered in Board discussions 
and decision-making. We have processes in 
place to capture and consider stakeholders’ 
views (including the matters contained in 
Section 172 of the UK Companies Act 2006, on 
a voluntary basis) and feed them into Board 
decision-making. 

All material business cases considered in the 
Group (for example, mergers, acquisitions and 
major capital investments) include an analysis 
of the stakeholder considerations, anticipated 
impact and mitigations. This process helps the 
Board to perform the duties outlined in Section 
172 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and 

provides assurance to the Board that 
potential impacts on stakeholders have been 
considered in the development of the proposal. 
The impact on stakeholders, their views and 
their feedback are collectively at the heart 
of Board discussions and actions. The Board 
will continue to enhance ways to ensure that 
stakeholders are given consideration as part 
of the Board’s decision-making. 

An example of how this process works in 
practice is outlined below, where Board 
consideration of a strategic acquisition 
included a review of the standing stakeholder 
impact analysis.

Acquisition of the remaining 40% stake 
in the Arvato Financial Solutions Risk 
Management Division from Arvato 
Financial Solutions (AFS) 
In June 2020, Experian acquired 60% of the 
Arvato Financial Solutions Risk Management 
Division from Arvato Financial Solutions (AFS), 
creating the Experian DACH Joint Venture. 
In November 2022, the Board reviewed, 
considered and approved the early buyout of 
AFS’s 40% stake ahead of the pre-determined 
option date. Experian DACH is one of the 
leading bureaux in Germany, a vertical leader 
in the insurance, financial services, 
telecommunications, e-commerce and 
payments verticals. The bureau’s competitive 
advantage comes from the exclusive operation 
of an insurance claims data pool, while 
negative data is sourced from suppliers, 
including exclusive supply from AFS’s German 
Debt Collection Agency (DCA) which is the 
second largest in the market. 

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Division of Responsibilities107

Independence 
As required by the Code, the Board considers 
each of the non-executive directors to be 
independent in character and judgment and 
believes there are no relationships or 
circumstances that are likely to affect (or could 
appear to affect) each director’s judgment.

Conflicts of interest, and external 
appointments 
The Company’s articles of association allow 
the Board to authorise actual or potential 
conflicts of interest. The authorisation 
procedure involves Group Corporate 
Secretariat issuing guidance and a 
questionnaire each August, asking directors 
to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts, 
which the Board then considers at its 
September meeting. In addition, directors are 
expected to advise the Company Secretary of 
any actual or potential conflicts as soon as they 
arise so the Board can consider them at the 
next available opportunity. In the Board’s view, 
this procedure operated effectively during 
the year under review. The Board also has a 
process in place whereby directors’ proposed 
external or additional appointments are 
reviewed and considered for approval by 
the Board.

In terms of the ability to raise matters of 
concern, Experian is committed to achieving 
the highest possible standards of quality, 
honesty, openness and accountability, and 
there is an expectation that employees 
maintain high standards in accordance with 
the Global Code of Conduct. There is also a 
culture of openness and accountability, and all 
employees are encouraged to raise any 
concerns about the way in which the business 
is run at an early stage so that any concerns 
can be dealt with effectively. A confidential 
helpline, facilitated by an external provider, is 
available for employees who wish to raise any 
concerns. Calls to the Confidential Helpline, 
and any actions required, are reviewed by the 
Audit Committee at least every six months. 

Non-executive director appointment 
Non-executive directors are initially appointed 
for three years. This may, subject to 
satisfactory performance and election or 
re-election by the shareholders, be extended 
by mutual agreement. They normally serve 
for a maximum of nine years, through three 
terms, each of three years’ duration. 

Meetings of non-executive directors 
In addition to attending Board and committee 
meetings, the non-executive directors 
normally meet separately with the Chair, and 
often also with the Chief Executive Officer, 
at the end of each scheduled Board meeting. 
The non-executive directors also meet 
privately at least once a year with the Senior 
Independent Director, without the Chair 
present, and did so once during the year 
to discuss matters including the Chair’s 
performance. 

Board information 
All directors receive financial and operational 
information each month to help them 
discharge their duties. Board papers are 
circulated digitally at least one week before 
each Board meeting, to ensure directors have 
time to review them. Directors have access 
to independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, if they consider it 
appropriate. No director obtained any such 
advice during the year ended 31 March 2023. 

A briefing paper was circulated to the Board 
ahead of its November 2022 meeting, outlining 
the strategic rationale for the transaction, as 
well as the financial evaluation and deal 
structure. The Group’s Chief Investment Officer 
attended the meeting and presented, with the 
Chief Executive Officer, the business case to 
the Board. At the EMEA/Asia Pacific regional 
level, and as part of the FY24 Strategic plan 
preparation, we considered how we might 
position Experian DACH as a platform for 
growth. In considering the acquisition, the 
Board reviewed the stakeholder impact 
analysis which had been prepared (and which 
is prepared for all acquisition business cases). 
The analysis identified the following 
stakeholder impacts and actions/mitigations: 

 a Full Experian ownership would result in 

stronger cultural alignment and certainty 
over identity. As part of a Value Creation 
Plan to drive growth for the business 
under our full ownership, employees 
would continue to be treated fairly and 
in accordance with the relevant laws 
and conditions applicable.

 a Customers and suppliers were expected 
to react positively, having access to the 
breadth of Experian’s global products 
and data services.

 a There was no material community or 
environmental impact anticipated. 

 a The full acquisition was expected to have 
a meaningfully positive long-term impact 
on the stakeholders.

Workforce policies and practices 
The Board is expected to ensure that: 
workforce policies and practices are 
consistent with the Company’s values; that 
they support its long-term sustainable 
success; and that the workforce can raise 
any matters of concern. An example of the 
alignment of policies and practices is how 
the Group manages anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption.

A strong compliance culture at the heart of our 
strategy helps ensure that we comply both 
with the laws that apply to our business and 
with our Global Code of Conduct. The Board 
sets the tone and leads by example and is 
one of the most important influences on the 
Company’s commitment to preventing bribery 
and corruption. 

Our Anti-Corruption Framework sets out 
our zero-tolerance policy on bribery and 
corruption in any form, and this message is 
reinforced through mandatory annual training 
for employees. We also extend this framework 
to our third-party network and business 
partners, which helps to instil our values 
in every aspect of our business. 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Division of Responsibilities108

Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee report

Mike Rogers
Chair of the Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee

We spent a significant amount of 
time considering the recruitment of 
three new non-executive directors, 
which has strengthened our ability 
to facilitate constructive challenge, 
opinion, and openness and diversity.

Members
Mike Rogers (Chair)
Alison Brittain
Kathleen DeRose
Caroline Donahue

Luiz Fleury
Jonathan Howell
Esther Lee
Louise Pentland

Composition and experience
 a Mike Rogers has chaired the Committee 

since July 2019.

 a The Board considers the Committee 

members to be independent 
non-executive directors, in line with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. 

 a The Committee met six times during the 

year ended 31 March 2023. 

 a The Chief People Officer, the Chief 

Communications Officer and the Global 
Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Officer were invited to attend certain 
meetings. 

 a The Chief Executive Officer was also 
invited to attend all meetings and 
provided valuable input to the 
discussions.

Link to the Committee  
terms of reference 
https://www.experianplc.com/
about-us/corporate-
governance/board-committees/

The Committee has maintained its focus on the 
executive talent pipeline and senior 
management succession plans, reflecting the 
Board’s responsibility to ensure appropriate 
plans are in place. A succession planning 
update was provided at a number of 
Committee meetings. Included in the updates 
were reviews of executive management 
succession coverage. The Committee valued 
receiving these analyses of the Experian talent 
development structure, and how it influences 
Experian’s culture.

During the year, on the recommendation of the 
Committee, we welcomed Craig Boundy, 
Kathleen DeRose, Louise Pentland and Esther 
Lee as new directors, and Kerry Williams, 
Deirdre Mahlan, George Rose and Dr Ruba 
Borno stepped down as directors. Craig 
replaced Kerry as an executive director of the 
Company in July 2022 (having taken over as 
Chief Operating Officer on 1 April 2022). Craig 
had successfully led Experian's North America 
region for seven years, having joined Experian 
in November 2011 to lead the UK and Ireland 
region, and has operated in a variety of leading 
management positions. Kathleen and Louise 
were appointed to the Board on 1 November 
2022, as independent non-executive directors. 
As well as bringing significant FinTech 
experience to the Experian Board, Kathleen 
brings financial services expertise with a focus 
on investment management. Louise brings 
significant legal and regulatory experience 
from FinTech, technology and digital industries. 
Esther joined the Board on 31 March 2023 as 
an independent non-executive director, and 
she is very well placed, qualified and 
experienced to support Experian with her 
extensive knowledge of consumers and 
insights into their needs. Each new 
appointment brings a wealth of experience 
from a wide range of international businesses 
and has a great deal to offer Experian. They 
have considerable executive and non-executive 
listed boardroom experience, which will 
further enhance the strength, depth and 
effectiveness of the Board. Jonathan Howell 
became Chair of the Audit Committee on 1 July 
2022, in place of Deirdre Mahlan, and on 
21 July 2022, Alison Brittain was appointed as 
our Senior Independent Director and Chair of 
the Remuneration Committee, replacing 
George Rose.

These Board changes coincided well with 
the timing of our external Board evaluation 
(recommended at least every three years in 
the Code). In May 2022, we reviewed and 
agreed the timing and approach for the FY23 
external Board evaluation and appointed the 
external evaluator, Manchester Square 
Partners. They had undertaken the FY20 
external Board evaluation and this 
appointment provided a good level of continuity 
for the FY23 external evaluation. You can read 
more about the process and outcomes on 
pages 111 to 112.

As well as recruiting new Board members, 
we continue to ensure that the composition of 
the Board and its committees are regularly 
reviewed and that there is a balance of skills 
and experience, independence and knowledge 
on the Board as well as diversity in the 
broadest sense, including gender and ethnicity. 
As part of the Board’s succession planning, we 
reviewed the overall skill sets of the Board, 
Board tenure and how the Board works 
together as a team. We also considered our 

longer-term succession planning and the skills 
we would need to 'future proof' the leadership 
of the business.

To progress in creating a better tomorrow, 
we must also ensure our global DEI strategy 
connects with, and supports, the needs of the 
regions where we do business. Our deep 
commitment to DEI is entrenched throughout 
Experian. The Committee received and 
discussed a detailed Global People Update 
which included the DEI plan from our Chief 
People Officer, Jacky Simmonds, and our 
Global Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Officer, Wil Lewis, in January 2023. In FY24 and 
beyond, we will continue with our product-
centred approach across the regions while 
working to increase diverse representation 
and delivering education on why increased 
diversity has commercial benefit.

The Committee considered the proposed 
election or re-election of directors at the 
Annual General Meeting, recommended 
Caroline Donahue’s re-appointment as a 
director, reviewed the draft corporate 
governance section of the Annual Report, 
and reviewed various company law and 
governance changes. 

The Committee was in place throughout the 
year ended 31 March 2023.

Committee’s key roles and 
responsibilities 
Good governance and strong, responsible, 
balanced leadership are critical to business 
success and to creating both long-term 
shareholder value and a strong, sustainable 
culture. As a Committee, our responsibilities 
include:

 a Ensuring we have appropriate procedures 
for nominating, selecting, training and 
evaluating directors, and that adequate 
succession plans are in place. 

 a Reviewing the Board’s structure, size, 
composition and succession needs; 
considering the balance of membership and 
the Board’s required balance of skills, 
experience, independence, knowledge and 
diversity. 

 a Identifying and nominating, for the Board’s 

approval, suitable candidates to fill 
vacancies for non-executive directors and, 
with the Chief Executive Officer’s assistance, 
executive directors. Board appointments are 
made on merit and against objective criteria, 
to ensure the Board maintains its balance of 
skills, experience, independence, knowledge 
and diversity.

 a Reviewing legislative, regulatory and 

corporate governance developments and 
making recommendations to the Board; and 
ensuring that the Company observes the 
standards and disclosures recommended 
by the UK Corporate Governance Code. 

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Composition, Succession and Evaluation109

January 2023
 a Reviewed and 

March 2023
 a Received and 

discussed a People, 
Talent and Culture 
update. 

 a Reviewed an update 
on diversity, equity 
and inclusion, 
outlining the Experian 
philosophy and 
approach.
 a Reviewed and 

discussed executive 
succession, including 
succession planning 
for senior leaders.
 a Received an update 

on the progress of the 
non-executive 
director search.

considered a Board 
succession update.
 a Recommended to the 
Board the directors to 
be considered for 
election/re-election at 
the 2023 AGM.

 a Considered the annual 
company law and 
governance update.
 a Recommended to 
the Board the 
appointment of Esther 
Lee as an independent 
non-executive director.

 a Recommended to 

the Board the proposed 
areas of focus for FY24.

Committee activities in FY23

May 2022
 a Noted the proposal 

that the FY23 
external Board 
evaluation would be 
undertaken by 
Manchester Square 
Partners, and the 
timing and approach 
for the evaluation. 

 a Received and 

considered a Board 
succession update.

July 2022
 a Discussed a detailed 
AGM briefing from 
the Company 
Secretary and the 
Chief 
Communications 
Officer, including 
voting results, 
shareholder feedback 
and engagement that 
had taken place in the 
lead-up to the AGM. 
 a Continued important 

September 2022
 a Recommended to 
the Board the 
appointment of 
Kathleen DeRose and 
Louise Pentland as 
independent 
non-executive 
directors.
 a Approved the 

extension of the 
search process for a 
further non-executive 
director.

discussions 
regarding Board 
succession, with a 
focus on plans 
regarding the 
potential appointment 
of additional 
non-executive 
directors.

November 2022
 a Discussed in detail 
the structure, size 
and composition of 
the Board and its 
committees. 
 a Reviewed the 
Committee’s 
performance during 
the year against its 
terms of reference 
and concluded that it 
was operating 
effectively.

 a Recommended to the 

Board the 
re-appointment of 
Caroline Donahue as 
a non-executive 
director for a further 
three-year term.

Process for Board appointments

Step 1

When making Board appointments, the 
Committee reviews and approves an outline 
brief and role specification and appoints one or 
more search agents for the assignment. We 
disclose the name of the search agent and any 
other connection they have with Experian in 
the Annual Report following the appointment. 
The specification and the search are discussed 
with the search agents, who then prepare an 
initial longlist of candidates. The Committee 
defines a shortlist and holds interviews. 
Ultimately, the Committee makes a 
recommendation to the Board for its 
consideration. Following Board approval, the 
appointment is announced in line with the 
requirements of the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority's (FCA’s) Listing Rules. In due course, 
a tailored induction programme is developed 
for the new director(s). We engaged Odgers 
Berndtson as the specialist search firm for the 
recruitment of Kathleen DeRose, Louise 
Pentland and Esther Lee, who were appointed 
during the year. Odgers Berndtson does not 
provide additional services to the Group.

Committee reviews and approves an outline 
brief and role specification and appoints a 
search agent for the assignment

Step 2

The agent prepares an initial longlist of 
candidates

Step 3

The Committee then considers a shortlist and 
we hold interviews

Step 4

The Committee makes a recommendation to 
the Board for its consideration

Step 5

Following Board approval, the appointment is 
announced in line with the requirements of 
the FCA’s Listing Rules

Board composition
The Board comprises the independent Chair, 
Mike Rogers, three executive directors and 
seven independent non-executive directors, 
including the Senior Independent Director, 
Alison Brittain. Alison is also the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. Jonathan Howell is 
the Chair of the Audit Committee and Mike 
Rogers is the Chair of the Nomination and 
Corporate Governance Committee. The 
Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee regularly evaluates Board 
composition from a number of perspectives, 
including diversity and orderly succession. 
This year was a busy one for Board 
composition, with key Board member changes 
during the year. The changes regarding 
Committee chairs were carefully planned and 
orchestrated over an extended period: 
Jonathan Howell was appointed to the Board in 
2021 and Alison Brittain was appointed to the 
Board in 2020. The non-executive director 
succession process has proceeded well, and 
there has been an effective transition of Audit 
and Remuneration Committee chair roles from 
Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose, to Jonathan 
Howell and Alison Brittain, both of whom have 
brought critical insights and strong 
contributions, and stepped easily into their 
roles. 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Composition, Succession and Evaluation111

Diversity 
At Experian our belief is that diversity, equity 
and inclusion are essential to our purpose of 
creating a better tomorrow, together, by 
making positive change in the world and 
actively supporting efforts to close the 
financial wealth gap for underserved 
communities. We actively support the potential 
of all expressions of diversity, including but not 
limited to thought, style, sexual orientation, 
gender identity/expression, race, ethnicity, 
disability, culture and experience. We welcome 
people of all backgrounds to bring their whole 
selves to Experian. 

The Board’s diversity policy is unchanged. We 
strongly believe that diversity throughout the 
Group and at Board level is a driver of business 
success. We respect, value and welcome all 
forms of diversity, and seek to reflect the 
diversity of our clients, investors and 
employees in our Board. We recruit talented 
Board members, who have the appropriate 
mix of skills, capabilities and market 
knowledge to ensure the Board is effective. 
When recruiting, we look across all sectors 
and non-traditional talent pools, and we 
require diversity on our candidate shortlists.

In line with the new requirements of the UK 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Listing 
Rules, companies must report information and 
disclose against targets regarding the 
representation of women and ethnic minorities 
on their boards and executive management. 

Board evaluation

The Code specifies that the Board should 
undertake a formal and rigorous annual 
evaluation of its own performance and that of 
its committees and individual directors, and 
that the Board should also have an externally 
facilitated evaluation at least once every three 
years. 

FY23 was Year 1 of our Board’s three-year 
review cycle, and an external evaluation was 
conducted by Manchester Square Partners 
(MSP) (who have no other connection with the 
Group or Board members) to provide the Board 
with greater insights into its performance and 
to identify opportunities to further increase and 
improve its overall effectiveness.

MSP held meetings with the Chair and the 
Company Secretary to agree the scope and 
relevant topics for consideration, and reviewed 
Board and committee meeting papers for the 
previous 12 months. A principal from MSP then 
observed the Board, Audit, Remuneration, and 
Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee meetings in November 2022, to 
gain further insight into Board members’ 
interactions and Board and committee 

It is Experian’s first year reporting under these 
rules. The current female representation on 
the Board is 45%, which exceeds the 
requirement of the new rules. We continue to 
monitor closely the numbers submitted as part 
of the FTSE Women Leaders Review around 
the position of our executive committee and 
their direct reports. The proportion of women 
in this population currently stands at 27%. As 
part of our commitment to continue to improve 
our gender diversity, we have put in place a 
three-year target of 30% for this group. This, 
alongside the targets set for senior and 
mid-level leaders within Experian, will ensure 
a strong pipeline of women for our most senior 
positions over time. In addition, the March 2023 
Parker Review Committee update regarding 
ethnic diversity confirmed that we exceeded 
their Board ethnic diversity recommendations. 

We continue to recognise the significant 
benefits of a diverse Board and, when 
recruiting, will continue to seek to address any 
diversity gaps on our Board, including gender 
and ethnicity. In July 2022, Alison Brittain was 
appointed as Senior Independent Director and 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee in place 
of George Rose. Both positions are regarded as 
senior roles within Experian, and the Senior 
Independent Director role is considered as a 
senior Board position under the new FCA rules. 
Throughout the year, the Board included at 
least one independent non-executive director 
of an ethnic minority background.

At Experian, we embrace diversity and 
appreciate different perspectives and the 
unique value each employee brings. 
Fundamentally, we do not discriminate against 
anyone based on race, colour, religion, gender, 
sexual orientation, gender identity or 
expression, national origin, disability, age, 
covered veteran status, or any other 
characteristic protected by law. We are 
dedicated to providing a safe, healthy and 
productive work environment for all 
employees. We are committed to respecting 
and promoting human rights and we do not 
tolerate any infringement of these rights in our 
business or our supply chain. The Group’s Code 
of Conduct applies to everyone at Experian, 
including contractors, suppliers and others 
who do business with us. Contractors and 
suppliers performing work on behalf of 
Experian are expected to comply with the law 
and the portions of the Group’s Code of 
Conduct that apply to them.

As well as the Board policy outlined above, the 
Group’s Code of Conduct further outlines our 
approach and how we think about diversity. 
We understand the fundamental value that 
diversity, equity and inclusion bring to our 
business, and there are many ongoing 
initiatives to support a work environment in 
which everyone is treated with fairness and 
respect, has equal access to opportunities 
and resources, and can contribute fully to 
our success.

performance. Board members were sent a 
briefing note, including an outline of the 
interview framework, ahead of individual 
meetings, lasting at least one hour in each 
case, with MSP in November and December 
2022.

Following the above, the Chair and then the 
Chair and Company Secretary met with MSP to 
review and discuss the findings. 

An evaluation report was prepared and 
presented to the Board by MSP at the January 
2023 Board meeting. The report included 
details of the context of the review, summary 
observations and details of each area reviewed, 
which included strategy development and 
review and strategic priorities, operational 
challenges, perceived risks and risk 
management, relations with stakeholders, 
talent management, leadership development 
and succession planning, the Board’s role and 
dynamics, Board composition, succession and 
engagement, and purpose, values and culture. 
While the report noted that there were no 
immediate experience gaps on the Board, 
future non-executive director recruitment 

would continue to focus on the wider diversity 
of the Board, cultural fit, strength of voice and 
seniority of experience.

The FY24 focus areas agreed by the Board, 
taking account of the specific outputs of the 
evaluation process, appear on the following 
page, and an update of progress against the 
areas of focus the Board agreed as part of the 
previous year’s evaluation is also provided. 
Follow-up to the key potential action points 
noted in the report was discussed by the 
Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee at its March 2023 meeting. 

Overall, the conclusion of the evaluation was 
that Board performance is strong and is 
considered among best in class but that there 
is also no complacency. All directors are 
ambitious for the business and keen to realise 
its full potential. They recognise the challenges 
faced by Experian strategically, operationally 
and financially through the next stage of its 
development. There is broad alignment on 
what the Board needs to do, and continue to do, 
to be even more effective going forward. In 
addition to the formal external evaluation, the 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Composition, Succession and Evaluation112

Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee report
continued

directors each met the Chair to discuss their 
performance and any development needs in 
March 2023. The Senior Independent Director 
evaluated the Chair, considering input from 
other directors. A performance evaluation 
discussion was included on the agendas of 
principal Board committee meetings in FY23, 
supported by an analysis of how each 
committee was performing against the key 
duties and responsibilities in its terms of 
reference.

Year 1 – FY23

Year 2 – FY24

Year 3 – FY25

Evaluation by external 
facilitator

Internal review against 
detailed Year 1 review

Questionnaire-based internal 
evaluation

Progress against the focus areas highlighted in the FY22 review

Area
Board and management 
succession

Regulation 

Focus
A key focus area for the Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee in FY22 was executive, and Board Senior 
Independent Director (SID) and Committee Chair, succession. 
During FY23, Kerry Williams will transition out of his role as 
Chief Operating Officer (COO), and retire from the Board at the 
Annual General Meeting in July 2022. Craig Boundy will succeed 
Kerry as COO, and be appointed to the Board on Kerry’s 
retirement. In addition, Alison Brittain will become SID and 
Remuneration Committee Chair, and Jonathan Howell will be 
appointed as Audit Committee Chair. Given the importance of 
these roles, the Board and Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee will closely oversee and monitor the 
appointments and transitions, and will also provide input on 
Group Operating Committee roles, including areas for 
development.
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular legal, 
regulatory and compliance updates, including the activities of 
key regulators such as the UK Financial Conduct Authority and 
the US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. These updates 
are provided by the Group’s General Counsel, and the Board 
and Audit Committee have noted a recent potential increase in 
regulatory activity globally. Below Board level, these matters 
are kept under ongoing review throughout the business. The 
Board and Audit Committee will continue their close monitoring 
of the position, including latest developments, impacts on the 
business and progress with regulatory engagement.

Progress
There were key Board member changes during the year, as 
outlined in this report. The changes regarding Committee chairs 
were carefully planned and orchestrated over an extended 
period, with Jonathan Howell appointed in 2021 and Alison 
Brittain appointed in 2020. The non-executive director 
succession process has proceeded well, and there has been 
an effective transition from Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose, 
to Alison Brittain and Jonathan Howell, both of whom are 
considered excellent additions who have brought critical 
insights and strong contributions, and stepped easily into 
their roles. 

The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee 
continues to regularly review and monitor executive succession.

In September 2022, the Audit Committee reviewed an 
integrated set of plans to guide the continued development of 
the business in risk, information security, and privacy, ethics 
and compliance. The leaders of these functions presented their 
strategic and tactical updates to the Committee, focused on 
effective risk management, employee accountability, and 
recognising the increased expectations of regulators and 
clients, and the continued development and expansion of 
Experian’s business. 

In addition, and reflecting the importance of the second line 
functions, new and elevated leadership was put in place.

FY24 focus areas agreed following the FY23 review

Area
Ongoing education of non-executive 
directors (NEDs)

Talent mapping

Focus
The Board recognises the high quality and the varied level of experience of the Board NEDs, and has kept under review 
the best approach to ongoing education, with a view to prioritising topics around the risks and opportunities from 
emerging regulatory themes and how the Board could influence these. It is intended to build on the current NED 
education and opportunities for further exposure to the business, through increased exposure to subject-matter experts 
and invitations to client conferences and other role-specific meetings.
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee will increase its understanding and oversight of the succession 
planning that is undertaken below the level of the Group Operating Committee. This will include identification of 
strengths, development needs and future potential of identified successors through the development of a talent map 
that will be presented to the Committee.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Composition, Succession and EvaluationAudit Committee report

113

Composition and experience 
 a All members of the Committee are 

independent non-executive directors 
and have been appointed to the 
Committee based on their individual 
financial and/or commercial experience. 
The Board considers that all members 
of the Committee meet the requirements 
for Committee membership, through 
their deep levels of experience. 
 a Jonathan Howell has chaired the 

Committee since 1 July 2022, and is a 
qualified accountant with recent and 
relevant financial experience through 
his role as Chief Financial Officer of The 
Sage Group plc. He has previously held 
other senior finance roles, including as 
an independent non-executive director 
and Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee of The Sage Group plc., 
Group Finance Director of Close 
Brothers Group plc and Group Finance 
Director at London Stock Exchange 
Group plc. 

 a The UK Corporate Governance Code 

requires that at least one member of the 
Committee has recent and relevant 
financial experience, and the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules 
(DTRs) require that at least one member 
has competence in accounting and/or 
auditing. The Board is satisfied that 
these requirements are met through 
Jonathan Howell’s membership of the 
Committee. 

 a The Committee met four times during 
the year, with each scheduled meeting 
timed to coincide with key dates in the 
Group’s financial reporting and audit 
cycle. 

 a Regular attendees at meetings include 
the Chair, the executive directors, the 
Group General Counsel, the Head of 
Global Internal Audit, the Global 
Financial Controller, the Global Chief 
Information Security Officer, the Group 
President, Global Technology, the Group 
Chief Risk Officer and representatives 
from KPMG LLP (the external auditor). 
Other invitees include the Director of 
Corporate Finance and the Group Head 
of Tax. 

 a The Committee is authorised to seek 
outside legal or other independent 
professional advice as it sees fit. 

 a The Committee was in place throughout 

the year ended 31 March 2023.

Committee's key role and 
responsibilities 
The responsibilities of the Committee are 
defined in the Committee’s terms of reference, 
which were most recently reviewed and 
approved by the Committee and the Board in 
September 2022. The Committee operates in 
accordance with the FRC’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code and Guidance on Audit 
Committees.

The Board believes the Audit Committee to be 
a central pillar for effective corporate 
governance by providing independent and 
impartial oversight of the Company’s relevant 
functions. As a committee, our responsibilities 
include:

 a Monitoring the integrity of the financial 
statements and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgments contained 
in them.

 a Reviewing internal financial controls and the 

Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems.

 a Reviewing the effectiveness and quality of 

the audit process and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.

 a Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness 

of the internal audit function.

 a Developing and implementing policy on 
engaging the external auditor to supply 
non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant guidance.

 a Approving the external auditor’s 

remuneration and terms of engagement and 
making recommendations about its 
re-appointment.

 a Monitoring and reviewing risk management, 
information security, and privacy, ethics and 
compliance, matters.

Evaluation of the performance 
of the Committee 
The Committee’s performance was reviewed 
as part of the 2023 external Board evaluation 
process. Following consideration of the 
findings, the Board was satisfied that the 
Committee was operating effectively. 

In addition, at the September 2022 meeting, 
the Committee reviewed its activities during 
the year against its terms of reference. The 
Committee also discussed its performance 
and concluded that it was operating effectively.

Jonathan Howell
Chair of the Audit Committee

This Committee continues to fulfil 
a vital role in the Company’s 
governance framework, providing 
independent challenge and oversight 
across the Company’s financial 
reporting, risk management and 
internal controls and cyber security.

Members
Jonathan Howell (Chair)
Alison Brittain
Kathleen DeRose
Caroline Donahue

Luiz Fleury
Esther Lee
Louise Pentland

Having been appointed as Chair of the 
Committee in July 2022, I am pleased to 
present my first report to shareholders on how 
the Committee carried out its responsibilities 
during the year. It was a busy year for the 
Committee, which remains an essential part 
of Experian’s overall governance framework. 
The Board has delegated to the Committee 
the responsibility to oversee and assess the 
integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, risk 
management and internal control procedures, 
review of cyber security matters and the work 
of both the internal audit function and the 
external auditor, KPMG LLP. 

Included in this report are: specific areas of 
focus for the Committee during the year 
(including consideration of key elements of the 
proposed UK audit and corporate governance 
reforms); and strategic updates on our second 
line of defence functions (Group Risk 
Management, Information Security, and 
Privacy, Ethics and Compliance). The report 
also provides details of the significant 
accounting and reporting matters the 
Committee considered in relation to the 
financial statements and how these were 
addressed, and how the Committee concluded 
that the 2023 Annual Report was fair, balanced 
and understandable.

Link to the Committee  
terms of reference 
https://www.experianplc.com/
about-us/corporate-
governance/board-committees/

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control114

Audit Committee report
continued

Activities during the year
The Committee carries out a range of significant activities during the year. Some standing items are covered at every meeting, such as updates on 
Internal Audit, Cyber Security and Risk Management, while other key items are covered at specific meetings depending on the cadence of activities 
during the year. This includes review of the half-year and preliminary results announcements, review of the Annual Report and assessment of internal 
and external audit.

The tables below set out these activities, and the associated timings, in more detail. 

Committee activities – all meetings

 a Reviewed significant accounting and 

reporting matters updates from the Chief 
Financial Officer and Global Financial 
Controller at each meeting.

 a Reviewed a Cyber Security update from the 
Global Chief Information Security Officer at 

each scheduled meeting. This is a standing 
item on the Committee agenda, given its 
importance to the Group.

 a Reviewed full or summary risk management 
updates at each meeting, including status of 
risk and litigation management.

 a An Internal Audit update was presented by 
the Head of Global Internal Audit at each 
meeting, and discussed by the Committee. 
This includes the status of the audit plan, 
audit findings and themes in the reporting 
period, and progress on any overdue audit 
actions.

Committee activities – specific meetings

November 2022
 a Reviewed the half-yearly financial 
report announcement, and papers 
in relation to: 
 – half-year accounting matters 
 – the preparation of the 

half-yearly report on the going 
concern basis 
 – a fair, balanced and 

understandable assessment 
 – the making of management 

representations. 

 a Reviewed the external auditor’s 
half-year report, including 
independence considerations. 
 a Received Audit and Corporate 

Reform training from the Global 
Financial Controller. 
 a Reviewed non-audit fees.

September 2022
 a Reviewed and approved second 
line of defence strategic updates 
(see next page).

 a Reviewed the FY23 external audit 
plan with the external auditor, 
including the engagement letter.

 a Reviewed and discussed the 

evaluation of the external auditor 
(see page 118 ‘External auditor’).
 a Reviewed the external evaluation 
from PwC on the performance of 
the Global Internal Audit function 
(see page 117 ‘Internal audit’).
 a Reviewed a Confidential Helpline 
and Whistleblowing update. 
 a Reviewed an update on fraud 

identification and management.

 a Reviewed and approved the 

Group’s Treasury Policy and Tax 
and Treasury Committee terms of 
reference.

 a Approved the Committee’s annual 
meeting schedule and reviewed 
the Committee’s performance 
against its terms of reference.

March 2023
 a Reviewed the principal accounting 
policies, pre-year-end accounting 
matters and updates on the 
year-end financial statements and 
financial review. 

 a Reviewed the external auditor’s 
pre-year-end report, including 
scope, status and controls 
findings. 

 a Reviewed the Global Internal Audit 

strategy and annual plan. 

 a Reviewed the Group’s non-audit 

fee policy. 

 a Reviewed the Group audit fee. 
 a Reviewed the Group’s Tax Policy.
 a Reviewed a Confidential Helpline 
and Whistleblowing update.
 a Reviewed an update on fraud 

identification and management.
 a Considered the re-appointment of 

the external auditor. 

 a Reviewed risk, information 

security and compliance strategic 
updates. 

 a Reviewed and approved second 

line of defence terms of reference.

May 2023
 a Reviewed the preliminary results 
announcement and the Annual 
Report, and papers in relation to: 
 – year-end accounting matters 
 – the preparation of the financial 

statements on the going 
concern basis (see also note 2 to 
the Group financial statements) 

 – the making of a viability 

statement recommendation 
to the Board 

 – the fair, balanced and 

understandable assessment 
 – the making of management 

representations. 

 a Reviewed the 2023 Annual Report 
to ensure it was fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided 
information enabling an 
assessment of Experian’s position 
and performance, business model 
and strategy.

 a Reviewed the Risk Management 
framework and Summary of 
Assurance. 

 a Approved the required Statement 
on Internal Controls and Risk 
Management. 

 a Reviewed the external auditor’s 
year-end report, including 
independence considerations. 

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control115

September 2022 – second line of defence strategic updates

 a At its September 2022 meeting, the 
Committee received and discussed 
important second line of defence updates 
from the senior management leaders of 
Group Risk Management, Cyber Security, 
and Privacy, Ethics and Compliance. 
 a A wide range of measures has been 

implemented in recent years to strengthen 
Experian’s approach to principal risks, and 

there is new leadership in place across the 
three functions. 

cadence of reporting across the Group’s risk 
management programme. 

 a The next phase in the strategic approach 
was to harmonise the overall approach, 
including management of the most material 
risks. 

 a As part of the update, the Committee 
reviewed and discussed key strategic 
updates for each of the three second line of 
defence functions. 

 a The intention was to bring a consistent 
approach, strategic goal, taxonomy, and 

 a The Committee also considered and 

approved updated terms of reference for 
each second line of defence function.

Significant accounting and reporting matters

At each meeting, the Committee receives a formal financial update from the Chief Financial Officer and/or the Global Financial Controller informing the 
Committee of developments in the Group’s reporting and accounting environment, and compliance with relevant reporting standards. During the year, the 
Committee assessed the overall quality of financial reporting through review and discussion of the significant accounting matters and the half-year and 
annual financial statements. 

The Committee’s review included assessing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies and practices, confirming their compliance with 
financial reporting standards and relevant statutory requirements, and reviewing the adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements. In performing 
its review of the Group’s financial reporting, the Committee considered and challenged the work, judgments, and conclusions of management. The 
external auditor also provided the Committee with reports setting out its findings and conclusions on the accounting treatments included in the financial 
statements, which the external auditor is able to discuss privately, without the presence of management, with the Committee. 

The table below summarises the significant accounting and reporting matters considered by the Committee in relation to the Group’s financial statements 
and the way they were challenged by the Committee and concluded upon. These matters, together with any other significant considerations of the 
Committee, are reported to the Board. The minutes of each Audit Committee meeting are also circulated to all members of the Board.

Significant matter
Impairment review – goodwill and other 
intangible assets

Response and challenge
A summary of the annual impairment analysis and underlying process was provided to the 
Committee. 

Given the size of the Group’s goodwill and 
other intangible assets, the recoverability of 
these assets is a significant area of focus for 
the Committee. 

Higher interest rates and macroeconomic 
weakness in our European markets have 
reduced the value-in-use of the Group’s EMEA 
cash generating unit (CGU), with an 
impairment of US$179m recorded in the year. 

The value-in-use of all other CGUs continued 
to sufficiently exceed their carrying amounts.

Litigation and contingent liabilities

The operating activities of the Group are 
subject to regulation across a high number 
of geographical markets. 

The volume and size of outstanding claims the 
Group is subject to mean that the judgments 
applied when assessing the likelihood of a 
liability crystalising can have a significant 
impact. 

The Committee received an update and 
analysis of open litigation and regulatory 
matters affecting the Group, including the 
enforcement notice from the UK Information 
Commissioner’s Office.

The Committee considered the level at which goodwill is tested and whether this was 
impacted by the Group’s restructuring activity in EMEA and Asia Pacific. The Committee 
concluded a consistent approach to the prior year was appropriate. 

The Committee scrutinised the methodology, inputs, and assumptions applied by 
management, in particular ensuring that changes in the macroeconomic environment were 
appropriately captured. This included acknowledging the use of external sources to support 
and corroborate management’s inputs. 

The external auditor, KPMG, provided an update to the Committee on the procedures 
performed over the Group’s impairment analysis, alongside their findings and conclusions on 
the reasonableness of the key inputs into the analysis. These were discussed with KPMG at 
the relevant Committee meeting. 

The Committee further enquired as to whether any other reasonable changes in assumptions 
would result in a materially different impairment charge in EMEA or generate an impairment 
in Asia Pacific. The Committee agreed with management’s proposed sensitivity disclosures 
for EMEA and Asia Pacific.
The Committee has challenged management on the key judgments and assumptions made 
in assessing whether a provision or contingent liability disclosure is required. 

The Committee met with the Group’s legal counsel, received regular litigation updates, 
and considered external advice in order to facilitate this process, alongside the feedback 
provided from KPMG on the conclusion of their relevant audit procedures. 

The Committee concluded that these matters had been appropriately provided for at 
31 March 2023. 

The Committee considered and concurred with the proposed contingent liability disclosures 
included in the notes to the Group financial statements.

Cross reference
See note 21 
to the Group 
financial 
statements.

See note 46 
to the Group 
financial 
statements.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control116

Audit Committee report
continued

Significant matter
Tax

The Group is subject to tax in numerous 
jurisdictions. The Group has a number of open 
tax returns with various tax authorities with 
whom it is in active dialogue.

The key uncertainties in the year related to 
the deductibility of purchased goodwill, 
inter-company trading and financing. 
US$102m (2022: US$293m) is included in 
current tax liabilities in relation to these 
judgmental areas. 
Going concern and viability assessments

Given the level of management judgment 
required in forming conclusions with regard 
to the going concern and viability 
assessments, these are key areas of focus for 
the Committee. 

Response and challenge
The Committee received a regular update from management on the adequacy of provisions in 
respect of significant open tax matters. The review included details of ongoing 
correspondence with tax authorities in the UK, the USA and Brazil and the principal areas of 
tax challenge.

Cross reference
See note 17 
to the Group 
financial 
statements.

The Committee considered the evidence available to management in respect of these open 
matters and challenged the judgments adopted by management.

KPMG briefed the Committee on the output of their audit procedures over uncertain tax 
liabilities, and their conclusion on the provisions made by management.

The Committee concurred with management’s assessment of open tax matters, noting the 
significant decline during the year following the agreement of some historical tax positions.

The Committee challenged and reviewed management’s process for assessing the Group’s 
longer-term viability, the appropriateness of the viability scenarios identified, and the 
reasonableness of key assumptions used by management in calculating the financial impact 
of a viability scenario arising over the forecast period.

The Committee reviewed the results of management’s scenario-specific stress testing for 
both going concern and viability, as well as reverse stress testing, which demonstrated the 
resilience of the Group.

As part of its review and challenge, the Committee took into consideration updates provided 
by KPMG on its procedures and conclusions on the viability of the Group.

The Committee considered and concurred with management’s assessment and recommended 
to the Board the preparation of the financial statements on the going concern basis.

See page 86 
for the Group’s 
going concern 
and viability 
statements. 

Fair, balanced and understandable – what do we do?

Each year, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Committee’s terms of reference, the Committee is asked to consider, and recommend 
to the Board, whether or not the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable (FBU) and whether or not it provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy. There is an established process to support the Audit 
Committee in making this assessment, and we follow broadly the same process for the Group’s half-yearly financial report. 

The main elements of the process are: 
 a A list of ‘key areas to focus on’ was 

previously shared with the Annual Report 
team. The team is reminded of the 
requirement annually and asked to reflect 
this in their drafting. 

 a An internal FBU committee considered the 
Annual Report in May 2023, ahead of the 
Audit Committee meeting. A wide range 
of functions are represented on this 
committee, including executives from 
finance, communications, investor relations, 
legal and corporate secretariat. The external 
auditor also supports the committee. 
 a In advance of its May 2023 meeting, the 

Audit Committee received a near-final draft 
of the Annual Report, together with a 
reminder of the areas to focus on. The FBU 
committee’s observations and conclusions 
were also relayed to the Audit Committee.

 a Following its review this year, the Audit 

Committee concluded that it was 
appropriate to confirm to the Board that 
the 2023 Annual Report was fair, balanced 
and understandable, and provided the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and 
strategy. The FBU statement appears 
in the Directors’ report.

The 'key areas to focus on' included 
ensuring that: 
 a The overall message of the narrative 

reporting is consistent with the primary 
financial statements.

 a The overall message of the narrative 

reporting is appropriate, in the context 
of the industry and the wider economic 
environment.

 a The Annual Report is consistent with 
messages already communicated to 
investors, analysts and other stakeholders.
 a The Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 

balanced and understandable.

 a The Chair and Chief Executive Officer’s 
statements include a balanced view of 
the Group’s performance and prospects, 
and of the industry and market as a whole.
 a Any summaries or highlights capture the 
big picture of the Group appropriately.
 a Case studies or examples are of strategic 
importance and do not over-emphasise 
immaterial matters.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control117

Speciﬁc areas of focus
The Committee spent time on the following 
specific areas during the year to consider and 
challenge relevant, current and important 
issues: 

 a At each Committee meeting, consideration 
was given to the Group’s operations, risks 
and controls. Specifically, this included 
consideration of the impact of the 
macroeconomic environment upon the 
Group’s wider Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework, emerging risks, business 
continuity planning strategy and significant 
reporting and accounting matters.

 a The Committee received a detailed update in 
November 2022 from the Global Financial 
Controller, with input from KPMG, on the key 
elements of the UK Department for 
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
(BEIS) consultation on the proposed audit 
and corporate governance reform. The 
Committee was presented with the potential 
implications for the Group’s internal control 
and risk management systems and related 
external disclosures. 

Whistleblowing and fraud 
management 
Experian offers employees a Confidential 
Helpline to capture all complaints and 
whistleblowing allegations. During the year, the 
Committee agreed to maintain this service as 
the primary method for staff to raise queries 
that they do not feel comfortable raising with 
their manager. The Confidential Helpline was 
already publicised on the intranet and in the 
Global Code of Conduct. During the year, 
communication was extended to include 
references to the Confidential Helpline in other 
key policies, such as Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption and Gifts and Hospitality to further 
increase awareness of the availability of event 
reporting. Processes with Human Resources 
were formalised to ensure that any significant 
issues that they are made aware of, and are 
reported by any line manager, are escalated to 
Internal Audit for inclusion in their reporting to 
the Committee. At the September 2022 and 
March 2023 meetings, the Committee received 
an update including any matters relating to an 
allegation or potential instance of fraud. 

Information security
At each Committee meeting a Cyber Security 
update was reviewed. This report provides a 
summary of the key information security risks 
and threats that the Group faces and an update 
on the cyber security capabilities and 
engagement across the Group.

The Group’s cyber security strategy and 
capability is measured against a globally 
recognised standard – the US National Institute 
of Standards & Technology (NIST) framework. 
This provides an understanding of cyber 
security risks and development of customised 
measures to assess and manage risks. As 
noted above, the cyber security strategy for 
the Group was approved by the Committee in 
September 2022, focused on capability, 
engagement with business units/the first line 
of defence and further evolving the information 
security maturity of the business. The overall 
intention is to drive capability versus the risk 
facing the Group, through a threat-informed 
approach.

Internal audit
The role of Internal Audit is to provide 
independent, objective assurance and 
consulting activity to the Committee and 
management. Internal Audit brings a 
systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate 
and improve the effectiveness of risk 
management, controls, and governance 
processes. The audit team is independent from 
the business and reports to the Head of Global 
Internal Audit who, in turn, reports functionally 
to the Audit Committee and administratively to 
the Chief Financial Officer. The Committee/
Committee Chair approves the appointment, 
remuneration, and removal of the Head of 
Global Internal Audit. The Head of Global 
Internal Audit has the right of direct access to 
the Audit Committee and the Chair of the 
Board, and the audit team have no direct 
operational responsibility or authority over any 
of the activities they review. At the end of each 
scheduled meeting, the Head of Global Internal 
Audit meets with the Committee to discuss any 
relevant matters without management being 
present. 

At each meeting, the Head of Global Internal 
Audit presents an update to the Committee. 
This includes the progress against the audit 
plan, and a report on the audit findings and 
themes. In addition, at the meeting in March 
2023, the Committee reviewed and approved 
the Global Internal Audit Strategy and Plan for 
the year. 

Each September, Internal Audit updates the 
Audit Committee on key elements of the 
advisory support provided to the business over 
the previous 12 months, in addition to its 
regular audit reporting work. Internal Audit 
assisted in many areas and below is a sample 
of these. 

Internal Audit:

 a continued to work with the other governance 
functions in the development of the Group’s 
risk framework model

 a provided thematic analysis and support to 
the sub-groups involved in a mergers and 
acquisitions project to improve due diligence 
and integration processes globally

 a provided advisory feedback and guidance as 
part of Technology Lifecycle Management 
and Configuration Management process/
technology updates

 a was engaged and involved in a Global Cloud 
Technology strategy forum to provide risk 
monitoring and advisory feedback. 

The specific objectives, authority, scope, and 
responsibilities of the Internal Audit team are 
set out in more detail in the Experian Internal 
Audit terms of reference, which are reviewed 
annually by the Committee. The Committee 
also considers and evaluates the level of 
Internal Audit resource and its quality, 
experience and expertise, supplemented as 
appropriate by third-party support and subject 
matter expertise, to ensure it is appropriate to 
provide the required level of assurance. 

In line with the Chartered Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ (IIA) Code of Practice, the 
effectiveness of Internal Audit is reviewed by 
the Committee on an annual basis and is also 
subject to an external quality assessment 
(EQA). There is a four-year evaluation cycle for 
Experian’s Internal Audit function, the structure 
of which is a full external quality assessment 
every four years, and follow-up interim 
external quality assessments and internal 
reviews in the intervening period.

A full EQA took place during the year, 
undertaken by PwC. The process included: 

 a interviews with stakeholders (including 

non-executive directors, executive directors 
and senior management across Experian 
including the Chair of the Audit Committee 
and the Chief Executive Officer)

 a workshops held with the Internal Audit team 

members

 a review of a survey sent to all members of 

the Internal Audit team

 a a Digital Fitness Assurance Assessment 
carried out as a self-assessment with the 
Global Head of IT Audit

 a a review of Internal Audit’s structure and 

remit, audit approach and human resource 
capability 

 a a review of internal audit files from the 
previous 12 months across the areas of 
planning, working paper documentation, 
review and reporting.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control118

Audit Committee report
continued

PwC compared the outputs with their peer 
group organisations, their EQA database and 
their knowledge of good Internal Audit practice, 
as well as the IIA Standards. 

management being present. The Committee 
reviewed the content of the independence 
letter and the management representation 
letter, as well as engagement terms. 

In September 2022, the Committee reviewed 
the conclusions of the evaluation. The report 
highlighted that Internal Audit is built upon 
strong foundations: there is a solid 
methodology and approach underpinned by 
the growing use of technology, quality work, 
focused goal-setting and performance 
management, and an experienced and 
competent team. The report concluded that 
Experian Global Internal Audit benchmarks 
well against peer groups, and complied with 
the IIA Standards for Internal Audit. There were 
a number of non-urgent recommendations 
and actions highlighted. The Head of Global 
Internal Audit has reported back to the 
Committee on these matters, and 
implemented changes where appropriate. 

External auditor 

Tenure and tendering 
KPMG LLP (KPMG) is the Group’s current 
external auditor, and has been since July 2016, 
following the conclusion of an audit tender 
process in September 2015. There are 
currently no contractual obligations restricting 
our choice of external auditor and we confirm 
that we have complied with the provisions of 
the UK Competition and Markets Authority 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee 
responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial 
year under review. 

Each year, the Committee makes a 
recommendation to the Board whether the 
external auditor should be reappointed. Before 
making that recommendation, the Committee 
considers the auditor’s effectiveness, including 
its independence, objectivity and scepticism. 

Effectiveness, audit quality, 
independence and appointment 
At its September 2022 meeting, the Audit 
Committee reviewed and discussed KPMG’s 
audit strategy for the year ended 31 March 
2023. In March 2023, the Committee received 
detailed updates on the audit’s progress, which 
included details of the external auditor’s 
actions, such as the audit procedures 
undertaken, the audit’s coverage, and the 
status of any significant findings, as well as 
details of key matters arising from the audit 
and assessments of management’s judgments 
on them. At the end of each scheduled 
meeting, KPMG meets with the Committee to 
discuss any relevant matters without 

The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
include a requirement to assess annually 
the effectiveness of the external auditor. 
This is in line with the FRC’s Guidance on 
Audit Committees (April 2016). Internal Audit 
supports the Audit Committee by gathering 
information to complete this review and issued 
questionnaires to the Board members and 
certain senior management, as well as a more 
detailed set of questions to senior finance 
leadership. 

The evaluation focused on the four key areas 
used in the FRC’s December 2019 ‘Practice aid 
for audit committees’: mindset and culture; 
skills, character and knowledge; quality 
control; and judgment. The Committee also 
reflected on the assurance on financial 
statements, the audit teams and 
communication, as well as considering 
external regulatory updates on the external 
auditor received during the year. 

The overall results of the evaluation were 
positive. In general, KPMG was felt to be 
effective and collaborative throughout the 
audit process. It provided robust challenge, 
demonstrated sound judgment and 
communications were clear. Overall, KPMG 
had provided an effective and robust audit. 
Suggestions for improvements were made, 
which have been discussed with KPMG – these 
included allowing the Chair of the Audit 
Committee to meet more of the KPMG team 
and having it provide appropriate updates on 
new accounting or regulatory matters. 

The Committee also evaluates the quality of 
the audit (along with the effectiveness review 
described above) in the following ways: 

Meeting attendance by the external auditor 
– KPMG attends all scheduled Committee 
meetings and, during the year, reported to the 
Committee on the components of the audit 
plan, additional or forthcoming requirements 
or regulatory changes, audit findings and 
half-year review findings. 

Audit Quality Inspection and Supervision Report 
(AQR) – In July 2022, the FRC published its AQR 
for KPMG, which set out the FRC’s findings on 
key matters relevant to audit quality and is 
primarily based on a sample of individual 
audits (mainly public interest entities – PIEs) 
and their assessment of elements of the firm’s 
systems of quality control. The inspection 
results for KPMG had improved since last year, 
although some findings were identified for 
KPMG in relation to banking entities. 

Independence
To ensure auditor objectivity and 
independence, the Committee reviews 
potential threats to independence and the 
associated safeguards during the year. The 
safeguards that KPMG had in place during 
the year to maintain independence included 
annual confirmation by KPMG staff of 
compliance with ethics and independence 
policies and procedures. KPMG also had in 
place underlying safeguards to maintain 
independence by: instilling professional values; 
communications; international accountability; 
and independent reviews. There was also 
appropriate pre-approval for non-audit 
services, which are provided only if 
permissible under relevant ethical standards. 
Details of this policy are laid out on page 119.

During the year, KPMG reported to the 
Committee that certain member firms had 
provided non-permitted services (which have 
now been terminated) to a small number of 
Experian subsidiaries (further information is 
provided in the KPMG audit report). The entities 
concerned are not in scope for the Group audit, 
the work was administrative in nature, and 
was conducted after the Group audit opinion 
was signed by KPMG for each of the impacted 
financial years. Based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the matter, KPMG’s integrity, 
objectivity, and independence has not been 
compromised in any way. 

Following the year-end audit, neither Experian 
nor any of its subsidiary companies will 
employ any audit partner or audit team 
member in a position which could have a 
significant influence on the Group’s accounting 
policies or the content of its financial 
statements until a cooling-off period has 
elapsed. The cooling-off period is two years in 
respect of an audit partner, and one year in 
respect of a director, where they have worked 
on the audit of Experian plc or its subsidiaries. 

The Committee will receive an update if any 
audit team members are recruited into senior 
positions by Experian, followed thereafter by 
annual reporting on numbers of former auditor 
senior employees, should any remain. 

The Committee also considered the 
independence of the external auditor’s 
partners and staff involved in the audit 
process. KPMG has confirmed that all its 
partners and staff complied with its ethics and 
independence policies and procedures that are 
consistent with the FRC’s ethical standards, 
including that none of its employees working 
on the Experian audit holds publicly listed 
securities issued by Experian. In addition, the 

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control119

Committee acknowledges management’s 
internal assessment that no employee in a key 
financial reporting oversight role has a close 
relationship with any KPMG employee which 
may impact their independence.

The Committee concluded that the external 
auditor had maintained its objectivity and 
independence throughout the year. 

Non-audit services 
KPMG provides certain other services to 
Experian. To ensure auditor objectivity and 
independence, we have a policy relating to 
providing such services. The policy includes 
financial limits above which any proposed 
non-audit services must be pre-approved, 
depending on the expenditure proposed. 
The Committee receives half-yearly reports 
providing details of non-audit assignments 
carried out by the external auditor, together 
with the related fees. Under the policy, 
non-audit fees paid to KPMG are capped at 
30% of the fees for audit services, except in 
exceptional circumstances. Pre-approval by 
the Audit Committee or Audit Committee Chair 
is required in that situation. An analysis of fees 
paid to the external auditor for the year ended 
31 March 2023 is set out in note 14 to the 
Group financial statements. 

Auditor re-appointment 
Having considered the effectiveness and 
independence of KPMG as summarised above, 
the Committee recommended to the Board 
that a resolution to re-appoint KPMG be 
proposed at the 2023 AGM, which the Board 
reviewed and approved.

Provision of non-audit services

Background 
The Audit Committee annually reviews the 
policy on the provision of non-audit services 
and recruitment of former auditor employees, 
and the latest review took place in March 2023. 
The Committee considered the application of 
the policy, and confirmed it was properly and 
consistently applied during the year. The policy, 
a summary of which is set out below, 
recognises the importance of the external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity.

Policy 
The external auditor is prohibited from 
providing any services other than those 
directly associated with the audit or required 
by legislation and/or permitted by FRC ethical 

guidance. These limited services are detailed 
in the non-audit services policy, which is 
reviewed and approved by the Committee on 
an annual basis. 

The appointment of the external auditor for any 
non-audit work up to US$50,000 must be 
approved by the Global Financial Controller. 
The appointment of the external auditor for any 
non-audit work where the expected fees are 
over US$50,000 and up to US$100,000 requires 
the approval, in advance, of the Group Chief 
Financial Officer. Where the expected fees are 
over US$100,000, the approval of the Chair of 
the Audit Committee is required in advance. 

Where cumulative annual fees exceed the 30% 
annual limit, all expenditure must be approved 
by the Audit Committee. All expenditure is 
subject to a tender process, unless express 
permission is provided by the Chair of the Audit 
Committee, the Chief Financial Officer or the 
Global Financial Controller based on the above 
approval limits. Any expenditure below 
US$100,000 not subject to a tender will be 
notified to the Chair of the Audit Committee 
annually. 

Commercial agreements where Experian 
provides services to the auditor must be 
approved by the Global Financial Controller 
and not exceed the lower of 5% of the local 
Experian entity’s total revenue and 
US$250,000, and all transactions should be 
undertaken on an arm’s length basis. 
Transactions in excess of this limit require 
approval of the Chair of the Audit Committee 
in advance. 

The Committee receives half-yearly reports 
providing details of assignments and related 
fees carried out by the external auditor in 
addition to their normal work. 

Risk management and internal control 
The Board is responsible for maintaining and 
reviewing the effectiveness of our risk 
management activities from a strategic, 
financial, regulatory, and operational 
perspective. These activities are designed to 
identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives or 
to successfully deliver our business strategy. 
In line with the Code, on behalf of the Board, 
the Audit Committee monitors our risk 
management and internal control systems, 
robustly assesses the principal risks identified 
by our risk management processes (including 
those that would threaten our business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity), and 
monitors actions taken to mitigate them. 

During the year, and as outlined earlier, the 
Committee received second line of defence 
strategic updates at its September 2022 
meeting, comprising details of the plans for 

Group Risk, Cyber Security, and Privacy, Ethics 
and Compliance. The Committee also noted the 
new second line of defence leadership 
structure, including the appointment of a new 
Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Global Chief 
Privacy, Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Officer and a new Group Chief Information 
Security Officer (CISO). As well as the strategic 
updates, the Committee was briefed on tactical 
measures already underway, on a 
threat-informed basis, to manage and mitigate 
near-term reductions in areas of risk critical to 
the defence of the Experian business. These 
measures are focused on complex areas 
where a need to rapidly evolve the process, 
controls and operational assurance of 
implementation has been identified. Our risk 
management processes are designed to 
identify, assess, respond to, report on and 
monitor the risks that threaten our ability to 
achieve our business strategy and objectives, 
within our risk appetite. 

There is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating, and managing the principal and 
emerging risks we face. This process was in 
place for the financial year and up to the date 
of approval of this Annual Report. Full details 
of our risk management and internal control 
systems and processes can be found in the 
Risk management and principal risks section 
of the Strategic report on page 78. The Audit 
Committee considers emerging risks with 
management as part of the standing risk 
management update it receives.

Effectiveness of the risk management 
and internal control systems
Experian’s risk management programme 
is regularly reviewed, and we engaged 
an external firm previously to assess the 
current state and identify opportunities for 
improvement. The scope was focused 
generally on risk management organisational 
structure and management, with a particular 
emphasis on operational risk management. 
The output of the external review work 
was used to adjust the Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) programme and set 
goals for the next one to three years. 
The implementation plan, reviewed by the 
Audit Committee, contained a number of 
recommendations on operational risk which 
we continue to implement (further detail is 
available in the Risk section). 

In line with the Code, the Audit Committee 
(on behalf of the Board) monitors our risk 
management and internal control systems, 
robustly assesses the principal risks identified 
by our risk assessment processes (including 
those that would threaten our business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity), 
and monitors actions taken to mitigate them. 
For certain joint arrangements, the Committee 
relies on the systems of internal control 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal Control120

Audit Committee report
continued

operating within Experian partners’ 
infrastructure and the obligations of partners’ 
boards, relating to the effectiveness of their 
own systems.

The Code requires companies to review the 
effectiveness of their risk management and 
internal control systems, at least annually. 
The Audit Committee performs this review 
under delegated authority from the Board. 

Through a combination of ongoing and annual 
reviews, the Committee is able to review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control system. 

The annual review of effectiveness considered 
that:

 a there was a process in place to determine 
the nature and extent of the principal risks 
the Company was willing to take in order to 
achieve its long-term strategic objectives

 a there was an ongoing process for 

identifying, evaluating, and managing the 
emerging and principal risks faced by the 
Group that was regularly reviewed by the 
Committee

 a processes were in place throughout the year 
ended 31 March 2023, and which would 
remain in place up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report

 a the effectiveness of such processes was 

reviewed by the Board

 a the information the Board received was 
sufficient to enable it to review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems.

Following this year’s review, the Committee, on 
behalf of the Board, considers that the 
information it received enabled it to review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management in accordance 
with the FRC’s ‘Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting’ and that there were, and 
the system has, no significant failings or 
weaknesses. 

For more on our approach to risk management 
see pages 78 to 85.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Audit, Risk and Internal ControlReport on directors’ remuneration

121

I am pleased to present, on behalf of 
the Remuneration Committee, the 
Report on directors’ remuneration, 
following a strong year for the 
Group.
Alison Brittain
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Members
Alison Brittain (Chair)
Kathleen DeRose 
Caroline Donahue 
Luiz Fleury

Jonathan Howell
Esther Lee 
Louise Pentland
Mike Rogers 

Quick link
https://www.experianplc.com/
about-us/corporate-
governance/board-committees/

Introduction
I am pleased to report that FY23 was 
another strong year for our business. 
High single-digit revenue and Benchmark 
EBIT growth is a notable achievement. This 
level of performance in the face of external 
operating environment challenges was a 
reflection of the sustainability of the 
business, the quality of our leadership team 
and the dedication and performance focus 
of our people.

We continue to reap the rewards of a number 
of key decisions that have been made in 
recent times. When uncertainty arrived in 
the form of the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
chose to maintain our key strategic 
investments, including increasing our focus 
in key areas such as our Consumer Services 
business. Importantly, we also put measures 
in place to support all our employees 
working from home, including introducing 
a number of 'people first' policies to enable 
employees to balance their work and 
personal life. As the working world 
transitioned to a hybrid model, we were in 
the fortunate position of already having the 
policies, processes and overall support to 
be very effective in the new ways of working.

As we have implemented these good 
practices over the last few years, the 
business has continued to grow, and I am 
pleased to be able to note another year of 
impressive financial results. 

Stakeholder experience in FY23 

Our ambition to grow remains at the forefront 
of our business strategy and is an integral part 
of our culture. Our culture and investment in 
innovation and growth creates a mindset – 
arguably even more valuable in challenging 
operating circumstances – that has driven our 
track record of strong financial performance 
and fuels both our short- and longer-term 
growth ambitions.

Protecting our people
We have an overarching ‘people first’ philosophy 
and protecting our employees is a key focus for 
us. The majority of our workforce continues to 
work from home as hybrid and remote working 
have become established business practices. 
In FY23, we further developed the policies and 
practices that were established following the 
onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Our track record of providing support for those 
employees who need it most has come to the 
fore again during this latest financial year. The 
most recent example being a one-off allowance 
for our lowest paid UK employees to help with 
the impact of rising inflation. In addition, we took 
the opportunity to remind all our employees 
about the resources and support that are 
available to them as part of our financial 
wellbeing offer. This includes support across 
a whole range of topics including financial 
planning, mortgage advice, loan and debt 
management, helpful guides, tax planning and 
financial protection as well as highlighting our 
employee benefits.

Employees

Investors

Executives

Experian 
Group

 a Global employment increased by 1,400 to 22,000
 a No forced annual leave or reduced working hours
 a Normal bonus entitlement for FY22 and FY23
 a Flexible working practices
 a 3% global pay increase budget for FY24
 a Additional investment in financial wellbeing support

 a Dividends of USc35.75 and USc17.0 per share paid in July 2022 

and February 2023 respectively
 a Proactive shareholder consultation
 a No shareholder capital raising

 a FY23 pay increases lower than employees
 a No adjustments to in-flight Long-Term Incentive (LTI) awards
 a Pension provision alignment with the wider workforce

 a Strategic investments and acquisitions to support future growth
 a High single-digit Benchmark EBIT and revenue growth

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Remuneration 
 
 
 
122

Report on directors’ remuneration
continued

As our business results have evidenced, our 
approach to supporting our employees with 
specific issues or broader developments, such 
as more flexible working, results in a more 
engaged and motivated workforce. According to 
employee feedback, this is enabling us to attract 
and retain talent, which is critical to our growth 
ambitions. 

People ﬁrst initiatives
Some examples of the policies introduced to 
ensure that we maintain our focus on our 
employees are outlined below:

 a Enhanced flexible working policies, including 

global adoption of hybrid working and 
refurbished/new offices to provide 
collaborative and flexible working 
environments

 a Providing training to support employees 
with their preferred way of working

 a Family-friendly policies, including improved 
maternity, paternity and neonatal leave
 a Increased mental health and wellness 

programmes

 a We invested in a world-class digital learning 

platform.

Over the past three years, we have been 
impressed by the resilience, commitment and 
productivity of our employees as they overcame 
the challenges of the pandemic. Again in FY23, 
the collaborative and innovative culture at 
Experian played an important role in the 
delivery of a strong overall performance. 
Supporting and developing our people will 
remain a key strategic enabler for Experian as 
an important way to recognise the commitment 
and productivity of our employees.

FY23 performance 
I am pleased to report that FY23 was another 
strong year for Experian. In the current 
economic circumstances, to deliver high 
single-digit growth in both revenue and 
Benchmark earnings reflects the quality and 
resilience of the business. We believe that 
these results demonstrate the important 
combination of a robust business strategy and 
the proven ability to execute that strategy.

We set stretch targets that would require us to 
deliver sustainable high single-digit growth in 
FY23 and the Group achieved this ambition, 
with Benchmark EBIT growth of 9%, revenue 
performance growth of 8% and Benchmark 
EPS growth of 9%, all at constant exchange 
rates. These high single-digit performance 
levels were also reflected in our share price, 
which increased by 11% over the three-year 
performance period3.

While achieving financial results is 
undoubtedly very important, the Committee 
undertakes a holistic approach to assessing 
the Company’s performance by reviewing a 
broad range of metrics. 

FY23 performance 

FY23 at a glance
Annual performance
 a 9% Benchmark EBIT growth*
 a 8% revenue performance growth¹*
 a Increased headcount to 22,000²

Three-year performance
 a 11% average increase per annum in 

adjusted Benchmark EPS
 a 11% share price growth³
 a US$5.2bn cumulative Benchmark 

operating cash flow over three years

*  At constant exchange rates.
1  From ongoing activities.
2  Headcount as at 31 March 2023 22,000 (31 March 2022: 

20,600).

3  Three-month average to 31 March 2023 of £28.54 

compared to the three-month average to 31 March 2020 
of £25.63.

These broad non-financial measures include, 
but are not limited to, employee engagement, 
diversity and inclusion, impact on the 
environment, and customer satisfaction. In this 
way, we ensure the financial outputs are a fair 
and true reflection of the Group’s overall 
performance over the period.

We are very transparent about our targets and 
progress towards them in many areas, such as 
diversity and impact on the environment, but 
we do not include these and other 
non-financial metrics in our incentive plans. 
However, that in no way dilutes their 
importance to the Group. They are regularly 
reviewed by the Board and they remain key 
considerations for the Committee’s review of 
short- and longer-term performance.

How is our performance reflected in 
executive pay?
Salary: During the year the Committee 
approved salary increases of 2.4% – 2.5% for 
the executive directors. As in previous years, 
and aligned with our policy, these increases 
were in line with or below the increases 
awarded to the general employee population 
across the Group.

Annual bonus: The Committee always seeks to 
set stretch annual bonus performance targets 
that reflect our strong pay-for-performance 
philosophy. For FY23, the Committee set 
targets that reflected our unchanged ambition 
of strong levels of growth. Despite the 
anticipated challenges of a volatile external 
environment, the performance range was set 
with a true stretch that required high 
single-digit growth to achieve target and 
double-digit growth to achieve maximum 
results.

In FY23, Latin America once again achieved 
outstanding, double-digit Benchmark EBIT and 
organic revenue growth. All other regions also 
delivered single-digit growth*. This strong 
performance pushed the Group to high 
single-digit growth for both annual bonus 
performance metrics. FY23 revenue 
performance growth, for annual bonus 
purposes, was 8% and this high level of 
revenue performance, combined with strong 
returns on strategic investments and prudent 
financial management of expenses, flowed 
through to Benchmark EBIT growth of 9% for 
FY23.

As a result of the combined revenue growth 
and Benchmark EBIT growth performance, the 
overall bonus for FY23 will be paid out at 59% 
of maximum for each of the executive 
directors.

Following a review of the Group’s financial 
performance and consideration of all 
business priorities, including those that 
are non-financial in nature, the Committee 
was satisfied that the level of bonus payout 
aligned fairly and accurately to the year’s 
achievements. Therefore, no discretion 
(upwards or downwards) was deemed 
necessary. Full details of the annual bonus 
outcomes are set out in the Annual report on 
directors’ remuneration.

Long-term incentives (LTI): The Performance 
Share Plan (PSP) and Co-investment Plan (CIP) 
awards granted in 2020 will vest on 11 June 
2023. The 2020 LTI targets were set in 
November 2020, when our growth ambitions 
were to achieve sustainable annual high 
single-digit growth. The strong financial 
performance in FY23 follows a resilient 
FY21 and a very good FY22 performance. 
We continue to believe that a healthy, 
well-run business will create wealth for its 
shareholders, and over the last three years 
Experian has achieved:

 a 11% average increase per annum in adjusted 

Benchmark EPS

 a US$5.2bn three-year cumulative 
Benchmark operating cash flow

 a 17% adjusted Return on capital employed
 a 11% share price growth
 a £4.8bn of value creation through market 
capitalisation growth and dividends.

This strong performance underpins the overall 
vesting levels of the PSP, which vested at 75%, 
and of the CIP, which vested at 100%. While the 
impact of the pandemic in the first year of the 
performance period undoubtedly affected the 
potential performance outcomes that may 
have otherwise been achieved, no adjustments 
were made in assessing the performance 
outturns for the 2020 LTI plans.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Remuneration123

As with the annual bonus plan, the Committee 
considered the LTI vesting levels in the context 
of both the current economic environment and 
the Group’s holistic performance over the 
three-year period. It was decided that the 
formulaic vesting levels appropriately reflect 
the strong business outcomes achieved over 
the three-year performance period.

In line with our remuneration principles, 
a substantial portion of the CEO’s single 
figure value is determined by long-term 
performance. For FY23, 67% of the CEO’s 
single figure value is due to the vesting 
levels of the LTI plans. It is important to note 
that all shareholders, including employee 
shareholders, could have benefitted from 
the same share price growth and dividend 
return over the same three-year period.

Pay in the wider workforce

Employee engagement
The Remuneration Committee is well informed 
about the pay and related policy arrangements 
for the broader employee population at 
Experian. As the Committee had existing 
processes in place to gain an extensive 
understanding of employee pay, prior to 
the introduction of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) requirements, 
no single approach recommended in the Code 
was considered appropriate for our business. 
We have therefore adopted a combination of 
the suggested methods to comply with the 
Code’s requirements.

Each year, as part of the Committee’s standing 
agenda, we are provided with an extensive 
paper setting out details of all employee pay 
and workforce policies across Experian. The 
discussions on this topic have enabled us to 
proactively incorporate wider employee pay 
as important context for framing executive 
pay considerations. This year we were also 
provided with greater insights into the 
remuneration and benefit arrangements, 
including gender pay positioning in our major 
regions, which facilitated informative and 
insightful discussions regarding diversity, 
equity and inclusion (DEI) practices in our 
major markets.

Following in my predecessor's footsteps, 
this year I had the opportunity to further 
supplement the Committee’s understanding 
of the pay and related policies for the broader 
workforce by attending our UK and Ireland 
Experian People Forum, in person. The 
two-way discussions were open and candid, 
which provided powerful feedback. 
Unsurprisingly, the cost-of-living issue was 
on the agenda and pleasingly the forum 
expressed an overwhelmingly positive 
employee response to the measures that had 
been put in place to support our lower-earning 
employees. I was very impressed with the 

level of engagement from employees and the 
nature of the discussions on every topic from 
Sharesave limits to the flexible ways of 
working.

It was apparent that employees appreciate the 
open and honest engagement style that our 
senior leaders consistently demonstrate. The 
continuing investments that have been made 
into employee mental health and financial 
wellbeing were hugely valued. Employee 
appreciation for the enhanced flexibility 
provided in working from home and the 
developing practice of hybrid and remote 
working was voiced strongly. We decided to 
invest in making our work locations more 
attractive places for employees whose 
preference is to work from an office 
environment. With our enhanced flexible-
working environment and supporting policies 
combined with our broader reward offering, 
I was pleased to hear that we are well 
positioned to continue to attract and retain 
key talent.

People and culture
The Experian Way is our unique and consistent 
way of working globally and informs how our 
people act and behave, thus shaping our 
culture. Experian's culture is a key enabler of 
our success, as evidenced by our track record 
of strong financial performance. Creating 
and maintaining an agile, innovative, high- 
performance culture remains a key priority for 
Experian as we look to maintain and further 
develop an environment that enables our 
employees to perform and be successful. 

The collegiate nature of the Experian Way, 
generated via our connected global network, 
has undoubtedly supported the achievement 
of our very strong financial results. The early 
indications are that we are successfully 
addressing the challenge of maintaining our 
strong culture in the new working world, 
where remote working becomes the normal 
practice and the majority of the workforce 
work remotely.

We started to participate in the Great Place 
To Work global survey in 2021, and the results 
to date show that the employee-focused 
initiatives introduced in recent years have been 
appreciated by our employees. Measuring 
culture is undeniably difficult but it is clearly 
a key enabler of business performance. 
To inform our own assessment of culture, the 
Committee considers a range of quantitative 
culture-related data. The quantitative data 
may also provide useful information for our 
investors and other stakeholders. Further 
insights on these important metrics can 
be found in the Sustainable Business 
Performance Data, including specific 
disclosures on Experian employee attrition 
and workforce composition. Details on DEI 
can be found on pages 51 and 52.

Experian’s executive remuneration 
policy
In recent years, we have benefitted from open 
and constructive shareholder engagement, 
which led to a number of changes to our 
Remuneration Policy at the 2020 AGM. 
Following these changes, we have been 
consistently applying the Remuneration Policy, 
and also incorporated some governance-led 
best-practice elements as appropriate. I was 
very pleased to see the strong level of 
shareholder support we received for our 
Remuneration Report at the 2022 AGM (95.7%). 
This Annual Report on directors’ remuneration 
will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote 
at the AGM on 19 July 2023, and we hope to 
receive investor support as no changes have 
been made to the policy.

The Committee proactively considers 
the incentive arrangements each year, to 
ensure they continue to be fit for purpose and 
aligned with the Group’s long-term strategy. 
It is also important for the Policy to reflect 
the rapidly changing environment which 
we operate in. The Committee is confident 
our current Remuneration Policy remains 
the most appropriate for our business, 
and its application is a critical enabler of 
our long-term strategic objectives, as it is 
designed to: 

 a achieve strong financial performance
 a incentivise long-term sustainable growth 
 a ensure effective shareholder alignment
 a facilitate the attraction of critical talent.

We have remained consistent with the Policy 
and approach throughout the external 
environment challenges of recent – and still 
current – times that has enabled Experian to 
focus on our long-term growth strategy. Our 
Remuneration Policy, and in particular its 
incentive plans, continued to test and motivate 
our leadership teams to successfully achieve 
exceptional growth. Importantly, we were able 
to retain critical talent and we did not need to:

 a make any changes to our current LTI plans, 

including the performance targets
 a make any change to the performance 
metrics or evaluation methodology.

In November 2022 and again in February 2023, 
we issued letters to our major shareholders 
and the proxy advisory bodies. These letters 
were an update on our approach to executive 
pay in FY23 and our Remuneration Policy, to 
invite any comments and feedback. We were 
very pleased to receive a lot of support for our 
current approach to executive remuneration. 
For full transparency we have included some 
details on the questions raised and our 
responses, to provide some additional context.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Remuneration124

Report on directors’ remuneration
continued

Q&A

Q: Is Experian making any changes to the 
Remuneration Policy when it is renewed 
at the 2023 AGM?

A: No. We are simply incorporating the 
recently made change to align the pension 
provision of our incumbent UK-based 
executive directors to that of the majority 
of the UK wider workforce. As we have 
previously disclosed, the Committee 
proactively considers the Remuneration Policy 
each year, to ensure it continues to be fit for 
purpose, remains aligned with the Group’s 
long-term strategy, and also reflects the 
rapidly changing environment we operate in. 
The proposed policy will be put to 
shareholders for approval under an advisory 
vote at the AGM on 19 July 2023.

We do not therefore propose to make any 
changes to our Remuneration Policy in 2023. 
However, we highly value our investors' 
insights and will maintain our approach to 
meaningful, open and honest engagement.

Q: Does Experian anticipate 
incorporating environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) metrics into the 
executive incentive plans?

A: To date, we have undertaken a number of 
steps to ensure that we continue to operate 
very responsibly across the ESG spectrum as 
part of the Company’s ‘DNA’ without needing 
to incorporate a specific metric into our 
incentive plans.

During the process of considering the 
renewal of our Remuneration Policy this year, 
the Board and Remuneration Committee 
have thought long and hard about our 
position in relation to ESG. For example, 
some observers suggest that including 
Scope 1, 2 or 3 emissions incentive targets 
would be straightforward. However, it’s 
important to note that we are not a 

carbon-intense business and are already 
making very good progress on carbon 
reductions and include significant details in 
our Annual Report. As we have a strong 
preference to reward our executive directors 
for the achievement of strategic rather than 
baseline objectives, carbon targets do not 
seem to us to be the right area for focus.

We believe any metric included would need 
to resonate strongly with our purpose of 
creating a better tomorrow by improving 
financial inclusion. Our view is that 
determining an appropriate financial 
inclusion metric is far from straightforward 
and thus it will take time to develop and test 
a metric that is robust enough to include in an 
incentive framework. Financial inclusion is 
not only about improving the access to 
financial resources. It is important to 
understand the true benefits of that access. It 
is arguably slightly easier to develop a metric 
that could be used in our Consumer Services 
business but focusing solely on such a metric 
could inadvertently skew our incentive 
approach away from the full breadth of our 
businesses across the Group. So, we will 
continue to explore the potential introduction 
of a purpose-driven ESG metric and maintain 
our very constructive engagement with our 
major shareholders on that journey. 

Q: Many FTSE 100 companies are 
looking to support their employees 
as they face the cost-of-living crisis. 
What steps, if any, has Experian taken 
to help the wider workforce?

A: As we have previously disclosed, even 
before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
our focus had been on ensuring we continue to 
protect our employees, our shareholders, and 
the societies in which we operate. We ensured 
that all our employees were provided with 
important support to deal with both the 
personal and professional challenges to be 
able to work safely and effectively from home. 

We also recognised the hard work and 
commitment of our employees by granting 
US$800 worth of Thank You Shares to all 
employees below senior management level.

Thank You Shares
 a In August 2021, we granted shares 

worth US$800 to all employees below 
senior management, with the promise 
of a further two-for-one matching share 
award in August 2024 if employees 
chose to retain their original share 
award. 

 a The purpose of the Award was to thank 
employees for their dedication and 
resilience over the pandemic, and by 
offering the award in shares together 
with the future matching award, we can 
ensure all employees can benefit from 
our future share price growth ambitions. 

 a The plan was very well received by 

employees, with 75% of employees still 
holding their original shares more than 
21 months after the original grant.

The current cost-of-living challenge has again 
demonstrated our strong track record of 
putting our employees first by focusing on 
those who need the support the most. As an 
example, our lowest paid UK employees have 
received a one-off allowance to help with the 
impact of rising inflation. In addition, we have 
taken the opportunity to remind all our 
employees about the resources and support 
that are available to them as part of our 
financial wellbeing offer. This includes support 
across a whole range of topics including 
financial planning, mortgage advice, loan and 
debt management, helpful guides, tax 
planning and financial protection as well as 
highlighting our employee benefits.

Looking forward
Following another year of delivering strong 
financial growth, we look forward with a lot of 
positive momentum. The external environment 
continues to bring many challenges but I 
remain very confident that we will continue to 
achieve our ambitions of strong growth and 
financial outcomes, and high levels of business 
performance underpinned by long-term 
strategy and investment. The combination of 
the investments that we have made, the 
decisions that we have taken and a focus on 

executing our business plans across all our 
key markets, can make FY24 another good 
performance year for Experian. 

I joined the Experian Board in September 2020 
and when I became Remuneration Committee 
Chair at the conclusion of the 2022 AGM, I was 
very pleased to be inheriting the role with very 
strong shareholder engagement and support 
for our executive remuneration arrangements. 
In advance of this year’s Remuneration Policy 
vote, I have been hugely encouraged by the 
nature of our shareholder consultation. 

The engagement has been conducted in our 
usual open and constructive manner and the 
ability to listen, discuss and act upon the 
insightful feedback from our major 
shareholders and the proxy advisory bodies is 
incredibly valuable. 

I hope that I have provided some helpful 
background and broader context on Experian's 
FY23 performance that enables shareholders 
to support both our Remuneration Policy and 
our Annual report on directors’ remuneration 
at the 2023 AGM.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle RemunerationAnnual report on directors’ remuneration

125

Our executive remuneration at a glance

Performance snapshot

9%

Benchmark EBIT growth*

8%

Revenue performance*

USc135.1

Benchmark EPS

17.0%

Adjusted Return on 
capital employed

82%

Employee engagement**

Performance measure
Benchmark EBIT growth*
Revenue performance growth*
Three-year adjusted Annual Benchmark EPS growth*

Three-year cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow*
Three-year adjusted Return on capital employed
Three-year TSR outperformance of FTSE 100 Index

*  At constant exchange rates. 
**  Positive employee engagement as measured in the 2023 Great Place to Work survey.

As a result of the performance shown above:

Incentive plan
Annual bonus
Annual bonus
CIP/PSP

CIP
PSP
PSP

Outturn
9%
8%
11.2%

US$5.2bn
17.0%
-7.5%

Achievement  
(% of max)
60%
55%
100%

100%
100%
0%

Executive director single figure of pay

Incentive awards timelines

’000

0

2,000

4,000

6,000

8,000

Grant

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6

Brian Cassin £7.37m

Lloyd Pitchford £4.55m

Kerry Williams
& Craig Boundy US$7.3m

Annual bonus

CIP

PSP

Fixed elements of pay:

Variable elements of pay:

Base salary

Annual bonus

Pension and benefits

Share-based incentives: value at grant

Performance period

Holding period

Share-based incentives: value attributable to share 
price growth and dividend equivalent payments

Share ownership

Brian Cassin  
Actual holding 19 x salary

Lloyd Pitchford  
Actual holding 17 x salary

Craig Boundy 
Actual holding 7 x salary

Guideline

Additional holding

3

16

2

15

2

5

As at 31 March 2023 and calculated as outlined on page 136. 
Kerry Williams stepped down from the Board at last year’s AGM on 21 July 2022 but continued to work for the Group before retiring on 31 March 2023.

Executive director remuneration arrangements for FY24
 a Salary increases of 2.5% awarded to executive directors effective 

1 June 2023.

 a Pension contributions for UK-based executive directors were 

aligned with the rate provided to the majority of the UK workforce 
(10% of salary) from 1 January 2023 (previously already aligned 
in USA). 

 a Annual bonus based on Benchmark EBIT (80%) and revenue 
performance (20%). The opportunity is 200% of base salary. 
Half of any payout must be deferred into the CIP for three years.
 a CIP awards will be based on cumulative Benchmark operating 

cash flow (50%) and adjusted Benchmark EPS (50%). The 
maximum award remains a 2:1 match.

 a PSP awards will be based on TSR (25%), adjusted ROCE (25%) and 
adjusted Benchmark EPS (50%) performance. The opportunity of 
200% of base salary is unchanged.

 a Two-year post-vest holding period applies to both CIP and 

PSP awards.

 a Malus and clawback provisions apply to all incentive awards. 
 a Existing in-employment shareholding guidelines will apply for 

two years post-employment.

Our executive pay framework

Annual  
bonus

80%
Benchmark  
EBIT

20%
Revenue

CIP

PSP

50%
Adjusted 
Benchmark  
EPS

50%
Adjusted 
Benchmark  
EPS

50%
Cumulative 
Benchmark 
operating  
cash flow

25%
ROCE

25%
TSR

Revenue growth is a 
key metric for us and 
will provide a quality 
of earnings balance 
to the important 
profit focus of 
Benchmark EBIT.

The CIP is designed 
to incentivise cash 
discipline while the 
PSP is designed 
to incentivise 
shareholder returns.

However, growth 
is the single most 
important aspect 
of our business 
strategy and therefore 
adjusted Benchmark 
EPS runs across 
both plans.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Remuneration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
126

Annual report on directors’ remuneration
continued

Our remuneration policy at a glance

Policy summary

Element
Salary and  
benefits

Key feature
 a Salary is reviewed annually with reference 
to market data. Any increases are reflective 
of those provided to our wider workforce.

Pension

 a Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford may 

Bonus

Co-investment  
Plan

Performance  
Share Plan

Shareholding

participate in the UK defined contribution 
plan and receive a 10% employer 
contribution.

 a Craig Boundy is eligible to participate in the 
US 401K plan and receive an employer 
contribution aligned with US employees.

 a 100% of salary at target and 200% at 

maximum.

 a Mandatory 50% deferral into shares under 
the CIP for three years. Executives may 
defer up to 100% of bonus into CIP.

 a Conditional award of matching shares on 
the gross value of bonus deferred into 
shares.

 a Matching shares granted on a 2-for-1 basis 
and vest subject to the achievement of 
financial performance conditions over a 
three-year period.

 a Two-year post-vest holding period applied.
 a Annual grant of performance shares up to 
200% of salary for executive directors.
 a Shares only vest to the extent performance 

conditions are met over a three-year 
period.

 a Two-year post-vest holding period applied.
 a In-employment shareholding guideline of 
300% of salary for the CEO and 200% of 
salary for the other executive directors.
 a Two-year post-employment shareholding 
guidelines equal to the in-employment 
guideline or, if lower, actual shareholding 
at cessation.

Link to strategy
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain 
high-calibre individuals needed to deliver the 
Group’s strategic priorities.
To provide appropriate retirement savings, 
at a rate aligned with local markets.

Any proposed changes and rationale for FY24
No change.

No change.

Pension for UK-based executive directors is 
aligned with the workforce (effective from 
1 January 2023).

To incentivise delivery of our annual strategic 
goals.

No change.

Deferral into shares balances short- and 
long-term strategic focus.

Personal investment from executives ensures 
continued long-term alignment with 
shareholder interests.

Use of stretch financial metrics incentivises 
performance over long-term horizons.

No change.

Outcome driven by performance against 
measures directly linked to financial returns 
and strategic priorities.

Majority of remuneration opportunity (CIP 
and PSP) is linked to the Group’s long-term 
performance.

To preserve and enhance the long-term 
alignment of executive directors with 
shareholder interests and promote a 
long-term approach to performance and 
risk management.

No change.

No change.

Pay scenarios

The charts illustrate, for 
various pay scenarios, 
the potential future total 
remuneration that each 
executive director may 
realise under the 
proposed Policy.

Fixed

Annual bonus

Long-term incentives

14,000

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0

Brian Cassin  
(£’000)

1,176

Lloyd Pitchford 
(£’000)

732

2,670

Craig Boundy 
(US$’000)

1,104

4,311

9,536

12,671

75%

66%

14,000

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0

5,900

7,838

75%

66%

14,000

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0

100%
Fixed
pay

49%

22%

16%

9%

24%
27%
12%
Target Maximum Maximum
with 50%
share
price
increase

100%
Fixed
pay

16%
9%

49%
22%
24%
27%
12%
Target Maximum Maximum
with 50%
share
price
increase

100%
Fixed
pay

49%

22%

16%

9%

25%
26%
12%
Target Maximum Maximum
with 50%
share
price
increase

4,179

9,304

12,379

75%

66%

The above charts are prepared on the following basis:
Fixed pay: includes FY24 base salary, FY24 cash in lieu of pension allowances and assumes a similar value of benefits as FY23.
Target: includes fixed pay plus the level of performance required to deliver 50% of the maximum annual bonus, and 50% of the maximum PSP and CIP awards respectively, with the CIP matching award 
being based on 100% deferral.
Maximum: includes fixed pay plus the maximum annual bonus payment and full vesting of the CIP and PSP awards, with the CIP matching award being based on 100% deferral of a maximum annual 
bonus. 
Maximum: with 50% share price increase: includes all elements included in maximum and assumes the share price increases 50% above that on the date of grant. The 50% share price increase has been 
applied to shares received under the PSP and matching shares awarded under the CIP. Dividend equivalents are excluded from the above scenario models.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Remuneration 
127

This Annual report on directors’ remuneration will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM on 19 July 2023. The Remuneration 
Committee has prepared it on behalf of the Board, in line with the UK Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority. All of the sections 
that have been audited by the Company’s external auditor, KPMG, have been noted.

What did we pay our executive directors in the year? (audited) 
The table below shows the single total figure of remuneration for the executive directors, for the years ended 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2023. 
Further explanatory information is set out below the table.

Brian Cassin
2023 
£’000

2022 
£’000

Lloyd Pitchford

2023 
£’000

2022 
£’000

Craig Boundy
2023 
US$’000

2022 
£’000

Kerry Williams

2023 
US$’000

2022 
US$’000

Fixed pay
Gross salary1
Total fixed pay

Benefits
Pension
Total fixed remuneration

Performance-related pay
Annual bonus
Share-based incentives

1,016
1,016

27
178
1,221

991
991

26
198
1,215

628
628

21
110
759

613
613

59
122
794

1,199

1,982

740

1,225

Value delivered through performance2
Value delivered through share price growth 
and dividends3

Total variable remuneration

4,557

5,154

2,812

3,180

394
6,150

228
7,364

243
3,795

141
4,546

695
695

55
–
750

820

n/a

n/a
820

Total single figure of remuneration4

7,371

8,579

4,554

5,340

1,570

n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a

327
327

4
4
335

1,049
1,049

40
12
1,101

386

2,092

4,599

5,211

408
5,393

248
7,551

5,728

8,652

1  For Kerry Williams and Craig Boundy, the salary also reflects the timing of US payroll payments and time served during the financial year as an executive director.
2  Value delivered through performance is calculated as the number of shares vesting under the CIP and PSP multiplied by the share price on the date of grant. None of the executive directors exercised share 

options in the year ended 31 March 2023. For Kerry Williams and Craig Boundy this reflects time served during the financial year as an executive director.

3  For FY23, the value delivered through share price growth and dividends is calculated as (i) the difference between the average share price in the last three months of the financial year and the share price 

on the date of grant multiplied by the number of vested performance shares, plus (ii) dividend equivalent payments for the number of vested performance shares. 

4  For FY23, the total single figure of remuneration for Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford in US$, applying the average exchange rate over the year of £1:US$1.2046 (2022: £1:US$1.3665), is US$8.9m 

(2022: US$11.7m) and US$5.5m (2022: US$7.3m) respectively. 

How has the single ﬁgure been calculated? (audited) 

Salary
Salary increases typically take effect from 1 June. The Committee approved salary increases for executive directors of 2.4% to 2.5% with effect from 
this date: 

Brian Cassin
Lloyd Pitchford
Craig Boundy 
Kerry Williams

1 June 2022 
‘000
£1,020
£630
US$1,000
US$1,075

1 June 2021 
‘000
£995
£615
—
US$1,050

% 
increase
2.5%
2.4%
—
2.4%

In awarding these increases, we considered a number of factors, including the approach to employee remuneration throughout the Group, the 
prevailing economic conditions and positioning against the market as well as individual performance. The salary review budget for FY23 for our 
employees in the USA and UK was 4%. 

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Remuneration128

Annual report on directors’ remuneration
continued

Benefits and pension
Taxable benefits include life insurance, private healthcare, a company car or car allowance and, where relevant, the value of any gain realised on 
exercising Sharesave options.

Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford are eligible to participate in a defined contribution pension plan but elected not to do so during the year ended 
31 March 2023. In 2023, Brian Cassin received a cash supplement of £177,677 (2022: £198,250), and Lloyd Pitchford received a cash supplement 
of £109,750 (2022: £122,500), in lieu of their pension contributions.

Kerry Williams participated in a defined contribution plan (401k). The company contribution to this during the part of the year that he served as an 
executive director was US$4,423 (2022: US$11,831). Craig Boundy does not participate in a defined contribution plan (401k).

No executive director has a prospective right to a defined benefit pension.

Annual bonus
Overview
All Experian employees participate in a variable pay plan. We have one annual bonus plan in operation across Experian and the majority (c.16,000) of 
our workforce participate in this plan. The remainder of employees participate in a sales commission plan. How the annual bonus plan works varies 
slightly depending on region and grade. For the vast majority of employees, annual bonus awards are based on the performance of their particular 
business line or region.

Executive directors are required to defer half of any annual bonus earned for three years through the CIP, although they may choose to defer more. 
This year, as in previous years, all three executive directors in office at 31 March 2023 chose to voluntarily defer their full bonus payments into the CIP.

Our executive annual bonus plan is based upon two performance metrics, which are Benchmark EBIT growth (80% weighting) and revenue 
performance (20% weighting). Benchmark EBIT is an important earnings metric and focuses on items directly within management’s control. 
To balance the profit focus of Benchmark EBIT, revenue performance growth was added to the bonus plan in FY20 to provide an important quality 
of earnings element to the annual performance.

How do we set the bonus targets?
Performance-related pay is a key component of our reward structure for all employees and, as such, setting stretch targets is a critical focus area for 
the Committee. Every year we undertake a rigorous exercise to ensure our targets are sufficiently stretching, taking into consideration the external 
marketplace and our own performance aspirations. The Committee considers targets at two separate Remuneration Committee meetings during the 
year:

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

In January, the Committee considers the 
wider market context, and is presented with
an early indication of how performance is 
tracking in the current year. 

The Committee’s independent remuneration 
advisers are invited to provide the Committee 
with a wider assessment of the pay and 
governance environments in the relevant 
locations for our business.    

In March, budgets for the forthcoming year 
are discussed and agreed by the Board.

At its March meeting, the Committee  
has a first look at possible targets for the 
forthcoming year, taking into account a 
number of factors including: 

the strategic plan

brokers’ earnings estimates

wider economic expectations 

our key competitors’ earnings estimates,
including a number of different peer
groups. 

By the time the Committee meets again 
in May, budgets for the forthcoming year 
have been agreed and the performance 
outcomes for the current year have been 
reviewed by our auditor. 

The Committee takes these into account 
during its determination of prior year 
outcomes and its final review of the 
targets for the current year, before 
signing them off. 

The Committee is able to take a holistic approach to setting targets, as all our non-executive directors sit on the Remuneration Committee, as well as 
on all of our other principal Board Committees. This ensures Committee members are fully apprised of the wider business context and the Group’s 
business prospects over the coming years, particularly as the Board meeting to discuss the budget and business plan usually takes place prior to the 
Remuneration Committee meeting.

Annual bonus outcome
Revenue performance is calculated as the Group total revenue growth after the removal of intra-Group sales, and Benchmark EBIT is based on 
ongoing activities. Performance is measured on a constant currency basis to strip out the effects of exchange rate fluctuations, which are outside of 
management’s control. The Committee also excludes the impact of any material acquisitions or disposals made in the year, to ensure both metrics are 
measured consistently, which is in line with our approach to long-term incentive plan measures.

The FY23 annual bonus targets were set at a stretch level that, for both metrics, required double-digit growth to achieve maximum. Building on the 
resilient performance of recent years, these targets were designed to signal our continued growth ambitions.

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Remuneration129

The table below shows our growth in Benchmark EBIT and revenue performance for bonus purposes relative to the FY23 agreed targets.

Metric
Benchmark EBIT growth
Revenue performance growth

Total annual bonus achievement as % of on-target

% growth 
required for 
threshold payout
6%
6%

% growth 
required for 
target payout
9%
8%

% growth 
required for 
maximum payout
11%
10%

Weighting
80%
20%

FY23 actual 
growth
9.4%
8.2%

Annual bonus 
achievement
119%
111%
118%

Before approving the annual bonus outcomes, the Committee discussed whether or not the proposed payout was appropriate in the context of both 
the current external environment and the Group’s wider business performance during the year. The Committee also considers other factors reviewed 
by the Board, such as our Net Promoter Score, employee experience, employee engagement results, direct employee feedback to the Committee 
Chair at the People Forum, and the broader stakeholder experience over the financial year.

The Committee agreed that the Company’s financial performance was aligned with its holistic assessment of performance and was also satisfied 
that it did not need to exercise any discretion, and that the level of bonus payout was appropriate. 

As such, the resulting annual bonus outcomes for each executive director (up to a maximum of 200% of salary), for the year ended 31 March 2023, 
are set out in the table below. 

Brian Cassin
Lloyd Pitchford
Craig Boundy1
Kerry Williams1

FY23 
Bonus payout 
‘000
£1,199
£740
US$820
US$386

Bonus payout 
% salary
118%
118%
118%
118%

% bonus 
deferred 
under the CIP
100%
100%
100%
n/a

1  Bonus amounts for Craig Boundy and Kerry Williams reflect the time served as an executive director during the financial year.

Each of the eligible executive directors has elected to defer their full bonus into Experian shares under the CIP for a three-year period. Deferred bonus 
shares are not subject to any further conditions but may be matched, subject to the conditions set out in the CIP awards section below. 

Share-based incentives
The share-based incentive amount included in the single total figure of remuneration is the combined value of the CIP and PSP awards vesting in 
respect of the relevant financial year. For FY23, these relate to the awards granted on 11 June 2020 and for FY22 they relate to the awards granted 
on 12 June 2019. Vesting in 2023 for both the CIP and PSP awards is determined based on performance over the three years ended 31 March 2023, 
as well as continued service. 

The 2020 LTI targets were set in November 2020, when our growth ambitions were to achieve sustainable annual high single-digit growth and the 
Committee has not exercised any discretion, nor made any adjustments, in determining the vesting outcomes for the 2020 LTI awards. Our resilient 
performance in the first year of the performance period at the onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic, combined with our strong financial 
performance in second and third years of the performance period, resulted in the formulaic vesting results outlined in the table below. The Committee 
reviewed the financial performance, but also considered the experience of our investors, employees and other stakeholders over the three-year 
performance period. Through this broadest lens, the Committee judged the formulaic results to be fair and balanced and, as such, did not make any 
adjustments to the vesting results. The tables below show the performance achieved on the targets for the CIP and PSP awards granted in June 2020:

CIP awards

Performance measure
Benchmark Earnings per share (average 
annual growth)
Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow3
Total

PSP awards

Weighting

No match

1:2 match

1:1 match

2:1 match

Actual

Vesting1

50%
Below 3%
50%  Below US$3.7bn

3%
US$3.7bn

4%
US$3.8bn

7%
US$4.1bn

11.2%
US$5.2bn

Performance measure
Benchmark Earnings per share (average 
annual growth)
Adjusted Return on capital employed
TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index
Total

Weighting

0%

50%
25%
25%

Below 3%
Below 14.5%
Below Index

Vesting1

25%

50%

100%

Actual

3%
14.5%

7%
16.0%
Equal to Index 8.3% above Index 25% above Index

4%
15.4%

11.2%
17.0%
Below Index

Percentage 
vesting2

50%
50%
100%

Percentage 
vesting

50%
25%
0%
75%

1  Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
2  The maximum opportunity, which requires 100% vesting, results in a two-for-one match on the bonus deferred.
3 

In line with the approach taken in previous years, the cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow targets shown above have been adjusted compared to those originally set to take into account the impact 
of acquisitions and disposals made over the performance period. The actual cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow over the performance period, of US$5.2bn, is determined on a constant currency 
basis. This is in line with our approach for all performance metrics, to ensure that awards are measured on a consistent basis.

No discretion was applied in determining the share-based payments that vested in either FY23 or FY22.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Remuneration130

Annual report on directors’ remuneration
continued

The June 2020 awards had not vested at the date this report was finalised, and so the reported value of the awards has been based on the average 
share price in the last three months of the financial year, which was £28.54. The value of the awards included in the single total figure of remuneration 
is as follows:

CIP

Shares 
awarded
113,971
70,325
78,502
94,570

Shares 
vesting
113,971
70,325
78,502
94,570

PSP

Shares 
awarded
70,335
43,394
35,691
58,426

Shares 
vesting
52,751
32,546
26,768
43,820

Value of 
shares 
vesting 
‘000
£4,759
£2,936
US$3,653
US$4,802

Value of 
dividend 
equivalent 
payments 
‘000
£193
£119
US$156
US$205

Total value 
of shares 
vesting and 
dividend 
payments 
‘000
£4,952
£3,055
US$3,809
US$5,007

Brian Cassin
Lloyd Pitchford
Craig Boundy
Kerry Williams

Shares awarded in the above table to Craig Boundy were made prior to his appointment as a director.

The value of Craig Boundy’s and Kerry Williams’ shares has been converted into US dollars at a rate of £1:US$1.22, which is the average rate during 
the last three months of FY23.

Dividend equivalents of 148.25 US cents per share will be paid on vested shares. These represent the value of the dividends that would have been paid 
to the owner of one share between the date of grant and the date of vesting.

The chart to the right shows the make-up of the CEO’s FY23 single figure 
value, including £4.9m relating to the LTI. 

Of the £4.9m LTI value disclosed for the CEO, 92% is the value at grant, 
3.9% is the value of dividend equivalent payments and 4.1% is a result of 
share price growth between the grant date and the average price over 
the last three months of the financial year.

Breakdown of FY23 CEO single figure % 

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

5%

62%

16%

17%

FY23

LTI – share price 
and dividends

LTI vesting

Annual bonus

Fixed

Update to 2022 disclosure
We originally calculated the value of the share awards realised by our executive directors in 2022 using the average share price from 1 January 2022 
to 31 March 2022, in line with the prescribed single figure methodology. This has now been revised to reflect the actual share price and exchange rate 
on vesting, as follows:

Brian Cassin
Lloyd Pitchford
Kerry Williams

Three-month
average share
price to
31 March 2022

£30.15

Estimated value 
of long-term 
incentive awards 
‘000
£6,741
£4,160
US$7,499

Share price 
on vesting

£23.86

Actual value 
of long-term 
incentive awards 
‘000
£5,382
£3,321
US$5,459

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Remuneration131

What share-based incentive awards did we make in the year? (audited)
On 8 June 2022, awards were granted to the executive directors under the CIP and PSP. The face value of awards made to Brian Cassin and Lloyd 
Pitchford is shown in pounds sterling; the face value of awards made to Craig Boundy and Kerry Williams is shown in US dollars. The number of 
shares awarded to Craig Boundy and Kerry Williams was calculated using the average exchange rate for the three days prior to grant of £1:US$1.24. 
All awards have been calculated using a three-day average share price.

In line with the CIP rules, invested shares for Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford were purchased with their bonuses net of tax. In line with the rules of 
The Experian North America Co-investment Plan, invested shares for Craig Boundy and Kerry Williams were calculated with reference to their gross 
bonuses. Matching awards are based on the gross value of the bonus deferred.

Details of these awards are set out in the following table:

Type of interest in shares

Basis of award

Face value 
‘000

Number 
of shares

Vesting at threshold 
performance

Brian Cassin
CIP invested shares
CIP matching shares1
PSP2
Lloyd Pitchford
CIP invested shares
CIP matching shares1
PSP2
Craig Boundy3
CIP invested shares
CIP matching shares1
PSP2
Kerry Williams
CIP invested shares
CIP matching shares1
PSP2

Deferred shares
Conditional shares
Conditional shares

100% of net bonus
200% of value of gross bonus deferral
200% of salary

Deferred shares
Conditional shares
Conditional shares

100% of net bonus
200% of value of gross bonus deferral
200% of salary

Deferred shares
Conditional shares
Conditional shares

100% of net bonus
200% of value of gross bonus deferral
200% of salary

Deferred shares
Conditional shares
Conditional shares

100% of gross bonus
200% of value of gross bonus deferral
200% of salary

£1,026
£3,965
£2,040

£634
£2,450
£1,260

£596
£2,303
US$1,980

US$2,071
US$4,142
US$2,129

39,967
154,463
78,988

24,696
95,444
48,786

23,210
89,703
61,767

64,995
129,990
66,399

n/a
25%
25%

n/a
25%
25%

n/a
25%
25%

n/a
25%
25%

Vesting date

8 June 2025
8 June 2025
8 June 2025

8 June 2025
8 June 2025
8 June 2025

8 June 2025
8 June 2025
8 June 2025

8 June 2025
8 June 2025
8 June 2025

1  The number of shares awarded to executive directors under the CIP was based on the share price at which invested shares were purchased in the market and the face value shown above is based on this. 

This price was £25.67.

2  The number of shares awarded to executive directors under the PSP was based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant, which was £25.83, and the face value shown above is based 

on this.

3  The number of shares awarded to Craig Boundy was awarded prior to his appointment as a director.

PSP awards and CIP matching shares granted in June 2022 will vest subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions:

Performance measure
CIP matching shares
Benchmark Earnings per share (average annual growth)2
Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow
PSP awards
Benchmark Earnings per share (average annual growth)2
TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index
Adjusted Return on capital employed (average over three years)

1  Straight-line vesting between the points shown. 
2  Measured on an ongoing activities and constant currency basis.

Weighting

0%

Vesting1

25%

50%

100%

50%
Below 5%
50% Below US$5.0bn

6%
US$5.0bn

8%
US$5.2bn

10%
US$5.4bn

50%
25%
25%

Below 6%
Below Index
Below 14.5%

6%

10%
Equal to Index 8.3% above Index 25% above Index
16.0%

14.5%

15.4%

8%

The Committee retains the right to vary the level of vesting if it believes the level of vesting determined by measuring performance is inconsistent 
with the Group’s underlying financial and operational performance over the performance period. These awards will also only vest if the Committee 
is satisfied the vesting is not based on materially misstated financial results.

Experian plc  Annual Report 2023GovernanceCode principle Remuneration132

Annual report on directors’ remuneration
continued

How is the CEO’s pay linked to Experian’s performance? 
The chart below shows Experian’s annual TSR performance compared to the FTSE 100 Index over the last ten years. The FTSE 100 Index is the most 
appropriate index as it is widely used and understood, and Experian is a constituent of the index.

Value of £100 invested in Experian and the FTSE 100 on 31 March 2013

£400

£350

£300

£250

£200

£150

£100

£50

£0

Experian

FTSE 100 Index

31 March
2013

31 March
2014

31 March
2015

31 March
2016

31 March
2017

31 March
2018

31 March
2019

31 March
2020

31 March
2021

31 March
2022

31 March
2023

The table below sets out our CEO’s pay for the last eleven financial years:

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

CEO total single figure 
of remuneration (‘000)1
Don Robert
Brian Cassin
Annual bonus paid against 
maximum opportunity (%)
Don Robert
Brian Cassin
LTIP vesting against 
maximum opportunity (%)2
Don Robert
Brian Cassin

US$22,974 US$16,290
—

—

US$620
£1,976

—
£3,678

—
£3,647

—
£6,387

—
£11,882

—
£10,836

—
£7,821

—
£9,938

 —
£7,371

75%
—

100%
—

50%
—

94%
—

—
38%

69%
40%

—
100%

—
33%

—
89%

—
32%

—
58%

—
95%

—
85%

—
90%

—
80%

—
90%

—
91%

—
84%

—
100%

—
100%

—
59%

—
88%

1  Prior year numbers have been updated to reflect actual long-term incentive plan outcomes.
2  The maximum LTIP opportunity varies as the CIP opportunity is based upon the actual bonus earned.

CEO pay ratio 
Experian follows good corporate governance and transparency in reporting remuneration for our executive directors and employees. We have 
presented below the CEO pay ratio for the year ended 31 March 2023, in line with the UK regulatory requirements. The pay ratios have been calculated 
using Option A of the three methodologies provided under the regulations, which we believe is the most statistically accurate approach. 

Year

2020

2021

2022

2023

Method
Option A
Total pay and benefits
Salary
Option A
Total pay and benefits
Salary
Option A
Total pay and benefits
Salary
Option A
Total pay and benefits
Salary

25th percentile 
pay ratio
267:1
£38,630
£33,362
185:1
£40,969
£32,569
226:1
£43,957
£35,467
142:1
£51,978
£46,778

Median  
pay ratio
178:1
£57,803
£47,869
124:1
£61,115
£49,983
155:1
£64,062
£50,333
97:1
£75,887
£62,667

75th percentile 
pay ratio
112:1
£91,736
£77,000
81:1
£93,574
£75,000
101:1
£98,754
£66,458
65:1
£112,982
£85,846

Experian plc GovernanceCode principle Remuneration