Executive Leadership Team

The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) supports the Chief Executive in managing the business at Group level, overseeing safety, performance, 
operational plans and actions, governance and risk management. Andy Ransom and Stuart Ingall-Tombs are also members of the ELT. Their 
biographical information can be found on page 99. The Chief Executive chairs the ELT, which meets regularly throughout the year, and the Regional 
Managing Director of our Latin America region also attends all meetings.

Gary Booker
Chief Marketing, Innovation and Strategy Officer
Appointed: January 2018 
Role: As Chief Marketing, Innovation and 
Strategy Officer, Gary has overall responsibility 
for business strategy, brand, innovation, digital, 
global account sales and global marketing for 
commercial and residential customers.
Skills and experience: Gary’s career includes 
former CEO and General Manager positions, as 
well as strategy and innovation leadership roles 
for several high-profile businesses, including 
Dixons Carphone, where he was Chief Marketing 
Officer and oversaw its Currys and PC World 
brands; O2 (Telefónica) in the UK; and Electronic 
Arts in San Francisco, where he gained strong 
experience across mobile and digital marketing. 
Prior to that, Gary held senior roles at Dunlop 
Slazenger and Unipart. Gary holds an MBA in 
Strategic Marketing and a BSc (Hons) in Business 
Studies, Law and Psychology.

Vanessa Evans
Group HR Director
Appointed: January 2016
Role: As Group HR Director, Vanessa leads a 
team responsible for shaping and executing  
our Employer of Choice (EoC) strategy, ensuring 
that we can attract, recruit, train, engage, reward 
and retain the talent we need to deliver on our 
business strategy and results.
Skills and experience: Vanessa has had a 
successful career with some of the world’s 
best-known consumer brands. She brings 
valuable business experience and expertise 
in human resources management. She joined 
Rentokil Initial from RSA Group plc where 
she was Group HR, Communications and 
Customer Director. Prior to that, Vanessa was 
Global HR Director at Lego and Head of UK HR 
at GAP. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Personnel and Development and holds a  
BA (Hons) in Geography from Bulmershe 
College, University of Reading. Vanessa is 
currently a Non-Executive Director of Care UK.

Chris Hunt
Group M&A Director
Appointed: July 2019 
Role: Chris leads Rentokil Initial’s efforts to 
identify, evaluate, negotiate and integrate 
acquisitions and disposals, ensuring that the 
deals add value.
Skills and experience: Chris joined Rentokil 
Initial in 2012 as Group M&A Director and has 
completed more than 400 deals for the Group. 
Prior to joining Rentokil Initial, Chris held various 
senior roles at AstraZeneca plc, including Head 
of Finance at AZ UK’s Marketing Company, 
Corporate Strategy Director and Group M&A 
Director, and prior to that was a Director at  
KPMG Transaction Services. Chris has extensive 
operational finance, business development and 
corporate finance experience. He is a Chartered 
Accountant and sits on the ICAEW’s Corporate 
Finance Faculty Board. He holds a BA (Hons) in 
Accounting and Computing from the University 
of Kent, Canterbury.

Rachel Canham
Group General Counsel
Appointed: April 2022 
Role: As Group General Counsel, Rachel has 
responsibility for legal, corporate governance 
and data privacy across the Group.
Skills and experience: Rachel joined Rentokil 
Initial as Group General Counsel in 2022. Rachel 
is an experienced corporate and commercial 
lawyer. Prior to joining, Rachel spent 10 years at 
BT Group plc where she performed various 
roles, including General Counsel of its Enterprise 
division, Company Secretary, Chief Counsel  
for M&A with responsibility for its global M&A, 
joint ventures and restructurings and Senior 
Commercial Lawyer in the Major Transactions 
team. Before that, Rachel was a corporate lawyer 
at US law firm Latham & Watkins and at Dickson 
Minto W.S. Rachel is a graduate of Edinburgh 
University (LLB) and a qualified solicitor in 
England and Wales and Scotland.

102 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Mark Gillespie
Managing Director, Asia & MENAT
Appointed: April 2022 
Role: Mark oversees our businesses throughout 
the Asia & MENAT region.
Skills and experience: Mark joined Rentokil 
Initial in 2004, as the Group Director of Internal 
Audit & Risk Management. Since then he  
has held various senior roles in Finance and 
General Management. Prior to his most recent 
appointment to Managing Director, Asia & 
MENAT, he was the Regional Managing Director 
for the Rest of World region, doubling the size of 
Rentokil Initial’s presence in that region during 
his tenure. Mark has extensive finance, general 
management and M&A experience from his time 
at Rentokil Initial, and in previous senior roles in 
companies such as Honeywell and Pfizer.
He holds a BA Honours degree in Accounting 
and Finance from Manchester Metropolitan 
University, is qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with BDO Stoy Hayward and is a Member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales.

Alain Moffroid
Managing Director, Europe
Appointed: March 2016 
Role: Alain oversees our businesses throughout 
the Europe region.
Skills and experience: Alain joined Rentokil  
Initial in 2013 as Managing Director, Pacific  
and became Managing Director, Europe in 
September 2019. He joined from Unilever where 
he held a number of senior roles across multiple 
geographies. He has significant experience in 
marketing, sales and business development 
acquired during 23 years with Unilever in 
Europe, Asia and Pacific. Alain is a dual national 
Belgian/Australian and is fluent in English, 
French and Dutch. He holds an MSc in Business 
from the Solvay Brussels School of Economics 
and Management.

ELT changes in 2023 and 2024
Brett Ponton, CEO, North America, left the Company in October 2023 and was succeeded by Brad Paulsen in December. Alain Moffroid, currently 
Managing Director, Europe, will become Chief Commercial Officer on 1 April 2024. As part of this new role, Alain will lead the Marketing and Innovation 
Function. Fabrice Quinquenel, currently Managing Director, France, Nordics & Poland, will succeed Alain as Managing Director, Europe, and become a 
member of the ELT, with effect from 1 April 2024. Gary Booker, Chief Marketing, Innovation and Strategy Officer, will be leaving the Company in April 2024.

John Myers
CEO, US Pest Control
Appointed: October 2013 
Role: John oversees our Pest Control businesses 
throughout the North America region.
Skills and experience: John joined Rentokil  
Initial in 2008 as President and Chief Executive 
of the Pest Control division in North America. 
Previously, John held various senior 
management roles at Cintas Corporation.  
Prior to that, he was President and Chief 
Executive at BioQuest LLC. John has a diverse 
business background, with extensive sales, 
marketing and business strategy experience.  
He is a graduate of the University of Vermont, 
where he earned a Bachelor’s degree in 
Business Administration. He also holds an MBA 
from Mercer University in Atlanta. John is a 
Non-Executive Director of Strikepoint Group 
Holdings, LLC.

Mark Purcell
Chief Information Officer (CIO)
Appointed: April 2019 
Role: Mark’s role is to ensure a ‘safe and secure 
first’ approach is applied to Rentokil Initial’s 
global IT systems and infrastructure. With his 
team, he works alongside the regional and 
functional teams to ensure that the IT strategy 
and investment is aligned to business priorities.
Skills and experience: Mark joined Rentokil 
Initial in 1988. He later became Global IT Delivery 
Director, UK Hygiene and Textiles IT Director, 
Pest Control and Ambius Division IT Director,  
IT Director for UK & Rest of World, and then  
CIO Europe, before becoming Group CIO in  
April 2019. Mark has significant experience in 
business transformation, change management 
and project/programme management, as well  
as expertise in M&A integration. Mark’s early 
career was with the Civil Service, where he held 
an executive officer position in IT.

Brian Webb
Group Operations Excellence Director
Appointed: August 2019 
Role: Brian leads the Global Procurement, 
Supply Chain and Logistics functions, as well as 
being responsible for product quality, safety and 
technical governance. He and his team also work 
closely with the regional and functional teams  
to drive the environmental and sustainability 
agenda across the Group.
Skills and experience: Brian joined Rentokil 
Initial in 2011 as Supply Chain Director for 
Hygiene and Pest Control and has gained 
additional functional responsibilities over the 
years. He was appointed to the Executive 
Leadership team in 2019. His career has 
included roles in design and project engineering, 
production management and operations in the 
petrochemical, food, beverage and personal 
care sectors at global companies including 
Sasol, SABMiller, Mars Confectionery and  
Sara Lee. Brian is a Chartered Engineer (CEng) 
with an MSc in Engineering from Witwatersrand 
University (South Africa) and an MBA from 
Henley Management College (UK).

Brad Paulsen
CEO North America
Appointed: December 2023 
Role: As CEO of North America, Brad has overall 
responsibility for business operations in the 
region.
Skills and experience: Brad joined Rentokil Initial 
in December 2023 as CEO North America. 
Previously, Brad was CEO of Rexel USA and prior 
to that served as Chief Operating Officer of HD 
Supply. He spent over nine years at The Home 
Depot serving in various merchandising 
leadership roles. Brad has also served as a 
Non-Executive Director for Dot Family Holdings, 
the largest food industry redistributor in North 
America, for the past two years.
Brad attended The United States Military 
Academy at West Point and graduated with 
a Bachelor of Science in Economics. Additionally, 
he holds a Master of Business Administration 
from Vanderbilt University. 

Andrew Stone
Managing Director, Pacific
Appointed: September 2019 
Role: Andrew oversees our businesses 
throughout the Pacific region.
Skills and experience: Andrew joined Rentokil 
Initial in 2013 as Finance Director, Pacific,  
before becoming Managing Director, Pacific,  
in September 2019. Previously, Andrew had  
held a number of senior finance and sales  
roles at Unilever within Australasia. He has 
extensive commercial, finance and supply  
chain experience.
Andrew is a Certified Practising Accountant  
and earned Bachelor degrees in Economics  
and Law from Sydney University. Additionally,  
he holds a Master’s of Management from 
Macquarie Graduate School of Management  
and a Master’s of Professional Accounting from 
Southern Cross University.

Phill Wood
Managing Director, UK & Sub-Saharan Africa
Appointed: October 2013 
Role: Phill oversees our businesses throughout 
the UK & Sub-Saharan Africa region.
Skills and experience: Phill joined Rentokil  
Initial in 2006, holding various senior Pest 
Control roles in Europe before his appointment 
to lead the UK businesses – Pest Control and 
Hygiene in 2009. He became Managing  
Director of UK & Rest of World in 2013. Prior to 
joining Rentokil Initial, Phill held a number of  
top management positions at Lex Services/ 
RAC plc where he served for 15 years.  
Phill has extensive commercial and business 
development experience. He is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and holds a BSc 
(Hons) in Management Science from 
Loughborough University.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 103

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceCorporate Governance Report

Compliance with the  
UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018
For the year ended 31 December 2023, the 
Company has applied the principles and 
complied with all of the provisions of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), 
which was published in July 2018. 

The Company’s application of the Code’s 
principles and its compliance with the supporting 
provisions during the year is evidenced 
throughout the Annual Report. We have set out 
below an overview of how the Company has 
applied the principles of the Code in 2023,  
with links to relevant sections in the report. 

During the year, the Board also received an 
update as to the proposed changes to the  
Code by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), 
with the Company submitting a response to the 
consultation in this regard. The revised Code 
was published in January 2024, and will apply 
for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 
2025. In 2024, the Board will review the revised 
Code, and consider the steps necessary to 
address the changes to corporate governance 
and corporate reporting provided for in the  
2024 Code. 

The full text of the Code is available on the FRC’s 
website at frc.org.uk.

Statement of application 
of Code principles
1. Board leadership and Company 
purpose
A. The role of the Board
The biographies for the Directors of the 
Company are outlined on pages 99 to 101,  
and include details as to their respective  
skills and experience. 

The Board promotes the long-term sustainable 
success of the Company through the decisions 
it takes about the services, customers and 
markets in which the Group operates, and 
maintains a dividend policy to share the  
value generated by these operations with 
shareholders. The Group’s business model is 
explained on pages 14 and 15 and the Group’s 
strategic priorities are outlined on pages 16  
to 19. 

B. Purpose, values and culture 
Our mission, vision and values are described 
on page 4, and our culture is summarised on 
page 5. An outline of the Board’s ongoing 
monitoring of the Company’s values and 
culture is provided on page 116. 

C. Resources and controls
The Risk and Uncertainties section on pages 
87 to 93 details the Group’s principal risks, and 
our risk management framework. The Board’s 
review of the risk management framework is 
outlined on page 123. 

D. Stakeholder engagement 
Our key stakeholders are set out on pages 84 
and 85, with the section 172(1) statement, 
on how Directors have had regard to 
stakeholders when discharging their duties, 
being found on page 83. 

On page 111, we have included examples of 
how the Board considers the views of our  
key stakeholders in its decision-making.

E. Workforce policies and practices 
The Company’s Code of Conduct sets out  
our values and the standards of behaviour 
expected from all colleagues. The Code of 
Conduct also provides guidance on Speak  
Up, the Company’s whistleblowing facility. 
Further details can be found on page 116. 

2. Division of responsibilities
F. Role of the Chair 
The responsibilities of the Chair of the Board, 
Richard Solomons, are defined on page 106. 

G. Board composition and division of 
responsibilities 
At least half of the Board, excluding the 
Chairman, are considered independent. 
Full details are provided on page 107. 

L. Board evaluation 
In 2023, the Board undertook an externally 
facilitated review, in line with the Code,  
as described on pages 112 and 113. 

4. Audit, risk and internal control
M. Independence and effectiveness of 
internal and external auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
reporting to the Board on a range of matters 
concerning audit, risk and internal controls. 
For more information about the role and work 
of the Audit Committee, the external auditors 
and the Internal Audit team, see pages 117  
to 124. 

N. Fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment 
The Board’s approach to secure a fair, 
balanced and understandable report is 
provided on page 121.

The Directors’ statement on ‘fair, balanced and 
understandable’ can be found on page 245.

O. Risk and internal control 
Our approach to risk management and internal 
control together with the Group’s principal 
risks is set out on pages 87 to 93. 

The responsibilities of the Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors are described on 
page 106. 

The Board and Audit Committee’s oversight of 
the risk management and the internal control 
framework is summarised on page 123.

H. Role of the Non-Executive Directors 
The current significant external commitments 
of each of the Directors are included in the 
Board biographies on pages 99 to 101.  
The Board’s approach to assessing external 
commitments, including those considered 
during the year, can be found on page 107. 

A table detailing the number of Board,  
and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee meetings held in 2023, and 
Director attendance at those meetings,  
is provided on page 98. 

I. Board policies, processes, information,  
time and resources
The Company Secretary works with the Chair 
of the Board, the Chairs of the Committees, 
the Chief Executive and other members of 
management to ensure that the Board has  
the policies, processes, information, time  
and resources it needs in order to function 
effectively and efficiently.

3. Composition, succession  
and evaluation
J. Appointments to the Board 
The Nomination Committee (which comprises 
all the Non-Executive Directors and the 
Chairman) is responsible for succession 
planning for, and recommending candidates 
for appointment to, the Board. For more 
information about the work of the Nomination 
Committee and the Board’s policy on diversity, 
equity and inclusion, see the Nomination 
Committee Report on pages 125 to 130. 

5. Remuneration
P. Remuneration Policy and practices 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
determining remuneration policies and practices 
which support the strategy and promote the 
long-term sustainable success of the Group.  
For more information about the work of the 
Remuneration Committee, see the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 131 to 161. 

Q. Executive remuneration 
The current Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
was approved by shareholders at our Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in May 2021. A copy  
of the policy can be found on our website.

Details of how the policy was applied during 
2023 and how the Remuneration Committee 
has undertaken its duties can be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 131 
to 161. 

In accordance with corporate governance 
requirements, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy will be put to shareholders for approval 
at the AGM in May 2024. A copy of the 
proposed policy can be found on pages 152  
to 158. As part of the process for developing 
the policy, the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee consulted with major institutional 
shareholders on the proposals. 

R. Independent judgement and discretion 
The Remuneration Committee determines 
remuneration outcomes for the Executive 
Directors and other members of senior 
management and in so doing exercises 
independent judgement and discretion in the 
context of Company performance and individual 
performance and the wider circumstances,  
as appropriate. No Director or member of 
management is involved in determining their 
own pay.

The Board has a formal system in place for 
Directors to declare a conflict, or potential 
conflict of interest, as summarised on  
page 126. 

K. Board skills, experience and knowledge 
The key skills and experience of each of  
the Directors are included in the Board 
biographies on pages 99 to 101. 

104 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Governance framework

The Board
The Board’s role is to set the strategy to create sustainable, long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders. It governs within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls that enable it to manage and assess risk. The Board strives to operate in a constructive, ethical 
and transparent manner at all times, and to set the tone for the rest of the business.

Matters reserved for the approval of the Board are set out in writing and reviewed periodically.  
They are available to view on our website.

B Biographies on pages 99 to 101

B Strategic priorities on pages 16 to 19

B Key activities during 2023 on pages 108 to 110

INFORMING

REPORTING

Audit Committee
Provides effective financial governance 
and oversees the Group’s financial and 
narrative reporting, risk management 
and internal control environment, and 
the external and internal audit process. 

Board Committees

Nomination Committee
Ensures the correct balance, structure 
and composition of the Board and its 
Committees, and reviews Board and 
executive succession planning, talent 
programmes, and diversity and inclusion. 

B Find out more on pages 117 to 124

B Find out more on pages 125 to 130

Remuneration Committee
Reviews and agrees with the Board the 
remuneration framework, determines the 
remuneration packages of the Executive 
Directors and senior management, and 
considers workforce remuneration 
arrangements.
B Find out more on pages 131 to 161

INFORMING

REPORTING

Chief Executive and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT)
The Board delegates the execution of the Company’s strategy and the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive. The 
Chief Executive cascades authority to the ELT and wider management team through a documented Group Authority Schedule, which the 
Board reviews annually. The ELT also manages environmental, social and governance matters. 

B Q&A with our Chief Executive on pages 6 to 9

B Biographies on pages 102 to 103

INFORMING

REPORTING

Management Committees
Operating under delegated authority by the Board to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, these Committees each have 
specific remits and authority to approve decisions within set limits.

Disclosure Committee
Comprising the Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer, Group 
Financial Controller and Group 
General Counsel, it supports 
the Board’s responsibility for 
the accuracy and timeliness  
of external disclosures and 
compliance with the Market 
Abuse Regulation.

Treasury Committee
Comprising the Chief Financial 
Officer, Group Treasurer and 
Group Financial Controller, it 
reviews and approves the 
capital structure and financing 
strategy, as well as risk 
and cash management.

Group Risk Committee
Comprising the Chief Financial 
Officer and six other functional 
executives, it monitors the 
internal control environment 
and emerging risks, and 
reviews internal policies and 
procedures for identifying, 
assessing and reporting risks, 
meeting quarterly. Details of its 
discussions are reported to the 
Audit Committee.

Investment Committee
Comprising the Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer, Group 
Financial Controller and Group 
General Counsel, it reviews and 
approves investments below 
the threshold requiring Board 
approval, including M&A and 
expenditure on property and 
environmental remediation. 
It also conducts post-acquisition 
reviews of completed M&A 
transactions and reviews 
material litigation quarterly.

This governance framework provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are taken at the appropriate levels, and further allows 
the Board to ensure it meets its obligations to our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our shareholders and other key stakeholders play an 
important role in the operation of our governance framework. For details on how we engage with them, see pages 114 and 115.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 105

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceCorporate Governance Report 
continued

Division of responsibilities
The Board has collective responsibility for the governance of the Company, using clear authority and reporting governance structures to undertake 
its duties as set out on page 105. The clear division between executive and non-executive responsibilities promotes accountability and oversight. 
The roles of Chair of the Board and Chief Executive are separate with their responsibilities well-defined. The pro-forma appointment letters for a 
Non-Executive Director and the Chair of the Board are available on our website. The responsibilities of the Board members are set out below. 

Chair of the Board
Richard Solomons

Chief Executive
Andy Ransom

Chief Financial Officer
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

• Leading the effective operation and 

• Ensuring effective leadership and day-to-day 

• Supporting the Chief Executive in developing 

governance of the Board

running of the Company

and implementing strategy

• Setting the Board agenda, including 

• Recommending and executing strategies 

discussing issues of strategy, performance, 
accountability, risk and sustainability 

and strategic priorities

• Managing operational and financial 

• Supporting the Chief Executive in managing 
the operational and financial performance of 
the Group

• Demonstrating objective judgement, 
and providing constructive challenge 
to management

performance, including monthly performance 
reviews with all regions, and identifying and 
managing risks to achieving the strategy

• With the Chief Executive, explaining 
performance to shareholders and  
other stakeholders 

• Facilitating active engagement by  

• Keeping the Chairman and Board appraised 

• Presenting and reporting accurate and timely 

all Directors 

of any key matters 

historical financial information

• Setting clear expectations on culture,  

• With the Chief Financial Officer, explaining 

• Recommending appropriate financing, 

values and behaviour

• Ensuring effective communication with 
shareholders and other stakeholders

• Leading the annual evaluation of  

the performance of the Board and  
Chief Executive

Senior Independent Director (SID)
John Pettigrew

• Leading the Non-Executive Directors’ 

appraisal of the Chair of the Board

• Working with the Chairman on Board 

effectiveness

• Providing an alternative channel of 

communication for investors, primarily 
on corporate governance matters

tax and treasury arrangements 

the Company’s performance to shareholders 
and other stakeholders

• Reviewing the organisation structure, 

including executive management capability, 
development and planning for succession 

• Overall development of Group policies  

and the communication of the Company’s 
mission, vision and values

• Promoting the Company’s responsible 

business (ESG) agenda

Independent Non-Executive Directors
David Frear, Sally Johnson, Sarosh Mistry, 
Cathy Turner, Linda Yueh

Company Secretary
Catherine Stead

• Assisting the Chairman in developing the 

• Contributing independent challenge 

Board calendar and agendas

and rigour

• Providing external experience and 
knowledge to the Board’s agenda 

• Assisting in the development of the 

Company’s strategy

• Ensuring that the Board has the policies, 

processes, information, time and resources  
it needs in order to function effectively  
and efficiently

• Assisting the Chairman and SID in their 
evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness

• Advising the Board and its Committees 
on governance matters and managing 
effective corporate governance and 
compliance arrangements for the Board  
and the Group

• Facilitating Board induction and development 

programmes

• Facilitating Board engagement with the 

business and key stakeholders

• Being a sounding board for the Chair 

• Ensuring the integrity of financial information, 

of the Board

• Chairing the Nomination Committee when  
it is considering succession to the role of 
Chair of the Board

internal controls and risk management 
processes

• Monitoring the performance of the Executive 

Directors to agreed goals and objectives

• Advising and being a sounding board 

for Executive Directors and members of 
the ELT

• Performing their Committee responsibilities

106 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Board composition
The Board currently has nine members, 
comprising a Non-Executive Chairman, two 
Executive Directors and six Non-Executive 
Directors, whose key responsibilities are set 
out on page 106. They receive advice and 
support from the Company Secretary and the 
Group General Counsel. Full details of the 
Board members who served during 2023, 
and in 2024 to the date of this report, are on 
pages 99 and 101.

Non-Executive Directors have regular 
opportunities to meet members of the ELT 
and other members of senior management 
(see pages 114 and 115) and also have at 
least one meeting during the year with the 
Chairman to facilitate discussion without 
executive management present. In 2023, 
the Non-Executive Directors met with the 
Chairman twice without management present. 

A Nomination Committee, comprising all the 
independent Non-Executive Directors and 
chaired by the Chairman, is responsible 
for managing the appointment process, 
as part of a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for appointing Directors.

Sally Johnson joined as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 April 2023. Details of the 
recruitment process undertaken can be found 
on page 127. She became a member of the 
Nomination Committee and Audit Committee 
from her date of appointment, and succeeded 
Julie Southern, who stepped down from the 
Board on 10 May 2023, as Audit Committee 
Chair on that date.

Further information on appointment and 
succession planning is provided in the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 127. 

The Board keeps its membership, and that 
of its Committees, under review in order to 
maintain an ongoing and appropriate balance 
of skills and experience.

The Board considers that it and its Committees 
have an appropriate composition to discharge 
their duties effectively.

Meetings and attendance
The Board met a total of ten times during 
the year, one of which was an additional 
unscheduled meeting. A committee of the 
Board met four times for scheduled meetings 
in relation to the release of financial results 
and trading updates. The membership and 
attendance at Board and Committee meetings 
during 2023 is shown on page 98.

During the year, Sarosh Mistry was unable 
to join the additional unscheduled meeting of 
the Board, and two Remuneration Committee 
meetings, one of which was an additional 
unscheduled meeting, due to conflicting 
commitments which could not be rearranged. 

While we endeavour to avoid conflicts with 
other commitments of Board members by 
setting our calendar up to three years in 
advance, it is sometimes impossible to avoid.

Where Directors are unable to attend 
meetings, they will still receive papers in 
advance of the meetings and the Chairman or 
Committee Chair would seek the individual’s 
views ahead of the meetings and brief them 
on the outcome. We believe that all Directors 
have sufficient capacity to perform their  
roles effectively. 

External commitments
All Directors may accept positions on other 
boards if they can demonstrate that the 
additional commitments will not compromise 
their time commitment to us or represent 
a conflict of interest. Any new external 
appointment must be approved by the  
Board having given due consideration to the 
nature of the appointment and the anticipated 
time commitment. The significant external 
commitments of the Directors can be found 
in their biographical information on pages 99 
to 101.

We consider significant appointments (as 
referred to in Principle 15 of the Code) to be 
either a role with a listed company or a role 
with a time commitment equal to or greater 
than their time commitment with us. Currently, 
Non-Executive Directors are required to 
commit to us at least 20 days a year, and the 
Chairman an average of two days a week. 
There was only one significant external 
appointment considered and approved by  
the Board during 2023, being Andy Ransom’s 
appointment as a Non-Executive Director 
of Informa plc in February 2023. 

We monitor, in line with published investor 
guidance, the issue of Board Directors 
becoming over-committed by taking on 
too many potentially significant positions 
(otherwise referred to as ‘overboarding’), 
and the need to remain flexible to deal with 
unforeseen circumstances.

The fact that some of the members of the 
Board hold multiple non-executive positions 
has not presented any problems regarding 
their ability to manage potentially competing 
demands for their time. In addition to 
published investor guidance, the Board 
considers a Director’s time commitment in 
aggregate and takes into account whether a 
Non-Executive Director holds any executive 
appointments. Full attendance details can be 
found on page 98.

Independence of 
Board members
The independence of Directors is considered 
upon their appointment, and subsequently 
reviewed as part of the individual Director 
performance evaluation process, to ensure 
all Non-Executive Directors retain the 
necessary independence of judgement. 
In their continued constructive challenges to 
the executive team and senior management 
at Board and Committee meetings, the 
Non-Executive Directors reflect their 
ongoing independence.

The Board has determined that all our 
Non-Executive Directors are independent and 
have retained their independence of character 
and judgement. In coming to this conclusion, 
the Board has taken into account the identified 
indicators of potential non-independence as 
set out in the Code. No Director took part  
in the Board’s consideration of their own 
independence. The Chairman was considered 
independent on his appointment. You can find 
details of the Directors’ share interests in the 
Company in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 146. No current Non-Executive 
Director has served on the Board for longer 
than nine years. You can see the length of 
tenure for each Director on page 98.

We consider and address any potential 
conflicts of interest before any new external 
Board appointment. All potential conflicts are 
submitted to the Board for consideration and, 
as appropriate, authorisation in accordance 
with our articles of association and the 
Companies Act 2006. Details of these are 
recorded in a register of conflicts, which the 
Nomination Committee also reviews in full 
annually. No material conflicts have been 
declared. You can find further details of this 
process in the Nomination Committee Report 
on page 126. 

In accordance with the Code, the Directors are 
subject to annual re-election by shareholders 
and will, therefore, be seeking re-election at 
the AGM in May 2024 (see page 242).

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 107

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceCorporate Governance Report 
continued

Board activities in 2023

In order to discharge responsible leadership 
and optimise the breadth of Board oversight, 
the Board conducts discussions at formal 
meetings facilitated by carefully structured 
agendas which are agreed in advance by  
the Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief 
Executive and Company Secretary. 

A review of safety, health and environmental 
performance is the first item on the agenda at 
scheduled meetings. The Chairs of our Board 
Committees also provide verbal reports on the 
proceedings of those meetings, highlighting 
key discussion points and particular concerns 
for the Board’s attention. Other standing 
agenda items comprise reports on operational 

and financial performance, and legal and 
governance updates. Details of the key 
matters receiving Board attention at meetings 
in 2023 are set out below.

As an acknowledgement of the value of 
understanding the views of our stakeholders 
and their importance in the ability to deliver 
our strategy and purpose, the Board takes  
into account the Group’s key stakeholders  
and their diverse perspectives as part of  
the Board’s discussions. Examples of this 
approach in relation to certain principal 
decisions taken by the Board during the  
year can be found on page 111.

Key to Strategic Priorities:

Be an Employer of Choice 

Drive Organic Revenue Growth  
in Pest Control
Manage the integration of Terminix 
into our North America business
Build our Hygiene & Wellbeing 
business

Drive M&A

Create value through product and 
service innovations and digital 
applications

Manage a responsible business

Strategy 

The Board monitors the Group’s performance 
against its strategy, as defined at the annual 
strategy review sessions, throughout the year. 
Strategy updates provided to the Board 
include reports by the Chief Executive at  
each scheduled Board meeting, which among 
other things include an overview of health  
and safety results, operational business 
performance, investor relations, M&A, external 
insights and people matters. The Board also 
receives performance management reports 
from the Chief Financial Officer, which  
include information on our financial and 
non-financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs), and the outcome of regional business 
and functional reviews. 

The Board’s annual strategy day was held over 
two days in November and gave the Board  
the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive 
review of the Group’s medium-term  
strategic plan. This year’s event consisted  
of presentations on the key strategic issues  
for the Group, the growth plan for the North 
America business, an update on customer 
needs and market opportunities, a review of 
the Group’s digital marketing strategy, an 
update on the Cities of the Future strategy, 
and an overview of the Group’s IT strategy. 

The Board also received an external 
presentation from the Company’s brokers on 
the external macro financial environment and 
medium-term financial outlook, and held a 
session on key global themes with Kearney  
(an external consultancy firm). Further details 
as to the Board’s consideration of the potential 
use by the business of Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) and Extended Reality (XR) can be found  
on page 110. 

During 2023, the Board undertook regional 
deep dives with the management teams for 
North America; Europe, the Caribbean and 
Latin America; the Pacific; and the UK & 
Sub-Saharan Africa regions. These sessions 
provide an overview of operational 
performance and future strategy for the 
region, and highlight specific areas of progress 
or challenge. They also allow the Board the 
opportunity to gain further knowledge and 
engage with the leadership team in the  
region on particular areas of focus. One of the 
reviews of North America took place as part of 
the Board’s overseas visit to Chicago in June 
2023. More details can be found on page 109. 

In June and December, the Board considered 
the Group’s sustainability strategy, including 
the steps being taken to achieve net zero  
by 2040 and the progress of regional 
sustainability plans to achieve agreed  
targets by 2025 (see the Responsible 
Business section on pages 68 to 82 for  
more information). 

The Head of Investor Relations presented  
to the Board in June on the Investor  
Relations function, the composition of the 
Company’s share register and planned 
investor engagement activities. The Board 
also discussed the Company’s American 
Depository Receipt (ADR) programme and  
the key areas of focus for investors. 

Customer and supplier contracts over an 
agreed threshold are also reviewed and 
approved by the Board. In 2023, these 
included an energy contract and vehicle 
supply contract. 

Safety, health 
and environment

A review of safety, health and environmental 
(SHE) performance is the first item on the 
agenda of each scheduled Board meeting; a 
practice mirrored at ELT meetings. The Board 
receives updates from management on health 
and safety performance, including KPIs, and 
consideration of any major incidents during 
the period, identifying any root causes and 
actions or learnings as a result. Further details 
on colleague safety can be found in the 
Responsible Business section on page 69. 

An update on the Group’s Lost Time Accident 
(LTA) and Working Days Lost (WDL) KPIs (see 
page 22) is provided in each SHE presentation 
to the Board. In addition, twice a year, the 
Board reviews our SHE leading indicators. 
There are three leading indicators which  
focus on our more hazardous activities,  
such as fumigation, that are consistently 
measured across the Group, and two leading 
indicators that focus on compliance with key 
safety training. 

Throughout the year, the Board discussed  
the Group’s broader sustainability strategy, 
including the environmental initiatives in 
progress across the Group. The Board also 
considered updates on the stakeholder 
landscape from an ESG perspective and  
ESG reporting requirements. In 2023,  
we engaged an external specialist 
consultancy firm to support the in-depth 
process of understanding the material 
sustainability-related impacts, risks and 
opportunities for the Group, in preparation for 
compliance with the Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (CSRD) and enhanced 
ESG reporting in the future. The outcome of 
this initial assessment was shared with the 
Board (see the Responsible Business section 
on pages 72 to 82 for more information).

108 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

People 

Governance and compliance 

Mergers and acquisitions

In July and December, the Board received 
updates from the Group HR Director on 
colleague retention, workforce engagement 
and culture. This included an overview of the 
external employment landscape, an update  
on our Employer of Choice programme, and  
a summary of the enhancements being made 
to the Group’s talent and career development 
initiatives. In December, the Board also 
received a summary of the key findings from 
our colleague survey, Your Voice Counts 
(YVC). The survey, which is undertaken every 
two years, is one of the principal methods for 
both senior management and the Board to 
understand the main areas of focus for our 
people, and to identify potential opportunities 
for improvement. Further details as to the  
YVC survey can be found on page 70. 

The Board also receives regular updates from 
the Chief Executive on any changes to senior 
management. Succession planning for the 
North America leadership team was a major 
focus during the year, with Brett Ponton 
stepping down as CEO North America in 
October 2023, and Brad Paulsen being 
appointed as his successor in December. 

In March, the Board approved the Company’s 
Gender Pay Report. We continue to have no 
material gender pay gap between women and 
men, and are making progress in building our 
female representation in senior management 
roles. The Gender Pay Report is available  
on the Company’s website, while further 
details of our approach to diversity, equity  
and inclusion (DE&I) can be found in the 
Responsible Business section on page 69. 

In November, the Board received an  
update on the UK apprenticeship scheme. 
Since 2017, 617 apprentices have obtained  
an apprenticeship qualification through  
our programmes. Further details on our 
apprenticeship scheme can be found on  
page 69. 

The Board received recommendations  
from the Nomination Committee on  
the appointment or reappointment of 
Non-Executive Directors during 2023, 
including the appointment of Sally Johnson 
as a Non-Executive Director, as set out on 
page 127. 

The Board reviews its effectiveness 
annually and in 2023 work was undertaken 
to progress the actions identified from the 
previous internal review in 2022, with the 
status being considered at the Board 
meeting in June. The 2023 review was 
externally facilitated by Chris Saul of 
Christopher Saul Associates, with the 
findings discussed at the Board meeting  
in December 2023 and the actions arising 
from that review agreed at the February 
2024 meeting. Read more on pages 112 
and 113. 

Governance procedures and practices are 
closely monitored by the Board, which also 
has oversight of forthcoming governance 
developments or regulatory changes, 
supported by biannual briefings from the 
Company Secretary. In 2023, the Board 
spent time considering the proposed 
changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the requirements introduced by  
the Economic Crime and Corporate 
Transparency Act, and the additional 
reporting requirements outlined in the  
draft Companies (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations prior to its 
withdrawal in October 2023. Other updates 
provided to the Board related to climate 
reporting, the Listing Rules and SEC rules. 

In December, the Board noted the revision 
of various key Group policies, including the 
Group Authority Schedule, and approved 
an updated schedule of governance 
procedures and practices and the 
Committees’ terms of reference.

North America site visit

In June 2023, the Board travelled to Chicago to hold a Board meeting and strategic 
sessions with the North America leadership team. The visit allowed the Board to review 
the Group’s strategic performance and outlook in the region, including the progress 
made with the integration of the Terminix business. The meetings, which were held  
over three days, included an overview of the North American pest control market, an 
in-depth review of the key focus areas for the combined Rentokil Terminix business, a 
review of the technology systems within the business, an update on the progress made 
with our Employer of Choice agenda, and an overview of the customer experience. 

The Board also visited Wrigley Field, the home of the Chicago Cubs, a Major League 
Baseball team, for a demonstration of the pest control services provided there by 
Rentokil, and took a tour of our Des Plaines Facility, which houses our Ambius, Target 
Specialty Products and Pest Control businesses, where the Board had the opportunity 
to meet with colleagues from these businesses. 

The Board receives updates on current M&A 
activity from the Chief Executive as part of  
his report to the Board at each scheduled 
meeting. Regular updates are also included  
on the status of the M&A pipeline. 

In 2023, the Group acquired 41 businesses. 
When a transaction is of a significant size or 
involves the Group entering a new territory or 
business line, the business case is reviewed 
and approved by the Board. During 2023,  
the Board approved two acquisitions, further 
details of which can be found on page 111. 

Twice a year, the Board undertakes a 
post-investment review of acquisitions in 
aggregate to evaluate the performance of  
the total investment in acquisitions which 
completed in the prior 12–30 months, 
including the delivery against business  
cases and execution of integration plans. 
These continue to indicate ongoing rigour and 
aggregate performance of the M&A strategy 
against investment criteria and key metrics.

The Board monitors its competitors on an 
ongoing basis through the Chief Executive’s 
report and Investor Relations update, with a 
specific discussion on our competitors also 
taking place as part of the Board’s annual 
strategy day. 

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 109

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceCorporate Governance Report 
continued

Board activities in 2023

Financial management 

Risk monitoring and oversight

At each meeting, the Chief Financial  
Officer updates the Board on the financial 
performance of the Group. The Board  
reviews the reporting of the Group’s  
financial performance, and approves  
the financial results and associated  
regulatory announcements. 

The Board assessed the viability of the Group 
over the next three-year period, the potential 
impact of the principal risks, and stress-tested 
financial forecasts for severe but plausible 
scenarios. The Board approved the viability 
statement (refer to page 94) and going 
concern statement. 

Having considered the Group’s dividend 
policy and the financial performance of  
the Group, the Board approved an interim 
dividend for 2023 of 2.75p per share and is 
recommending a final dividend for 2023 of 
5.93p per share. This equates to a full-year 
dividend of 8.68p per share, an increase of 
15.0% compared with 2022.

The Board reviews the Group’s capital 
structure, including financing needs and 
funding, as well as capital allocation 
throughout the year. In July, the Board 
approved the issuance of 2.5m ordinary 
shares to satisfy the 2020 Performance  
Share Plan awards which vested in 2023. 
Further information on the Company’s capital 
structure can be found on pages 242 and 243. 

The Board reviews the Group’s annual 
operating plan each year, with a draft 
considered in December and the final plan 
approved early in the following year. 

The Board also reviews the Company’s 
treasury policy and tax strategy annually.  
The treasury policy is designed to ensure  
that the Group has sufficient liquidity and 
manages financial risk as outlined in Note C1 
to the Financial Statements on pages 203  
and 204. The tax strategy is aligned to our 
wider business strategy, in the belief that  
this approach creates a responsible and 
sustainable tax strategy that will strengthen 
long-term shareholder value. The current tax 
strategy, which was approved in December 
2023, is available on the Company’s website.

Risk management and internal controls 
effectiveness are considered by the Board 
throughout the year as part of its review of 
business strategy and performance, and in  
its regular engagement and consultations  
with executive management. The Audit 
Committee and senior management also 
update the Board and give it assurance that 
risks are being identified, effectively managed  
and mitigated.

The Board reviewed the Speak Up process and 
reports received in 2023, and considered any 
thematic issues identified (refer to page 124).

The Board undertook a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal controls systems and found  
them to be effective, notwithstanding the 
material weakness identified under the SOX 
requirements. Further details can be found  
in the Audit Committee report on pages 117  
to 124. 

The Board also receives quarterly summaries 
of ongoing material litigation and claims  
within the Group, including updates on  
termite damage claims by customers in North 
America and ongoing actions to manage this 
risk, and an annual briefing on IT security  
(see page 116). 

Exploring the potential use of technological 
advancements for the Group

In November 2023, as part of the annual strategy day sessions, the 
Board received an overview of key external forces that may impact 
the business in the future from Kearney, an external consultancy firm. 
The presentation detailed the evolution of technology, data and 
Artificial Intelligence (AI), and provided the Board with insight as to the 
potential implications of technological advancements for the Group. 

The Board also received an update from the Chief Information Officer 
on the Group’s AI journey, including the identification of potential 
risks and opportunities, and the development of an AI strategy 
and roadmap. 

In addition, the Chief Information Officer provided the Board with  
an overview of Extended Reality (XR), and what was possible with  
the Metaverse and XR in business. XR is the collective reference for 
virtual reality, augmented reality and a combination of the two (mixed 
reality). The discussion included an exploration of the potential use 
cases for the Group, such as virtual and mixed reality training. 

The Board also attended live system demonstrations from our IT team, 
on ServiceTrak Trusted Advisor, Genesys Unified Comms, and the 
Data Command Centre, providing them with the opportunity to 
experience the Group’s technology in action. 

110 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Principal decisions of the Board
We consider the principal decisions of the 
Board to be those direct decisions taken, 
rather than delegated to management or a 
Committee of the Board (unless considered 
and approved in principle by the whole  
Board first), and which may have a potentially 
material impact on the Company’s strategy,  
a stakeholder group or the long-term value 
creation of the Company. 

We group the Board’s principal decisions  
into nine categories: financial results; capital 
allocation; funding; strategy (including ESG 
strategy); M&A activity; supplier and customer 
contracts; Board changes; Company 
statements; and other matters reserved to the 
Board. Within these categories, some matters 
are considered less material or strategically 
significant. These business as usual matters, 
include items such as the Committee’s terms 
of reference and the issue of new shares to 
satisfy our executive share plans.

Building on the strengths 
of our businesses
The Board approves acquisitions above a set 
threshold, as set out in the Group Authority 
Schedule. During 2023, one such example of 
this was the acquisition of Action Pest Control, 
a residential and commercial business located 
in the Midwestern United States. 

Promoting the highest 
standards of ethical behaviour
In February 2023, the Board received a 
comprehensive update on modern slavery, 
including the principal risk areas for the  
Group, and the initiatives in place to mitigate 
the risks. The Board also considered the 
Company’s Modern Slavery Statement for 
2022 for approval.

Key to section 172(1) considerations

Long-term results

Colleagues

Our business relationships

Communities and the environment

Our reputation

Fairness between our shareholders

An overview of the Board’s activities during 
2023 can be found on pages 108 to 110.  
This contains details of the significant 
decisions made during the year. In addition, 
examples are provided below to illustrate how 
the Directors have had regard to the matters 
set out in section 172(1)(a)–(f) of the Companies 
Act 2006 when making principal decisions  
in 2023 (these include consideration given  
to key stakeholders, including employees, 
communities and commercial counterparties 
but are set out in full in the key opposite). 
Relevant Board papers for deliberation or 
decision by the Board are drafted to include 
an appendix clearly setting out the potential 
impact on stakeholder groups to aid the 
Board’s consideration.

The section 172(1) statement can be found on 
page 83, with further details of the Board’s 
engagement with stakeholders during the 
year provided on pages 114 and 115.

Long-term results
The Board determined that the acquisition further supported our residential and commercial 
pest control capabilities in North America, with additional scale and density in the Midwest. 
The acquisition also provided further technical capability to our commercial work in  
the Midwest. 

Colleagues
The employees of the acquired business would benefit from the Group’s technical and sales 
training and tools, and the opportunity for an enhanced career path. It was also agreed that 
the integration of the business into the Group would be phased, in recognition of the existing 
impact to colleagues from the ongoing integration of Terminix. 

Our business relationships
The Board considered that the acquisition would allow us to offer new and existing 
customers a wider range of products and services. 

Fairness between our shareholders
The acquisition aligned with our strategy to identify opportunities for broader-based growth, 
and with our strong track record of successful M&A integration, will benefit shareholders by 
contributing towards a long-term return on their investment in the Company. 

Outcome
The Board approved the acquisition, with the purchase of Action Pest Control concluding in 
June 2023. 

Colleagues
The Modern Slavery Statement highlights how the Company mandates the highest 
employment standards for our colleagues in all countries of operation, as outlined in our 
Code of Conduct, which emphasises our determination to embed our values of Service, 
Relationships, Teamwork and Responsibility across the Group.

Our business relationships
The Board deliberated on the risk assessments of suppliers, and their adherence to the 
Group’s Supplier Code, which is aligned to our Code of Conduct, including the potential 
outcomes of non-compliance by any supplier. The Board also considered the approach 
taken to customer compliance. 

Communities and the environment
The Modern Slavery Statement highlights the Board’s recognition of its responsibility to 
manage our business and supply chains to identify and alleviate any potential or actual 
human rights violations. 

Our reputation
The Modern Slavery Statement supports our commitment to maintain the highest standard 
of ethical behaviour and governance compliance, and the Board considered the actions 
being taken to raise awareness of and to mitigate the potential for modern slavery. 

Outcome
The Board approved the Modern Slavery Statement for 2022. The Board considers the 
Modern Slavery Statement on an annual basis, and our statement for 2023 was approved  
in February 2024. Our Modern Slavery Statement is available on our website. 

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 111

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceCorporate Governance Report 
continued

Board evaluation
In line with best practice, the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors are comprehensively assessed 
annually through a formal evaluation. In accordance with provision 21 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have adopted a three-year cycle 
of external Board evaluations. 

The 2022 Board evaluation was internally facilitated, with the outcomes informing elements of the Board’s work. An update on the status of 
recommendations resulting from the 2022 review is provided below. 

Following two years of internal reviews, in 2023 an external evaluation was undertaken, conducted by Chris Saul from Christopher Saul Associates, 
an independent advisory firm. Chris Saul has no other connection with the Company or individual Directors. Chris Saul has previously facilitated the 
Company’s Board review in 2020. The process, outcomes and follow-up actions are described in more detail below. 

2022 evaluation recommendations and progress made during 2023

Monitor Terminix 
integration

An update on the Terminix integration was provided to the Board at each meeting in 2023 with additional in-depth 
sessions and an overseas visit held to supplement this. The Board also received briefings on compliance obligations 
and changes to regulation in the US throughout the year.

Stakeholder 
considerations 
and Non-Executive 
Director engagement

Customer focus was enhanced in regional presentations and engagement opportunities were considered when 
drafting Board agendas. Additional opportunities were introduced in the year to allow the Board to meet with colleagues, 
including special lunches and site visits. More information on Board engagement with stakeholders can be found on 
pages 114 and 115.

Enhance competitor 
oversight

The information flow on competitors to the Board was considered when drafting agendas, with specific discussions held 
as part of the Board’s annual strategy day and Investor Relations update.

Review of Board papers  Guidelines were developed and communicated to those responsible for producing papers for the Board and the Board 
Committees, alongside updated templates. Individual reviews of some papers were undertaken to streamline them or 
ensure clarity of purpose by the Company Secretary. 

2023 external Board and Committees evaluation
The process for the 2023 Board and Committees evaluation, which was externally facilitated, is illustrated in the following diagram. 

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5

Findings 
Following his evaluation, 
Chris Saul produced a 
detailed report, which 
was discussed with  
the Chairman and the 
Company Secretary. 

He attended the 
December Board 
meeting to present  
his findings and 
recommendations  
for discussion. 

Action plan 
Following the meeting, 
the Chairman, Chief 
Executive and the 
Company Secretary 
reviewed the outcome 
of the Board discussion. 
Proposed actions for 
2024 were presented 
at the Board meeting 
in February 2024 for 
discussion and 
agreement. 

Selection
Chris Saul of Christopher 
Saul Associates was 
selected to conduct the 
evaluation, given the 
successful and robust 
process and outcome  
of the previous review  
he facilitated in 2020. 
The appointment of  
Chris Saul was approved 
by the Board in  
February 2023. 

Planning 
The Chairman and the 
Company Secretary  
met with Chris Saul in 
advance to agree the 
objectives and scope of 
the evaluation, including 
the areas of focus. 

Insight
Chris Saul held a  
series of detailed, 
in-depth one-to-one 
conversations with the 
Board, key executives, 
and representatives of 
key external advisors. 

He reviewed relevant 
background materials, 
including Board and 
Committee papers,  
and other relevant 
information, to enable 
him to undertake a 
thorough review of  
the Board and its 
committees.

The interviews focused 
on certain key areas, 
including Board 
dynamics and meetings, 
the agendas and papers, 
and the Terminix 
acquisition. Another  
key theme was the 
engagement with  
certain key business 
areas, including  
strategy, performance, 
competitors and risk. 
Discussions were also 
held on areas for focus 
over the next 12 months.

He attended one 
meeting of the Board and 
each of its committees, 
and part of the Board’s 
annual strategy day, in 
order to gather insight 
into the Board’s 
dynamics, culture, 
leadership and individual 
Director contribution.

112 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Findings and actions for 2024
The findings of the Board evaluation were positive, with the external evaluator finding the Board to be collegiate and well-led, operating to  
high standards of professionalism, and benefiting from quality support from the executive team. The evaluation concluded that the Board was 
operating effectively. The review set out some recommendations which may add to the efficiency and impact of the Board and its Committees. 
Following consideration of these, the Board has approved the following actions for 2024.

2023 evaluation recommendations

Actions to be taken during 2024

To consider and develop the 
balance of Board agendas 
in 2024 in order to facilitate 
additional focus on key or 
emerging areas linked to the 
execution of strategy.

To review the skill set of the 
current Non-Executive Directors 
to assist the Nomination 
Committee with its future 
succession planning for  
Non-Executive Directors.

To retain focus on the 
enhancement of Board papers 
and to ensure the frequency  
and timings of meetings 
remains appropriate.

To consider opportunities 
for enhanced stakeholder 
engagement.

• To continue the Board’s focus on the North America business through regular deep dives and overseas visits.
• Ongoing development of the Board’s annual planner to ensure sufficient focus on topics of emerging 

prominence or interest, such as AI. 

•  To review current standing agenda items to ensure that all areas of material risk are adequately addressed 

throughout the Board year. 

• To undertake a Non-Executive Director skills matrix assessment to identify any gaps between the competencies 
required to achieve the Company’s strategic goals and the skills and experience of the current Non-Executive 
Directors. 

•  To develop in addition a plan to address any knowledge or skills gaps identified, including the inclusion of 

specific deep dive sessions with management or the use of external experts in the 2024 agenda. 

• To undertake a review of the implementation of the Board and Committee guidance rolled out in 2023 to ensure 

ongoing effectiveness. 

•  To consider the length and locations of meetings, given the increased scale and complexity of the business.

• To consider any additional opportunities for colleague engagement in the Board calendar.
• To review if the Board’s current engagement approach to customers remains appropriate. 

Board Committee evaluation 
The effectiveness of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees were considered as part of Chris Saul’s evaluation (which involved him 
undertaking interviews and attending committee meetings as described overleaf). The review set out findings and recommendations for each 
committee. These formed part of the Board discussion held in December 2023 and then each committee considered the findings and agreed the 
action plan for 2024 at their meetings in February 2024. 

The evaluation process assessed the effective performance of the Board Committees and concluded that they operate effectively and are 
well-integrated into Board decision-making processes. Further details are set out in each Committee report on pages 124, 126 and 138. 

Director evaluation 
In previous years when the Board evaluation has been undertaken internally, each Non-Executive Director has completed a self-evaluation 
questionnaire. This year the performance of all Directors was considered as part of the external review process, with Chris Saul meeting  
with each Director separately. The performance of the Chairman was also considered as part of the external evaluation process. 

The review set out key findings on Board culture, the mix of skills on the Board and the Chairman. In addition, the Chairman continued his usual 
practice of meeting with individual Directors throughout the year. 

Executive Directors are subject to regular review and the Chief Executive appraised the performance of the Chief Financial Officer as part of the 
annual Group-wide performance evaluation of all colleagues. The Chairman evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive as part of the same 
process. Executive Director performance is also reviewed by the Remuneration Committee as part of its deliberations on bonus payments. 

The Nomination Committee takes the outcome of these evaluation processes into account each year in order to inform the Nomination Committee’s 
recommendation for Board members to be put forward for re-election by shareholders. All Directors were deemed to be effective members of the 
Board and are recommended for re-election at the Company’s AGM.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 113

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceColleagues

Shareholders

Information flow to the Board
• Health and safety reports
• Monitoring performance measures 

such as colleague retention

• Results of YVC colleague survey or 

other pulse surveys

• Regional deep dive presentations
• Employer of Choice update provided 

twice a year

• Key management changes included in every 

Chief Executive report

• Monitoring external measures such 

as Glassdoor

• Notification of key awards won or other 

significant external validation

• Gender Pay Report
• Ethical concerns reported via the confidential 

reporting process, Speak Up

Direct Board engagement
The Board aims to engage with a broad range 
of the senior management team, whether this 
is by joining senior management meetings, 
colleague events or by colleagues attending 
and presenting to the Board at its meetings.

Wherever possible, the Board seeks to 
continue this engagement outside of the 
boardroom via informal events such as 
lunches or dinners. For instance, in June,  
the Board had dinner with the North America 
management team, and in November, the 
Board had lunch with members of the IT team 
and colleagues who have progressed through 
our apprenticeship scheme, to allow the 
opportunity for further discussion following 
a presentation on the scheme to the Board. 
Directors also have the opportunity to hold 
individual meetings with colleagues.

The opportunity for Director engagement with 
other colleagues is primarily via visits to local 
Rentokil Initial operations, attending town hall 
sessions, undertaking site visits or going on 
‘ride-alongs’ with technicians.

The outcome from any engagement,  
as well as any feedback that has been 
received, is shared at Board meetings  
where appropriate.

Information is shared from the Board to 
colleagues via established methods of 
colleague engagement (see page 84). 

Information flow to the Board
• Chief Executive report at each Board 
meeting includes an investor relations 
update

• Financial performance reports
• Analyst notes circulated
• Presentations on market perspectives 

by the Company’s brokers

• Capital Markets Day and feedback
• Feedback from investor meetings

Direct Board engagement
There are a number of ways the Board 
engages directly with shareholders, including 
correspondence with investors, attendance 
at the Preliminary and Interim Results 
presentations in London, meetings with the 
Chairman and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, and the AGM.

The Chairman writes to key shareholders  
each year to offer the opportunity to engage 
with him ahead of the AGM. In March 2023,  
he wrote to our top 20 investors, representing 
c.46% of the Company’s issued share capital. 
In response to his offer, the Chairman held 
multiple meetings with investors. Topics 
covered included the integration of Terminix; 
sustainability and culture; management 
succession; and Board composition. The 
Board will have regard to the matters raised 
by investors when considering items on the 
agenda during the year. The Chairman will 
also meet with investors if requested to do 
so at other times of the year. 

In October 2023, the Remuneration 
Committee Chair wrote to investors in the top 
30 of our share register, representing c.50% of 
the Company’s issued share capital, to outline 
proposals for the new Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy to be put for shareholder approval at 
the AGM in May 2024. We also engaged with 
three of the largest proxy voting agencies. 
Full details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 131 to 161. 
The final policy is being submitted for 
shareholder approval at the AGM in May 2024. 

The Chairman and Committee Chairs  
welcome any comments on this report and 
shareholders are invited to contact them 
via email at chairman@rentokil-initial.com. 
They will also be available to answer questions 
at the Company’s AGM.

Corporate Governance Report 
continued

Stakeholder engagement
We identify the key stakeholders relevant 
to the Group’s businesses or operations as 
our colleagues, shareholders, customers, 
communities and suppliers. Information on 
our key stakeholders is set out on pages 84 
and 85, including associated key issues and 
impacts, as well as how our businesses and 
management engage with these groups. We 
will continue to monitor if these groups remain 
appropriate.

The following pages provide details of how the 
Directors receive information about our key 
stakeholders, alongside some examples of 
engagement the Directors undertook in 2023. 
You can find our section 172(1) statement, 
which describes how the Board has regard to 
key stakeholders, on page 83, with examples 
of principal decisions taken in 2023 and the 
attention given to stakeholders in its 
considerations on page 111.

In assessing the Board’s engagement with the 
Group’s workforce, we believe our existing 
arrangements for workforce engagement are 
as appropriate as the proposed methods set 
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Having regard to the size, distribution and 
scale of our businesses and our dispersed, 
global workforce, totalling approximately 
62,900 people in 90 countries, we believe 
the existing framework of local and regional 
engagement tools, which flow up to the  
Board together with supplementary individual 
Director engagement, remains effective.

Management reports to the Board regularly 
on performance measures such as colleague 
retention, Your Voice Counts (YVC) survey 
results and Glassdoor ratings. We expect each 
Non-Executive Director to engage individually 
with a range of colleagues, so they bring  
back their experiences to discuss with the 
Board. They do this by visiting technicians or 
customers, having discussions with relevant 
management teams across different regions  
or functions, adding visits to local Rentokil 
Initial operations to their other travel plans, or 
attending town hall sessions or management 
meetings. We also identify ways for individual 
Board members and the Board collectively to 
engage with target groups across the year.

The workforce engagement undertaken 
during the year allowed the Board to gain a 
deeper understanding into how individual 
businesses and functions operate, the 
approaches taken by management and 
awareness of our culture in practice.  
Feedback from engagement sessions is  
used to determine any areas for additional 
strategic focus by the Board or management.

114 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Customers

Information flow to the Board
• Regional deep dive presentations
• Customer Voice Counts (CVC) scores
• Strategy day review – including product 

pipeline and innovation

• Material customer contracts requiring 

Board approval

• Monitoring external measures such 

as Trustpilot

Direct Board engagement
The Board has the opportunity to meet 
customers on overseas site visits and as part 
of a ‘ride-along’ with technicians. 

In 2023, Richard Solomons, while visiting our 
teams in Atlanta and Memphis, also attended 
an event with colleagues and a number of our 
strategic customers. 

Due to the highly dispersed nature of our 
customer base, in which the largest customer 
represents significantly less than 1% of 
revenue, we believe that the current level of 
engagement is appropriate, but this will be 
kept under review.

Communities

Information flow to the Board
• Safety, health and environmental updates
• Regional deep dive presentations
• Annual Report review
• Responsible Business Report review
• Updates on RI Cares (see page 71)
• The RIGHT WAY magazine, which contains 

a variety of examples of the business and our 
colleagues engaging with the community

Direct Board engagement
While communities and the environment 
continue to be a focus for the Board, no direct 
engagement took place between Directors 
and communities during 2023. Given the 
nature of our business we believe that the 
indirect engagement provided is at an 
appropriate level and no Director engagement 
is required, but this will be kept under review.

Suppliers

Information flow to the Board
The Board oversees the principal engagement 
undertaken by operational management 
(especially the central procurement and supply 
chain function, and national procurement 
managers) through:
• review and approval of our major supplier 

contracts;

• approval of our Modern Slavery Statement; 

and

• oversight of the Supplier Speak Up ethical 

reporting process.

Direct Board engagement
Given the nature of the business, we do not 
expect our Directors to have any direct 
engagement with our suppliers. They instead 
rely on the indirect engagement set out above 
and the Company’s engagement as detailed 
on page 85.

2024 Annual General Meeting
The Board takes the opportunity to  
engage with both private and institutional 
shareholders at the Company’s AGM and 
views it as an occasion to update all our 
shareholders on the performance of the 
business they own.

In order to make our AGM more accessible 
and encourage engagement from a broader 
range of shareholders, we will be holding  
a hybrid AGM in May 2024.

The 2024 AGM will be held at, and be 
broadcast via live webcast from, the 
Company’s offices at Compass House, 
Manor Royal, Crawley, West Sussex 
RH10 9PY from 11.30am on 8 May 2024.

We encourage our shareholders to  
utilise the live webcast of the meeting. 
Questions can also be submitted in  
advance of the meeting by emailing 
chairman@rentokil-initial.com. A recording  
of the meeting will be available afterwards 
on the Company’s website.

A separate Notice of Meeting, containing 
both an explanation of the items of  
special business and full details of how  
to join the meeting remotely, has been  
sent to shareholders and is available on  
our website.

Joining our technicians  
on the front line
In 2023, many of our Directors joined our 
technicians on a ‘ride-along’, with Sarosh 
Mistry, David Frear, Cathy Turner and Sally 
Johnson all taking the opportunity to join  
a ride-along with a pest control technician. 
The ride-along grants Directors direct 
exposure with our colleagues and our 
customers, while also providing them  
with a hands-on experience of the work 
undertaken by our technicians. Each 
Director shared feedback from their 
ride-along with the Board. 

Celebrating Thanksgiving 
with our colleagues 
In November, Stuart Ingall-Tombs,  
Chief Financial Officer, joined the North 
American management team, serving up 
Thanksgiving lunch to colleagues at our 
Reading, Pennsylvania, office.

Helping to raise funds 
In September, Andy Ransom, Chief 
Executive, helped colleagues in Crawley 
raise funds for Malaria No More UK, by 
being one of the many colleagues who 
participated in a 58-mile cycle challenge; 
the distance from our head office to our 
new technical centre in Waterlooville.  
The 304 miles achieved on the day 
exceeded the initial target. 

Sharing expertise among 
colleagues
In January 2023, Linda Yueh joined our 
Global HR Leadership conference to 
present on the current economic 
landscape. 

The Global HR Leadership team comprises 
more than 80 colleagues from across  
the Group, and the event was therefore 
held virtually. 

Linda shared her views on the prevailing 
economic climate and key focus areas  
for HR, including the cost of living,  
wage inflation and the impact on labour 
supply, and then answered questions  
from colleagues. 

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 115

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceCorporate Governance Report 
continued

Culture and values 
Our culture is characterised as customer 
focused, driven to succeed, diverse, down  
to earth and innovative. In October 2022,  
we launched a refreshed mission, vision and 
values, following feedback from colleagues 
globally. We updated our mission to include a 
third limb of ‘preserving our planet’, and added 
a new value, ‘Responsibility’. The revised 
cultural framework underpins our vision. 

The Board’s ongoing oversight of the Group’s 
mission, vision and values ensures that our 
culture is aligned with our business goals and 
brings purpose to our colleagues. Key metrics 
have been identified to monitor our culture 
which are included in the updates that the 
Board receives twice a year on culture, 
progress on our Employer of Choice agenda, 
and workforce engagement. This year the 
reports included updates on colleague 
retention, enhancing colleague development, 
a follow-up on the outcomes of the YVC 
colleague survey undertaken in 2021 and  
a summary of the key findings from the  
2023 survey.

One of the key methods for both senior 
management and the Board to monitor culture 
is to analyse the results of the YVC colleague 
survey, which is carried out every second year. 
This includes questions mapped to each of  
the five core themes in our culture model to 
provide a score and trend for each at a Group, 
functional and regional level. There are  
12 questions in the survey to create a Core 
Culture Index. In 2023, our Core Culture Index 
was 80%, which is broadly in line with our  
2021 survey result. Full details can be found  
on page 70.

Examples of other ways that the Board 
monitors and assesses culture include:
• monitoring Sales and Service colleague 
retention rates, overall colleague rolling 
12-month retention and analysis of retention 
by region;

• monitoring, as appropriate, content and 

usage of the U+ online learning platform and 
other means of delivering training and 
development;

• the results of employee pulse surveys;
• external views such as Glassdoor ratings; 

and

• mental health awareness and other 

employee campaigns.

The Audit Committee also monitors culture 
through its oversight of:
• confidential reporting via the Company’s 

Speak Up facility; and

• any compliance failures, such as any 

incidences of fraud.

Our approach to investing in and rewarding 
our colleagues can be found on pages 69 
and 155.

B Find out more
Risks and Uncertainties on pages 87 to 93

116 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

The Board’s culture update twice a year also 
includes an overview on the Company’s 
approach to diversity, equity and inclusion, 
alongside data which enables the Board to 
monitor the Company’s progress in this area. 
Further details on fostering a diverse and 
inclusive culture can be found on pages 69, 
128 and 129.

Policies and practices 
We have a comprehensive Group-wide 
procedure framework in place to supplement 
local policies and legislation. The cornerstone 
of this policy framework is the Code of 
Conduct. The Code of Conduct sets out a 
fundamental commitment to comply with all 
legal requirements that apply, and to operate 
with high ethical standards. It outlines 
responsibilities to colleagues, customers and 
the business, and highlights our determination 
to establish our values, and a culture of 
integrity, everywhere within the business.

Clear guidelines are provided to all  
colleagues on how to seek further advice  
or report concerns, and we also operate  
a whistleblowing (Speak Up) facility for 
colleagues or third parties. This is designed  
to allow colleagues across the Group to raise 
concerns confidentially internally and to 
disclose information which the individual 
believes highlights or would indicate  
illegality, unethical behaviour or other  
serious malpractice. 

We have a Group-wide share dealing policy 
and an insider trading policy, which govern  
the purchase, sale, and other dispositions  
of the Company’s securities by Directors, 
senior management and colleagues, that  
are designed to promote compliance with 
applicable insider trading laws, rules  
and regulations. 

Specific programmes are in place to support 
implementing the Code of Conduct and 
underlying policies, national laws and 
regulations, and monitoring and reporting 
compliance with them. This includes the use  
of e-learning training on our online learning 
and development platform, U+, and we track 
dissemination and adoption across the Group.

We review policies periodically to ensure they 
meet current best practice and legislative 
requirements, and our technical and safety 
standards and practices often exceed local 
regulatory requirements. 

Examples of our key policies are available on 
our website.

Cyber security
The Board oversees the Group’s risk 
management and internal control framework, 
including consideration of the risks posed from 
cyber security threats. Management provides 
an in-depth annual update to the Board on the 
Group’s IT security arrangements, including 
details of our cyber security operations and 
performance, and the status of this risk. 

To protect the Group from potential cyber 
security threats, we have employed 
complementary processes for assessing, 
identifying, and managing the risk, with our 
information systems being protected by a 
multi-layered set of technology and processes 
(implemented and monitored by cyber security 
professionals), and consistent with the US 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF).  
This is periodically assessed via recurring 
independent third-party assessments, internal 
audits, and penetration testing. The Group has 
also adopted cyber security incident response 
plans, to ensure the appropriate escalation  
of potential threats in a timely manner, and  
we use our e-learning platform for cyber 
security training, along with regular phishing 
simulations, to assess the effectiveness of  
our training and to test user awareness  
of current threats. The Group has not 
experienced previous cyber security  
incidents that have materially impacted  
the business or business strategy.

In addition to the annual presentation to the 
Board, the outputs of these security activities 
are summarised and reviewed by the Group 
Risk Committee and discussed at the IT 
leadership team meetings. The Audit 
Committee would also be notified of any 
control incidents. Third-party partners are 
subject to appropriate controls as specified  
on Rentokil Initial third-party risk management 
processes, procurement processes, and 
enforced via service agreement and contract 
terms and conditions. 

Management reviews cyber security risks 
through updates received from the Group 
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO),  
IT Risk Committee and Internal Audit.  
These updates include details of the actions 
being taken to prevent, detect, mitigate  
and remediate the risk of cyber security 
threats. Management also considers 
recommendations from the Group CISO, 
including any corrective actions required to 
address exposed risk to information systems 
from cyber security threats. 

The Group’s CISO has over 20 years of 
cumulative cyber security expertise, across 
a range of diverse industries, and leads our 
Information Security team. The Information 
Security team is supported by an external  
third party that provides uninterrupted  
security monitoring. 

Audit Committee Report

Sally Johnson, 
Chair of the Audit Committee 

Areas of focus in 2023
• Review of the financial elements of the 

integration of Terminix 

• Oversight of the combination of the 

Rentokil Initial and Terminix Internal Audit 
teams 

• Oversight of the external audit, and its 

continued effectiveness 

• Oversight of the implementation of the 

internal controls over financial reporting, 
as required by SOX

Areas of focus in 2024
• Oversight of the Company’s SOX 

compliance, including the Group’s IT 
general controls programme

• Continued review of internal and external 

audits

• Oversight of the increased use of thematic 

audits and Computer-Assisted Audit 
Techniques (CAAT) 

• Oversight of the implementation of 
enhanced fraud risk assessments

• Fraud control oversight 

Committee members: 
Sally Johnson (Chair)
John Pettigrew
Linda Yueh

Dear Shareholder
It is with pleasure that I present the report  
of the Audit Committee for the financial  
year ended 31 December 2023. The report, 
which is my first report since being appointed 
Chair of the Audit Committee in May 2023, 
sets out how we have discharged our duties  
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the key activities 
during the year.

Julie Southern stepped down as Audit 
Committee Chair in May 2023 and I would  
like to offer my thanks on behalf of the Audit 
Committee for her contribution over the last 
nine years. 

During the early part of 2023, a key focus for 
the Audit Committee was the consideration  
of the financial information and audit-related 
disclosures for the 2022 Annual Report.  
An additional meeting was held in March 
2023, to ensure adequate review time was 
given to support acquisition accounting and 
related judgements. 

The Audit Committee reviewed any further 
opening balance sheet adjustments at the July 
2023 meeting, where we also considered the 
interim financial reporting, and in December 
2023, we reviewed the accounting of the 
termite provision ahead of the 2023 financial 
year end. 

Throughout 2023, the Audit Committee has 
closely monitored the Group’s journey to 
Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) compliance following 
our successful listing on the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE). We have had regular and 
comprehensive updates from management 
on the SOX implementation programme, 
which the Group commenced in 2022.  
The attestation for 2023 full-year reporting 
was finalised in early 2024. While progress  
has been made in relation to our previously 
identified material weaknesses relating to 
IT general controls, it has not been fully 
remediated and will remain a key focus 
for 2024. 

PwC was reappointed as our external auditor 
at our AGM in May 2023. In 2023, the Audit 
Committee has continued its focus on the 
oversight of the quality of the external  
audit, including the advancement of audit 
technology to deliver on our 2023 audit 
strategy. We have also completed the annual 
audit quality review, and identified with  
PwC a series of actions that we can take to 
improve the audit process. Overall, the Audit 
Committee concluded that the external auditor 
and the audit process was effective. 

The Internal Audit team continues to utilise  
a hybrid model, with some elements of  
audits completed remotely and some on-site. 
This approach continues to deliver an effective 
audit programme. The Terminix Internal  
Audit team has been fully integrated into  
the Rentokil Initial Internal Audit team, and 
process, scope and reporting are aligned 
across the businesses. 

Regular updates on the control environment 
are received from Internal Audit, giving the 
Audit Committee the opportunity to review 
any control incidents at each meeting. It is 
worth noting that the number of incidents 
remains relatively low, with a small increase  
in the level of reporting via our internal 
whistleblowing process, Speak Up.

Fraudulent activity across the Group  
remains at a low level in 2023, with 14 cases 
recorded; the same as in 2022. Following full 
investigation of these incidents, processes 
have been updated and further training 
provided where necessary. These incidents 
were not material to the Group’s reporting. 

The Audit Committee continues to play a 
crucial role in providing all our stakeholders 
with the assurance of not only robust financial 
reporting, but also assurance over the 
thematic areas of risk and operational 
resilience. In line with our commitment to 
manage climate change risk, we have been 
engaged in assessing and monitoring this  
risk on an ongoing basis and as part of the 
year-end audit report, and its disclosure in  
the 2023 Financial Statements.

During the year the Audit Committee has  
been briefed on the proposed changes to  
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
requirements to be introduced by the 
Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency 
Act and the FRC’s Audit Committees and  
the External Audit: Minimum Standard (the 
Minimum Standard). The Audit Committee  
also considered the additional reporting 
requirements outlined in the draft Companies 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations prior to its withdrawal in  
October 2023. 

Full details of the Audit Committee’s work 
during 2023 can be found set out in the 
following report. 

Sally Johnson
Chair of the Audit Committee 
7 March 2024

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 117

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceAudit Committee Report 
continued

Purpose and role of the 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in  
its oversight and monitoring of financial 
reporting, risk management and internal 
controls. The Audit Committee’s focus is to 
review and challenge in these areas both 
management, internal audit and the external 
auditors. This includes the undertaking of  
at least an annual review of effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems. The Audit Committee also 
oversees the relationship with the external 
auditors, including their appointment, and  
the assessment of their independence  
and effectiveness. 

The full responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are set out in its terms of reference, which 
were last reviewed in December 2023. As part 
of the review, the terms of reference were 
updated to reflect the requirements outlined  
in the Minimum Standard. The updated Audit 
Committee terms of reference are available  
on our website. 

Membership and attendance
All Audit Committee members are 
independent Non-Executive Directors.  
Sally Johnson, Chair of the Audit Committee,  
is a Chartered Accountant and in February 
2024, the Board determined that the Audit 
Committee met the UK and US composition 
requirements by virtue of Sally having recent 
and relevant financial experience for the 
purpose of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, having competence in accounting and/
or auditing for the purpose of the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules, and being 
a financial expert for the purposes of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. John Pettigrew has 
extensive commercial and operational 
experience in overseeing the financial affairs 
of substantial business undertakings and 
Linda Yueh has a strong economic and 
academic background with considerable 
experience gained in advisory roles. The  
Audit Committee as a whole is, therefore, 
considered to have competence relevant to 
the sectors in which the Company operates. 
Full biographical details of the members of the 
Audit Committee can be found on pages 100 
to 102. 

The Audit Committee met six times during the 
year, with all members attending all meetings. 
Full details of the attendance of the members 
during 2023 can be found on page 98. 

Meetings of the Audit Committee are attended 
by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Director of Internal Audit & Risk, the Interim Head 
of Internal Audit & Risk, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Group General Counsel, the 
Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to 
the Audit Committee), and the external auditor. 

The Audit Committee meets at least once per 
year separately with the Company’s auditor 
and the Director of Internal Audit & Risk, 
without executive management present. 
In 2023, these meetings took place in 
February and December. The Chair of the 
Audit Committee also meets periodically 
with the external auditor and other relevant 
stakeholders. The Chair of the Audit 
Committee reports to the Board on the activity 
of the Audit Committee and any matters of 
particular relevance in the conduct of its work. 
The Audit Committee did not find it necessary 
to seek external advice during the year,  
other than through its usual dialogue with  
the external auditor.

Activities of the Audit Committee in 2023
The Audit Committee considered the following key areas during 2023 and early 2024:

Matters considered

Discussion and outcome

Financial reporting

Financial reporting

The Audit Committee reviewed the 2022 and 2023 Annual Report and Form 20-F, and the 
Company’s annual and interim financial statements, and received reports from both the Group 
Financial Controller and the auditor on the significant financial reporting judgements relating  
to each statement. 

Accounting policies  
and practices

The Audit Committee considered the application of the Company’s accounting policies  
and practices. 

Key accounting  
matters

The Audit Committee considered key accounting matters, including goodwill impairment, 
acquisition accounting and termite damage claims provisioning, in relation to the Company’s 
financial results for 2022 and 2023.

Other financial 
reporting matters

The Audit Committee reviewed the going concern analysis, the viability statement and the  
internal control statement for recommendation to the Board.

Find out more

Financial reporting 
on page 120

Material accounting 
policies on pages 
175 to 177

Significant issues 
and judgements  
on page 120

Other financial 
reporting matters  
on page 121

External audit

2022 Financial 
Statements

Disclosure of 
information to the 
auditor 

Effectiveness of the 
external auditors 

External auditor 
reappointment

The Audit Committee received a report from PwC on the results of the audit of the 2022 Financial 
Statements, considering key judgements and risks. The letter of representation was also reviewed 
and recommended for approval to the Board.

–

The Audit Committee monitored the arrangements the Company has in place for disclosing all 
relevant information to the auditor. A formal confirmation on disclosure of information to the  
auditor is provided in the Directors’ Report. 

The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor to ensure the 
independence, objectivity, quality, rigour and challenge of the audit process was maintained.  
The Audit Committee concluded that the external auditor and the audit process was effective. 

Directors’ Report  
on page 245

External auditor 
and audit process 
effectiveness on 
pages 121 and 122

The Audit Committee considered the reappointment of PwC as external auditors, including the 
terms and scope of the audit engagement, at its meeting in February 2023. PwC was reappointed 
by the Company’s shareholders at the AGM in May 2023. The Audit Committee has recommended 
to shareholders the reappointment of PwC as external auditor at the AGM in May 2024. 

External auditor 
tender and 
appointment on 
page 122

Audit objectives

The Audit Committee considered an update on the key objectives to evolve the quality of the 
Group audit in May 2023. 

External audit plan 
and strategy on 
page 121

118 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Matters considered

Discussion and outcome

Audit strategy

The Audit Committee considered the audit strategy for the 2023 audit, including the audit 
approach, significant risks and areas of audit focus, scope and level of materiality.

Non-audit services 

The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the non-audit services and related fees provided by 
the external auditor for 2023, and the policy on non-audit services. 

External audit fees

The Committee discussed and approved the fee for the 2023 audit. 

Internal audit 

Internal Audit

The Audit Committee considered the conclusions and themes emerging from Internal Audit 
reviews conducted during the year and approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2024 in conjunction 
with the Board’s strategic review and operating plan for the year. The Audit Committee also 
oversaw the combination of the Rentokil Initial and Terminix Internal Audit teams. 

Find out more

External audit plan 
and strategy on 
page 121

External auditor 
independence  
and objectivity  
on page 122

External auditor 
independence  
and objectivity  
on page 122

Internal Audit on 
page 122

Internal Audit 
investigations

The Audit Committee discussed the outcome of Internal Audit investigations, including the most 
significant issues raised in Internal Audit reports, and received updates on the status of resolution 
of issues raised.

Internal Audit on 
page 122

Internal Audit Charter The Audit Committee considered and approved the Internal Audit Charter. 

Effectiveness of 
Internal Audit 

The Audit Committee reviewed and confirmed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function. 

Risk management and internal controls 

Internal control 
framework

The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management 
framework.

Control environment

The Audit Committee received and reviewed matters relating to the internal control environment 
provided by the Director of Internal Audit & Risk and reviewed the Group Risk Committee minutes.

Group risk

The Audit Committee considered the Group risks and actions to enhance their measurement, 
monitoring and mitigation actions, including approval of the principal risks disclosed in the 2022 
Annual Report and consideration of those for the 2023 Annual Report.

Role of Internal 
Audit on page 122

Internal Audit 
effectiveness on 
page 122

Risk management 
and internal controls 
on page 123

Risk management 
and internal controls 
on page 123

Principal risks on 
pages 87 to 93

Financial controls

The Audit Committee reviewed the results of the financial controls testing carried out across the 
Group by the Company’s auditor, PwC.

Risk and internal 
controls on page 123

SOX controls 

The Audit Committee received regular updates on the status of the implementation of the Company’s 
SOX programme. An in-depth review of the status of our SOX compliance for 2023 was undertaken as 
part of the meeting in December, including discussion as to any identified material weaknesses and 
significant deficiencies.

SOX controls on 
page 124

Governance and compliance

Regional deep dives

The Audit Committee received and discussed reports from the Regional Finance Directors of the 
Pacific and UK & Sub-Saharan Africa regions. These provided details on the financial reporting for 
the regions and the control environment in the businesses.

See also Board 
activities on  
page 108

Tax

Litigation

The Audit Committee considered and recommended the Group’s 2023 tax strategy for approval  
at its meeting in December.

The Audit Committee reviewed quarterly reports of all material litigation and disputes provided  
by the Group General Counsel.

Disclosure Committee 
oversight

The Audit Committee reviewed a report of the Disclosure Committee’s activities during the year 
and its terms of reference.

Our tax strategy  
can be found on  
our website

–

–

Letter of Assurance

The Audit Committee considered a summary of the outcome of the annual Letter of Assurance 
review, noting any exceptions provided by the senior country, regional and functional management 
and any actions proposed as a result of those returns.

Governance and 
compliance on  
page 123

The Minimum Standard The Audit Committee considered an in-depth analysis of the requirements. 

Terms of reference

The Audit Committee’s terms of reference were updated following its annual review, with 
enhancements made in light of the Minimum Standard. 

Audit Committee 
effectiveness

The Audit Committee undertook its annual review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.

Governance and 
compliance on  
page 123

These are available 
on our website

Effectiveness review 
on page 124

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 119

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceAudit Committee Report 
continued

Financial reporting
The Annual Report should provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position, performance and prospects and, 
as a whole, should be fair, balanced and understandable. The Audit Committee considered closely the judgements and decisions taken by the 
management team in the preparation of the Financial Statements. The Committee reviewed and recommended approval of the half- and full-year 
financial statements during the year. Following the listing of our American Depository Shares in October 2022, the Company is also required to file a 
US annual report (Form 20-F), which the Audit Committee reviewed as part of its year-end process. The sections below set out the significant issues 
and judgements that were applied in preparing the 2023 Annual Report, as well as providing additional details on other financial reporting matters 
considered during the year.

Significant issues and judgements
The Audit Committee has reviewed the following significant financial reporting issues and judgements made during the preparation of the Financial 
Statements with management and the auditor. The significant areas of focus considered and actions taken are set out below. These issues have 
been discussed and reviewed by the Audit Committee during 2023 and early 2024, notably at the review of the interim results, at the review and 
agreement of the audit plan for 2023 and as part of the year-end review and approval process. Please see the section on assumptions and 
estimation uncertainties in General accounting policies on pages 176 and 177 for further disclosure on estimates and accounting judgements.

Significant matter

Acquisition accounting

Action taken

The Group makes a large number of acquisitions each year, many of 
which require the valuation of acquired intangible assets, including 
brands, customer lists and goodwill. The calculations for valuing these 
assets on acquisition are subject to judgement and estimation about 
the future performance of the acquired business, such as forecast 
customer termination rates, discount rates and growth rates. At the 
balance sheet date, recognition of acquired assets and liabilities is 
often provisional, although measurement period adjustments made 
in the following year are generally immaterial. Judgement is often 
required to determine whether required adjustments relate to the 
period pre- or post-acquisition.

Climate change

At the year end, management provided the Audit Committee with 
a summary of M&A activity in the preceding year, including details 
of new acquisitions, as well as updates to provisional accounting. 
The Audit Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of certain 
aspects of significant acquisitions, including determination of the 
consideration paid, the identification and valuation of acquired 
intangible assets and a review of provisional opening balance  
sheets. For further details, please refer to pages 195 and 196 in  
the Financial Statements.

The Group operates across many markets around the world and  
is impacted by physical events caused by climate change and  
also contributes to climate change through its carbon emissions.  
The Group has a net zero target for 2040 (see page 80) and this  
plan requires operational changes in how we service our customers 
and deal with the effects of climate change.

As part of its discussion of the audit strategy for 2023, the Audit 
Committee considered climate change risks as part of the review of 
Group risks and the Audit Committee received an update from the 
Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller outlining 
the accounting considerations and climate change reporting in the 
Company’s Financial Statements in February 2024.

Goodwill impairment review

The Group carries material balances for goodwill and acquired 
intangible assets, and due to the acquisition programme makes 
material additions to these balances each year. The recoverable 
amount of these assets is determined based on the higher of value-
in-use calculations, using cash flow projections, and fair value less 
costs to sell. Annual impairment tests are primarily based on value-
in-use calculations which require significant judgements in relation to 
the inputs used, including forecast growth rates and discount rates. 
Management is required to perform annual tests for impairment on 
indefinite-lived intangible assets and on other acquired intangible 
assets when there are indicators of impairment.

Management reviewed all impairment tests for goodwill balances 
over £5m using a centrally provided model. The intangible assets 
were grouped into cash-generating units (CGUs) for the purpose of 
assessing recoverable amounts, using cash flows based on the most 
recent strategic plans, as amended for any significant changes since 
their preparation. Cash flows were discounted using the internally 
calculated country and category-specific discount rates. The Audit 
Committee received a summary of the results of the review and, 
although the total value of intangible assets is significant, was satisfied 
that the outcome of the impairment review was adequately disclosed 
in Note B2 Intangible assets.

Legacy termite damage claims provisioning

As part of the acquisition of Terminix in October 2022, we recognised 
a significant provision for future termite damage claims whose liability 
existed at the acquisition date. Termite damage claims include 
judgements on the quantum, timing and severity of claims over a  
multi-year period.

The judgements here should be read in line with the section above  
on acquisition accounting.

Management gathered the historical data, contract data and other 
supporting data to provide the basis for forward-looking judgements. 
The Group has also hired external professional advisors to support 
modelling and analysis and to help management with meeting the 
requirements of SOX. On the termite damage claims, it may take many 
years before we fully understand the outcomes and we have provided 
sensitivity analysis on pages 185 and 186 to help understand the 
estimation and judgement involved. We will be maintaining external 
valuation support on an ongoing basis to validate the provisioning.

The Audit Committee considered the outcomes of the 2023 review. 
This has been reported as updates to acquisition values and through 
the results for the period as applicable.

120 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Other financial reporting 
matters
Going concern and viability statements
At its meeting in February 2024, the Audit 
Committee considered the Group’s ability  
to continue as a going concern, taking into 
account budgets, borrowing facilities, timing of 
cash flows, and financial and operational risk 
management before recommending to the 
Board that it adopt the going concern basis of 
preparation for the 2023 Financial Statements. 
At the same meeting, the Audit Committee 
also considered the longer-term viability of  
the Company, reviewing the analysis from 
management to support the viability statement 
in the 2023 Annual Report. Both going 
concern and viability modelled forecasts of 
future cash flows included stress-testing 
scenarios and an analysis of other risks that 
could impact the viability of the business over 
a one-year and three-year period (2024 to 
2026) respectively and how they could be 
mitigated. The going concern statement for 
2023 can be found on page 244, and the 
viability statement for 2023 can be found on 
page 94.

Fair, balanced and understandable reporting
During 2023, the Audit Committee undertook 
a review of the 2022 Annual Report ahead of 
its publication to consider whether it was fair, 
balanced and understandable as required by 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. A similar 
process was repeated for the 2023 Annual 
Report at the Audit Committee meeting in 
February 2024. The Audit Committee received 
a report from management summarising the 
process undertaken, which covered, but was 
not limited to, the following:
• The Chairman and Chief Executive provide 

input and agree on key elements to be 
included, which set the tone and balance  
of the Strategic Report.

• All contributors to the Annual Report are 

made aware of the requirement for content 
to be fair, balanced and understandable.

• Regular review meetings are held with 

appropriate senior management to ensure 
consistency of the whole document.

• An extensive review and verification  

process is undertaken by the appropriate 
departments and senior managers, using 
verification software to test and track the 
accuracy of the content.

• Additional independent internal reviews  
are undertaken to enable any perceived  
lack of clarity, balance or understanding  
in the Annual Report to be identified  
and addressed.

The Audit Committee was satisfied that the 
Annual Report provided a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. The Board’s statement 
on fair, balanced and understandable in 
relation to the 2023 Annual Report can be 
found on page 245.

Correspondence with regulatory bodies
The Company received no specific 
correspondence from the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) in the period. The areas 
identified in the FRC’s ‘Key matters for 
2023/24 reports and accounts’ publication 
were reviewed. However, no specific changes 
were required to the Company’s accounts as  
a result.

External audit plan and strategy
At its meeting in May 2023, the Audit 
Committee received a presentation from  
PwC on key technology initiatives. The Audit 
Committee also discussed the plan for 
adopting new technologies in the Group  
audit in 2023, including supporting the 
Group’s transition to SOX compliance  
through technology.

In December 2023, the Company received a 
letter from the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (the SEC) following its review of 
the Company’s Form 20-F for the year ended 
31 December 2022. The letter contained 
questions, among other things, on the 
presentation of non-GAAP measures in the 
Financial Statement footnotes and the 
calculation and presentation of Organic 
Revenue Growth. Following a review of the 
points raised, the Company refiled its 2022 
Form 20-F in February 2024.

No statutory financial numbers (including  
Profit and Loss Account, Balance Sheet, 
Statements of Changes in Entity, Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flow or footnotes to the 
accounts) were changed as a result of the 
revised Form 20-F. The revision was made in 
order to comply with SEC rules following an 
administrative error where some exhibits were 
not dated and to make some presentational 
disclosure changes, including relocating or 
deleting some non-IFRS measures as required 
under SEC rules.

External audit
External auditor
The external auditor is appointed to give an 
opinion on the Group and Company Financial 
Statements. The audit includes the review and 
testing of the data contained in the Financial 
Statements to the extent and materiality level 
necessary, for expressing an audit opinion  
as to whether they present a true and fair  
view of the Group and Company affairs as  
at 31 December 2023.

PwC has been the Group’s external auditor 
since May 2021. They were reappointed by 
shareholders at the 2023 AGM to continue  
to serve as the Group’s external auditor. 

Neil Grimes is the Lead Audit Partner. He has 
been in post since PwC was appointed and 
will be required to rotate after five years.  
The external auditor attends all meetings of 
the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee 
met twice with PwC without executive 
management present and met with the Audit 
Committee Chair independently four times  
in 2023.

In 2023, the main engagement between the 
external auditor and the Audit Committee  
has been in relation to audit strategy, the  
audit and publication of annual and periodic 
financial statements, the auditor’s scope and 
priorities and its approach to key judgement 
areas. PwC has also been extensively  
involved in discussions regarding our SOX 
implementation programme and the testing  
of our internal controls.

In July, PwC presented the 2023 external  
audit plan, which summarised the key  
aspects of their audit planning, including the 
external auditor’s assessment of Group audit 
materiality, audit risks and scope, and the 
overall approach to the audit of the Company 
and its subsidiaries. The audit approach for 
2023 had been updated to reflect the 
completion of the Terminix acquisition in 2022, 
and the first year of the Group’s implementation 
of SOX. The plan was discussed and approved 
by the Audit Committee.

At the December meeting, the Audit 
Committee discussed with the auditors the 
status of their work, focusing in particular  
on internal controls and the status of their  
SOX testing. The results of the controls testing 
for SOX reporting purposes was considered 
by the Audit Committee in February 2024,  
as detailed on page 124.

External auditor and audit process 
effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external auditor is 
monitored throughout the year, including 
through:
• FRC’s Audit Quality Inspection and 

Supervision report 2022/23: The Audit 
Committee reviewed the results of the  
report during the year, noting that PwC  
was found to have maintained its focus on 
audit quality and had achieved consistent 
inspection results.

• Progress against external audit plan and 
strategy: The Audit Committee continually 
evaluated and monitored progress against 
the agreed plan, and discussed any issues 
or reasons for variation from the plan.

• Reports to, and interaction with, the Audit 
Committee: At each meeting, the Audit 
Committee considers the work undertaken 
by the external auditor, their insight around 
key accounting and audit judgements, and 
the competence with which they have 
applied constructive challenge in dealing 
with management.

• Annual internal effectiveness survey: 

A tailored online questionnaire covering the 
overall audit process and the structure and 
governance of the external audit team is 
utilised annually. The questionnaire is 
completed by the Chief Financial Officer,  
the Director of Internal Audit and Risk, the 
Interim Head of Internal Audit and Risk, 
Finance Directors of the Group’s subsidiaries, 
the senior finance management team, and 
the Accounts, Tax and Treasury functions. 
The results of the survey are collated by the 
Chief Financial Officer, and a summary of the 
findings are provided to the Audit Committee 
and PwC.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 121

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceAudit Committee Report 
continued

At the July meeting, the Chief Financial Officer 
presented the summary of the results of the 
annual effectiveness questionnaire. The Audit 
Committee noted that overall, the results were 
positive. The Audit Committee considered the 
areas of strength and opportunities identified 
from the survey. The actions arising from the 
review included the undertaking of additional 
planning with the regions, an increased focus 
on improving communication around the audit 
plan and timelines, and consideration as to 
how to gain even greater insight of business 
and controls from the audit. 

Following consideration of all elements of the 
audit effectiveness review process, including 
the results of the survey, the Audit Committee 
confirmed it was satisfied that the external 
audit process provided by PwC had been 
delivered effectively for the 2022 financial 
year. A similar process will be undertaken  
for the 2023 financial year. 

External auditor independence  
and objectivity
To safeguard the objectivity and 
independence of the auditor, the Company 
has a policy on the engagement of the 
auditor’s services on audit-related and 
non-audit services. The Audit Committee 
accepts that in some instances certain work  
of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by  
the auditor. The policy sets out the nature of 
services that are permitted and those that are 
specifically prohibited. In general, permitted 
services would be limited to matters that are 
closely related to the annual audit process or 
where detailed knowledge of the Group is 
advantageous. 

The Audit Committee regularly reviews the 
amount and nature of non-audit work 
performed by the auditor to ensure that the 
auditor’s independence is not compromised. 
Any engagement fee on permitted services  
in excess of £10,000 requires the approval  
of the Chair of the Audit Committee and  
any engagement fee in excess of £250,000 
requires the approval of the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee has pre-approved 
permitted services, as outlined in the policy, 
with fees below £10,000. A copy of the  
current policy on the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditors is available 
on our website.

Audit fees for the statutory audit for 2023  
were £8m (2022: £7m). Fees for audit-related 
assurance services and other non-audit 
services incurred during the year amounted  
to £3m (2022: £5m). The ratio of non-audit  
fees to statutory audit fees for the year was 
therefore 0.4:1 (2022: 0.7:1). The non-audit fees 
for 2023 relate to 2023 reporting on internal 
financial controls. The non-audit fees were 
substantially higher in 2022 as a result of the 
specialist accounting work performed by  
PwC in respect of the acquisition of Terminix. 
Further details on audit services can be found 
in Note A8 to the Financial Statements on 
page 186. 

122 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

The Audit Committee also received 
confirmation from PwC that it was 
independent and objective within the context 
of applicable professional standards.

The Audit Committee does not believe that 
there is any material risk of the Company’s 
auditor withdrawing from the market. 

The controls and processes in place, as 
detailed above, help to ensure that the 
required level of independence of the  
auditor is maintained. 

External auditor tender and appointment
The role of external auditor will be put out to 
tender at least every ten years and will be 
conducted by no later than 2031 in line with 
prevailing best practice. The Company 
confirms its compliance with the provisions  
of the UK Competition & Markets Authority 
Order regarding statutory audit services for 
the financial period ended 31 December 2023.

The Audit Committee concluded that  
it is satisfied with the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor, PwC, 
and that the effectiveness of the external audit 
process was robust. The Audit Committee  
has recommended to the Board that it seeks 
shareholder approval for the reappointment  
of PwC as the external auditor for the financial 
year ending 31 December 2024.

Internal audit
Role of Internal Audit
Internal Audit provides independent and 
objective assurance to management, the Audit 
Committee and the Board on the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management framework 
and internal controls.

Internal Audit, which is led by the Director  
of Internal Audit & Risk, reports to the Chief 
Financial Officer and has direct lines of 
communication with the Chair of the Audit 
Committee, the Chief Executive and the 
Chairman of the Board, as well as to all 
operational and functional leaders in  
the business.

At each meeting, an update on Internal Audit  
is provided covering an overview of the work 
undertaken in the period, actions arising from 
audits conducted, the tracking of remedial 
actions and progress against the Internal  
Audit plan, and SOX compliance. The Audit 
Committee Chair routinely meets 
independently with the Director of Internal 
Audit & Risk to discuss the results of the  
audits performed and any additional insights 
obtained on the risk management and control 
environment across the organisation.

In December, the Audit Committee also 
reviewed and approved the Internal Audit 
Charter, which defines the purpose,  
authority and responsibility of the Internal 
Audit function.

Internal Audit Plan
The 2023 Internal Audit plan was approved  
by the Audit Committee in December 2022. 
The plan is structured to align with the  
Group’s risk profile, control environment  
and assurance arrangements. The plan for 
2023 included an audit of the integration of 
Terminix, and a continued focus on IT and  
SOX testing.

The common themes arising from the Internal 
Audit work during 2023 were presented to the 
Audit Committee in December 2023, together 
with recommendations to senior management 
to improve the controls across some 
processes. None of the failures identified in 
the control environment by Internal Audit or 
any of the recommendations relating to 
individual audits represented a systemic 
underlying issue. The overall work of the 
Internal Audit function is utilised by the Audit 
Committee and the Board in their assessment 
of the adequacy of the Group’s financial and 
operational controls environment.

The 2024 Internal Audit Plan was approved  
by the Audit Committee in December 2023.  
A key focus for the 2024 plan is SOX testing, 
with the Internal Audit team supporting the 
testing cycle, and thematic audits, in order to 
give the function greater ability to respond to 
emerging risks within the business.

Internal Audit effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function 
was considered by the Audit Committee 
during its review and approval of the 2024 
Audit plan by means of a review of the 
resources available, qualifications of the team, 
delivery, reporting and the independence of 
the function.

The Audit Committee also ensures that an 
independent third-party assessment of the 
effectiveness and processes of the Internal 
Audit function is conducted at least once 
every five years, in line with the requirements 
of the Institute of Internal Auditors’ 
International Standards for the Professional 
Practice of Internal Auditing. The most recent 
such assessment was undertaken in 2021.

Governance and compliance
Compliance and whistleblowing 
The Audit Committee has responsibility for 
reviewing the Company’s procedures for 
handling compliance with our Code of 
Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy, and 
confidential reporting (whistleblower) 
arrangements, known as Speak Up.

The Group’s Code of Conduct, which outlines 
our commitment to comply with all applicable 
legal requirements and with high ethical 
standards, can be found on our website.  
It clearly sets out how colleagues can seek 
advice and report concerns about suspected 
ethical or illegal misconduct policy violations. 
The Company uses an international 
confidential Speak Up email address and 
phone line to allow colleagues to report  
any suspected wrongdoing internally to 
independent senior management at  
Group level.

Risk management  
and internal control
Risk management and internal  
control framework 
The Board has overall responsibility for 
maintaining an effective risk management  
and internal control framework. The Board 
delegates responsibility for risk management 
to the Audit Committee, where appropriate. 
The risk management and internal control 
framework is designed to manage and 
mitigate risk, rather than eliminate the risk  
of failure to achieve business objectives.  
In pursuing business objectives, internal 
controls and risk management can only 
provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement  
or loss.

The Group’s risk management structure and 
process is detailed on pages 87 and 88. The 
responsibilities of the Board, some of which it 
chooses to delegate to the Audit Committee, 
include:
• review and approval of the Group’s overall 
strategy, which includes reviewing the risks 
that may prevent the Group from achieving 
its objectives and ensuring that these  
risks are mitigated or managed to an 
acceptable level;

• regular reviews of business performance, 

including updates of the risks that the 
business is facing, and challenging 
management to obtain assurance that  
these risks are being effectively managed;

• review of management’s approach to 
identifying and managing risk, and 
recommending enhancements;

• evaluation of the effectiveness of internal 
controls, including financial, operational  
and compliance controls; evaluation of the 
effectiveness of internal and external audits;

• delegation of authority to the Chief Executive 

and Chief Financial Officer to make 
commitments on behalf of the Company; and

• the evaluation of the effectiveness of our 

internal controls.

Risk and internal controls 
The identification and management of risk is 
integrated into the development of the 
Group’s strategy and the day-to-day 
operational execution of the strategy by the 
regions and business units. Ensuring that risks 
are identified and managed effectively is a 
part of every manager’s and supervisor’s job 
through leadership of the teams for which  
they are responsible. An assessment of the 
emerging and principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would affect its business 
model and future performance, is carried out 
by the Board. The principal risks identified can 
be found in the Risk and Uncertainties section 
on pages 87 to 93.

The Company has also established a separate 
Speak Up line for suppliers and their 
employees or other stakeholders to report 
genuine concerns over malpractice, illegal acts 
or failures to comply with recognised standards 
of ethical behaviour that they observe at any 
point within our global supply chain.

Reported cases are monitored by Internal 
Audit and any potential misconduct reported  
is formally investigated and appropriate action 
taken, with the results of the investigation 
being reported back to the whistleblower 
where possible. The Director of Internal Audit 
& Risk provides regular updates to the Audit 
Committee of any control incidents.

The Audit Committee also periodically reviews 
the communication process in place throughout 
the Company regarding whistleblowing and  
the use of Speak Up to ensure its effectiveness 
and to monitor our colleagues’ understanding 
of the system. A thematic review of Speak Up 
incidences and the control processes in place 
was considered by the Board in December.

The Audit Committee is informed of the 
outcome of the annual Letter of Assurance 
process whereby senior management are 
required to confirm compliance with key 
Group policies, including the Code of Conduct, 
and the dissemination of these policies to  
their respective country and functional teams. 
An overview of exceptions reported during the 
process is shared with the Audit Committee 
and any thematic issues raised are also shared 
with the Executive Leadership Team (ELT)  
as required.

Governance 
In 2023, the Audit Committee also spent time 
considering the proposed changes to the  
UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
requirements introduced by the Economic 
Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill, the 
Minimum Standard, and the additional 
reporting requirements outlined in the draft 
Companies (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations prior to its withdrawal in 
October 2023. 

For the Economic Crime and Corporate 
Transparency Bill, the Audit Committee 
received a presentation as to the 
implementation plan for the proposed 
enhancements to fraud risk assessments. 

For the Minimum Standard, the Audit 
Committee considered an in-depth analysis of 
the requirements, and recommendations as to 
potential enhancements to Audit Committee 
processes. The Audit Committee approved  
the suggested amendments to the Audit 
Committee terms of reference, and for other 
processes to be enhanced to align with the 
Minimum Standard, including the review of the 
effectiveness of the external auditor. 

The Audit Committee report, in particular the 
External audit section of the report, describes 
how the Audit Committee has complied with 
each of the provisions of the Minimum 
Standard during the year. 

An explanation of the Group’s accounting 
policies is provided on pages 175 to 177. 

The Audit Committee receives regular  
reports from the Chief Financial Officer  
and the Director of Internal Audit & Risk on 
financial controls and process improvement 
programmes, including:
• an annual report on the overall status of the 
control environment in the Group, including 
the results of testing and reports on 
identified areas of weakness in controls;

• action plans on control environment 
improvements and updates on their 
implementation;

• updates on control weaknesses and  

planned actions to prevent a reoccurrence;

• periodic reports from regional and Group 
finance executives, and Internal Audit; and

• updates on the SOX implementation 

programme.

During 2023, the Audit Committee was 
updated on the risk and control environment 
in the main businesses, as well as the Regional 
Finance Directors’ assessment of the quality 
and priorities of the Finance function in the 
relevant part of the business. Audit Committee 
members received reports from the Regional 
Finance Directors for the UK & Sub-Saharan 
Africa region and the Pacific region, with other 
regional updates provided as part of the Board 
agenda. This provides a high-level insight for 
the Audit Committee on potential risks.

The Audit Committee continues to evaluate 
cyber incidents and risk throughout the year 
and, although there is no indication we are  
a specific target, we remain vigilant given  
both the number and seriousness of cyber 
attacks in the year, with repeated distributed 
denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks and 
attempted ransomware incidents. Our cyber 
technology and resilience have continued  
to allow us to detect and avert complex and 
volatile threats before they were able to  
have any material impact on our operations. 
This is an area we will continue to prioritise 
and monitor as we integrate and synchronise 
IT capabilities across the Group. See page 116  
for more information on cyber security.

The Audit Committee also receives the 
minutes of the Group Risk Committee. The 
Group Risk Committee comprises the key 
functional and operational senior managers, 
and considers the risk framework, and key and 
emerging risks. Where appropriate, items that 
are raised as significant or emerging issues  
by the Group Risk Committee are reflected  
in adjustments to the control environment.

In 2023, some control issues were 
experienced including:
• a colleague had their IT user credentials 

compromised. No data was lost and there 
were no further instances of weaker  
security protocols;

• three businesses performed work without 
authorisation under the Group’s Pink Note 
process. This was subsequently rectified  
and guidance reissued; and

• a payment fraud in our Australian business  

of immaterial scale to the Group.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 123

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceAudit Committee Report 
continued

The Audit Committee receives regular reports 
of matters reported via Speak Up, our internal 
whistleblowing process. There were 103 
control incidents reported in 2023 (2022: 84). 
The nature of the matters reported remain 
similar to previous years and relate to 
employee and employment matters, with  
very few relating to fraudulent activity,  
which remains at a low level across the  
Group. The increase reported is reflective of  
a bigger, more complex business compared  
to the prior year. 

Internal Audit received one report on our 
Supplier Speak Up line, which was a  
request for ESG data rather than a concern 
regarding malpractice and was swiftly 
resolved by management.

SOX controls 
In 2022, the Group identified material 
weaknesses relating to IT general controls  
and aspects of management’s overall  
system of financial controls (lack of sufficient 
technical accounting knowledge, segregation 
of duties and management review controls). 
The Board and Audit Committee reviewed  
the progress made to address the potential 
weaknesses identified. 

At each meeting in 2023, the Audit Committee 
received an update on the status of the 
Company’s SOX implementation programme. 
The updates included details regarding 
progress against the defined plan, design 
effectiveness on the specific controls, and 
colleague training and team resources.  
The updates reviewed both business process 
controls and IT governance controls, as well as 
progress by specific processes and countries. 
As the year progressed, the focus of the 
updates moved to tracking testing plans, 
operating effectiveness results and tracking 
any identified deficiencies and associated 
remediation plans. At the request of the Audit 
Committee, a monthly status report was also 
provided outside of the scheduled meetings to 
allow for continuous visibility. From late 2023, 
the Audit Committee also received a monthly 
status report from the external auditor. 

An in-depth review of the status of our SOX 
compliance for 2023 was undertaken at the 
December 2023 meeting, including discussion 
as to any identified material weaknesses.  
For the 2023 financial year, the evaluation  
of effectiveness of our internal controls 
identified material weaknesses relating to  
IT general controls. 

The Board and the Audit Committee reviewed 
the work completed for the material weakness 
relating to aspects of management’s overall 
system of financial controls (lack of sufficient 
technical accounting knowledge, segregation 
of duties and management review controls) 
and are satisfied this has been remediated. 

The Board and the Audit Committee has 
further reviewed the progress made in 2023  
in relation to the material weakness relating  
IT general controls and will continue to have 
oversight of management’s ongoing 
remediation plans in 2024. 

Effectiveness of risk management and 
internal control framework 
The Board, with the support of the Audit 
Committee, conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control 
for the year ended 31 December 2023 and 
confirms that:
• the Group has an ongoing process for 

identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group;

• this process has been in place for the  
year under review and up to the date  
of approval of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements;

• the Board reviews the process regularly; and

• the process operates in accordance with  
the UK Corporate Governance Code and  
the FRC Risk Management and Internal 
Control Guidance.

Audit Committee 
effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Audit Committee  
was considered as part of the external Board 
effectiveness review undertaken in 2023 by 
Chris Saul of Christopher Saul Associates, with 
the output considered and follow-up actions 
agreed by the Audit Committee. The review 
concluded that the Audit Committee continues 
to operate effectively and is well-integrated 
into the Board decision-making processes. 

In 2024, the Audit Committee will continue to 
focus on its oversight of the Company’s SOX 
compliance and will consider opportunities to 
further enhance its focus on risk. Full details  
of the Board evaluation review, including its 
outcomes and actions, are disclosed on  
pages 112 and 113.

Read the Audit Committee’s terms of reference at rentokil-initial.com/investors/governance

Read our Policy on the Provision of Non-Audit Services by the External Auditors at rentokil-initial.com/investors/governance

124 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Nomination Committee Report

Richard Solomons,  
Chair of the Nomination Committee 

Areas of focus in 2023
• Appointment of a new Non-Executive 

Director 

• Transition of new Audit Committee Chair 

• Executive Director and senior 

management succession planning and 
talent development

Areas of focus in 2024
• Executive Director and senior 

management succession planning and 
talent development

• Skills, knowledge, experience, and 

diversity of the Board

Committee members: 
Richard Solomons (Chair)
David Frear 
Sally Johnson
Sarosh Mistry 
John Pettigrew 
Cathy Turner 
Linda Yueh

Given his significant leadership experience, 
and proven track record of successful delivery, 
I am sure that Brad will be an excellent 
addition to the ELT. 

As is its usual practice, the Nomination 
Committee reviewed succession planning for 
our Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer 
and members of our ELT during the year.  
In December, the Nomination Committee 
considered detailed succession plans for  
key roles. To ensure Board familiarity with 
senior managers and potential succession 
candidates, a number of senior managers and 
colleagues from across the Group have also 
presented to the Board or met with Directors 
during 2023 and it is planned that this 
engagement will continue in 2024 as part of 
the Board’s ongoing practice of meeting with 
talent from around the world.

Diversity and inclusion remains a core area of 
focus, framed by our Board diversity policy. 
The diversity of the Board is detailed on page 
129, with membership comprising 33% women 
and two Directors from an ethnic minority 
background. Further details on our Board 
diversity policy and the targets set out in the 
policy, which were updated in January 2023, 
can be found on page 128. 

Full details of the Nomination Committee’s 
work during 2023 can be found set out in the 
following report.

Richard Solomons
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
7 March 2024

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present to you the  
report of the work undertaken by the 
Nomination Committee in the year ended  
31 December 2023.

During the year, the Nomination Committee 
continued to assist the Board in fulfilling  
its responsibilities, with a particular  
focus placed on the composition of, and 
succession planning for, the Board and  
senior management. 

As identified in last year’s report, Julie 
Southern, who would have served on the 
Board for a period of nine years by July  
2023, stepped down from the Board at the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) on 10 May 2023. Following a 
comprehensive recruitment process, full 
details of which are provided in the Company’s 
2022 Annual Report, the Board welcomed 
Sally Johnson as a Non-Executive Director. 
Sally joined the Board on 1 April 2023,  
and became a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. She succeeded  
Julie as Chair of the Audit Committee from  
10 May 2023. Sally is currently the Chief 
Financial Officer of Pearson plc, a FTSE 100 
global education and learning business,  
and has brought strong technical and 
commercial finance skills to the Board, 
including knowledge of the US listed 
environment. As identified in the 2023 Board 
evaluation, Sally has settled into her new 
position expertly, bringing further energy  
and engagement to the role. 

Both the Nomination Committee and the 
Board spent time in 2023 discussing the 
composition of the North America leadership 
team, in light of the enlarged scale of the 
business in that region following the 
acquisition of Terminix in 2022. In October 
2023, Brett Ponton stepped down as CEO of 
the Company’s North America region and as  
a member of the Executive Leadership Team 
(ELT). In December, we were delighted to 
announce the appointment of Brad Paulsen  
as CEO, North America. He also became a 
member of the ELT, as detailed on page 103. 
Brad was previously the CEO of Rexel USA,  
a leading distributor of electrical parts, 
services, and solutions, with more than  
450 US branches and $7bn in annual sales. 

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 125

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceOur Chair, Richard Solomons, has held  
the position since May 2019, following 
appointment to the Board in March 2019.  
This resulted from a robust appointment 
process, as detailed in the Company’s 2018 
Annual Report. 

Our Senior Independent Director, John 
Pettigrew, has held the position since May 
2019, following appointment to the Board in 
January 2018. John was appointed in line with 
the internal succession plan for the role and 
continues to support the Board and Chair in 
this position. 

While the Company values all forms of 
diversity and work continues to ensure that 
gender and ethnicity, alongside broader 
diversity characteristics, are present across 
the Board, we do not believe given the current 
composition of our Board, and recognising  
the factors noted above, that the Listing Rule 
targets are achievable prior to 2028. 

Board diversity 
The Board of Directors has adopted a Board 
diversity, equity and inclusion policy to 
support, at Board level, the Company’s 
commitment to fostering a diverse and 
inclusive working environment. The key 
objectives of the policy and its effectiveness 
are set out on page 128, and the policy is 
available on our website. 

Due to the current size of the Board and its 
Committees, there is no separate policy or 
provisions within the Board diversity policy 
for Committees.

In 2022, in light of the new Listing Rules 
requirements on diversity-related reporting 
and the recommendations set out in the  
FTSE Women Leaders Review (the successive 
phase of the Hampton-Alexander Review),  
the Nomination Committee recommended  
that the Board update its diversity targets.  
The revised policy and targets were approved 
by the Board in January 2023. 

While the Board remains committed to 
diversity within our organisation and 
recognises diversity as a priority, it was agreed 
that the Board’s focus should be on setting 
targets which are considered appropriate 
given the succession timeframe of existing 
members of the Board, and which take 
account of the existing skills, knowledge, 
experience, and composition of the Board. 
Based on current succession timing, we  
have therefore set a target for the Board to 
comprise at least 40% women by 2028, which 

we believe to be an appropriate timeframe for 
our Board, based on normal succession plans 
(assuming that the two executive roles on  
the Board remain constant and assuming 
Non-Executive Director tenure of nine years in 
line with the UK Corporate Governance Code). 
To achieve this earlier would require either 
recruiting an additional female Non-Executive 
Director or replacing an existing Director 
prematurely. As the Board is considered to be 
operating effectively, neither of these options 
are considered to be in the best interests of 
the Company or its shareholders at this time. 

We were placed 83rd in the 2023 FTSE 
Women Leaders Review for women on Boards 
and in leadership in the FTSE 100, published in 
February 2024.

Explanation against Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)
As at 31 December 2023 (the Company’s 
chosen reference date), the Company confirms 
it has met the target for one Director to be 
from an ethnic minority background. It has  
not met the targets that at least 40% of the 
individuals on its board of directors are 
women and that at least one of the Chair,  
CEO, CFO, or SID is female. 

The roles of the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer have been held by Andy 
Ransom and Stuart Ingall-Tombs for 10 and 
three years respectively. These positions 
support the long-term strategic delivery of  
the Group and remain subject to considered 
succession planning. 

Board and executive management diversity
at 31 December 2023

Gender

Men

Women

Not specified/prefer not to say

Ethnic background

White British or other White 
(including minority-white groups)

Mixed/multiple ethnic groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of  
Board members

Percentage  
of the Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in  
executive 
management1

Percentage of 
executive 
management

6

3

–

7

–

2

–

–

–

66%

33%

–

78%

–

22%

–

–

–

4

–

–

4

–

–

–

–

–

10

3

–

13

–

–

–

–

–

77%

23%

–

100%

–

–

–

–

–

1.  This is the executive committee below the Board (the ELT) and the Company Secretary. We exclude Board members from this group.
2.  Gender and ethnicity data is collected directly from the individuals of the Board and ELT as part of an annual questionnaire in connection with the Annual 

Report. The questionnaire includes gender and ethnicity options, which are collected on a voluntary basis. The questionnaires relating to the period received  
a 100% response rate regarding ethnicity and gender disclosures. The data is collated by the Company Secretary and held securely in accordance with the 
Group’s data protection policies and practices.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 129

Strategic ReportOther InformationFinancial StatementsCorporate GovernanceNomination Committee Report 
continued

Director induction 
and training
The Chairman, supported by the Nomination 
Committee through its review of the skills, 
knowledge and experience of the Board, leads 
the training and development of Directors. 

Induction
The Chairman and Company Secretary 
prepare a detailed induction for each new 
Director. This is tailored to the prospective 
roles the individual will assume on the Board 
and its Committees, and also accounts for 
their existing knowledge and experience. 

The induction programme includes a series of 
meetings, beginning before the Director joins 
the Board and running for several months. 
These one-to-one meetings are arranged  
with the Chair and existing Non-Executive 
Directors, the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer, members of the ELT and  
the Company Secretary, along with other 
members of senior management. They are 
also introduced to and given access to the 
Company’s external advisers (auditors, legal 
advisers and brokers).

All Non-Executive Directors also receive the 
following materials on their appointment:
• key Company policies, procedures and 

governance information, including the Code 
of Conduct, Board Governance Manual, 
Responsible Business Report and Group 
Authority Schedule; 

• details of the Group structure; 
• analysis of the Company’s key shareholders 

and share capital; 
• recent analyst notes; 
• minutes and papers from the most recent 
Board and relevant Committee meetings, 
including the most recent strategy meeting; 

• copies of the most recent Board and any 

relevant Committee evaluation reports; and 

• guidance on the legal and regulatory 

responsibilities of a Director in a UK and  
US publicly listed company. 

New Directors are also encouraged to undertake 
the same online induction modules as other  
new colleagues in our online learning and 
development platform (U+), on key compliance 
subjects, such as our Code of Conduct, 
anti-bribery and corruption, competition law, 
information security and privacy, insider 
information, and conflicts of interest. 

Between 12 and 18 months after their 
appointment, Directors are asked to complete  
a questionnaire to provide feedback on the 
induction process. This allows us to assess the 
effectiveness of the induction and any training 
provided, to identify any areas of improvement 
and to highlight any further development needs.

The table below illustrates the purpose of 
some of the meetings that formed part of 
Sally’s induction programme. 

Further areas of focus for Sally’s induction 
were pertinent to her role on the 
Committees, in particular her role on the 
Audit Committee. This included receiving  
an overview of the current risks faced by the 
Group, our risk management framework and 
Internal Audit programme. Sally also met 
with the Company’s external auditors, and 
attended a meeting of our executive Group 
Risk Committee. 

In May 2023, Sally and Sarosh Mistry visited 
the Power Centre, which included a tour of 
the facilities and presentations from senior 
management and the scientists based 
there. The Power Centre is our home for 
science, innovation, and training academy  
in the UK. 

In December 2023, Sally also joined a pest 
technician in London for a ride-along, 
providing her with hands-on experience of 
the work undertaken by our technicians and 
the opportunity to meet with customers. 

Sally Johnson’s induction 
Sally Johnson joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2023. 
She became a member of the Nomination 
Committee and Audit Committee from the 
date of her appointment, before being 
appointed Audit Committee Chair in  
May 2023. 

Sally had an extensive induction 
programme, covering a range of areas 
across the business. In addition to receiving 
a detailed overview of the Group and  
its business operations, she attended a 
number of sessions covering topics 
including governance, Company culture,  
and stakeholder engagement. 

Induction programme 
participants 

Chairman 

Meeting purpose 

Overview of the Board’s priority areas and ongoing matters 
considered by the Board.

Chairs and members of  
the Committees

Overview of the responsibilities and composition of the 
Board’s Committees, their governance, regular attendees, 
and advisors. 

Chief Financial Officer

Overview of the strategic priorities of the Group, key 
performance indicators, operational performance, financial 
performance and projections, and competitive landscape.

Heads of Corporate 
Functions

Introductions with leadership team members, covering an 
overview of their business area(s), subject matter expertise, 
organisational structure, Company culture, and values.

Group General Counsel  
and Company Secretary

Induction planning, governance framework, Board 
operations, Board and Committee matters, duties and 
responsibilities of a Company Director (including the 
obligations of directors sitting on UK and US Boards), the 
Company’s key policies and procedures, and other legal 
and regulatory considerations. 

Training 
All Directors receive training on topics of 
importance for the Company. Briefings and 
training are incorporated into the annual  
Board agenda. To help facilitate the  
ongoing development of Directors, details  
of externally facilitated events and training  
are also circulated periodically. 

Directors are also given the opportunity to 
meet colleagues in person to learn more about 
the Company’s functions or business regions 
(see Stakeholder engagement on pages 114 
and 115). 

Read the Nomination Committee’s terms of reference at rentokil-initial.com/investors/governance

Read our Group Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Policy at rentokil-initial.com/responsible-delivery/policies

Read our Board Diversity Policy at rentokil-initial.com/investors/governance

130 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

 
Directors’ Remuneration Report

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Dear Shareholder
It is my pleasure to present to shareholders,  
on behalf of the Board, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2023. I hope you find the 
information in this report clearly explains the 
remuneration approach taken by the Company 
and enables you to understand how it links 
performance to business strategy and results. 

It has been another busy year, with the key 
areas of focus including:
• reviewing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
(the Policy) which is due for renewal and will 
be voted on at the AGM in May 2024;

• continuing the integration of the Terminix 

acquisition; and 

• focusing on the remuneration for all 
colleagues given the cost-of-living 
challenges continue to impact our  
colleagues across the globe.

Policy renewal
A large proportion of the Remuneration 
Committee’s time in 2023 has been spent 
reviewing the Policy. Our aim has been to 
ensure that the Policy put to shareholders at 
the AGM in 2024 continues to support the 
delivery of our strategy while appropriately 
balancing the incentivisation and reward of  
our experienced Executive Directors, with the 
interests of shareholders, colleagues, and the 
wider community.

We were also keen to ensure that the 
remuneration of our Executive Directors is 
realigned appropriately following the 
acquisition of Terminix, which has added 
significantly to the size and complexity of  
the Group. We were prudent following the 
acquisition of Terminix, by not immediately 
adjusting any remuneration as is common  
in such circumstances. The deal closed in 
October 2022 and we decided at that time, to 
consider any adjustments as part of a detailed 
review in line with the Policy renewal process.

We know that shareholders value 
understanding the benchmark data we used in 
conducting the review, and this has therefore 
been included in the detail below. The data is 
an important reference point in determining 
the Policy proposals but is only one 
contribution to Committee’s deliberations.  
In developing the Policy proposals we have 
considered the current stage of the Group’s 
evolution, its increased size and international 
focus as well as the high regard in which our 
CEO is held not only in the UK, but globally, 
where an increasing proportion of our 
business is positioned. Consistent with the 
current Policy we remain committed to 
weighting variable pay over the long term. 

Key findings
The acquisition of Terminix and secondary 
listing on the New York Stock Exchange, 
combined with the continued growth of the 
rest of our business, has fundamentally 
changed the scale and complexity of the 
business since the last Policy review. 

• Revenue (at AER) has increased by 90.4%, 

from £2,823.5m in 2020 to £5,375m in 2023.

• Profit before tax (at AER) has increased by 
114.5%, from £229.8m in 2020 to £493m  
in 2023.

• Percentage of revenue (at AER) from outside 
the UK has increased from 89.8% to 94.0% 
and the percentage of revenue from North 
America has increased by 41.9%, from 43.4% 
in 2020 to 61.5% in 2023.

• The number of countries has increased by 

seven, from 83 in 2020 to 90 in 2023.

• The number of employees has increased  
by 18,311, from 44,589 in 2020 to 62,900  
in 2023.

It is appropriate to review the packages of our 
Executive Directors against the new relevant 
benchmarks to ensure that remuneration 
remains market-aligned and would be fit for 
purpose throughout the life of the Policy from 
2024-2027.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 131

Cathy Turner,  
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Areas of focus in 2023
• The integration of the Terminix acquisition

• Planning for the renewal and approval of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 
2024 AGM

• The induction of new Committee member, 

David Frear

• Consideration of remuneration for all 
colleagues given the cost-of-living 
challenges that continue to impact 
colleagues across the globe

Areas of focus in 2024
• Seeking approval of the Directors’ 

Remuneration Policy at the 2024 AGM 

• The continued successful integration of 

the Terminix acquisition

• Keeping all-employee reward under 
review given the macro-economic 
challenges

Committee members: 
Cathy Turner (Chair)
David Frear 
Sarosh Mistry 
Linda Yueh

In this report: 

136 Remuneration at a glance
Key headline details on performance and 
remuneration in 2023

138 Directors’ Annual Remuneration 
Report – Introduction
Details of the Remuneration Committee and 
its activities during 2023

140 Directors’ Annual Remuneration 
Report – 2023
Details of Directors’ remuneration received 
during 2023

150 Directors’ Annual Remuneration 
Report – Looking forward 2024
Details of how the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy will be implemented in 2024

152 Proposed changes to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy
Summary of changes and rationales, along 
with proposed application for 2024

156 Proposed 2024 Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy 
Full details of the proposed Policy, which will 
be put to vote at the 2024 AGM

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Remuneration Report 
continued

Profit performance over 10 years

(£m)

1,000

900

800

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Revenue performance over 10 years

(£m)

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

TSR performance over 10 years

FTSE 100
FTSE 250

FTSE 350
Rentokil Initial

(£m)

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

Market capitalisation over 10 years

(£m)

14,000

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

132 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Benchmark data
The Committee adopted a UK FTSE market benchmark, given that many 
of the largest UK companies are global. We considered how best to 
reflect our significant presence in North America and, notwithstanding 
the different pay practices and higher levels there, concluded that the 
broad-based FTSE was suitable given that many UK-based companies 
have operations in the US. In addition, our Executive Directors are 
based in the UK. 

The Committee used the market data as a reference point for the  
overall sizing of the proposed packages given the significant change  
in the business and the associated demands upon our leadership as  
a consequence. Our framework remains unchanged; we aim to deliver 
the fixed element of remuneration around market median and provide 
the opportunity to achieve up to the upper quartile for outstanding 
performance. This ensures that remuneration is weighted to 
performance and is variable.

When we started the review in July 2023, the benchmark we used  
was companies within the FTSE 15 – 50, excluding financial services. 
Given the shareholder experience in the second half of 2023, we felt 
that it was appropriate to revise the market benchmark downwards 
accordingly. Therefore, we have adopted a lower market benchmark  
of the FTSE 21 – 50, excluding financial services. While the share price 
has been volatile, in the round, this peer group is felt to reflect our 
overall size and complexity, having regard to the increased revenue  
and increased scope of our international activities. We have consciously 
chosen not to include data from non-UK, particularly US, companies 
which would have increased the benchmark figures. 

Shareholder engagement
We started our engagement with our top shareholders, which hold 
around 50% of our share capital, along with shareholder representative 
bodies/proxy agencies in October 2023. The quality of engagement 
and input has been extremely helpful. We are grateful for the time 
invested and the practical suggestions as to how we might structure an 
appropriate level of remuneration potential for the future. There was 
much consistency in the feedback, including:

• recognition of the capabilities of our management team and support to 

remunerate them competitively and in line with the market;

• a preference for any incremental opportunity to be balanced between 
fixed and performance-based variable pay, rather than just fixed pay, 
which we had initially contemplated;

• consideration of phasing any base salary increases; and

• to share the benchmark data we have used in formulating  

the proposal.

Shareholder experience
During the consultation process, following our Q3 trading update,  
there was an adverse reaction from the market. This reaction was 
disappointing as the overall business continues to perform well and has 
delivered strong profit and revenue in 2023. However, the Committee 
determined that the remuneration proposals need to reflect the impact 
of this change, which included the following:
• Revising downwards the market benchmark from the initial FTSE 15 
– 50 excluding financial services, to the FTSE 21 – 50, excluding 
financial services; and

• Incorporating specific measures and targets related to the integration 

in North America and delivery of Organic Revenue Growth. 

Proposed Policy
Taking into consideration the feedback received from shareholders,  
as well as the lower benchmark data, the proposed changes to the 
Policy are as follows:

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Annual bonus
• Lift the maximum opportunity from the current, below-market level of 

180% of base salary, to 225%. 

• This uplift will be based on the achievement of targeted and 

measurable financial results. Furthermore, for 2024, the uplift in  
bonus opportunity will be fully aligned to the delivery of Organic 
Revenue Growth and integration synergy targets in our North 
American business.

In recognition of shareholder feedback the increased portion of the 
bonus opportunity for 2024 will be focused on the delivery of key North 
American integration targets, which include the delivery of integration 
synergies and driving Organic Revenue Growth rates.

We feel that setting the total opportunity above the median is 
appropriate for our CEO as it recognises his high level of experience, 
with more than 10 years in position, and the delivery of superior returns 
for all our stakeholders during his tenure.

Bonus deferral
• Increases from 40% to 50% of any bonus payable. The bonus will 

continue to be deferred into shares for a three-year period.

• This change increases the proportion of the package that will be 

delivered in the long-term.

Our CFO will also be adjusted and remunerated within the same 
structure and approach as the CEO. His base salary will be slightly 
below market median (95%) and his total remuneration package is 
benchmarked to deliver a median market opportunity, to reflect his  
level of experience in the role.

Shareholding guidelines
• Increases for the CEO from 300% to 400% of salary and for the CFO 

from 200% to 300%. 

• Post-cessation guidelines will continue to apply, which will  

normally require Executive Directors to hold shares for two years 
post-cessation.

The following elements will not be changed:

Base salary
• Base salaries will continue to be set taking into a range of factors 

including scope and responsibilities of the role and individual skills  
and experience (see page 150 for full details). For the 2024 review, 
effective 1 July 2024, we are proposing an increase in line with the 
broader employee population plus a market realignment of 7.5%. 

Performance Share Plan (PSP)
• The PSP will remain at 375% of salary for the CEO and 300% of salary 

for the CFO.

Pension
• There are no changes proposed to pension and this will remain 

aligned with the wider workforce at 3% of base salary.

Response to cost-of-living challenges
In 2023, the challenges around the impact of the cost-of-living globally 
continued and we have remained committed to paying our colleagues 
fairly, with particular focus on the impact that higher inflation has had  
on our more junior and frontline colleagues. We continued a number  
of the successful initiatives that we had introduced in 2022 into 2023, 
which included:
• giving a cost-of-living bonus to colleagues who are not eligible to 

participate in a performance or other bonus plan;

• giving higher increases to frontline colleagues compared to senior 

leaders and management teams, for example, the typical pay increase 
for frontline colleagues in the UK was double the typical salary 
increase for management and senior leaders in 2023;

• giving frontline colleagues the opportunity to flex their work hours  
and, based on colleague feedback, offering them the opportunity  
to increase their contractual hours, and accordingly their pay;

• supporting colleagues to help them maximise their incentive 

opportunity;

• increasing meal voucher benefits to support colleagues with the rising 

costs of food inflation; and

Rationale for changes
We understand that the external environment is not conducive to 
material pay opportunity increases and we have therefore been 
thoughtful as to how we can ensure that we have appropriate packages 
in place without being excessive. 

• providing support to colleagues to help them develop their own 

strategies to manage the cost of living challenge. For example, by 
providing access to a range of financial tools and calculators through 
our benefit platform in the UK and partnering with HSBC to deliver 
financial education webinars.

As detailed above, we have listened carefully to the feedback received 
from our shareholders. We have actioned many of the changes 
proposed and believe that the proposal offers an approach that 
recognises the increased complexity following the Terminix acquisition, 
and ensures appropriate incentivisation of our Executive Directors.  
At the heart of our philosophy is a commitment to performance based 
variable pay. 

The proposal for the CEO aligns the base salary with median, and 
delivers a target and maximum total remuneration package of between 
median and upper quartile. It also broadly maintains the percentage of 
long-term remuneration at c.81% as a result of the increase in bonus 
deferral, notwithstanding the increase in annual bonus opportunity.  
Our annual bonus will operate such that, for any annual bonus award, 
50% would be converted to shares and held for a further three years. 
Currently, the annual bonus potential is 180% of base salary with a 40% 
deferral, i.e. a maximum of 72% of base salary is deferred. Increasing  
the annual bonus potential to 225% with a 50% deferral results in up  
to 112.5% of base salary being deferred. 

The Terminix acquisition was completed in October 2022 and the 
Committee considered it appropriate to maintain the then current 
packages for the remainder of the three-year Policy, and is only seeking 
to reflect the transaction as part of the Policy renewal. 

The salary increases will not take effect until 1 July 2024 in line with the 
Company’s annual salary review. The Committee considers that this 
deferment equates to a phasing of the new package. For completeness, 
and consistent with our current process, the increased salary will apply 
for the 2024 bonus cycle.

Wider workforce engagement
The Committee has continued to engage with the wider workforce to 
enable understanding of the broader remuneration and related policies, 
and their impact. We continue to believe in and embed practices that 
enable all Board members to engage in this agenda. Engaging with the 
wider workforce and understanding their views was already a practice 
that the Board had undertaken for many years prior to the introduction 
of these requirements by the FRC UK Corporate Governance Code 
(Code), through initiatives such as Employer of Choice (see page 16  
and pages 69 and 70 for more information).

Key decisions in 2023
Context of business performance
Performance in 2023 demonstrated the continued core strength of our 
businesses, growing revenue, profit, and cash despite the challenges  
to the economy globally. Of note is that Adjusted Operating Profit and 
Revenue at CER grew by 57.0% and 45.8% respectively. We have also 
continued to deliver against our ESG goals (see page 15 for further 
information) and our Employer of Choice goals (see page 16 for further 
information). In fact our strength in attracting, developing and retaining 
our frontline colleagues has continued to improve in 2023, with 
retention up across both Service and Sales colleague groups and our 
Your Voice Counts employee survey remaining stable. This strong 
performance is reflected in the incentive payments to our frontline 
colleagues, management, and Executive Directors, reinforcing our 
strong link between performance and reward.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 133

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Remuneration Report 
continued

Shareholder experience
Our share price reduced considerably following the Q3 trading update, 
which meant that our shares ended the year down from the start of the 
year. Our Executive Directors are strongly aligned with shareholders, 
and therefore impacted, in that they hold significant levels of stock 
themselves.

As at 31 December 2023, the CEO’s shareholding greatly exceeded  
the required level and the CFO has also met the requirement when all 
qualifying shares are taken into account, and c.76% of the requirement 
with shares held outright. 

Shareholding as 
a % of salary for 
shares held 
outright
584%
152%

Total shareholding 
as a % of salary 
including qualifying 
PSP and DBP shares 
net of tax
1,867%
262%

Shareholding 
requirement
300%
200%

Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

We have carefully considered shareholder experience when reviewing 
the outcomes of the annual bonus and PSP vesting level, particularly 
with respect to whether any downward discretion should be exercised 
by the Committee. On balance, we feel that the formulaic outcomes  
take account of the generally good financial performance with a 
disappointing fall in the share price and ensures the Executive Directors 
are rewarded for the many strong aspects of performance in 2023. 

We have taken into consideration that the largest element of variable 
incentive, the PSP, directly reflects shareholder experience as the share 
price performance has impacted the estimated vesting of the 2021 PSP. 
The total shareholder return (TSR) element is currently below threshold 
and this element is expected to lapse. This represents half of the award.

The Committee felt that the company element of the annual bonus, was 
the appropriate vehicle to reward the Executive Directors for delivering 
good financial results in a challenging year. 

In addition, both the CEO and CFO were awarded a PDR rating of 3 to 
reflect delivery of strong financial results and broad based delivery 
across all of their goals balanced and also acknowledges the 
accountability for the shareholder experience.

Salary review
The CEO’s salary was increased by 3% to £928,288 and the CFO’s 
salary was increased to £566,500 as part of the salary review in July 
2023. The increase was below the typical increases received by the 
wider workforce in the UK of 6% and below the median increase for 
FTSE 100 CEOs of 4%.

Annual bonus outcome
The annual bonus for Executive Directors rewards both Company and 
personal performance. The Company element is designed to reward 
sustainable profit growth and Adjusted Free Cash Flow to align the 
Executive Directors’ incentives with the Group strategy. As with all 
incentives across the business, the targets set continue to be  
suitably stretching. 

The Company element of the scheme for Executives Directors  
operates in the same way for all managers, a population of more than 
2,000 colleagues, the only difference being that some targets are 
aligned to their specific business area rather than being based on 
overall Group performance. How the scheme operates and the 
performance outcomes at Group level are described below.

• Company performance – There are two performance gateways  

which are based on profit and cash generation, both of which were 
achieved. The level of bonus payable is determined by two key 
metrics: Adjusted Operating Profit and Revenue performance. 
Performance was assessed against the targets and, in addition,  
careful consideration was given to the quality of earnings in context  
of the 2023 results and stakeholder experience. Following these 
assessments, it was determined that the outcome achieved for 
Company performance in accordance with the formula was 
appropriate for the revenue measure, achieving 54.5% of  
maximum and 66.4% of maximum for Adjusted Operating Profit.

134 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

• Personal performance – The Executive Directors are assessed on 
their personal performance with the potential of up to 30% of salary 
based on these objectives, which are measured through the 
Company’s performance and development review process. The 
Committee has given careful consideration to the Executive Directors’ 
performance ratings and their overall bonus outcomes. The Committee 
recognises that this has been a particularly demanding year with the 
work related to the integration of Terminix, as well as the need to 
continue driving financial and business results across the rest of the 
Group. However, we are also mindful of shareholder experience  
and with this in mind the CEO, Andy Ransom, was awarded a 
performance rating of 3, giving a bonus of 15% of salary. The CFO, 
Stuart Ingall-Tombs, was also awarded a performance rating of 3, 
giving a bonus of 15% of salary. These assessments are set out on 
page 142 of the report and demonstrate the strong performance both 
executives have delivered in 2023.

• Total bonus outcome – The table below shows the total outcome as  
a percentage of base salary. See pages 141 and 142 for a breakdown  
of the targets and calculation as well as details of the personal 
performance review.

Threshold
Target
Maximum
Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Company 
performance
15%
75%
150%
90.7%
90.7%

Personal 
performance
0%
15%
30%
15.0%
15.0%

Total bonus 
outcome
15%
90%
180%
105.7%
105.7%

Performance Share Plan (PSP) vesting
2020 PSP
During 2023, the PSP award granted in 2020 came to the end of its 
three-year performance period. The vesting level of the award was 
dependent on six performance conditions:
• 60% – relative TSR;

• 20% other financial measures – Organic Revenue Growth and 

Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion; and

• 20% – strategic/ESG measures – Sales and Service colleague 

retention, customer satisfaction, and vehicle fuel intensity.

TSR was measured over a three-year period ending 7 September 2023 
and all other measures over a three-year period to 31 December 2022. 

The vesting level of 64.6% was higher than the estimates included in the 
2022 Annual Report due to the share price improvements resulting in 
the TSR element vesting. The Committee reviewed the vesting level 
based on the achievement against targets, to ensure that the outcome 
was a true reflection of the wider business performance and determined 
that it was. This scheme operates identically for our colleagues across 
the Group.

2021 PSP
The 2021 PSP is due to vest on 23 March 2024 and performance will  
be measured against six performance conditions:
• 50% – relative TSR;

• 30% other financial measures – Organic Revenue Growth and 

Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion; and

• 20% – strategic/ESG measures – Sales and Service colleague 

retention, customer satisfaction, and vehicle fuel intensity.

TSR is measured over a three-year period ending 22 March 2024 and  
all other measures over a three-year period to 31 December 2023.

Based on estimates to 29 February 2024, the TSR element is not 
expected to vest and the vesting level of the award is expected to be 
48.7%. See page 144 for a breakdown. 

While the lack of vesting on the TSR element is clearly disappointing it 
does align with the shareholder experience in 2023. The other half of 
the award, which covers internal financial and non financial measures, 
performed well. In addition, the Committee carefully considered the 
outcomes of the additional financial and strategic measures in the  
PSP to ensure that these had not been inadvertently made easier  
by inflationary increases or other impacts outside of management 
control. On this basis, the Committee concluded that the level of  
vesting was appropriate.

The Committee also reviewed the potential for any windfall gains and 
determined that there was none.

PSP grants
In March 2023, the Committee awarded the Executive Directors’ PSP 
awards at the Policy levels, with the CEO receiving an award of 375% 
of salary and the CFO receiving an award of 300%. The performance 
conditions are as follows:
• TSR – weighting 50%;

• Organic Revenue Growth – weighting 15%;

• Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion – weighting 15%; and

• Strategic/ESG measures (Sales and Service colleague retention, 
customer satisfaction, and vehicle fuel intensity) – weighting 20%.

We expect the 2024 PSP awards for the CEO and CFO, which are 
planned for March 2024, to be made on the same basis, with the 
exception that the TSR comparator group will be updated from the 
FTSE 350 to the FTSE 100 and will continue to exclude financial 
services, property, and primary resources sectors.

Given that the repositioning of the salaries, due to take effect on 1 July 
2024, and that the PSP award is expected to be granted before then,  
it is envisaged that the Policy levels will be achieved through an initial 
grant in March 2024 and a top up grant in September 2024.

Use of discretion
The Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion on executive 
remuneration outcomes on a consistent basis over the last few years,  
in order to ensure any outturn is aligned with performance. The table 
below shows the Committee’s use of discretion over the past five years.

Year
2019

Applied to
PSP awarded in 2017

2020 No discretion was applied
2021
No discretion was applied
2022 No discretion was applied
2023

In-flight PSP awards

Discretion applied
EPS targets were increased from 
9% to 9.6% at threshold and 
15% to 16.1% at maximum due to 
material M&A activity.

The in-flight PSP awards were 
amended to ensure that the 
targets remain as originally 
intended and have not become 
inadvertently easier or harder as a 
result of the Terminix acquisition.

See page 143 for further details.

Strategic alignment of pay
Ensuring that our remuneration supports the delivery of the strategy  
is important to the Committee and this is achieved through aligning  
the measures used in our incentive schemes with our key strategic 
priorities. The Committee also ensures that the right behaviours and 
actions are driven from the top of the organisation by ensuring that 
focus is balanced across both financial and non-financial outcomes, for 
example the inclusion of colleague, customer and health, safety, and 
environment metrics in both the personal element of the annual bonus 
and the PSP. The Committee also takes into consideration the wider 
business performance when reviewing formulaic outcomes of metrics 
across all incentives.

Policy implementation
Taking into consideration all the different elements of the Policy, the 
Committee is comfortable that it operated as intended in terms of 
Company performance and the quantum payable to the Executive 
Directors during 2023.

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Looking forward to 2024
Base salary
At the same time as the Policy review, and in consultation with 
shareholders, the Committee reviewed the base salaries of the CEO  
and CFO, due to the significant growth in size and complexity of the 
Group following the Terminix acquisition in October 2022. 

The review took into consideration the impact of the changes to the 
business on the scope of the role (see page 131), how the CEO’s and 
CFO’s skills and experience had developed since the last review in 
2020 and appropriate benchmarks (see page 154). 

The CEO’s base salary will increase to £1,040,000 and the CFO’s base 
salary will increase to £635,000, which represents a 12% increase in 
total i.e. 4.5% in line with expected 2024 increases for management 
levels in the UK, which are expected to be lower than the wider 
workforce, plus a 7.5% adjustment to align with the market. 

The proposed increases enable us to reward our Executive Directors 
appropriately and differentiate for their skills and experience, with  
the CEO proposed at median and the CFO at 95% of the median.  
We will again review the base salary levels relative to the appropriate 
benchmark in 2025. 

Further phasing of the increases was considered by the Committee. 
However given that the change in the scope of their roles occurred  
in October 2022 and the salary increase will not be recognised until  
July 2024, we have concluded that sufficient phasing had already  
been achieved.

In conclusion
Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued  
support of our Policy, and its application and to our colleagues for 
delivering another strong set of results in 2023, despite the continuing 
economic challenges.

I hope that our proposed Policy demonstrates our continued 
commitment to being thoughtful when making pay decisions and 
reflects shareholder feedback. We very much hope that these proposals 
are seen to be consistent with our track record of appropriate and 
stretching remuneration. As such, I hope that we can count on your 
support with the Policy vote at the AGM. 

I welcome any comments you may have ahead of this.

Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
7 March 2024

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 135

Strategic ReportRemuneration at a glance
Components:

Fixed Pay – base salary, benefits, pension

Bonus

Performance Share Plan (PSP)

Unearned

Our performance
Revenue Growth  
(at CER) 

+45.8%

2023 
2022: +19.1% 
2021: +9.3%

Adjusted Operating 
Profit (at CER) 

Total Shareholder  
Return (three-year)

Adjusted Free Cash
Flow Conversion

Organic  
Revenue Growth

+57.0%

2023 
2022: +22.7% 
2021: +20.0%

-14.5%

Estimate to 28 February 
2024 (PSP performance 
period ends 22 March 
2024)

97%

1 January 2021 to 
31 December 2023 

+3.9%

Cumulative average 
1 January 2021 to 
31 December 2023

Breakdown of Executive Directors’ total remuneration

The table shows a comparison of the CEO’s and CFO’s total remuneration for 2023 and 2022 and shows the potential maximum that was 
unearned.

Fixed pay

Variable pay

£’000

 Base salary

 Benefits

 Pension

 Bonus

 PSP

Total

 Unearned

Andy Ransom Chief Executive

2023

2022

914.8

19.1

27.4

981.0 1,397.6

3,339.9

888.1

19.3

191.3

1,599.9

1,625.7

4,324.4

Stuart Ingall-Tombs Chief Financial Officer

2023 

558.3

16.8

14.7

598.6

485.3

1,673.7

2022 

550.0

16.8

14.4

976.4

743.2

2,300.7

Fixed pay

Base pay
Policy summary – Increases are normally broadly in line with 
those awarded to the wider workforce. Adjustments to this 
may be made where the Remuneration Committee deems it 
appropriate.

2023 implementation – The base salaries were reviewed as part 
of the July 2023 salary review. The increase of 3% was below the 
typical increases received by the wider workforce in the UK of 
6% and below the median increase for FTSE 100 CEOs.

Andy Ransom 
Chief Executive

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 
Chief Financial Officer

Wider workforce 
(UK) increases

2023 
£928,288
2022 
£901,250

3%

increase

2023 
£566,500
2022 
£550,000

3%

increase

Frontline
6%
Other colleagues 
and managers 
3%
Senior managers 
3%
ELT 
3%

Benefits
Policy summary – The Company pays the cost of providing the 
benefits on a monthly, annual, or one-off basis. Benefits are 
determined taking into account market practice, the level and 
type of benefits provided throughout the Group, and individual 
circumstances. All benefits are non-pensionable.

Benefits provided during 2023

• Car allowance
• Life assurance
• Family healthcare insurance
• Permanent health insurance

Pension
Policy summary – Executive Directors may contribute to a 
defined contribution arrangement or receive a cash supplement 
in lieu of pension. Contributions are in line with the wider UK 
workforce, which is currently 3% of salary. 

2023 implementation – The CEO and CFO contributions are  
in line with the wider workforce. 

Pension contribution during 2023

Andy Ransom 
Chief Executive

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 
Chief Financial Officer

Wider workforce 
(UK)

3%

3%

3%

136 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Bonus

Policy summary – Bonus opportunity of 180% of base annual salary, 
with a maximum opportunity of 150% for Company performance and 
30% for personal performance, which operate independently.

Bonus targets and outcomes

Threshold

On target

Maximum

Deferral of 40% of bonus into shares, with a minimum three-year 
holding period.

Adjusted Operating Proﬁt
(50% of bonus)

838.2

926.4

896.8

Andy Ransom  
Chief Executive

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 
Chief Financial Officer

Company performance 
90.7% / £841,725

Company performance 
90.7% / £513,674

Personal performance 
15% / £139,243

Personal performance 
15% / £84,975

2023 outcome 
105.7% / £980,968

2023 outcome 
105.7% / £598,649

2023 implementation – The Committee reviewed the targets set at 
the beginning of the year and determined they remained suitably 
stretching in the context of the wider business performance and 
that the outcomes were aligned with stakeholder experience when 
viewed in conjunction with the 2021 PSP outcome.

 Find out more on pages 141 and 142

Performance Share Plan

Policy summary – Maximum award levels as a percentage of base 
salary are 375% for the CEO and 300% for the CFO.

No more than 20% of the award will vest for meeting threshold 
levels of performance and 100% of the award will vest if maximum 
performance is achieved. There is a two-year holding period.

Dividend equivalents may accrue between grant and vest date.

2023 implementation – The Committee granted the CEO and  
CFO awards in line with the Policy maximum in 2023 as per the 
approach agreed with shareholders during consultation on the  
2021 Policy renewal. 

 Find out more on pages 144 and 145 

Performance measures
Awards are subject to the achievement of financial and strategic/
ESG targets, with specific measures and weightings set by the 
Remuneration Committee each year to ensure alignment with 
the business strategy at the time of grant. However, a minimum 
weighting of 75% will relate to financial (including TSR) measures.

2023 implementation – The pie chart shows the performance 
measures for the 2023 grant.

 Find out more on page 144

Performance Share Plan 2021-2024 vesting
The bar chart compares the estimated value of the 2021 PSP and value 
of the 2020 PSP included in the 2023 and 2022 single figures and 
shows how share price growth has influenced the value of the award.

PSP value (£’000)

Andy Ransom Chief Executive

2023

2022

1,397.6

1,625.7

Revenue
(50% of bonus)

Threshold

On target

Maximum

5,354.5

5,462.6

5,413.6

Threshold

On target

Maximum

% of maximum bonus
opportunity achieved

10%

100%

Adjusted Operating Proﬁt 

66.4%

Revenue

54.5%

Total

60.4%

Andy Ransom Chief Executive

Policy maximum

2023 grant

2022 grant

Stuart Ingall-Tombs Chief Financial Officer

Policy maximum

2023 grant

2022 grant

D

C

A

B

375%

375%

375%

300%

300%

300%

A.  50% relative total shareholder 

return

B.  15% Organic Revenue Growth

C.  15% Adjusted Free Cash Flow 

Conversion

D.  20% strategic/ESG measures 

(colleague retention, customer 
satisfaction, and vehicle fuel 
intensity).

TSR
Organic Revenue Growth
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion
Sales and Service colleague retention 
Customer Voice Counts
Vehicle fuel intensity reduction
Total estimated vesting

PSP 2021-2024

Weighting
50%
15%
15%
6.7%
6.7%
6.7%

Estimated 
vesting level
0%
13.7%
15.0%
6.7%
6.7%
6.7%
48.7%

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 137

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Annual Remuneration Report – Introduction

Introduction
The Annual Remuneration Report has been split into four sections for 
ease of reference. This introductory section provides an overview  
of the Remuneration Committee and their activities during the year.  
The second section, from page 140, provides an explanation of how  
the current Directors’ Remuneration Policy was implemented in the  
year ended 31 December 2023 and shows the alignment between the 
Company’s strategy, remuneration framework, and performance, as  
well as the payments made to Directors during this period. The third 
section, from page 150, provides an overview of how the new Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2024. The final section includes 
details of the proposed changes to the Policy and proposed Policy that 
will be put to shareholder vote at the 2024 AGM.

Remuneration Committee responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee’s main responsibilities are developing 
and setting the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and overseeing its 
application. It determines and agrees the policy with the Board and 
approves individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, 
Executive Directors, members of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), 
and the Company Secretary. It reviews executive performance and 
strives to ensure that remuneration structures align the interests of 
management with those of shareholders and operate in the long-term 
best interests of the Company.

The Remuneration Committee oversees contractual terms on 
termination affecting Executive Directors, members of the ELT, and the 
Company Secretary, and seeks to ensure that any payments made  
are both fair to the individual and to the Company, that failure is not 
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised. The 
Remuneration Committee also oversees the Company’s incentive 
schemes, including the operation and effectiveness of performance 
measures and targets in both the annual bonus plan and the PSP.  
It also lends oversight to major changes in colleague remuneration 
across the Group.

Membership and attendance
The Remuneration Committee members in 2023 were:
• Cathy Turner (Chair)

• David Frear

• Sarosh Mistry 

• Julie Southern (stepped down 10 May 2023)

• Linda Yueh

There were five Remuneration Committee meetings held in 2023,  
which is an increase on the number of meetings held in 2022 and was 
due to the additional requirements of the Policy review. Details of the 
members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance during 
the year can be found on page 98. The Group HR Director, the Group 
General Counsel, the Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the 
Remuneration Committee), and the Group Head of Reward also attend 
Remuneration Committee meetings.

The Group HR Director has direct access to the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and, together with the Group Head of 
Reward, advises the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters 
relating to Executive Directors and members of the ELT. The Company 
Chairman also attends meetings and makes recommendations in 
relation to the remuneration and incentive arrangements for the  
Chief Executive. The Chief Executive attends meetings and makes 
recommendations in respect of remuneration arrangements for his 
direct reports. No Executive Director or member of the ELT is present 
when their own remuneration is under consideration.

The Remuneration Committee members have a broad and diverse 
set of skills and knowledge that, when combined, bring the necessary 
level of experience and know-how to ensure that remuneration matters 
are dealt with in a balanced, independent, and informed manner. 
No member of the Remuneration Committee has any personal financial 
interest in the matters to be decided by the Remuneration Committee, 
other than as a shareholder. 

138 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

No member of the Remuneration Committee has any conflict of interest 
in carrying out their role on the Remuneration Committee arising from 
other directorships, nor does any member participate in any of the 
Company’s incentive or pension arrangements or have any involvement 
in the day-to-day running of the Company. 

In order to avoid any conflict of interest, remuneration is managed 
through well-defined processes, ensuring no individual is involved  
in the decision-making process related to their own remuneration.

The Remuneration Committee also receives support from external 
advisors and evaluates the support provided by those advisors annually 
to ensure that advice is independent, appropriate, and cost-effective.

Remuneration Committee effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was considered as 
part of the external Board effectiveness review undertaken in 2023 by 
Chris Saul of Christopher Saul Associates, with the output considered 
and follow-up actions agreed by the Remuneration Committee. The 
review concluded that the Remuneration Committee continues to 
operate effectively.

In 2024, the Remuneration Committee will continue to focus on the 
renewal and approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 
Company’s AGM in May 2024 and the ongoing integration of the 
Terminix acquisition, ensuring the right remuneration packages are in 
place to attract, motivate and retain talent. The Committee will also 
maintain its oversight of colleague reward given current macroeconomic 
challenges. Full details of the Board evaluation review, including its 
outcomes and actions, are disclosed on pages 112 and 113.

External advisors
Material advice and/or services were provided to the Remuneration 
Committee during the year by FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (FIT), 
which is retained to provide independent advice on executive 
remuneration matters and on the Company’s long-term incentive 
arrangements. FIT was appointed on 6 November 2018 by the 
Remuneration Committee following a review of its advisors. FIT is a 
member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its 
code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. Fees 
charged during the year for advice to the Remuneration Committee  
by FIT were £102,130 and were accrued on a time and materials basis. 
FIT does not have any connection with the Company or any Director 
that may impair their independence, and the Remuneration Committee 
is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.

AGM voting outcomes
The outcome of the advisory vote in respect of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report at the 2023 AGM and the vote on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy at the 2021 AGM are shown in the tables below.

Remuneration Report voting results (2023 AGM)
Votes for
Percentage for
Votes against
Percentage against
Total votes cast
Votes withheld (abstentions)

Remuneration Policy voting results (2021 AGM)
Votes for
Percentage for
Votes against
Percentage against
Total votes cast
Votes withheld (abstentions)

2,083,701,500
98.71%
27,209,596
1.29%
2,110,911,096
6,565,719

1,117,630,721
77.39%
326,479,806
22.61%
1,444,110,527
8,866,324

A vote ‘for’ includes those votes giving the Chair discretion. A vote 
‘withheld’ is not classed as a vote in law and is not counted in the 
calculation of the proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Activities of the Remuneration Committee 
In 2023, the Remuneration Committee considered the following key areas:

Matters considered

Discussion and outcome

Find out more

Executive remuneration

Executive Director 
remuneration

ELT and Company 
Secretary 
remuneration

2020 Performance 
Share Plan (PSP) 
vest

2023 PSP award

The Remuneration Committee considered and approved base salaries for 2023, bonus 
outcomes for 2022, bonus structure for 2023 and the 2023 PSP awards and targets for the 
Executive Directors, taking into consideration the wider workforce.

See pages 140 to 145 
for more information

The Remuneration Committee considered and approved base salaries for 2023, bonus 
outcomes for 2022, bonus structure for 2023, and the 2023 PSP awards and targets for 
the members of the ELT and the Company Secretary, taking into consideration the wider 
workforce remuneration.

The Remuneration Committee approved the vesting of the 2020 PSP awards as a result of 
the performance measures being met at 64.6% of maximum.

–

–

The Remuneration Committee approved the PSP grant in March 2023 and its performance 
conditions, and subsequently noted a summary of the grants made under the PSP.

See pages 144 and 145 
for more information

PSP measures

The Remuneration Committee monitored the performance status of the outstanding 
awards under the PSP.

–

2024 annual bonus

The Remuneration Committee reviewed the overall structure of the 2024 annual bonus 
plan for Executive Directors, ELT members and the Company Secretary.

See pages 150 and 151 
for more information

Malus and clawback

The Remuneration Committee considered matters in relation to the compensation 
recoupment policy as required under new SEC rules, including the adoption of the  
new policy.

ELT appointments 
and terminations

During 2023, the Remuneration Committee approved the remuneration for the 
appointment of the new CEO of North America and the exit of the prior incumbent.

–

–

2024 Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy

The Remuneration Committee engaged with shareholders on the renewal of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy and considered the feedback received.

See pages 152 to 161 
for more information

Governance and oversight

Share dilution limits

The Remuneration Committee noted the impact of the Company’s executive share plans 
on share dilution limits.

–

Terms of reference

The Remuneration Committee undertook its annual review of its terms of reference.

Performance review

The Remuneration Committee undertook its annual review of the effectiveness of  
the Committee.

These are available 
on our website

See Committee 
effectiveness on 
page 113

Corporate 
governance and 
proxy voting 
guidelines

Gender Pay Report

Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Report

The Remuneration Committee received an update during 2023 on changes in corporate 
governance and proxy voting guidelines.

–

The Remuneration Committee considered and recommended the 2022 Gender Pay 
Report for approval by the Board in February, which was published in March 2023.

The Remuneration Committee reviewed and approved the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be included in our 2022 Annual Report.

Read about diversity on 
page 69. Our reports are 
available on our website

Available on our website

Annual planner

The Remuneration Committee considered the annual planner for 2024.

–

The Chair of the Remuneration Committee presents a summary of material matters discussed at each meeting to the following Board meeting and 
minutes of the Remuneration Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors subject to suitable redaction. The Remuneration Committee reports 
to shareholders annually in this report and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM to address any questions arising.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 139

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Annual Remuneration Report – 2023

Directors’ remuneration in the year to 31 December 2023
Single total figure for the remuneration of Executive Directors
The table below has been audited.

Fixed pay

Variable pay

Base 
Salary 
£’000
914.8 
888.1 
558.3 
550.0 

Benefits 
£’000
19.1 
19.3 
16.8 
16.8 

Total 
Pension 
fixed pay 
£’000
£’000
27.4 
961.4 
191.3  1,098.8 
589.8 
14.7 
581.1 
14.4 

Year
2023
2022
2023
2022

Total 
variable 
Bonus 
PSP 
pay 
£’000
£’000
£’000
981.0  1,397.6  2,378.6 
1,599.9  1,625.7  3,225.7 
485.3  1,083.9 
743.2  1,719.6 

598.6 
976.4 

Total 
£’000
3,339.9 
4,324.4 
1,673.7 
2,300.7 

Value of total 
attributed to 
share price 
growth 
£’000
(44.2)
162.3 
(5.3)
74.2 

% of total 
attributed to 
share price 
growth
−3.2%
10.0%
−4.5%
10.0%

Andy Ransom,  
Chief Executive

Stuart Ingall-Tombs,  
Chief Financial Officer

Value attributed to share price changes
• The PSP value included in the 2023 single figure is comprised of two 
awards in March and May 2021. The March grant had a share price 
decline of 21.2p per share (estimated share price at vest of 473.2p  
less share price at grant of 494.4p), which is –4.5% of the PSP value. 
The May grant had a share price increase of 4.7p per share (estimated 
share price of 473.2p less share price at grant of 468.5p), which is a  
1% of the PSP value.

• The PSP value included in the 2022 single figure has a share price 
increase of 58.8p per share attributed to it (share price at vest of 
589.0p less share price at grant of 530.2p), which is 10% of the  
PSP value. 

March 2021 award
May 2021 award
September 2020 award

Single 
figure
2023
2023
2022

Share price 
on grant
494.4p
468.5p
530.2p

Estimated 
share price 
at vest
473.2p
473.2p
589.0p

Share price 
change
-21.2p
4.7p
58.8p

• The table below summarises the value of the PSP value of the 2021 
and 2020 PSP vests split between value attributed to performance 
and value attributed to share price change for the Executive Directors 
(see page 144 for further information).

Value 
attributed to 
performance
£’000
1,109.1
332.7
1,441.8
1,463.4
507.0
669.0

Date of 
award
23/03/2021
18/05/2021
2021 total
08/09/2020
23/03/2021
08/09/2020

Value 
Total 
attributed 
value of 
to share 
shares 
price 
vesting
change
£’000
£’000
-47.6 1,061.5
336.1
-44.2 1,397.6
162.3 1,625.7
485.3
-21.7
743.2
74.2

3.3

Andy Ransom,  
Chief Executive

Stuart Ingall-Tombs,  
Chief Financial Officer

• The Remuneration Committee has not exercised discretion as a result 

of this share price appreciation or depreciation for either award.

The total emoluments and option gains are disclosed on page 144.

Notes to the table
The notes below have been audited.

Base salary 
• Base salary earned from 1 January to 31 December for each year.

Benefits
• Executive Directors are provided with family health insurance,  
health screening, life assurance, permanent health insurance,  
and a car allowance. 

• The value of the taxable benefit and includes the P11D value for  

health insurance and the gross cash car allowance. There were no 
other taxable benefits paid to Executive Directors in 2022 or 2023.

Pension
• Andy Ransom received a pension contribution, in the form of a cash 
supplement, worth 21.5% of salary in 2022 due to the cash amount 
being fixed in absolute terms and was reduced to 3% of base salary 
from January 2023 in line with the UK wider workforce. 

• Stuart Ingall-Tombs received a pension contribution, in the form  
of a cash supplement, worth 3% of base salary in line with the UK 
wider workforce. 

• Neither Andy Ransom or Stuart Ingall-Tombs, contributed to a 
Company pension scheme and do not have any prospective  
benefits under a Company defined benefit scheme.

Bonus
• In both years, 40% of the individuals bonus entitlement was awarded 
as deferred shares. These awards are subject to a three-year holding 
period, but are not subject to performance or service conditions.

• For 2023, Andy Ransom received 105.7% of salary and Stuart 

Ingall-Tombs received 105.7% of salary. See pages 141 and 142 for 
details of the 2023 bonus calculation.

PSP
• The 2023 single total figure includes the 2021 PSP, which is due to vest 
in March and May 2024. The value of the 2021 PSP at vest has been 
estimated based on the average of the Company’s share price over 
the last financial quarter of 2023, giving a price of 473.2p, and the 
anticipated performance outcomes, giving a vesting level of 48.7%. 
See page 144 for details. 

• The actual value of the 2021 PSP will be confirmed next year once  

the final performance outcome, the share price at the date of vesting, 
and the impact of dividend accrual are known.

• The 2020 PSP estimate included in the 2022 single figure has been 
restated. The award vested at 64.6%, which was above the estimate  
of 37.3%, due to an improvement in the Company’s TSR performance. 
The value has been restated to reflect the actual vesting level, actual 
share price at the date of vesting on 8 September 2023 of 589.0p,  
and the impact of dividend accrual. This has increased the value of  
the PSP outcome.

140 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Annual bonus 2023
This section has been audited.

The annual bonus plan comprises three parts: gateway measures, 
Company performance, and personal performance. This means that 
bonuses earned reflect the performance of the constituent businesses 
which make up the overall Group performance, as well as achievement 
against specific personal objectives. The gateway measures and 
Company performance are measured against financial targets. The 
Executive Directors had a maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary 
if the Company financial targets are achieved in full and an opportunity 
to earn up to 30% based on personal performance, which is measured 
through the Group’s performance and development review process.

In total, the maximum bonus opportunity is up to 180% of salary.

2023 Annual bonus outcome
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the 2023 bonus plan outcome  
for the Group’s senior management population based on the targets set  
at the start of the financial year. The focus of the bonus was on rewarding 
sustainable profitable growth and delivery of Adjusted Free Cash Flow in 
order to align Executive Directors’ incentives with the Group’s strategy. For 
2023, Executive Directors had the opportunity to earn up to 180% of salary 
and 40% of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years.

Gateways
Structure
95% of the Profit target and an Adjusted Free Cash Flow gateway have 
to be reached at Group level before the financial performance element 
of the bonus can be paid.

Targets and results
The table below shows the targets that were set for each gateway 
measure and the result.

Profit Gateway
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Gateway

Outcome
Both gateways were achieved.

Target
£‘000
838.2
350

Result
£‘000
896.8
500

Company performance
Structure
If both the gateways are achieved, then Executive Directors can earn 
up to 150% of salary based on targets equally split between revenue 
and profit. The results are calculated on the same basis as the targets 
were set.

Targets and results
The table below shows the targets that were set and how the threshold 
and maximum relate to the on-target level. It also includes the 
percentage of the maximum bonus that can be achieved for each target 
level and the percentage of salary payable. Finally, the table includes 
the results for each of these elements.

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Outcome – company performance
The table below brings together the bonus outcomes for Revenue 
and Adjusted Operating Profit to give the total bonus payable as a 
percentage of the maximum opportunity and as a percentage of 
base salary.

% of maximum opportunity achieved
% of base salary payable

Adjusted 
Operating 
Profit
66.4%
49.8%

Bonus 
outcome
60.4%
90.7%

Revenue
54.5%
40.9%

The table below shows the bonus payable to the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer.

Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Bonus 
outcome as a % of 
base salary
90.7%
90.7%

Result
£‘000
841,725 
513,674 

Personal performance
Structure
The Executive Directors can earn up to 30% of base salary based on 
their personal performance against objectives measured through the 
Company’s performance and development review (PDR) process and 
objectives typically include areas such as people, customers, safety, 
systems, governance and control, and key strategic projects.

Targets
The table below shows the rating scale used in the PDR and the bonus 
opportunity as a percentage of base salary for each rating.

Performance rating 
and definition
1:  
Below standards 
required
2:  
Development 
required
3: 
Good performer
4:  
Exceeds 
expectations
5:  
Outstanding

Meaning of definition
Has not delivered against 
performance criteria

Has met some but  
not all performance criteria

Meets all performance criteria

Meets and exceeds expectations 
against most aspects

Outstanding achievement against 
all criteria

Bonus opportunity  
as a % of  
base salary
0%

0%

15%

22.5%

30%

Results and outcome
The assessment of the performance ratings, by the Chairman for the 
Chief Executive and by the Chief Executive for the Chief Financial 
Officer, took into account their key achievements during 2023. The table 
below shows the PDR rating awarded and the bonus outcome for the 
personal element.

Revenue

Targets
Targets as % of on-target
% of maximum 
opportunity achieved
% of base salary payable

Adjusted Operating Profit

Targets
Targets as % of on-target
% of maximum 
opportunity achieved
% of base salary payable

Threshold 
£‘000
5,354.5 
99%

On-target 
£‘000
5,408.6 
100%

Maximum 
£‘000
5,462.6 
101%

Result 
£‘000
5,413.6 
100.1%

10%
7.5%

50%
37.5%

100%
75.0%

54.5%
40.9%

Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Bonus
outcome as
% of salary
15%
15%

Bonus
outcome
£‘000
139,243
84,975

PDR rating
3
3

See the table on the next page for details of the key achievements for 
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer which were used to 
determine their performance rating.

Threshold 
£‘000
838.2 
95%

Target 
£‘000
882.3 
100%

Maximum 
£‘000
926.4 
105%

Result 
£‘000
896.8 
101.6%

10%
7.5%

50%
37.5%

100%
75%

66.4%
49.8%

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 141

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Annual Remuneration Report – 2023 
continued

The table details the key achievements for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer which were used to determine their performance rating.

Strategic 
objectives
Employer  
of Choice

Andy Ransom, Chief Executive
• Continued world-class performance in LTA 0.31 and WDL 7.05, 

recognised externally with RoSPA Gold Award.

Stuart Ingall-Tombs, Chief Financial Officer
• Further progress made in building Finance talent with selection of 
the North America team creating greater capability and experience

• Increased global colleague retention by 4.74% to 84.2%, and 

• Succession for key global financial roles strengthened through 

service technician retention by 5.7% to 83.3%.

external hires and internal development.

• Strong engagement and enablement scores, particular strength 

in H&S, DE&I and “My Manager” questions.

Customer

• Stable customer retention at 82.3% with Customer Voice Counts 

• Stable customer retention at 82.3% with Customer Voice Counts 

survey (NPS) improving strongly at 50.8.

survey (NPS) improving strongly at 50.8.

Revenue

• Delivered increase in Revenue ahead of plan at +45.8% over 

• Delivered increase in Revenue ahead of plan at +45.8% over 

previous year.

previous year.

• Delivered 4.9% organic growth and 60.6% revenue growth in 

• Delivered 4.9% organic growth and 60.6% revenue growth in Pest 

Pest Control, of which 4.5% was organic.

Control, of which 4.5% was organic.

• Innovation leveraged to drive revenue growth, including 

PestConnect with +23% increase in installations YoY.

• Delivered a strong increase of 57% over previous year and 

• Delivered a strong increase of 57% over previous year and ahead  

ahead of plan.

of plan.

• 120bps improvement in Adjusted Operating Margin over prior 

• 120bps improvement in Adjusted Operating Margin over prior year 

year to 16.6%.

to 16.6%.

• Strong progress in delivering pricing increases.
• Delivered Strong Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion of 89.4%.

Adjusted 
Operating 
Profit

Cash and 
liquidity

• Strong progress in delivering pricing increases.
• Delivered Strong Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion of 89.4%.
• Delivered reduction in Net Debt to EBITDA from 3.2x to 2.6x.
• Achieved a BBB rating with a stable outlook with S&P and Fitch.
• Delivery of $69m synergies from the Terminix acquisition ahead of 

M&A

• Delivery of $69m synergies from the Terminix acquisition ahead 

of the target of $60m.

the target of $60m.

• 41 acquisitions completed in 2023 with annualised revenues of 

• 41 acquisitions completed in 2023 with annualised revenues of 

c.£106m.

c.£106m.

Earnings 
and returns

• Strong leadership of environmental agenda with meaningful 
reductions in vehicle fuel intensity and member of the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index.

• Finance systems have been well controlled and the continued rollout 

of Business Centrals continues to support SOX controls.

• Remediation of one 2022 SOX material weakness, made in 2023.

Total bonus outcome
The table shows the total bonus outcome for each Executive Director. 40% of the bonus outcome achieved will be deferred in shares under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan (DBP). These awards are subject to a three-year holding period, but are not subject to any further performance or service conditions.

£’000
Andy Ransom

Bonus payable 
as a % of salary
Bonus payable
Stuart Ingall-Tombs Bonus payable 
as a % of salary
Bonus payable

Company element Personal element

Total bonus 
outcome achieved

Bonus outcome 
payable in cash

Bonus outcome 
deferred in shares

Total bonus 
outcome as % of 
max opportunity

90.7%

15.0%

105.7%

63.4%

42.3%

841,725 

139,243 

980,968 

588,581 

392,387 

58.7%

90.7%

513,674 

15.0%

84,975 

105.7%

63.4%

42.3%

598,649 

359,189 

239,460 

58.7%

Rationale 
Careful consideration was given as to whether or not the outcomes were reflective of overall Company performance and appropriate in the context 
of the experience of wider stakeholders, particularly in relation to the ongoing cost-of-living challenges for colleagues and the impact of the 
reduction in share price following the quarter three update on shareholders, and was felt to be a fair reflection and that no discretion should be 
applied to adjust the outcome. The rationale for this included:
• The Company had another strong year in 2023, delivering profit and revenue figures above consensus and were accomplished despite significant 

inflation and other macroeconomic headwinds. Revenue grew by 45.8% and Adjusted Operating Profit by 57%. 

• The Company has strong alignment of incentives throughout management levels, which means that the Executive Director’s only achieve their 
annual bonus targets if the frontline and managers are achieving their incentives. The Company has also been very mindful of the impact of the 
cost-of-living challenges on our colleagues, particularly those on the frontline, and have used initiatives such as targeting higher salary increases  
at this population and one-off bonuses to help ease the pressures. See page 133 for further details.

• The outcome of the annual bonus was considered in conjunction with the estimated vesting level of PSP. On balance, it was felt that the formulaic 
outcomes of the PSP and annual bonus combined with the performance rating, fairly reflect overall performance. This took into consideration that 
the largest element of variable incentive, the PSP, directly reflects shareholder experience as the share price performance has impacted the 
estimated vesting of the 2021 PSP. The TSR element is currently below threshold and this element is likely to lapse. 

• The company element of the annual bonus, along with non-TSR element of the PSP recognised the significant strengthening of the underlying 

business and appropriately rewarded the Executive Directors for delivering numbers above analyst consensus set at the start of 2023 in a 
challenging year. The targets also evidence that we set stretching targets as the maximums are well above consensus.

• In addition, both the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were awarded a PDR rating of 3 to reflect delivery of strong financial results and broad 

based delivery across all their goals balanced with consideration of shareholder experience.

Application of discretion
The Remuneration Committee has not applied discretion to the outcome of the annual bonus. 

142 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) awards
This section has been audited.

The PSP is the Company’s long-term incentive plan which the Executive Directors, ELT, and more than 1,100 managers and technical experts 
participate in. This participation supports the delivery of the Company’s strategic priorities. The DBP is the long-term incentive plan under which  
40% of any bonus payable to the Executive Directors is deferred in shares.

In-flight PSP target review
In line with the Remuneration Committee’s usual practice for large acquisitions, they reviewed the in-flight PSP targets to take into consideration the 
addition of Terminix. The focus of the review was to ensure that the targets remained as originally intended and had not inadvertently become easier 
or harder as a result of the acquisition. This resulted in the following changes: 

Organic Revenue Growth – the targets have been increased to reflect the inclusion of Terminix in the forecasts.

Original
Revised

Threshold
2.25%
3.0%

2021-2024 PSP
Target
2.5%
3.5%

Maximum
2.75%
4.0%

Threshold
3.5%
4.5%

2022-2025 PSP
Target
4.0%
5.0%

Maximum
5.0%
5.5%

Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion – the inclusion of Terminix has a negative impact on Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion, so these targets 
have been revised down, in line with the revised guidance and plans are in place to return Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion to our usual levels 
over the course of the next few years.

Original
Revised

Threshold
80%
70%

2021-2024 PSP
Target
85%
80%

Maximum
90%
90%

Threshold
80%
70%

2022-2025 PSP
Target
85%
80%

Maximum
90%
90%

Vehicle fuel efficiency – Terminix operates in a similar way to Rentokil North America, so the inclusion of Terminix in the results is not expected to 
have a significant impact, therefore no adjustments have been made to the targets for this metric.

Original
Revised

2021-2024 PSP

Threshold
4%

Target
6%

Maximum
8%
no change

2022-2025 PSP

Threshold
4%

Target
6%

Maximum
8%
No change

Sales & Service colleague retention – the inclusion of Terminix has a negative impact on Sales & Service colleague retention, so these targets were 
revised down. Plans are in place to return retention to our usual levels over the course of the next few years. Although both inflight awards were 
reviewed, only the 2021-2024 award is shown below as in line with our usual practice, the targets for this measure is not disclosed until the award 
vests, as we believe that they are commercially sensitive. 

Original
Revised

Threshold
79%
77.2%

2021-2024 PSP
Target
81.5%
79.7%

Maximum
84%
82.2%

Customer satisfaction – the inclusion of Terminix has a positive impact on customer satisfaction, so these targets were increased. Although both 
inflight awards were reviewed, only the 2021-2024 award is shown below as in line with our usual practice, the targets for this measure is not 
disclosed until the award vests, as we believe that they are commercially sensitive. 

Original
Revised

Threshold
39
41.2

2021-2024 PSP
Target
41
43.2

Maximum
43
45.2

2021 PSP award
The 2021 PSP award was subject to six performance measures detailed in the table below. 

Performance measures 
Relative TSR

Organic Revenue Growth

Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion

Weighting
50%

15%

15%

Sales and Service colleague retention

6.7%

Customer satisfaction

Vehicle fuel intensity

6.7%

6.7%

Definition
Relative TSR performance measured against a comparator group of 
the FTSE 350 Index, excluding financial services, property and primary 
resources sectors
Average Organic Revenue Growth over the three-year performance

Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion % over a three-year  
performance period
Average of the 2021, 2022, and 2023 annual overall Sales and Service 
Colleague retention
Average of the 2021, 2022, and 2023 annual CVC score over the 
three-year performance period based on NPS methodology
Reduction in vehicle fuel intensity across 20 key countries achieved by 
the end of the three-year performance period

Performance 
period
23/03/2021 to 
22/03/2024

01/01/2021 to 
31/12/2023
01/01/2021 to 
31/12/2023
01/01/2021 to 
31/12/2023
01/01/2021 to 
31/12/2023
01/01/2021 to 
31/12/2023

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 143

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Annual Remuneration Report – 2023 
continued

2021 PSP vesting level
The table below summarises the outcomes for each of the performance conditions. The Remuneration Committee has not applied discretion to the 
estimated outcome of the vesting as the outcome is felt to be fair in the context of the Company performance and experience of wider stakeholders 
over the three-year performance period. However, the targets were reviewed and discretion was applied by the Committee to adjust them to ensure 
that the targets remain as originally intended and have not become inadvertently easier or harder as a result of the Terminix acquisition as described 
in the section above. 

In addition, the Committee carefully considered the outcomes of the additional financial and strategic measures in the PSP to ensure that these had 
not been inadvertently made easier by inflationary increases or other impacts outside of management control.

Vesting is on a straight-line basis between threshold and target and between target and maximum, with the exception of TSR. No shares will vest 
if the performance is below the threshold for that measure. For the TSR, vesting is on a straight-line basis between median and upper quartile 
performance. The TSR performance period for the 2021 award is measured over a three-year period ending during the 2024 financial year. The TSR 
element of the award is therefore estimated using the TSR performance of the Company and comparator group to the end of February 2024. 

Performance measures 
Relative TSR1

Organic Revenue Growth
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion
Sales and Service colleague retention
Customer satisfaction
Vehicle fuel intensity
Total

Threshold: 
20% vesting 
Median TSR 
performance

3.0%
70.0%
77.2%
41.20
4.0%

Target: 
50% vesting 
Straight-line 
vesting between 
threshold and 
maximum
3.5%
80.0%
79.7%
43.20
6.0%

Maximum: 
100% vesting 
Upper quartile 
TSR 
performance

Actual/ 
estimated result
Ranked 102 of 163

Vesting 
level
Estimate 
0%

Weighted 
vesting level
Estimate 
0%

4.0%
90.0%
82.2%
45.20
8.0%

3.9%
97.0%
83.2%
46.83
17.0%2

91.3%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%

13.7%
15.0%
6.7%
6.7%
6.7%
48.7%

1.  This estimate will be restated in next year’s Annual Report to reflect actual performance.
2.  The outcome of this metric was reviewed in detail to enable the Committee to fully understand why the performance was much higher than the target range. 

The results were considered excluding inflationary impacts to ensure that the underlying performance was at a consummate level to satisfy maximum vesting. 

2021 PSP awards vesting
Andy Ransom was granted an award of shares worth 250% of base salary in March 2021 and a further top-up grant in May 2021 following approval  
of the 2021 Policy at the AGM. Stuart Ingall-Tombs was granted an award 200% of base salary in March 2021. The aggregate number of shares 
estimated to vest in 2024 is summarised in the table below. The table also includes an estimate of the number of additional shares relating to 
dividends accrued throughout the performance period, which will be added to the final awards. The estimated value of the shares vesting is based 
on an average of the Company’s share price for the three months to 31 December 2023 of 473.2p. The Remuneration Committee has not exercised 
any discretion.

Andy Ransom

Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Grant
March grant
May grant
Total
Total

Maximum  
award  
of shares
442,455
140,074
582,529
202,265

Estimated 
vesting level 
of 
award
48.7%
48.7%

48.7%

Total number 
of 
shares post 
performance 
conditions
215,441
68,205
283,646
98,487

Dividend 
equivalent 
shares at vest
8,891
2,814
11,705
4,064

Total 
shares 
vesting
224,332
71,019
295,351
102,551

Value of share 
vesting 
attributed 
to share price 
growth 
£‘000
−48
3
−44
−22

Value 
of shares 
vesting 
£‘000
1,062
336
1,398
485

% of vesting 
value 
attributed 
to share price 
growth
−4.5%
1.0%
−3.2%
−4.5%

144 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

 
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

PSP awards granted during the year
In 2023, Andy Ransom and Stuart Ingall-Tombs were granted an award of shares under the PSP totalling 375% and 300% of salary respectively, in 
line with the Policy and the phasing agreed with shareholders. The awards are subject to a three-year performance period and a two-year holding 
period post vesting.

The number of shares that vest under the PSP will be based on the following performance conditions and weightings:

Performance measures 2023–2026
Relative TSR

Weighting
50%

Organic Revenue Growth
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Conversion
Strategic/ESG measures

–  Sales and Service colleague 

retention

– Customer satisfaction

– Vehicle fuel intensity

1.  Of maximum opportunity.

15%
15%

6.7% 

6.7%

6.7%

Threshold: 20% vesting¹
TSR performance is median 
measured against the  
FTSE 350 Index, excluding 
financial services, property, 
and primary resources sectors
4.5%
70%

Target: 50% vesting¹
Straight-line vesting between 
threshold and maximum

5.5%
80%

Maximum: 100% vesting¹
Upper quartile TSR 
performance against the  
FTSE 350 Index, excluding 
financial services, property, 
and primary resources sectors
6.5%
90%

Targets for these measures have not been disclosed as the Board believes that these 
measures are commercially sensitive. They will be based on straight-line vesting between 
threshold and target, and between target and maximum performance, which will be 
reported at vesting.
4%

8%

6%

In addition, when determining the level of vesting, the Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the 
business, as well as the value added for shareholders during the performance periods, and may adjust the vesting outcome if it considers this to  
be appropriate.

Awards to Executive Directors under the 2023 PSP are set out in the table below and the number of shares awarded are the maximum entitlements 
and the actual number of shares (if any) which vest under the PSP will depend on the performance conditions being achieved as set out above. 
The awards granted were in the form of nil-cost options and may be exercised after vesting up to 10 years from the date of grant. The PSP awards 
are subject to a holding period of two years, which commences from the date of vest.

2023 PSP award

Participant
Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Date of award
30/03/2023
30/03/2023

Number of  
shares 
awarded
590,647
288,360

Share price 
used to 
determine 
award1
572.2p
572.2p

Exercise 
price
–
–

Face value 
of shares 
£‘000
3,379,682
1,649,996

% of salary 
awarded
375%
300%

Date of vest
30/03/2026
30/03/2026

Performance 
period end2
29/03/2026
29/03/2026

1.  The share price is the closing share price the day prior to grant.
2.  The TSR condition for the March award will be measured over three years to 29 March 2026. The other performance conditions will be measured over three 

years to 31 December 2025.

DBP awards granted during the year
On 22 March 2023, to align with the payment date of the cash part of the annual bonus, Andy Ransom and Stuart Ingall-Tombs were granted awards 
under the DBP which equated to 40% of the value of bonus earned under the 2022 annual bonus. These awards are subject to a three-year holding 
period, but are not subject to any further performance or service conditions. The awards granted were in the form of nil-cost options and may be 
exercised after vesting up to 10 years from the date of grant. Awards to Executive Directors under the 2023 DBP are set out in the table below.

2023 DBP award 

Participant
Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Number of  
shares 
awarded
114,078
69,617

Share price 
used to 
determine 
award1
561.0p
561.0p

Date of award
21/03/2023
21/03/2023

Exercise 
price
–
–

Face value 
of shares 
£‘000
639,978
390,551

Date of vest
21/03/2026
21/03/2026

1.  The share price is the closing share price the day prior to grant.

Payments for loss of office (audited) 
There were no payments made to Directors for loss of office during 2023.

Payments to past Directors (audited)
There were no payments made to past Directors during 2023.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 145

Strategic ReportDirectors’ Annual Remuneration Report – 2023 
continued

Single total figure for the remuneration during 2023 of the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors 
The table below shows the single total figure for the remuneration during 2023 of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors compared to the prior 
year. The benefits section includes a travel allowance for intercontinental travel of £5,000 per meeting. The table has been audited.

Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Richard Solomons
David Frear1
Sally Johnson2
Sarosh Mistry
John Pettigrew
Julie Southern3
Cathy Turner
Linda Yueh

Fees 2023 
£’000
425.0
75.0
69.2
75.0
95.0
34.0
95.0
75.0

Fees 2022
£’000
383.3
16.7
–
62.5
74.2
78.4
78.4
62.6

Benefits 2023 
£’000
–
20
–
20
5
–
5
5

Benefits 2022 
£’000
–
5
–
5
–
–
–
–

Total 2023
£’000
425.0
95.0
69.2
95.0
100.0
34.0
100.0
80.0

Total 2022 
£’000
383.3
21.7
–
67.5
74.2
78.4
78.4
62.6

1.  David Frear was appointed to the Board on 12 October 2022.
2.  Sally Johnson was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2023.
3. Julie Southern stepped down from the Board on 10 May 2023.

Directors’ shareholdings and share interests

Directors’ share interests
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2023, or their date of cessation if 
earlier, and at 31 December 2022, or their date of appointment if later, are set out below. No Director has any beneficial interest in the shares of any 
of the Company’s subsidiaries. This table has been audited.

Richard Solomons
Andy Ransom1
Stuart Ingall-Tombs
David Frear2
Sally Johnson3
Sarosh Mistry
John Pettigrew
Julie Southern4
Cathy Turner
Linda Yueh

Number of ordinary shares  
as at 31 Dec 2023 
84,900
1,230,419
195,408
8,125
3,527
1,850
55,000
9,891
24,736
1,590

Number of ordinary shares  
as at 31 Dec 2022 
62,000
1,695,225
171,350
–
–
–
55,000
9,891
24,736
 1,590 

1.  Andy Ransom has an interest in 4,661,701 vested PSP shares from the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 awards, which he has not yet exercised. 

These figures are not included in his beneficial interest of shares figure at 31 December 2023 above but are included in the share award table below.

2.  David Frear was appointed to the Board on 12 October 2022.
3.  Sally Johnson was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2023.
4. Julie Southern stepped down from the Board on 10 May 2023.

There has been no change to the current Directors’ shareholdings between 31 December 2023 and 7 March 2024.

Executive shareholdings
All Executive Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a percentage of their salary within a five-year period from their appointment 
date. For the Chief Executive, this requirement is 300% of annual salary and for the Chief Financial Officer, 200% of annual salary.

As of 31 December 2023, the Chief Executive substantially exceeded the minimum shareholding requirement and the Chief Financial Officer had met 
the shareholding requirement when all qualifying shares were taken into account. and c.76% of the requirement with shares held outright. 

The table below sets out the number of shares held at 31 December 2023 by each Executive Director. Shares owned outright include those held by 
connected persons. This table has been audited.

Andy Ransom
Stuart Ingall-Tombs

Shareholding  
requirement 
as a % of salary
300%
200%

Number of 
shares owned 
outright
1,230,419
195,408

Value of 
shareholding  
as at 
31 Dec 2023¹
5,423,687
861,358

Shares owned 
outright as 
a % of salary
584%
152%

Interest in PSP  
and DBP that are 
available to  
exercise as at  
31 Dec 2023
4,034,553
0

Interest in PSP  
and DBP awards 
subject to holding 
period as at  
31 Dec 2023
1,062,105
266,390

Interest in PSP  
awards subject to 
performance 
conditions as at  
31 Dec 2023
1,832,591
822,217

1.  The share price is based on the Company’s share price on 31 December 2023 of 440.8p.

146 Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023

Corporate Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Total PSP and DBP awards held by Executive Directors
The table below has been audited. Both the PSP and DBP awards granted were in the form of nil-cost options and may be exercised after vesting up 
to 10 years from the date of grant.

Share 
price  
used to  
determine  
award

Date of  
award

Scheme  
interest at  
1 Jan 2023

Shares  
awarded  
during  
2023

Shares  
lapsed  
during  
2023

Dividend  
equivalent  
shares  
at vest

Shares  
available  
for exercise  
during 
2023

Dividend  
equivalent  
shares at  
exercise

Shares 
exercised 
during 
2023

Outstanding 
awards at 
31 Dec 2023

Performance  
period end

– 513,403

43,414 556,8175

– 388,853

26,132 414,9855

– 29/04/2016

– 29/04/2016

2013 PSP1

Andy Ransom

30/04/2013

96.0p 513,403

Andy Ransom

01/10/2013

109.0p 388,853

2014 PSP1

Andy Ransom

31/03/2014

123.4p 912,792

2015 PSP1

Andy Ransom

31/03/2015

135.5p 883,906

2016 PSP1

Andy Ransom

12/05/2016

159.4p 869,324

2017 PSP1

Andy Ransom

31/03/2017

246.4p 562,676

2018 PSP

Andy Ransom

29/03/2018

271.2p 487,350

Andy Ransom

14/05/2018

271.2p 121,837

2019 PSP 2,3

Andy Ransom

25/03/2019

346.6p 547,805

2019 DBP4

Andy Ransom

25/03/2019

346.6p

72,505

2020 DBP4

Andy Ransom

24/03/2020

358.6p 119,243

2020 PSP

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– 912,792

– 883,906

– 869,324

– 562,676

– 487,350

– 121,837

– 547,805

–

72,505

4,920 124,163

Andy Ransom

08/09/2020

530.2p 412,580

– 146,260

9,691 276,011

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 08/09/2020

530.2p 188,608

– 66,862

4,430 126,176

2021 PSP

Andy Ransom

23/03/2021

494.4p 442,455

Andy Ransom

18/05/2021

468.5p 140,074

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 23/03/2021

494.4p 202,265

2022 PSP

Andy Ransom

04/03/2022

497.6p 659,415

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 04/03/2022

497.6p 331,592

2022 DBP4

Andy Ransom

22/03/2022

507.2p 124,211

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 22/03/2022

507.2p

70,597

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2023 DBP4

Andy Ransom

21/03/2023

561.0p

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 21/03/2023

561.0p

2023 PSP

Andy Ransom

30/03/2023

572.2p

Stuart Ingall-Tombs 30/03/2023

572.2p

– 114,078

–

69,617

– 590,647

– 288,360

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

912,792 30/03/2017

883,906 30/03/2018

869,324 10/03/2019

562,676 30/03/2020

487,350 28/03/2021

121,837 13/05/2021

547,805 24/03/2022

72,505 24/03/2022

124,163 23/03/2023

276,011 07/09/2023

126,176 07/09/2023

442,455 23/03/2024

140,074 18/05/2024

202,265 23/03/2024

659,415 04/03/2025

331,592 04/03/2025

124,211 22/03/2025

70,597 22/03/2025

114,078 21/03/2026

69,617 21/03/2026

590,647 30/03/2026

288,360 30/03/2026

1.  Shares held by Andy Ransom under the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 PSP awards are vested but unexercised and total 4,661,701.  

Stuart Ingall-Tombs holds shares under the 2020 PSP that are vested but unexercised.

2.  PSP awards are entitled to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares based on dividend payments between the date of grant and vesting. These are 

included in the total shares at vest. The awards granted prior to 2021 are also entitled to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares post vesting based 
on dividend payments between the date of vest and the date one month before exercise. These shares are applied at exercise.

3.  The 2020 PSP award partially vested at 64.6%.
4.  The DBP awards are subject to a three-year holding period, but are not subject to any performance or service conditions.
5.  Andy Ransom exercised his 2013 PSP awards on 22 March 2023. He exercised a total of 971,802 shares at an exercise price of 559.9p, giving a total value on 

exercise of £5,440,736, which was a gain of £4,453,858 compared to the grant price value of these awards.

Rentokil Initial plc 

Annual Report 2023 147

Strategic Report