DELIVERING 
FOR A CLEANER, 
HEALTHIER  
WORLD 

Annual Report  
and Accounts 2023

01

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Contents

About this report
This report has been 
produced to optimise the 
reading experience online.

Use these interactive symbols throughout 
the online report:

Links to another page in the report 

Links to further reading online 

Return to contents page 

Move to previous or next page

STRATEGIC REPORT

GOVERNANCE

02 

03 

05 

07 

At a Glance

Chair’s Statement

Chief Executive Officer’s Statement

Market Context

08  Our Strategy

Our Business Model

Key Performance Indicators

Sustainability Performance Dashboard

Brand Highlights

62 

65 

80 

82 

83 

88 

96 

Corporate Governance Report

Board Leadership and Company Purpose, 
including Section 172 Statement

Division of Responsibilities

Composition, Succession and Evaluation

Nomination Committee Report

Audit Committee Report

Corporate Responsibility, 
Sustainability, Ethics and 
Compliance Committee Report

Our Strategy

Page 08

Spotlight On: People and Culture 

100  Directors’ Remuneration Report

12 

13 

14 

15 

19 

22 

25 

28 

31 

34 

Spotlight On: Scientific Innovation 

Spotlight On: Our Supply Chain

Market Opportunities: Hygiene

Market Opportunities: Health

Market Opportunities: Nutrition

37  Our Stakeholders

41 

47 

55 

61 

Financial Performance

Sustainability Performance Review, 
including Non-Financial and Sustainability 
Information Statement

Risk Management

Our Viability Statement

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

133  Report of the Directors

137 

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities

138 

Independent Auditor’s Report

156  Group Financial Statements

Financial Performance

202  Parent Company Financial Statements, 
including Subsidiary Undertakings

Page 41

OTHER INFORMATION

218  Climate-Related Financial Disclosures

223  Alternative Performance Measures

228  Shareholder Information

Sustainability Performance Review

Page 47

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE02

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

At a Glance

DELIVERING FOR A CLEANER, 
HEALTHIER WORLD

Our long-term growth opportunities are rooted 
in global megatrends that challenge everyday 
health and wellbeing worldwide. We combine 
our leading consumer insight and scientific 
capabilities to create innovative products that can 
address these everyday issues. This helps us reach 
into new spaces and geographies, expanding 
our presence in high-growth categories. 

By continuously striving to minimise the 
environmental impact of our business 
and work towards a fairer society, we 
are addressing evolving consumer needs 
whilst supporting the planet and the 
communities in which we operate. 

This is how we create shared success. 

Our culture is innovative, caring and 
entrepreneurial. Our values ensure we 
work collectively for our consumers, 
employees and all our stakeholders. 

At Reckitt, we protect, heal and 
nurture. We do this through our 
attractive brand portfolio, which 
includes some of the best-known 
and most trusted brands in 
hygiene, health and nutrition.

Delivering for a cleaner, healthier world 
requires strong brands with a global footprint. 
Many of our brands have number one or two 
market share positions globally or in their 
markets. From Dettol, Lysol, Durex, Finish, 
Harpic and Vanish to Enfamil, Mucinex, Nurofen, 
Strepsils, Nutramigen and Air Wick, consumers 
love and rely on our brands to care for their 
families, as they have done for over 200 years. 

Around 30 million Reckitt products are sold 
each day throughout the world, giving us 
valuable insight into evolving consumer 
behaviours and category trends. We use 
this deep understanding to identify unmet 
needs and develop solutions to help people 
improve their health and hygiene. 

Like-for-like 
net revenue growth1

IFRS net  
revenue growth

+3.5%

2022: 7.6%

Adjusted operating 
margin1

23.1%

2022: 23.8%

Adjusted total  
EPS1 diluted

323.4p

2022: 341.7p

Full-year  
dividend

192.5p

2022: 183.3p

Net revenue  
from more  
sustainable  
products1

29.6%

2022: 24.4%

+1.1%

2022: 9.2%

IFRS operating  
margin

17.3%

2022: 22.5%

IFRS total  
EPS diluted

228.7p

2022: 324.7p

Free cash flow 
generation1 

£2.3bn

2022: £2.0bn

Absolute reduction 
in greenhouse gas 
emissions from 
operations since 2015

67%

2022: 66%

1.  Adjusted and other non-GAAP measures, definitions and 

terms are defined on page 223

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE03

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Chair’s Statement

A YEAR OF 
PROGRESS AND 
POSITIVE CHANGE

Reckitt is a special enterprise, 
with powerful brands, enormously 
talented and passionate colleagues 
and a compelling vision for the future.“

Chris Sinclair
Chair

2023 was another eventful year. There were 
challenges, but also encouraging progress 
and positive change for our Company.

Like many companies, we experienced continued 
macroeconomic headwinds, further disruptions to 
our supply chain and the effects of the continuing 
war in Ukraine and conflict in the Middle East. 
We also saw changes in Reckitt’s leadership team, 
with appointees to the roles of Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
Designate, as well as a new Chair to succeed 
me following our 2024 Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) and the completion of my full Board term. 

I’m proud to say that throughout 2023, our 
Company has proven its resilience and many 
capabilities. We grew our revenue and our gross 
margin, which ranks amongst the industry’s 
highest. In line with our capital allocation policy 
to deliver sustainable dividend growth, we have 
proposed a 5% increase in our annual dividend 
for the second year in a row. In total, we returned 
£1.5 billion to shareholders through dividend 
growth and our share buyback programme.

Amongst our innovations, we launched Lysol 
Air Sanitiser, creating an entirely new sub-
category in Air Care. Whilst internally, our 
annual GLINT employee survey revealed high 
levels of endorsement from our people for 
the clarity and direction we have brought to 
our Purpose and the values that unite us.

Continuity and change
Whilst our commitment to our market-leading 
brands has remained constant, today’s Reckitt 
is very different to the company I assumed the 
Chair of six years ago. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE04

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Chair’s Statement continued

This period has seen us rethink our culture and our 
Purpose. We have invested in our people and the 
values we want to define them, creating a culture 
that is purposeful, entrepreneurial and caring. 
We have transformed our capabilities to innovate 
great products and extend categories. We have 
deepened our consumer value proposition and set 
new standards in customer service excellence.

Leadership and talent
Our evolution as a Company has been 
accompanied by a transition in our leadership. 
Nicandro Durante, who had been our 
Senior Independent Director, led our senior 
management team as CEO for most of 2023. 
I would like to sincerely thank Nicandro 
for his leadership over this period. 

Still, our strategy has remained unchanged. 
The achievements of the past year affirm 
that we operate in the right categories with 
the right products. The focus now and in the 
future is to deliver on the investments we have 
made and the greater productivity, better 
in-market execution capabilities and higher 
shareholder returns we have enabled.

Nicandro helped us oversee the selection of a 
permanent CEO and a new CFO. The appointments 
of Kris Licht and Shannon Eisenhardt to these 
respective roles bring two highly talented and 
accomplished global leaders to the forefront 
of our Company, and I am confident they will 
shape an exciting next chapter for Reckitt. 

Leadership Conference 2023

Kris brings considerable experience from within 
Reckitt to the role of CEO, which he assumed on 
1 October. Shannon joined the business from Nike 
in October and formally assumed the role of CFO in 
March 2024. Jeff’s contributions and commitment 
to our company have been considerable. He 
departs with my sincere thanks and very best 
wishes for his well-deserved retirement.

There are other changes to our Board as well. We 
extend a warm welcome to Marybeth Hays, who 
joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 
1 February. A former Walmart senior executive, 
Marybeth brings more than 25 years of experience 
in retail, healthcare and consumer goods. 

We will also welcome Fiona Dawson to the Board 
as a Non-Executive Director and Chair Designate 
to the Remuneration Committee effective 
1 June 2024. We thank Alan Stewart, who plans 
to retire from the Board following the AGM. 

In addition, I am also preparing to step down 
from my position, having spent nine years on the 
Reckitt Board. During this time we have built a 
highly talented and diverse Board, which will enjoy 
strong leadership under Sir Jeremy Darroch when 
he takes over as Chair in May 2024. Jeremy is an 
outstanding leader with considerable expertise 
and a proven track record of performance. I know 
Reckitt will succeed under his stewardship. 

Legacy and reflections
Looking back on my tenure over these past nine 
years, we have learned, and continue to learn, 
a great deal, not least from the experiences that 
influence us, and which make Reckitt a more 
effective and successful company today.

These include solidifying the importance of always 
doing the right thing and standing by our values, 
which are now codified through Leadership 
Behaviours that require each of us to Own, 
Create, Deliver and Care in everything we do.

We have demonstrated the value of brand 
reinvestment alongside the delivery of 
product superiority. This has allowed us to 
unleash the potential of our brands to extend, 
to premiumise and ultimately, to lead global 
categories with long runways for growth.

We have also extended the breadth and reach 
of our portfolio, harnessing the ‘Science Inside’ 
Reckitt to innovate brands that define their 
categories. We have embraced technology 
to transform our operations and deepen our 
relationships with customers and consumers. 
We have made many improvements in the 
stewardship of the business that strengthen 
our governance foundations and reinforce our 
commitment to product quality and safety.

Furthermore, we have realised the benefits 
of bringing excellence to the point of sale and 
are now rewarded with deeper, more enduring 
customer relationships, which we are better 
able to serve through a transformed supply 
chain that has demonstrated its resilience 
and strength when it has mattered most. 

Above all, we have recognised that our greatest 
assets are our people and the culture that 
defines us. Reckitt is a special enterprise, 
with powerful brands, enormously talented 
and passionate colleagues, and a compelling 
vision for the future. I leave full of pride in 
our Company’s many achievements and with 
enormous optimism about the years ahead.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE05

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Chief Executive Officer’s Statement

AN ENDURING 
FRAMEWORK  
FOR SUSTAINED 
VALUE CREATION

We are a strong business with a purpose 
and culture fit for the future, an excellent 
brand portfolio and a scaled global 
footprint. These position us well to 
deliver the next chapter of our growth.”

Kris Licht
Chief Executive Officer

It is an honour to become CEO of Reckitt and 
to lead our Company at such an important time.

Much has happened since I joined Reckitt four 
years ago. We have encountered volatility, 
opportunities and challenges, both in our 
markets and within our business. We have also 
undertaken a transformation programme that 
has seen us invest in the strength of our brands, 
transform our execution capabilities and establish 
customer partnerships of unprecedented depth.

Our goal throughout has been to build the best 
Reckitt possible. The result is a business that is 
not only stronger, but also around a third larger 
on a like-for-like (LFL) net revenue basis than it 
was in 2019. And we have delivered this growth 
with superior, industry-leading gross margins, 
demonstrating the strength of our earnings 
model and the enduring attraction of our brands.

Focused on shareholder value creation
Whilst there is more work to be done to realise 
our full potential, we are continuing to deliver, 
as our recent performance shows.

Amidst continued market volatility and inflationary 
pressures, we delivered LFL net revenue growth of 
3.5% ahead of ingoing expectations and adjusted 
operating margin of 23.1%. On an IFRS basis, our 
operating margin was 17.3% which included an 
£810 million goodwill impairment relating to our 
Nutrition business (see page 45). We reduced 
our leverage and grew free cash flow by 11% to 
£2.3 billion, enabling us to return £1.5 billion to 
shareholders through an increased dividend and 
our newly announced share buyback programme.

The strength of our business positions us well 
to deliver adjusted operating profit growth ahead 
of net revenue growth in the medium term, and 
to raise returns to shareholders further through 
growing our dividend and buying back our shares.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCEGroup LFL net revenue growth

+3.5%

2022: +7.6%

Group 4-year LFL net revenue CAGR

+7.0%

06

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued

A strong long-term growth business
The Reckitt I am privileged to lead is a strong, 
competitive and resilient business. We have 
a clear Purpose and a unique, entrepreneurial 
ownership culture that is fit for the future. 
Our brand portfolio is excellent and serves 
as the foundation for enduring value creation.

Our scaled global footprint spans developed 
and emerging markets in categories that enjoy 
long-term runways for growth. More than 70% 
of our brands occupy market leading positions 
in their categories on a net revenue basis and 
earn high levels of consumer trust. Their strong 
brand equity enables us to drive growth through 
premiumisation and brand extensions alongside 
the entirely new product categories we create 
through world-class science-backed innovation.

Investments in our supply chain and go-to-
market networks have strengthened our abilities 
to forge strong customer partnerships and 
grow the distribution of our brands. Guiding 
these are advanced digital and machine-
learning capabilities, which now enable us to 
connect data of unprecedented scale when 
deciding where to play and how to win.

Sharpening our execution
With the investment phase in these capabilities 
now substantially behind us, our focus is on 
maximising their benefits through sharpening 
and improving our execution.

Our cost base is a key focus. Our industry-
leading margins demonstrate the advantages 
our categories enjoy. Yet there remains room for 
us to be more efficient. We are extending our 
productivity programmes to simplify our processes 

and lock in scale opportunities where they exist. 
We are also right-sizing ongoing investment in 
our capabilities whilst ensuring we preserve the 
important operational muscle we have built.

Beyond these, we see significant scope to 
improve efficiency through automation and 
shared services, as well as in harnessing the 
productivity benefits of generative Artificial 
Intelligence (AI), where we now have a group 
policy in place to encourage our people to 
embrace the technology responsibly.

In-market execution is another priority. By 
providing our sales teams with the latest 
digital technologies to optimise revenue 
growth, we are now well equipped to win in 
our markets. The focus now is to ensure we 
execute with excellence wherever we play.

Lastly, our brand portfolio is strong but we must 
always strive to improve. Product superiority, 
sustainability and value are benchmarks we use 
to measure our success. Although we possess 
these across many of our categories, we must 
innovate assiduously to ensure we earn their 
market leadership and consumer trust each day.

Enhancing returns to shareholders
Execution also means maximising the returns 
we offer to our shareholders. Our ambition has 
always been to ensure these are industry leading 
whenever our financial circumstances allow, in 
line with our total shareholder return algorithm.

Thanks to our financial strength, I was very 
pleased to announce our new share buyback 
programme in October and our goal of buying 
back £1 billion of our shares over the following 
12 months. We expect this programme to 
continue in the coming years, consistent 
with our capital allocation principles.

Delivering on our ambitions
We move into 2024 a stronger, better equipped 
and more agile business. Our Purpose is clear, 
compelling and unchanged, as is our strategy and 
the strength it draws from our earnings model.

Our focus is now on delivery and execution 
as we reap the benefits of the investments 
we have made. We must continue to evolve 
what we do, whilst ensuring we don’t 
disrupt the achievements we have secured. 
Success will support our financial ambitions 
and ensure Reckitt is able to deliver an 
attractive, compounding total shareholder 
return and drive enduring value creation.

I would like to thank our Chair and the Board 
for the trust they have placed in me to deliver 
on our ambitions. I would also like to thank 
Nicandro Durante for his leadership. It has been 
an honour to work alongside him this past year.

We are stewards of some of the world’s leading 
household brands. Our role is to enhance their 
value as they journey to serve the needs of a 
new generation of consumers. This truly is an 
exciting time for Reckitt and our people, whose 
sense of ownership, entrepreneurial spirit and 
drive for performance whilst always doing the 
right thing at our core, are an enduring source 
of competitive advantage as we write this 
next chapter of growth for our business.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE07

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Context

TACKLING 
FOUR GLOBAL 
CHALLENGES

Our growth opportunity is rooted 
in four global megatrends that 
challenge everyday health and 
wellbeing worldwide. We innovate 
to deliver sustainable solutions which 
address these challenges through 
brands dedicated to the pursuit 
of a cleaner, healthier world. 

#1 Health impact of poor access to water,  
sanitation and hygiene
As cities become more crowded and populations more mobile, good 
hygiene is essential in curbing the spread of infection. In developing 
economies, water stress can compromise hygiene. This has a direct 
impact on health, both in cities and in rural communities.

Our response: We promote hygiene as the foundation for health. 
Our products enable the highest standards of hygiene in the home 
and protect against the spread of germs, viruses and bacteria. Lysol 
and Dettol, our disinfectant brands, help break the chain of infection 
on surfaces, from hands and other at-risk spaces. Finish, Harpic and 
Vanish support cleanliness and hygiene in the home. Our pest brands 
like Mortein and SBP protect against unwanted pests and insects. 
The Reckitt Global Hygiene Institute and our Fight for Access Fund 
extend scientific understanding and grow awareness of hygiene issues.

#2 Growing pressures on formal healthcare systems
Across the world, ageing populations and stretched public finances 
are putting pressure on healthcare systems. Meanwhile, individuals are 
becoming better informed and active in managing their health. Self-care 
solutions, such as over-the-counter (OTC) health and wellness products, 
give people more control and lessen the need to access formal 
healthcare services.

Our response: We are reducing demand for formal healthcare by 
empowering consumers with effective and practical self-care solutions. 
OTC treatments like Mucinex, Nurofen and Strepsils combined with health 
literacy campaigns enable individuals to better care for themselves and 
treat a range of everyday ailments at home. We partner with clinicians 
and share science-backed information with consumers to prevent and 
treat infection alongside solutions to support personalised nutrition, 
wellness and access to digital health resources.

See pages 28-30

See pages 31-33

for how our brands contribute to improving global hygiene.

for how our brands offer self-care solutions.

#3 Importance of intimate wellness  
and sexual health to public health
In many parts of the world, limited awareness and understanding of 
intimate wellness and sexual health can contribute to the spread of 
sexually transmitted infections (STIs). In some traditionally conservative 
societies, cultural taboos rather than health considerations guide policy 
priorities. Elsewhere, reproductive health and sexual wellbeing have not 
been public policy priorities in recent years, whilst lockdown and other 
pandemic-related measures restricted youth access to sexual education 
and development.

Our response: We safeguard consumers by promoting sexual wellbeing 
and helping to limit the spread of STIs. Durex, our world-leading condom 
brand, alongside KY, our leading lubricant brand, play a crucial role in 
reducing the risk of STI transmission whilst encouraging safe sex practices. 

#4 Growth in specialised nutritional needs
Infants deserve the best possible start in life. The nutrition they receive 
is a key foundation for future health, especially those with allergies 
or other specialised nutritional needs. Longer life expectancy means 
a growing demand for nutritional products that support mental and 
physical wellness as we age. All adults, especially seniors, can benefit 
from high-quality speciality food supplements that support immunity, 
digestion, cognitive and mental health.

Our response: Our specialised nutrition products help infants to flourish 
and adults to live fuller lives. Our market-leading brands, such as the 
Enfa range and Nutramigen, draw on deep science platforms to serve 
important early life nutritional needs. Brands like Provital, Move Free, 
Airborne and Neuriva provide adults with essential vitamins, minerals and 
supplements (VMS). We innovate constantly to deliver novel solutions 
that serve the growing range of nutritional needs of infants and adults.

See page 32

See pages 34-36

for how Durex contributes to global sexual health.

for how our brands provide clinically-proven nutritional options for infants and adults.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE08

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Strategy

A STRONG 
BUSINESS

Our Purpose and culture, 
excellent portfolio of brands 
and scaled footprint underpin 
our strategy to deliver attractive, 
compounding total shareholder 
return and drive enduring 
value creation.

PURPOSE AND 
CULTURE FIT  
FOR THE FUTURE

EXCELLENT BRAND 
PORTFOLIO FOR 
VALUE CREATION

SCALED GLOBAL 
FOOTPRINT

ENHANCED 
RETURNS TO 
SHAREHOLDERS

PURPOSE AND CULTURE FIT FOR THE FUTURE

Our Purpose is clear and compelling. 

Our brands and products do good in the world and enable us to  
Protect, Heal and Nurture in the pursuit of a cleaner and healthier world. 

Our 2030 Sustainability Ambitions are an integral part of our strategy 
with a focus on three pillars of activity: innovating Purpose-led Brands, 
enabling a Healthier Planet and contributing to a Fairer Society.

Our unique culture is purpose-driven, entrepreneurial, fast-paced  
and action-oriented. Our people have an ownership mindset, and are 
inspired to outperform with passion and energy throughout our business.

See pages 19-21 

for our spotlight on people and culture.

Our Purpose

We exist to

PROTECT,  
HEAL AND NURTURE

in the pursuit of a cleaner 
and healthier world

Our Culture

Own

Care

Do the
right thing.
Always.

Create

Deliver

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE09

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Strategy continued

EXCELLENT BRAND PORTFOLIO FOR VALUE CREATION

We operate in long-term growth categories

We have an excellent portfolio of market-leading brands

We operate in categories with significant and long-term runways for growth. Category creation, 
household penetration and premiumisation can fuel our growth for decades to come. On average, 
we expect the medium-term revenue growth of our categories to be in the region of 3% to 4%. 

More than 70% of our brands, on a net revenue basis, occupy market-leading positions in their 
respective categories, with a high level of consumer trust and affinity.1

OTC2

Intimate Wellness

Surface & Disinfection

OTC

11%

LFL NR CAGR vs 2019

Intimate Wellness

1 in 2

consumers did not  
use a condom the  
first time they had sex

Auto Dishwash

13%

global dishwash  
machine penetration

Fabric Additives

1 in 5

people use a stain 
removal product

#2 US

#2 Europe #1 Globally #1 Globally

#1 Globally

Auto Dishwash

Germ Protection

#1 Globally

VMS2

#1 Globally

Air Care

#1 Globally

#3 US 

Fabric Additives

Lavatory Care

#3 Globally

#1 Globally

#1 Globally

Infant & Child | Specialty

Personal Care2

1.  Branded player claims based on aggregated data from Nielsen, in each case, for the relevant category and geographic focus, 

#1 Globally

#1 Globally

#1 Globally

for period MAT Dec 2023

2.  See pages 28-36 for specific category details

Value creation principles

Our portfolio choices are underpinned by 
three clear principles of portfolio value creation 
that govern our organic and inorganic capital 
allocation priorities.

1.
LONG-TERM RUNWAY 
FOR GROWTH

2.
ATTRACTIVE  
EARNINGS MODEL

See pages 28-36 

for more details.

3.
ENDURING COMPETITIVE 
ADVANTAGE

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE10

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Strategy continued

SCALED GLOBAL FOOTPRINT

We have a scaled global footprint across 
developed and emerging markets.  

We have seen strong, broad-based net revenue 
growth across both developed and emerging 
markets and enjoy significant scale benefits in major 
strategic growth markets, such as the US, China and 
India. These markets alone contribute around 40% 
of our Group net revenue and around 50% of our 
Group net revenue growth over the last four years.  

This scale in our manufacturing and go-to-market 
networks enables us to partner effectively 
with our customers and continuously grow the 
distribution of our brands. When coupled with 
our excellent brand portfolio and strengthened 
innovation pipeline, this creates the opportunity 
to rapidly scale and execute consumer-
preferred propositions throughout the world.

+260bps2

Share of markets where 
we are recognised as top 
tier by retail partners 
2022: +100bps

-40bps3

Reckitt Share of Total 
Distribution Points 
2022: +70bps

1.  Based on FY23 net revenue 
2.  Based on Advantage Group 2023 survey of retailers. 260bps 

increase in markets rated top tier, from 39.5% in 2022 to 42.1% 
in 2023. Share of markets excludes US 

3.  Decline from 29.1% (Nov YTD 2022) to 28.7% (Nov YTD 2023), 

reflecting effects of US Nutrition rebasing. Hygiene and Health 
increased by 10bps over the same period. On a 2-year basis versus 
Nov YTD 2021, we increased total distribution points by 120bps

4.  LFL net revenue CAGR FY23 vs FY19
5.  On a LFL net revenue basis FY23 vs FY19
6.  Excludes the benefit from US Nutrition
7.  FY23 LFL equivalent: Developed Markets +4.4% and 

Emerging Markets +1.9%

DEVELOPED MARKETS 

(c.65% of business1) 

EMERGING MARKETS 

(c.35% of business1) 

4-year LFL NR CAGR  vs 20194, 7

Larger business  than 20195

4-year LFL NR CAGR  vs 20194, 7

Larger business  than 20195

+7.5%

£2.5bn

+6.6%

£1.1bn

4-year LFL NR CAGR for top 3 markets1, 4

4-year LFL NR CAGR for top 3 markets1, 4

US6

+8.3%

United Kingdom

+5.9%

Australia 

+7.2%

China

+13.6%

India

+8.2%

Mexico

+8.3%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE11

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Strategy continued

ENHANCED RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS

We have an enduring framework for sustained value creation  

MID-SINGLE-DIGIT  
NET REVENUE GROWTH

We target sustainable  
mid-single-digit top-line growth 
over the medium term.

GROW AOP AHEAD  
OF NET REVENUE

We target to grow adjusted operating 
profit ahead of net revenue growth 
in the medium term.

SUSTAINABLE  
DIVIDEND GROWTH

We have a progressive 
dividend growth policy  
(5% increase in 2023).

SHARE   
BUYBACKS

New £1 billion initial  
share buyback programme  
announced October 2023. 

Earnings model driven

Strong cash flow generation and capital allocation priorities

Sustainable mid-single-digit net revenue growth 
We have an excellent portfolio of market leading brands operating in categories with 
a long-term runway for growth. We target to deliver sustainable mid-single-digit net 
revenue growth, ahead of the medium-term growth of our categories.

Strong cash flow and healthy balance sheet
High cash flow generation, with leverage at around 2.0x EBITDA. This places Reckitt 
in a position to deliver enhanced returns to shareholders. 

High gross margin business
Our Group delivers high gross margins which reflects the quality of both the categories 
in which we operate and the premiumisation of our portfolio.

Brand investments
Investing behind innovation, consumer education and omni-channel marketing is key to 
ensuring our brands resonate with both customers and consumers and drive outperformance.

Adjusted operating profit growth ahead of net revenue growth
Operating leverage from top line growth at structurally high gross margins coupled with 
an optimised cost base delivered through our productivity programme fuels sustained 
profit growth ahead of net revenue growth.

Capital Allocation Framework
Our top priority is to invest in organic growth. We will continue to prioritise strong free 
cash conversion and we are committed to sustainable progressive dividend growth. We target 
a single A credit rating and will maintain financial ratios appropriate with that rating. We will 
use our three principles for long-term portfolio value creation to strengthen and optimise our 
portfolio. We will manage an efficient balance sheet and return surplus cash to shareholders.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE12

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Business Model

OUR ENABLERS

Our people and culture
We are a diverse workforce of over 40,000 
people from 125 different nations, and 
our Company’s Purpose inspires our 
team to make a positive impact. 

Our brands
Our global portfolio of brands occupy 
market-leading positions in their respective 
categories. Our brands have a high level 
of consumer trust and affinity, providing 
an enduring competitive advantage.

Our stakeholders
Together with our customers, consumers, 
suppliers, communities and other partners, 
we have built strong partnerships with a unified 
ambition to extend our positive impact.

Our insight and expertise
We translate our deep multi-dimensional 
consumer insight into targeted product science 
which is a key source of competitive advantage.

Our infrastructure
We have invested in and strengthened our 
supply chain, enhancing the capabilities of 
our manufacturing sites and R&D laboratories, 
as well as our digital systems.

Our financial strength
Structurally superior gross margins enable an 
earnings model which can fuel both growth and 
enhanced, sustained total shareholder returns.

OUR VALUE CHAIN

THE VALUE WE CREATE

Product design

We develop superior solutions grounded in science and 
we use our Sustainable Innovation Calculator to design 
products that contribute to our sustainability targets. 
Read more on pages 22-24.

Sourcing

We source product packaging and household product 
chemicals, such as pharmaceutical ingredients and 
agricultural commodities, from around 4,000 suppliers 
in 70 countries. Around 36,000 suppliers provide services 
that support our business.

Manufacturing

Around 90% of our products are manufactured in-house 
by our 48 production and warehouse facilities. Supporting 
our production requirements, we work with 243 third-party 
manufacturing sites (co-packers). 

Supply/logistics Our global distribution network consists of 131 distribution/ 

embellishment centres across 51 countries.

Sales and 
marketing

Globally, our major trading channels span millions of retailers 
(hypermarkets and supermarkets, club, pharmacies, drug 
stores, pure-play, discounters, convenience stores, mom & 
pop stores, traditional trade outlets and speciality retail). 

Consumer use

We sell around 30 million products every single day. 
On this scale, even small changes in consumer behaviour 
can have a big impact.

End of life 
disposal

We aim to design for a circular economy to help reduce 
plastic and packaging waste. Read more on page 49.

Our Consumers

Our Customers

1.9bn

People Engaged1 
2022: 1.5bn

42%

Top Tier Advantage Score
2022: 39%

Read more on page 37

Read more on page 38

Our People

c.9,500

Our Suppliers

£240k

Learning Library Unique Users 
2022: n/a 

average spend with our suppliers
2022: £249k

Read more on page 38

Read more on page 39

Our Investors

£1.5bn

Communities

£31m

cash returned to shareholders
2022: £1.2bn

invested in our Fight for Access 
Fund 2022: £32m

Read more on page 39

Read more on page 40

Governments & Regulators

£922m

tax paid 
2022: £831m

Read more on page 40

See pages 37-40

for more details on our engagement 
with our key stakeholders.

1.  Engage two billion people 

with purpose-led partnerships, 
programmes and campaigns to 
promote awareness for a cleaner, 
healthier world (cumulative since 2020)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE13

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Key Performance Indicators

MEASURING 
PERFORMANCE

Reckitt’s key performance 
indicators (KPIs) include 
measures for assessing financial 
and non-financial performance.

Variable pay across the Group is aligned 
to these KPIs. Central to our remuneration 
philosophy are the principles of pay for 
performance, as well as strategic alignment. 
Combined with our Compass and Leadership 
Behaviours, these principles define how 
decisions are made, how people act and 
how they are assessed and rewarded.

The KPIs shown here directly impact 
the remuneration awarded to 
Executive Directors.

Like-for-like net revenue growth1 

Adjusted operating profit growth 
at constant exchange rates1, 2

Adjusted diluted earnings per share1

Free cash flow conversion1

2023

3.5%

2022

7.6%

2021

3.5%

2020 

11.8%

2019 

0.8%

2023

2022

2021

2020 

+0.9%

+9.2%

+0.7%

-2.6%

2019 

-1.9%

2023

323.4p

2022

341.7p

2021

288.5p

2020 

327.0p

2019 

349.0p

2023

97%

2022

83%

2021

61%

2020 

131%

2019 

87%

Why we measure it: To ensure our strategy 
is delivering organic revenue growth. The 
mix and strength of products and brands 
enables us to deliver mid-single-digit 
growth over time.
Performance narrative: Group net revenue 
of £14,607 million grew by 3.5% on a LFL 
basis in the year, reflecting price/mix 
improvements of +7.8% and a volume 
decline of -4.3%. Our Hygiene brands grew 
(+5.1%), our Health brands grew (+5.0%) and 
Nutrition declined (-4.0%) as the US lapped 
the prior year competitor supply issue. 

Why we measure it: To ensure we are 
converting revenue growth into profit. 
We anticipate growing operating profit 
faster than revenue growth.
Performance narrative: Adjusted operating 
profit grew less than net revenue in 2023, 
as gross margin expansion was offset by 
increased brand equity investments and 
inflation led cost base increases.

Why we measure it: To monitor profitability 
and to provide a comparable net profit per 
share attributable to owners.
Performance narrative: Adjusted diluted 
EPS was 323.4 pence (2022: 341.7 pence), 
a decrease of 5.4%, as higher adjusted 
operating profit at constant exchange 
rates was more than offset by adverse 
foreign exchange and a higher adjusted 
effective tax rate in 2023. 

Why we measure it: To maintain the 
delivery of strong free cash flow 
conversion over time.
Performance narrative: Free cash flow of 
£2,258 million increased by £227 million or 
11%. Free cash flow conversion improved by 
14 percentage points to 97% as the benefit 
from working capital was only partially 
offset by higher tax and interest paid. 

Return on capital employed (ROCE)1

Net revenue from more 
sustainable products1, 3

Reduction in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
emissions in our operations

2023

12.5%

2022

13.2%

2021

10.1%

2020 

10.1%

2019 

10.3%

2023

29.6%†

2022

24.4%

2021

24.9%

2020 

30.4%

2019 

24.6%

2023

-67%†

2022

-66%

2021

-66%

2020 

-39%

See page 100

for more information in our Remuneration Report.

See page 223

for details of our definitions and terms in our APMs.

Why we measure it: To ensure disciplined 
capital management. 
Performance narrative: ROCE in 2023 was 
12.5% (2022: 13.2%), a decrease of 70bps 
from 2022, due to a lower Net Operating 
Profit After Tax as a result of the higher 
adjusted tax rate.

Why we measure it: To drive product 
innovation that supports the delivery of 
our sustainability ambitions and meets the 
growing demand for more sustainable 
products. We are targeting 50% of net 
revenue from more sustainable products 
by 2030, as measured by our Sustainable 
Innovation Calculator. 
Performance narrative: 2023 improvement 
reflects more sustainable innovations 
reaching the marketplace, and better use 
of the Calculator on new and existing 
product development across all GBUs. 

Why we measure it: To support our net 
zero ambition and reduce emissions from 
our own operations. We are targeting 
a 65% absolute reduction in operational 
(Scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions by 2030.
Performance narrative: Through our 
ongoing focus on optimising high energy 
manufacturing processes, we continued 
to surpass our science-based target 
reduction of 65% by 2030.

1.  See details on our alternative performance 

measures on page 223

2.  Years after and including 2021 exclude 
IFCN China (disposed September 2021)
3.  Figures prior to 2021 exclude our Nutrition 

business unit

†  Data was subject to independent limited 
assurance by ERM CVS in accordance 
with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410. 
Please see ERM CVS’ full assurance report 
at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub for 
more details

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE14

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Dashboard

OUR SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS PROGRESS OVERVIEW

This dashboard summarises our performance across key metrics and targets. A full performance breakdown can be found in our 
Sustainability Report and ESG Data Book, available online at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub

Key:

Baseline

  Target

Sustainability pillar

Topic

Ambition

Baseline

2023 progress

Target

More sustainable 

products

50% absolute reduction in product carbon footprint by 20301

50% reduction in product water footprint by 20401

13.5%†

9.9%†

INNOVATING  
PURPOSE-LED BRANDS

See page 24

See page 47

for more on our innovation programme.

ENABLING A  
HEALTHIER PLANET

50% reduction in amount of virgin plastic packaging by 20302

Plastics and 

packaging

25% recycled content in our plastic packaging by 2025

100% of packaging recyclable or reusable by 2025

Net zero across our value chain by 2040

Climate

65% absolute reduction in operational (Scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions by 20301

100% renewable electricity by 2030

Water

Water positive in water-stressed locations where we operate by 2030

30% reduction in water use (per tonne of production) by 20251

7%2

5%2

76%2

67%†

94%†

1

7%†

100%†

See pages 48–50

for our Environmental Performance Review.

Waste

100% zero waste to landfill from our factories

50% 

50%

50%

25%

100%

65%

100%

17 sites

30%

100%

CONTRIBUTING TO 
A FAIRER SOCIETY

Inclusion

An inclusive culture where everybody is treated fairly and equitably

Gender balance at all management levels by 2030³

M: 49%

F: 51%

50/50

See pages 51–53

for our Social Performance Review.

Social impact

Engage two billion people with purpose-led partnerships, programmes and campaigns 
to promote awareness for a cleaner, healthier world (cumulative since 2020)

Social Impact Investment of £20 million per year

1.9 billion†

£31 million

2 billion

£20 million

†  ERM CVS provides independent limited assurance over selected sustainability disclosures. The assurance report, along with the principles and methodologies we use in our reporting, can be found online at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub
1.  Environmental reduction targets for carbon, water and waste are from a 2015 baseline
2.  Reduction target for plastic is from a 2020 baseline. All packaging data relates to 2022, which is driven by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation reporting timelines. 2023 data will be available in mid-2024 
3.  Data as of 31 December 2023 for active Reckitt employees (excluding contractors). ‘All management’ includes: Executive Committee Member, Group Leadership Team, Senior Management Team, Middle Manager, Manager. See breakdowns on page 51

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE15

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

BRAND HIGHLIGHTS

Finish is the world’s leading auto dishwash brand. 2023 saw the launch 
of Finish Ultimate Plus, with technology that releases the right ingredient 
to act at the right time in the wash cycle, further enabling people to 
‘Skip the Rinse’. Whilst Finish’s footprint is concentrated in markets such 
as Europe and the US, its runway for growth is through global penetration 
opportunities and premiumisation given dishwasher ownership in many 
parts of the world remains low and our premium thermoformed tablets 
are gaining share.

finish.co.uk

With a range of fabric stain 
removers, whiteners and carpet 
cleaners, Vanish is the number 
one fabric treatment brand in the 
world. In 2023, Vanish launched 
a major formula change, which 
promises stain removal and colour 
protection even at 20°C, enabling 
consumers to save energy and 
helping clothes look new for longer.

vanish.co.uk

As one of the first brands dedicated to 
air care, Air Wick has uplifted homes for 
80 years. Air Wick is the number three 
branded air care player globally. The 
brand continues to innovate, such as 
with the 2023 launch of 24/7 Active 
Fresh, our first aerosol-free and best 
ever auto-spray.

airwick.co.uk

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT16

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

With a range of toilet and 
bathroom cleaners and 
fresheners, Harpic is the 
number one lavatory care 
player globally. In 2023 we 
launched the Harpic Hygienic 
& Fresh Sticker, our first 
self-sticking toilet block 
with 99% less plastic, 
which consumers love 
for its simplicity. 

harpic.co.uk

Dettol is present in over 130 countries across 10 categories from 
surface disinfection and laundry sanitiser to hand wash and shower gel. 
It is the world’s number one brand in antiseptic personal care. Through 
its products and its hygiene education programs, Dettol has been helping 
protect people against illness-causing germs for 90 years. Its biggest 
markets include India, China and the UK.

dettol.co.uk

The number one branded multipurpose 
cleaning and disinfectant player in the world, 
Lysol has been breaking the chain of infection 
and protecting families from illness-causing 
germs for more than a century. In the US, 
its key market, Lysol represents the gold 
standard in germ protection and continues to 
leverage its equity to create new categories, 
such as laundry sanitiser and air sanitiser, 
which launched in 2023.

lysol.com

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT17

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Durex is the global leader in condoms, with key markets that include China and Europe. 
Yet Durex is present in less than 1% of global sex occasions and so offers significant 
headroom for growth. Recent launches, including polyurethane (PU) condoms and those 
lubricated with hyaluronic acid for extra moisture, are continuing to premiumise the portfolio. 
Culturally relevant partnerships in fashion and music, including the ‘Diesel x Durex’ capsule 
collection presented at Milan Fashion Week, connect the brand to its target audiences.

durex.co.uk

Mucinex is the number two cold 
and flu brand in the US, and the 
brand most trusted by doctors 
for cough and cold symptoms. 
Mucinex has a powerful brand 
equity, which it uses to expand 
into adjacent categories such 
as the recent successful launch 
of its medicated sore throat 
product, Mucinex InstaSoothe.

mucinex.com

The world’s first medicated 
lozenge, Strepsils is the leading 
brand in sore throat care across 
global markets. With an extensive 
range of lozenges and sprays, 
the brand helps consumers to 
manage their sore throat and 
cough symptoms at home, 
with formulations that relieve 
dryness and pain. 

strepsils.co.uk

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT18

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

1 IN 2 WOMEN FEEL THEY 
HAVE HAD THEIR PAIN 
DISMISSED BECAUSE   
OF THEIR GENDER

See our commitments to help 
close the Gender Pain Gap at 
Nurofen.co.uk/see-my-pain

With its strong science-backed 
reputation for supporting brain health, 
the Enfamil family of brands offers 
a range of routine and specialty 
infant formulas, as well as toddler 
nutritional drinks. It is the leading 
premium infant nutrition brand 
across markets and the number one 
paediatrician recommended product 
in core markets such as the US.

enfamil.com

Nurofen, the number two analgesic brand in Europe, provides effective pain 
relief, leveraging over 30 years of research and development. The 2023 
expansion of Nurofen Liquid Capsules into key markets and purpose-led 
initiatives like ‘See My Pain’, which aims to narrow the Gender Pain Gap by 
highlighting how women’s pain is often ignored or dismissed, continue to 
support brand growth. 

Nutramigen, a formula product for 
the dietary management of cows’ 
milk allergy, was the first and is the 
most extensively studied formula 
of its kind. 75 years after its launch, 
it remains the global leader in its 
category. The UK’s National Health 
Service estimates that CMA affects 
around 7% of babies younger than 
one year old, underscoring the 
brand’s growth opportunity.

nurofen.co.uk

nutramigen.co.uk

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT19

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

People and Culture

SPOTLIGHT ON: 
PEOPLE AND CULTURE

Today’s Reckitt is rooted in a culture that 
is purpose driven, entrepreneurial, fast paced 
and action oriented. Doing the right thing, 
always, is at the centre of our Compass, 
which guides our business alongside the 
Leadership Behaviours that drive our success. 

We always maintain an unwavering 
commitment to our people, whose 
passion, energy and professionalism 
are the source of our enduring strength.” 

Ranjay Radhakrishnan
Chief Human Resources Officer

A business our people believe in
A powerful combination of our brands, people 
and Purpose is what makes Reckitt unique. 

Our people believe in and are inspired by 
our Purpose and brands. They take pride 
in our business and our shared ambition to 
achieve. This is evidenced by our annual 
employee survey, which in 2023 saw scores 
higher than our external benchmark for 
pride, strategy and company direction.

This shared vision has been crucial to our 
transformation over the last four years. During this 
period, we established deep cultural foundations 
that empower our people as the key value drivers 
of our business and redefined our Leadership 
Behaviours to place a greater emphasis on care 
as we serve the needs of all our stakeholders.

Around 14,000 colleagues now participate 
in one of Reckitt’s all employee share plans. 
This nurtures a culture in which individuals are 
owners, as well as colleagues and managers. 
The result is a business equipped for future 
growth and focused on sharing the benefits 
of pursuing a cleaner, healthier world.

Fostering success
The investment we make in our future starts 
with our people. We want to attract, retain and 
develop the best talent. We recognise the desire 
of our colleagues to develop their careers. Yet 
we acknowledge that personal growth can 
take many forms; from building functional skills 
and exploring new markets or functions, to 
developing management and leadership skills.

Building on feedback received from our 
colleagues, we have rejuvenated our approach 
to personal growth by adopting a holistic 
programme for development in its widest sense. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS20

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

People and Culture continued

This ranges from equipping individuals with 
specific skills relating to their function to 
developing leadership, resilience and providing 
in-role support, both professionally and 
personally, through our Wellbeing and Employee 
Assistance Programmes. Together, these enable 
individuals to realise their full potential.

In April 2023, we introduced a new Learning 
Library, which draws on LinkedIn Learning to 
provide access to a variety of resources tailored 
to different skill levels. Early adoption has been 
strong, with over 9,500 unique users. In the last 
quarter of the year, we also launched a new 
learning experience platform, myDevelopment 
Learning, which brings together personalised 
learning for professional growth based on the role, 
function and career aspirations of each individual.

OUR COMPASS

Put consumers
and people ﬁrst

Build shared
success

Do the
right thing.
Always.

Seek out new
opportunities

Strive for
excellence

As well as online resources, we now have 10 
functional academies across Reckitt. These 
academies curate development content 
across specific business functions and enable 
employees to attain functional skills based 
on their professional development goals. 
Each of these academies is augmented by 
global programmes, such as an embedded 
leadership curriculum and a thriving mentor 
and coaching programme, which support 
individual goals and the needs of particular 
employee groups. These include our Accelerate 
for Women and Future Leaders Programmes.

Embedding these skills across our business 
is a continual process of development and 
renewal. This is vital for an organisation like 
ours which purposefully introduces new talent 
from outside to complement the wealth of 
experience and skills we nurture from within. 

This fosters a culture of innovation and change 
through fresh thinking, whilst anchoring our 
energy in a shared belief in how we deliver 
the best outcomes for our business.

Rewarding outcomes
Reckitt is a results-oriented business with a strong 
belief in collective accountability. That is why 
many of our people are enrolled in, incentivised 
by and rewarded through our Annual Performance 
Plan (APP). Running each calendar year, this 
measures our collective performance against 
annual targets linked to Reckitt’s strategic 
priorities and tailored to individual markets. 

Reckitt’s most senior management participate 
in our Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), which 
incentivises and rewards long-term performance, 
and aligns the interests of our leaders with those 
of shareholders. This also delivers a strong focus 

OUR LEADERSHIP BEHAVIOURS

Own
–  Live our Purpose, Fight and Compass
–  Know our business cold
–  Make decisions

Deliver
–  Focus on what matters
–  Move boldly and at pace
–  Join forces to win bigger

Create
–  Spot opportunities
–  Innovate, iterate and scale
–  Relentlessly build better

Care
–  Actively listen, learn and include
–  Speak direct with respect
–  Act to unleash potential

on ownership and accountability, to ensure 
that our Leadership Behaviours provide the 
lens through which success is evaluated. 

Building a culture of inclusion
Success at Reckitt means excelling as who you 
are. Our goal is to provide a working environment 
where uniqueness is embraced and inclusion is a 
lived experience. We recognise that diversity of 
thought is a key driver of performance. With over 
40,000 people worldwide drawn from 125 different 
nations, we want to represent the countries and 
communities we serve through a workplace where 
everyone feels able to be their authentic self.

Equally, our aim is for a global workforce profile 
that is more aligned with the global consumers, 
customers and markets we serve. Together, 
our colleagues, our partners and our brands 
will drive that change as we reflect the diverse 
and inclusive world in which we operate.

Inclusion is given senior focus in Reckitt by 
our Global Inclusion Board, which is chaired 
by our Group CEO. Its mandate is to drive our 
inclusivity agenda throughout our employee 
communities, our brand identities and our supply 
chain. The Group Board works in partnership 
with our Local Inclusion Boards in individual 
markets and the growing number of local 
chapters of our global Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs), which continue to play a 
critical role in driving our inclusion agenda.

ERGs are employee networks that provide 
visibility, understanding and support to groups that 
may be underrepresented or face barriers in the 
workplace. There are four global ERGs, focusing 
on LGBTQ+, Women@Reckitt, Race and Ethnicity, 
and Disability. Local ERGs maintain a focus in 
market, supporting localised inclusion plans.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS21

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

People and Culture continued

Through active engagement on workplace 
issues, ERGs have been instrumental in driving 
change across a range of policies and processes. 
These include our shared parental leave, the 
development of our Accelerate leadership 
programme to support women throughout 
their careers, and Reckitt’s conscious inclusion 
programme, which highlights unconscious 
bias, microaggressions and the steps 
everyone can take to promote inclusivity.

Our ERGs have been critical in harnessing a 
community-based sense of togetherness and 
belonging across Reckitt. Yet we also recognise 
that inclusivity is for everyone. We believe that 
we are Stronger Together and our ambition is 
that all colleagues are welcomed, able to fully 
contribute to our business and supported to thrive. 

This is a guiding principle behind the next stage 
of our inclusivity journey. In 2023, we hosted 
a global Stronger Together event to promote 
allyship and foster an understanding of how to 
be an active ally to each other. Through similar 
events and workplace initiatives, we shall continue 
to extend conversations beyond our ERGs to 
make inclusivity an aspect of our culture that 
everyone can relate to and take responsibility for.

Health, safety and wellbeing
Our commitment to caring for our people 
goes to the heart of our Purpose to protect, 
heal and nurture. This means promoting and 
safeguarding wellbeing, as well as ensuring 
safety in our workplace.

Our primary concern is that our people are safe at 
work, irrespective of what they do or where they 
live. With a global business spread throughout 68 
countries, we ensure we have mature systems in 
place that enable us to step in quickly to support 
our people and their families in times of need.

In 2023, these included a Mental Health 
Month, a cancer pledge to encourage greater 
understanding of working with cancer, and a Global 
Steps Challenge, which united colleagues from 
more than 30 countries in a physical challenge.

Alongside these global initiatives, our monthly 
Wellbeing Boosters sessions provide access 
to performance coaches for advice and 
support. In 2023, there was a 61% increase 
in people leader coaching versus 2022 and 
attendance of over 19,000 at our wellbeing 
events, a ten-fold increase year on year. 

Each of these workplace initiatives is balanced 
by individual Employee Assistance Programmes 
that provide tailored care for specific 
issues, including mental health support.

Fit for the future
Our journey over the past four years has seen 
Reckitt realign important aspects of its culture 
with its Purpose.

Our goal throughout has been to ensure 
our people share a strong sense of purpose 
anchored in a deep-rooted culture that 
emphasises ownership and accountability 
as hallmarks of success.

We live in a changing world. We shall continue 
to adapt as we grow. Our Purpose provides 
us meaning, builds our resilience and serves 
as a north star. We always maintain an 
unwavering commitment to our people, 
whose passion, energy and professionalism 
are the source of our enduring strength.

See page 51

for more details on developing our people.

2023 saw continued war in Ukraine, a devastating 
earthquake hit Turkey and conflict in the Middle 
East. Our teams provided financial and mental 
health support for affected colleagues. We 
were also able to commit over £400k of funds to 
alleviate suffering on both sides of the conflict 
in the Middle East through our disaster relief 
emergency response partner The British Red 
Cross, and further matched employee donations.

Whilst the safety of our people is paramount, 
we also recognise the importance of employee 
health and wellbeing to ensuring our people 
can thrive, both at home and in the workplace. 

Supporting these is the cornerstone of our 
Global Wellbeing Policy, which recognises 
mental health as the foundation of a healthy, 
happy employee community and a cornerstone 
of sustained business performance.

Our Global Wellbeing Hub enables access 
to a variety of resources on topics which we 
know, through employee surveys, are priorities 
for achieving balance and wellbeing at work. 
Augmenting this is a global programme of 
webinars and events that draw attention to some 
of the key issues that challenge wellbeing. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS22

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Scientific Innovation

SPOTLIGHT ON: 
SCIENTIFIC INNOVATION

We combine deep consumer insights 
with cutting-edge science to create 
differentiated, superior solutions that 
bring delight to consumers everywhere.

Our goal is to unleash the ‘Science Inside’ 
Reckitt through the very best and most 
trusted brands.”

Angela Naef
Chief R&D Officer

Our innovation capabilities
Innovation is harnessed through the global 
capabilities we possess across the Group, including 
R&D, Marketing, Sales and Supply. These teams 
work together with in-market experts to build a 
deep understanding of the consumer, connecting 
this with great science to develop products that 
delight our consumers and meet their everyday 
needs. Our Supply team then enable us to execute 
with excellence by delivering these through their 
best-in-class route-to-market capabilities.

Within our Global Business Units, our Category 
Development Organisations create and grow 
categories through consumer-focused innovation 
that extends Reckitt’s brands into adjacent white 
spaces. This team has developed industry-leading 
ways of combining consumer insights with our 
science capabilities that enable us to extend our 
categories and identify new spaces for growth.

Through our leading R&D capabilities, we have 
elevated the ‘Science Inside’ our business to 
create enduring value through our brands. 
We have built rigour, discipline and precision 
across our R&D activities to ensure our science 
can travel across our categories. This enables 
greater degrees of freedom in designing new 
products and provides us with a longer-term 
lens through which to innovate, reinforcing the 
sustainability and growth potential of our brands.

With targeted R&D investment, we have built 
new capabilities in medical sciences that enable 
us to generate superior evidence. Alongside 
this, investment in our regulatory intelligence 
capabilities helps us to identify and anticipate 
changes in our regulatory landscape. This enables 
us to drive advocacy that opens channels and 
routes to market for our innovations so that we 
can put new products in the hands of consumers. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS23

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Scientific Innovation continued

This is a source of competitive advantage 
through which we offer consumers a greater 
choice of safe and effective solutions that 
anticipate their present and future needs.

Our approach to R&D is driven by a strong 
commercial focus and an innovation culture 
that fosters collaboration. We focus on strategic 
choices that help us to build critical capabilities 
that unlock value and drive step changes 
in growth.

Framing our strategy
The megatrends behind Reckitt’s four global 
challenges (see page 07) provide the strategic 
frame that determines where we innovate and 
channel our R&D. These guide our long-term 
thinking and ensure the commercial opportunities 
we pursue offer lasting social benefits.

We think about Innovation at Reckitt not as a 
function, but as an outcome. Its impact is guided 
by three priorities, which taken together define 
the role of R&D in our growth ambitions.

The first we call Innovate Impactfully. This 
captures the value we create by innovating to 
drive sustainable top-line growth. By focusing 
on value as an outcome, we introduce financial 
rigour wherever we innovate, from formulation 
through to product packaging, our science-based 
claims and methods of delivery. We maximise 
innovation’s impact through a ‘touch it once’ 
approach, which means that innovation in one 
science platform travels across the organisation 
to offer benefit to all brands and categories.

The second priority we refer to as Securing 
the Company. This safeguards the lifecycle of 
our products to ensure they remain relevant, 
compliant and progressive as regulations and 
consumer preferences evolve. It requires 

ongoing interaction with our stakeholders and 
a mindset of regulatory foresight that anticipates 
how future changes may impact them. 

Our third priority is Driving Productivity. We pursue 
this with our Supply colleagues and partners 
to ensure innovation delivers on the Group’s 
productivity goals. This involves optimising our 
supply of raw materials by qualifying suppliers 
to drive the best procurement choices, and 
refining our processes to ensure we balance 
capacity across our manufacturing.

Extending our growth runways
As well as supporting our current growth 
ambitions, innovation equips us to anticipate 
and plan for the future. This means being 
able to look through a longer-term lens 
and anticipate change though a multi-
generational approach to R&D planning. 

Our investment in PU technology for Durex 
condoms in China is an example. This captured 
a shift in consumer preferences, but also 
reshaped our manufacturing process and 
resulted in the establishment of a new 
Polymer Science and Technology platform. 

Now one of nine foundational disciplines that 
shape our science capabilities across the 
Company, this platform brings together polymer 
scientists to design methods of PU use across our 
brands that meet consumer needs as they evolve. 
Throughout, we made sure this science travels: 
polymer science has since crossed categories 
into Hygiene and the thermoform technology 
we use in our Finish dishwasher tablets.

Innovation draws continually on our science 
capabilities to develop and extend products that 
improve the consumer experience of our brands. 
Our Nutrition Innovation pipeline is closely linked 

CASE STUDY

The ‘Science Inside’ Reckitt: 
supercharging science 
to delight consumers

The ‘Science Inside’ Reckitt is a global 
community of over 3,000 scientists spanning 
nine centres of excellence. It provides us 
with the capability not only to create a 
new and disruptive product like Lysol Air 
Sanitiser, but also to partner with regulators 
to develop standards for this new category. 

We connect the expertise in Reckitt across nine 
scientific platforms to our deep knowledge 
of consumers. Within these, we innovate new 
products that solve unmet consumer needs and 
deliver our growth ambitions. The pursuit of 
scientific excellence has transformed Reckitt’s 
R&D. By connecting our science platforms, we 
ensure our science travels across Reckitt so 
that we can deliver for consumers everywhere.

In 2023, our Hull Science and Innovation 
Centre hosted our first annual ‘Science Inside’ 
Symposium. Our community came together 
to celebrate, recognise and connect. 

With a focus on peer-based scientific review, 
900 authors from 21 countries submitted 
over 300 abstracts for debate, from which 
113 were selected for discussion. 

By fostering a culture of collaborative 
innovation, the Symposium epitomises how 
the ‘Science Inside’ Reckitt harnesses our 
science goals to our ambition to deliver 
ever-greater value for our consumers.

to our rich science heritage and capabilities, 
allowing us to develop nutritional solutions that 
give babies the best start in life, as well as to 
provide the foundation for life-long health.

Our scientific commitment and cutting-edge 
studies are advancing the field of paediatric 
nutrition globally. This was showcased in one 
of our recent clinical publications, which gained 
widespread recognition for its findings relating 

to our Enfamil formula enriched with milk fat 
globule membrane (MFGM). This showed lasting 
brain benefits at the age of five-and-a-half 
years in children who were fed this formulation 
in their first year, exemplifying our longer-term 
approach of extending clinical research on 
our formulas beyond infancy (see page 35).

Similarly, in 2023 our Intimate Wellness team 
also achieved a significant scientific milestone 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS24

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Scientific Innovation continued

in a clinical trial involving the reformulation of 
our lubrication portfolio. Driven by our R&D 
team, the resulting study1 was acknowledged 
by the International Society of Sexual 
Medicine as the Best Paper of 2023 in Female 
Sexual medicine. These demonstrations of 
scientific leadership illustrate the depth of 
clinical and medical expertise within our 
categories, which serve our global community 
of healthcare providers and consumers and 
position our brands for future growth.

Driving sustainable outcomes
Sustainability is a governing principle for Reckitt. 
Everything we do aims to create more enduring, 
relevant products that captivate and delight 
our consumers, whilst delivering on our Purpose 
and progressing our sustainability goals. These 
include our ambition for 50% of our net revenue 
to come from more sustainable products by 2030.

Reckitt’s Sustainable Innovation Calculator helps 
guide us to the right decisions throughout the 
innovation process. It measures the impact of 
a new product by rating its ingredients, plastics, 
packaging, carbon and water performance, 
as well as evaluating its extended producer 
responsibility risk. By comparing these data 
with existing product ratings, we are able 
to identify alternatives that offer better 
environmental outcomes (see page 47).

This approach helped shape our Finish Ultimate 
Plus dishwasher product, which offers superior 
wash performance alongside a 20% reduction 
in chemicals use. This enables consumers to 
‘Skip the Rinse’ and helps to save many millions 
of litres of water every year across the world. 

It also drove the development of Harpic Hygienic 
and Fresh, the very first self-sticking toilet block. 
This uses a biodegradable polyvinyl alcohol 
wrap that sticks to the inside of the toilet bowl, 
removing the need for a plastic cage to hold 
the block in place. It also dissolves with use. 
The result is a considerable reduction in plastic 
and a product that consumers love for its simplicity. 

Our Sustainable Innovation Calculator considers 
key aspects of the product lifecycle to ensure 
innovation contributes positively to our 
sustainability targets. This has helped us identify 
new opportunities to reduce our use of plastics, 
carbon and water. It has also cultivated a mindset 
of continuous improvement across our categories 
backed by hard data to drive positive outcomes.

Harnessing the benefits  
of Artificial Intelligence 

Reckitt has been involved in complex dataset 
processing for many years, which has driven 
a step-change in our ability to understand 
the needs of consumers. We already leverage 
machine learning and advanced analytics 
across consumer research, into consumer 
activation touchpoints, and to plan, measure 
and steer our digital campaigns in real-time.

AI enables us to extend these capabilities to 
additional datasets, including unstructured text 
shared through sensory evaluations, consumer 
trials, and ratings and reviews. These offer 
insight on an unprecedented level that will 
transform our relationship with consumers 
as we innovate the products of the future.

We are constantly evaluating the wealth of 
value that AI can offer as we deepen our 
understanding of its capabilities, its risks and 
the opportunities it unlocks. We have focused 
our efforts on accelerating the adoption and 
impact of AI across our business, from R&D 
and manufacturing to sales, marketing and 
logistics. We are identifying high-value use 
cases, expediting AI project implementation 

and reducing barriers to AI innovation. Our 
objective throughout is to deliver AI-driven 
results efficiently and responsibly.

For example, AI-driven simulation and 
modelling are enabling us to achieve our 
innovation and sustainability goals within 
R&D and manufacturing. It is also boosting 
productivity by shortening our product 
development lifecycles. As these capabilities 
scale, we will be able to conceive, design and 
prototype a growing number of new products 
in the digital-first world, trialling hundreds of 
different potential variations that simply would 
not be possible without the human–machine 
partnership opportunities that AI offers.

At the same time, we are mindful that the 
nature of this new technology and the speed 
at which these tools are being developed 
can, if unchecked, impact issues such as 
data privacy, biases and content accuracy. 
In 2023, we introduced an AI Tools Policy 
to encourage our people to embrace the 
responsible use of AI tools in the workplace 
so that we may enjoy the productivity 
benefits and creativity they can unlock. 

Generative AI will unlock significant new opportunities 
for Reckitt. By maintaining a strong focus on data 
foundations and quality, we can ensure that this 
technology becomes a true competitive advantage.”

1.  A randomised trial on the effectiveness and safety of five 
water-based personal lubricants. The Journal of Sexual 
Medicine, Volume 20, Issue 4, April 2023, pages 498-506

Filippo Catalano
Chief Information & Digitisation Officer

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS25

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Supply Chain

SPOTLIGHT ON: 
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN

Our supply chain is the operational 
backbone that enables us to 
deliver on our Purpose.

Our priority is to ensure we have the depth, 
agility and resilience to respond to an 
increasingly complex global supply network.” 

Sami Naffakh
Chief Supply Officer

Investing in our supply strategy
During 2023 our global supply chain was impacted 
by macroeconomic issues such as inflation and 
geopolitical instability, causing fluctuations 
in supply and demand. The investments we 
have made in the resilience and flexibility of 
our supply chain enabled us to mitigate the 
impact of these, whilst strengthening our 
relationships with suppliers and customers.

Our investment priorities have been 
underpinned by the four pillars of our supply 
strategy. Each pillar is fundamental to our 
Purpose, the success of our business and the 
returns we generate for our shareholders.

The first pillar ensures we embed care and 
responsibility in everything we do. This means 
protecting our consumers through product quality 
and value, keeping our people safe and managing 
the impact of our activities on communities 
and our planet. This commitment ensures we 
provide our consumers with reliable products 
that are safe and deliver on their brand promise.

Responsibility and care for our people involves 
an immutable commitment to health and 
safety. We continue to strengthen processes to 
safeguard both, whilst recognising that health 
and safety cannot flourish without a genuine 
safety culture, a responsibility and commitment 
we place at the heart of our business.

The second pillar drives operational excellence 
across all supply. Our goal is to build a world-class 
supply function that delivers outstanding customer 
service and excellence in execution to meet the 
needs of consumers and customers, both today and 
in the future. Fundamental to achieving this is the 
excellence programmes we have launched across 
all our supply sub-functions. Through these, we 
have made targeted investments in new technology 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS26

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Supply Chain continued

Throughout, we continue to use our scale 
and reach to influence positive change and 
impact across our value chain. This includes 
promoting supplier diversity, embedding 
measures to help secure sustainable livelihoods 
for our suppliers and increasing the use of 
recyclable and reusable packaging. Each 
of these were key initiatives in 2023 as we 
worked to boost responsible procurement 
and reinforce the sustainability of our supply. 

The third pillar is to deliver a supply chain for 
the future. Here, we have strengthened the 
resilience of our manufacturing by reducing 
mono-sourcing, localising production and 
digitising key components of our supply function 
to ensure we have the network, assets and 
capabilities that will enable our future growth. 

Raw material sourcing is a case in point. Many 
of our products, including Dettol soaps, Durex 
condoms and our infant nutrition formulas, 
are exposed to naturally-sourced agricultural 
commodities. Their supply can be affected 
by geopolitical events, weather and other 
disruptions. Through greater agility and 
flexibility in procurement and by adapting 
our sourcing strategies, we are able to 
mitigate these impacts more effectively.

We have also built greater redundancy into our 
supply arrangements to mitigate risk around 
single-source procurement. This includes infant 
formula, where we have forged alternative 
supply for the US market through our plants 
in Mexico and Singapore. And by developing 
our own supply capabilities, we have in some 
instances moved ourselves up the value 
chain. This includes our VMS category, where 
we are now in-sourcing vitamin and mineral 
blends in our Evansville facility in the US. 

The fourth pillar captures the importance of our 
people to Reckitt’s success. This means investing 
in skills, promoting diversity and fostering an 
inclusive working environment that enables 
our employees to realise their full potential 
and our Company to deliver on our ambitions. 

Each of our people initiatives have been 
supported through a variety of training and 
development resources, including our Future 
Leaders programme, Personal Development 
Plans and a Supply Academy, as well as a 
strong community of experts we have nurtured 
across the Company. These people foundations 
remain important resources as we build on our 
achievements and extend the reach of these 
new capabilities across supply (see page 50).

Sustainable customer partnerships
Our customer relationships are vital to our 
market presence and a source of competitive 
advantage. Strengthening these during volatile 
periods for supply and demand has been a 
key priority for us. This involves continuous 
improvements in forecasting, developing 
tactical solutions to drive better, more reliable 
service levels and strengthening communication 
and engagement to fuel future growth.

In parallel, we have developed an entirely new 
Customer Service Excellence Playbook, which 
we are now rolling out as best practice across 
all our markets and regions. This is a multi-year 
roadmap for achieving best-in-class customer 
service globally. It has aligned our focus and 
driven sustained service improvement, better 
customer engagement and a reduced cost 
to serve, whilst supporting increased sales 
growth and better employee engagement.

to develop our productivity muscle near term 
and boost our competitive advantage long term. 

An example is procurement, where we have 
developed a digital risk management platform 
that enhances our operational resilience by 
identifying and mitigating risks associated with 
the supply of materials. We have also invested in 
advanced market-based analytical capabilities 
to provide our buyers with greater visibility 
on how we can best direct our spending. 

In end-to-end planning, we have redesigned 
our activities from a process, operating model 
and systems perspective in order to improve 
service, optimise our inventory levels and the 
utilisation of our assets and to reduce our costs.

In manufacturing, our Reckitt Production System 
(RPS) is now a key driver of our on-site productivity 
capabilities. RPS is helping us pilot several 
packaging optimisation projects that reduce 
costs, whilst meeting the needs of our customers 
and consumers around sustainable materials.

Our Reckitt Logistics Excellence programme 
is providing new tools, capabilities and 
standards to improve productivity and costs 
in warehousing and transport operations. 
And our Customer Fulfilment Excellence 
programme is improving the way we collaborate 
and serve our customers, whilst optimising our 
internal processes to support their needs.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSSharing this market insight deepens our supply 
partnerships. Our capabilities ensure we 
remain agile in responding to changing market 
conditions and continue to be an attractive, 
competitive buyer, whilst helping us to manage 
risk. The objective throughout is to maximise 
the benefits we can realise through the choices 
we make across supply. This helps us achieve 
sustainable, profitable growth and higher 
returns through faster in-market execution. 

As we progress our digitisation journey, technology 
will be an ongoing enabler of productivity 
and quality benefits through monitoring our 
complex supply chains and identifying potential 
issues and opportunities as they arise.

Continuity and maturity are themes for the 
year ahead as we realise further benefits 
from the investments we have made.

27

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Supply Chain continued

This structured approach places collaboration 
and dialogue at the centre of our customer 
relationships. It involves listening closely to 
customer needs and serving these though a 
partnership that integrates sales and supply 
across our product platform. The benefits are 
mutual: it improves our ability to deliver whilst 
lowering our cost to serve through, for example, 
encouraging more efficient order weights 
and a greater reliance on no-touch orders.

Technology and digitisation
Technology is a key enabler of change across 
our supply chain. The improvements it has 
brought about have in large part been enabled 
through an accelerated digitisation of our 
supply sub-functions.

Our Taicang plant in China is a great example. 
Our newest and largest site in this high-growth 
market, Taicang is equipped with some of the 
most advanced automation technology available 
to create a manufacturing facility that is fully 
digitally native (see case study opposite).

Technology has also played a key role in lessening 
the financial impact of market volatility, whilst 
helping us to mitigate its risks. As a key element 
of our Commodity Risk Management process, 
technology is enabling greater market insight 
through new real-time capabilities in feedstock 
trend analysis, demand-supply evolution and 
historical price data. These are enabling us to 
make smarter decisions in hedging, fixed price 
contracts and forward booking, which in turn help 
us to reduce our exposure to market volatility.

CASE STUDY

Building shared success:  
our Taicang manufacturing plant

Taicang is our fifth, most recent and largest 
manufacturing plant in China. It produces 
Dettol for the people of China, with an annual 
production capacity of 100,000 tonnes. 
Committed as a greenfield site in 2019, 
Taicang was built and operational within 
three years; quite an achievement given this 
period spanned the COVID-19 pandemic.

As a site, Taicang is fully digitally native, with 
some of the most advanced automation and 
systems available. Utilising Reckitt’s global 
Production Management System, the factory 

is equipped with a variety of digital systems 
that empower management with data as an 
asset to drive innovation and development. 

These include Taicang’s Automated 
Storage and Retrieval System warehousing 
technology, which enables us to organise 
the movement of pallets efficiently 
and within a much tighter space than 
traditional forklift racking systems allow. 

By localising the production of Dettol 
and providing us with options on further 
expansion, Taicang is crucial to delivering 
on our growth ambitions in China. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTS28

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Hygiene

HYGIENE

Category Profile1

Geographical Profile1

Our Hygiene business comprises category-
leading brands anchored in our Purpose. 
Each enjoys attractive growth opportunities 
driven by global megatrends and rising 
household adoption. 

  Surface & Disinfection

  Auto Dishwash

  Air Care

  Fabric Additives

  Lavatory Care

  Other

1.  Based on FY23 net revenue

  North America

  Europe/ANZ

  Developing Markets

Our categories

Surface & Disinfection

Auto Dishwash

#1 Globally

#1 Globally

Air Care

Fabric Additives

#3 Globally

#1 Globally

Lavatory Care

Other

We keep raising the bar on 
how we execute and build 
our brands to improve our 
consumers’ lives and grow 
our customers’ categories.”

#1 Globally

HOME

Volker Kuhn
President Hygiene

Market-leading brands with purpose
Our Hygiene portfolio extends over six core 
categories. These include world-class brands that 
lead their markets and enjoy high levels of consumer 
trust. Each is supported by a clear and consistent 
consumer-focused growth model based on driving 
market penetration and brand extension. Our brands 
earn industry-leading margins thanks to the strength 
of their brand equity, our innovation capabilities 
and our ongoing investment in productivity.

What unites our brands is a shared belief in 
hygiene as the foundation of health. The COVID-19 
pandemic underscored the vital importance 
of this, particularly in our crowded cities and 
shared spaces where good hygiene is an 
effective barrier to the spread of infection.

Population growth and mobility, as well as 
global warming, are placing unprecedented 
strains on sanitation and water resources in 
many parts of the world. These are essential 
public health priorities that our brands help to 
address. A growing middle class in these markets 
is driving greater adoption of our brands as 
consumers seek the benefits they provide.

Attractive growth opportunities
Our Hygiene brands have very strong and distinct 
brand equity and benefit from high levels of 
consumer awareness. Yet their global penetration 
remains low, particularly in developing markets. 
Dishwasher ownership is just 13% globally and 
in the UK fewer than one in five households use 
either a sanitiser or stain removal product in their 
general laundry wash. This provides our category-
leading brands like Finish in dishwashing, Lysol in 
laundry sanitisers and Vanish in stain removers 
with significant headroom for growth as rising 
household incomes and growing awareness of 
their benefits drive adoption rates higher.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE29

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Hygiene continued

Our Hygiene portfolio enjoys strong growth 
characteristics. In 2023, our categories saw 
between mid-single-digit and double-digit 
year-on-year market growth. In Surface 
and Disinfection, Lysol is the world’s largest 
disinfection brand and its growth in the most 
recent years has been driven by new household 
penetration and expansion into adjacent 
categories as we leverage Lysol’s brand 
equity through innovation.

The depth of our brand equity in each category 
is rooted in strong consumer trust and loyalty, 
which reflect our commitment to premium 
brands with a reputation for outperformance. 
The result is a profitable portfolio with high rates 
of return and attractive margins. We underpin 
these with a constant focus on productivity and 
the strength of our go-to-market capabilities. 
Coupled with the significant Group-wide 
investments we have made in our supply chain 
capabilities, we are now closer to our customers 
than ever and able to serve them better.

Innovation-led growth
Innovation is critical to our brand success in 
the attractive categories in which we play. Our 
DNA is to create and grow categories through 
consumer-focused innovation that extends 
brands into adjacent white spaces. We delight 
consumers by developing new formulations and 
superior products through a problem-solving, 
solutions-based approach to their needs.

By applying our polymer science expertise 
to the thermoform technology used in 
our Finish dishwasher tablets, we have 
secured significant growth and market 
share gains for our premium Finish products, 
which adopt this surface chemistry.

CASE STUDY

Finish Ultimate Plus: driving 
growth and penetration 
through premiumisation

Auto Dishwash is one of our biggest Hygiene 
categories. It is also one in which our brand Finish 
is the global market leader. Auto Dishwash has 
delivered double-digit compound growth over 
the past five years as we have driven market 
share though innovation and premiumisation.

Five years ago, 95% of our revenue from 
monodose detergents was generated by 
hard-pressed tablets. Since then, we have 
introduced different tiers of premium-
priced thermoformed tablets. Now, around 
two-thirds of the revenue of monodose 
detergent is coming from new technologies.

In 2023, we launched Finish Ultimate Plus, 
our best-performing detergent yet, in Europe 
and the US. 

Finish Ultimate Plus uses our CycleSync 
technology, which phases the release of 
the tablet’s detergents to match the wash 
cycle. Not only does this deliver better 
results, but as with all thermoform portfolio, 
enables consumers to ‘Skip the Rinse’ 
and helps to save many millions of litres 
of water every year across the world. 

Auto Dishwash has enormous upside in 
category penetration. Global dishwasher 
penetration remains at 13% globally and 
is lower still in emerging markets like 
India, China and Brazil where it is less than 
3%. We are actively partnering with the 
leading dishwashing machine brands to 
encourage consumer adoption, both in 
emerging markets and developed ones.

Similarly, two new brand extensions to Air Wick 
helped us to deliver further category growth 
through premium products that attract higher 
pricing per dose. Air Wick’s new Vibrant 
range offers an improved scent experience 
delivered via an anti-fade technology infused 
with more essential oils than our regular 
scented oils. Meanwhile, 24/7 Active Fresh is 
our first aerosol-free spray, which is delighting 
the market with a range of natural-smelling 
fragrances our consumers tell us they enjoy.

Brand extensions like these demonstrate our 
ability to galvanise consumer loyalty to drive 
category growth through innovation that 
extends product performance. Leveraging the 
strength and depth of our science platforms is 
fundamental to this process, providing us with 
market-leading technology and chemistry that are 
enduring sources of our competitive advantage.

Delivering sustainable outcomes
Sustainable business principles are at the heart 
of our Purpose. They find expression throughout 
our Hygiene categories, both in terms of the 
health-based principles we support and the 
environmental impacts we seek to mitigate.

Core to our strategy is developing products that 
deliver superior performance at lower levels of 
resource use, like the CycleSync technology we have 
introduced in Finish Ultimate Plus (see case study).

Premiumisation and sustainability reinforce each 
other as we deliver superior, more sustainable 
solutions that provide us with a greater share of 
the consumer wallet, whilst helping consumers 
to reduce their overall spend on energy and water 
during use. This shares the benefits of innovation 
and secures inherently sustainable outcomes as 
we deepen our consumer value proposition through 
brands with lighter environmental footprints.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE30

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Hygiene continued

Innovation also plays a key role in enabling us to 
reduce the use of virgin plastic in our packaging 
and maximise recyclability of components, 
thereby contributing to progress against 
our sustainability targets (see page 49).

Outlook and ambitions
Our Hygiene business enters 2024 with an 
abundance of opportunity. Our brand leadership 
and innovation capabilities position us well 
to extend the value proposition we offer 
our consumers in categories where global 
penetration rates remain low. 

We continue to reap the benefits of 
investment in our execution capabilities 
through our ability to leverage technologies, 
data, our partnerships and our scale.

Low global penetration rates in many of 
our categories provide us with long growth 
runways for penetration and brand extensions. 
So, too, do opportunities to deepen consumer 
engagement in categories like Air Care, where 
we see in some markets, consumers who buy 
two segments or more spending on average four 
times more than those buying a single product.

CASE STUDY

Vanish Oxi-Action: reducing energy 
use through cooler wash cycles

Vanish is the world’s leading stain remover 
brand. It enjoys a number one position in more 
than three-quarters of its markets. Yet with 
less than 10% global household penetration, 
premiumisation provides us with headroom 
for considerable growth as we innovate and 
extend Vanish’s considerable brand equity.

In 2023, we upgraded Vanish’s stain removal 
capabilities through Vanish Oxi-Action, 
a new formulation that gives better 
performance at cooler 20°C wash cycles 
than with a detergent alone at 40°C. 
A new patented oxi-action catalyst makes 
this possible, enabling even the toughest stains 
to be removed in extreme test conditions 
without the help of high wash temperatures. 
This helps make clothes last longer whilst 
reducing energy use.

As well as helping to drive category 
penetration through premiumisation, 
Vanish Oxi-Action is a great example of 
how we innovate products that deliver 
a strong consumer value proposition 
alongside better environmental outcomes.

Similarly, premiumisation will continue to 
encourage consumers to trade-up to products 
that offer a stronger value proposition at higher 
price points. This includes the Fabric Additives 
category, where an average Vanish user is 
delivering three times the revenue per wash 
compared with one using detergent alone.

A mindset of continuous improvement 
unites our teams and ensures that growth 
through innovation will remain our constant. 
Premiumisation and growing penetration are 
core to our strategy as we look for future 
opportunities to create new categories through 
market-leading brands that our consumers love. 

Throughout, serving consumers and their 
needs is fundamental to everything we do, 
as is delivering the benefits of the cleaner, 
healthier world our brands enable.

See page 42

for details of our 2023 financial performance in Hygiene.

CASE STUDY

Lysol Air Sanitiser: innovating for 
unmet consumer needs

2023 the introduction of a product that 
defines the future of Air Care: Lysol 
Air Sanitiser, a spray that kills 99.9% 
of airborne viruses and bacteria whilst 
eliminating bacterial odours in the air. 

Lysol Air Sanitiser is a first-of-its-kind 
in the Air Care category: an entirely 
new product that combines a sanitiser 
and bacterial odour eliminator in one. 
It epitomises how our science-backed 
innovation enables us to develop new 
products on the shoulders of very strong 
brand equity and consumer trust.

Launching in the US, the product 
reached retail shelves in Q3 to a very 
warm response from customers and 
consumers, with two of its product variants 
reaching the top five Stock Keeping Units 
(SKUs) by rotation in the Instant Action 
category within the first three months.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE31

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Health

HEALTH

Category Profile1

Geographical Profile1

Our Health business brings together 
a portfolio of market-leading brands 
that define their categories and are 
synonymous with day-to-day health 
and wellness needs. 

  North America

  Europe/ANZ

  Developing Markets

  OTC

  Intimate Wellness

  Germ Protection

  VMS

  Personal Care

1.  Based on FY23 net revenue

Our categories

OTC

#2 US in 
Cold & Flu

#2 Europe in 
Analgesics

#1 Globally in 
Sore Throat

#1 Globally in 
Upper GI

Intimate Wellness

Germ Protection

#1 Globally

#1 Globally

VMS

Personal Care

Our brands possess considerable 
equity and continue to earn 
high levels of consumer 
trust, which allow 
them to extend 
into adjacent white 
space opportunities.”

#3 US in Bone 
& Joint Care

#2 US in Brain 
Supplement

#1 Globally in 
Depilatories

Pat Sly
President Health

A portfolio of market-leading brands
Our Health portfolio enables us to deliver 
Reckitt’s Purpose to protect, heal and nurture 
in the pursuit of a cleaner, healthier world.

Ours is a portfolio differentiated by the quality 
of our brands and our geographic footprint. Our 
exceptionally strong brands, including Mucinex, 
Durex, Dettol, Strepsils and Nurofen, offer high 
growth opportunities and an excellent margin 
structure. Combined with our geographic 
diversification, we are well positioned to serve 
a wide range of health and wellness needs.

We are selective about where we play and are 
focused on five key categories: OTC, Intimate 
Wellness, Germ Protection, VMS and Personal Care.

Our brands possess considerable equity and 
continue to earn high levels of consumer trust, 
which allows them to extend into adjacent 
white space opportunities, often crossing 
consumer categories. This horizontal reach 
brings with it an abundance of premiumisation 
opportunities as we extend our relationship 
with the consumer, evolving our brands to 
match their changing needs and behaviours.

OTC
OTC is the biggest category in our Health 
business and enjoys high growth and high 
margins across our sub-categories, including pain, 
gastrointestinal and upper respiratory. Since 2019, 
our OTC business has added over £1 billion in 
net revenue. Innovation continues to extend 
its market reach and we continue to invest in both 
short- and long-term innovation opportunities.

In the US, the extension of Mucinex into 
the treatment of sore throats through the 
introduction of Mucinex InstaSoothe drew 
on scientific expertise from Strepsils. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE32

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Health continued

CASE STUDY

Strepsils investment in increased 
capacity to meet sustained 
high demand

Through investment at Reckitt’s 
manufacturing sites in Nottingham, UK and 
Bangplee, Thailand, we’ve built increased 
capacity to enable us to continue to meet 
sustained high demand for Strepsils. 
This brand has broad shoulders, offering 
significant opportunities for expansion, 
as we’ve seen recently with the launch of 
Strepsils Cough in Australia, which meets 
an additional consumer need through one 
of our trusted, efficacious solutions. This 
mirrors the similar, recent extension of our 
Mucinex category in the US into sore throat 
with the launch of Mucinex InstaSoothe.

It secured a meaningful share of the US sore 
throat category within a year of launch.

Pain is an important sub-category within our 
OTC portfolio. Nurofen continues to offer 
opportunities to expand into white spaces. 
In 2023, we made significant progress in 
establishing Nurofen in some of the most 
attractive adult pain markets in Europe through 
Nurofen Liquid Capsules and are seeing early 
success versus our initial launch targets.

Through our multi-year ‘See My Pain’ campaign 
in the UK, Nurofen has highlighted the gender 
pain gap, with over 50% of women sharing an 
experience of pain being ignored or dismissed. 
Now in its second year, the campaign has 
recently launched ‘PAINPASS’, a tool to enable 
women to have data-centred conversations 
around their pain and its management with their 
healthcare providers. This campaign was shaped 
by extensive research and insights generated 
by our Medical Affairs and Medical Marketing 
teams and continues to build brand equity.

The 2021 acquisition of Biofreeze, a market leader 
in topical pain relief in the US, provided us with 
a brand extension opportunity through a night 
formulation that meets an underserved consumer 
need. During 2023, our launch of Biofreeze in 
France enjoyed early success with consumers 
and continues to build on the successful 
international rollout of the Biofreeze brand.

Intimate Wellness
Durex maintains its position as the global 
market leader in condoms and we continue to 
see growth in our KY portfolio. We have built 
a successful Intimate Wellness business, which 
enjoys significant headroom for growth given 
that our products are currently used in less than 
1% of global sex occasions. 

CASE STUDY

Durex hyaluronic acid-
lubricated condom

Launched in China, Durex Fetherlite is a new, 
premium product which offers a water-
based, hyaluronic acid-lubricated condom 
which delivers an additional consumer 
benefit through the moisturising properties 
of hyaluronic acid. This product was the 
result of an incredibly fast innovation cycle, 
from ideation through to delivery in under 
12 months, and achieved a leading share of 
this segment within its first year in market.

We are continuing to extend our Durex brand 
through a new range of intimate devices, 
which launched in the second half of 2023. 
Our innovation agenda has allowed us to launch 
more premium offerings in our condom and 
lubricants portfolio, which have enabled us 
to cover a range of increasingly premium pricing 
tiers in many markets.

By continuing to invest in our materials science 
platform, we are bringing innovative new products 
to market across our latex and PU condom 
portfolios. We recently launched a new hyaluronic 
acid-lubricated condom in China, Durex Fetherlite, 
which delivers additional moisturising benefits. 

Our Intimate Wellness portfolio in China was a 
strong contributor to sales during 2023. Through 
ongoing innovation and a revitalised China 
strategy, we have seen positive competitive 
momentum in the business and continued 
growth of our PU condoms franchise.

Germ protection
As the number one antiseptic liquid brand globally, 
Dettol is an expansive brand that can traverse 
categories. This has enabled us to extend the 
brand from antiseptic use for cuts and wounds 
to personal care, laundry and the disinfection 
of household surfaces and appliances. Yet with 
around 20% penetration globally, Dettol enjoys 
considerable headroom for further growth, 
particularly in developing markets where 
a growing middle class is devoting greater 
spend to health, hygiene and personal care.

In India and China, we have been particularly 
successful in leveraging Dettol’s brand equity 
into a growing number of new product spaces, 
stretching its reach across home hygiene and 
personal care and enabling us to compete 
in different market tiers. These range from 
soaps and handwash to our premium range 
of Dettol-based bath and shower products. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE33

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Health continued

Together, these deepen Dettol’s brand equity 
and enable us to strengthen our market 
presence through brand extensions. 

VMS and Personal Care
In our VMS category, which includes Neuriva, 
Airborne and Move Free, we continue to focus 
on establishing leading positions in key areas of 
consumer need. The recent launch in the US for 
Neuriva Ultra is designed to deliver mental alertness 
from the first serving and supports seven indicators 
of brain health: mental alertness, reasoning, memory, 
focus, concentration, learning and accuracy. 

Move Free continues to grow in China, where it 
serves a growing number of older people for 
whom pain and joint health are top personal 
health concerns. We see significant, expandable 
equity for the brand and the opportunity to 
deliver increased joint health and additional 
benefit products through further innovation.

In Personal Care, the launch of our Veet Total Pro 
intimate hair removal kit has seen it become a best 
seller on European online platforms. We continue 
to invest in improved formulations across the 
Veet portfolio. Our Veet depilatory products 
enjoy some of the highest consumer repeat 
rates in their category, particularly in France.

Winning through the consumer experience
The consumer’s experience of our brands is 
fundamental to our market success. We focus 
on developing the most effective solutions 
in the categories where we play, and on 
designing products that help consumers 
maximise their ‘health span’: the proportion 
of their life they can live feeling healthy and 
well. Throughout, we leverage a wealth of 
consumer insight and deep science platforms 
to formulate, test and deliver our products to 
the very highest quality and safety standards.

We never lose sight of the fact that our customers 
are the key point of interaction between 
our brands and the consumer. Through the 
strength of our customer relationships, we 
help influence, shape and drive our ambition 
to enable better care for consumers’ health.

We draw on our customer partnerships early 
when developing consumer initiatives designed 
to bring about critical changes in behaviour. That 
was the approach we adopted with Tesco in the 
UK to drive the adoption of refills for our Dettol 
surface cleanser trigger bottle, which not only 
reduced packaging but also provides consumers 
with a more sustainable, better value alternative.

Shaping the digital journey
Digital channels play an important role in shaping 
the customer relationship with our health brands. 
We leverage a wide range of capabilities to 
improve our understanding of consumer needs 
and behaviour, complementing these with 
a variety of fulfilment capabilities that enable 
us to enhance online engagement and sales.

For Intimate Wellness, digital channels are already 
fundamental to our success since they provide 
a more discrete medium through which to 
engage, educate and then fulfil. Nowhere is this 
more so than in China, where this combination 
enabled the market success we achieved with 
Durex PU, and where we continue to invest 
in our live-commerce capabilities to enable 
effective direct-to-consumer operations. 

In other categories, we are continuing to 
scale our e-commerce and digital capabilities 
to cement the brand leadership we enjoy. 
These include Dettol, where we have doubled 
the size of our e-commerce business over 
the last four years to around 20% of sales, 
but still have ample headroom to grow.

CASE STUDY

Dettol laundry expansion 
in Greater China

Through the expansion of our Dettol 
4-in-1 laundry pods into offline channels 
in Hong Kong, and the launch of Dettol 
Washing Machine Cleaner in China, the 
laundry category in the Greater China 
region is now a significant contributor 
to our growth. Dettol products are 
scoring well ahead of rival brands in 
in-store performance across the region 
and Dettol Washing Machine Cleaner 
is performing ahead of expectations.

Here, as elsewhere, we are excited by 
developments in machine learning and AI 
in helping to guide where our brands should 
play. We are already using a wide range of 
consumer datapoints across multiple machine 
learning algorithms to direct our campaigns 
and engagement activities. These are used 
alongside a proprietary marketing return on 
investment capability, offering us a material 
uplift in returns on our marketing spend.

Technology is also improving our execution 
across channels. As we continue to see the 
rise of new ways of shopping, we are using our 
rich data insights to fully leverage AI, including 
its conversational and creative capabilities, to 
develop entirely new experiences for consumers.

Outlook and priorities
Leveraging the leading positions and scale of our 
brands in high-growth categories, we continue 
to build on the momentum we enjoy through 
trusted products that can provide new benefits 
and define new usage occasions. Stretching our 
considerable brand equities to close adjacent 
white spaces with efficacious products will 
remain our focus as we innovate to meet new 
health and wellness needs in a sustainable way.

See page 43

for details of our 2023 financial performance in Health.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE34

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Nutrition

NUTRITION

Category Profile1

Geographical Profile1

Our Nutrition business is dedicated to 
providing the very best science-based 
products throughout the stages of life. 

1.  Based on FY23 net revenue

  Infant & Child

  Specialty

  Other

  North America

  Europe/ANZ

  Developing Markets

Lactum

Our categories

Infant & Child

#1 Globally

Specialty

#1 Globally

Our products are differentiated 
by our clinical, science-based 
approach to innovation and 
an expanding focus on 
specialised nutrition.”

Susan Sholtis 
President Nutrition

A specialised, science-led portfolio
Our infant formula and toddler products 
lead their categories and earn trust through 
an immutable commitment to quality that is 
deeply rooted in our Purpose. We bring that 
Purpose to life through a strong innovation 
and clinical research pipeline that delivers the 
latest in scientific advances to our consumers.

Our Nutrition business comprises some of the 
world’s leading brands in infant and toddler 
formula alongside a growing brand presence in 
adult nutrition. Our products are differentiated by 
our clinical, science-based approach to innovation 
and an expanding focus on specialised nutrition. 

Our leading scientists and Key Opinion Leader 
partnerships enable us to deliver solutions that are 
trusted and respected by parents and healthcare 
professionals (HCPs) alike. This is reflected in 
Enfa’s position as the leading premium infant 
nutrition brand across markets and the number 
one paediatrician recommended product in 
core markets such as the US and Malaysia, where 
infants are able to benefit from the cognitive and 
digestive benefits of our science-backed formula.

Similarly, Nutramigen is the number one global 
brand for cow’s milk allergy and is the only 
product with 75 years of evidence and 
over 100 published studies.

Our brands lead in premium product 
categories globally. Together, they comprise 
a comprehensive portfolio designed to meet 
the increasingly specialised needs of every child.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE35

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Nutrition continued

CASE STUDY

Enfamil: building brains, 
easing tummies

When choosing an infant formula, promoting 
brain health is cited as the number one benefit 
looked for by parents. Digestion issues, 
meanwhile, are a common problem for infants 
and a key reason why parents switch products. 

Tackling both challenges head on, we’ve 
developed Enfamil formulations with key 
nutrients such as MFGM, a naturally occurring 
compound found in breast milk, to combine 
brain and digestion benefits in a single formula.

Our vision is to establish MFGM as a powerful, 
clinically proven ingredient that brings 
our formulas closer to breast milk. 

Like all of our infant nutrition products, 
the development of our customised MFGM 
formulation is science-driven and based 

on state-of-the-art clinical research. This 
includes evidence from our most recent study 
that showed lasting neurocognitive benefits in 
children who had used formulations containing 
MFGM during their first year that were still 
measurable at five and a half years of age. 

By adding MFGM to our superior Gentlease 
product, a partially hydrolysed protein (PHP) 
based formulation, Enfamil Gentlease Neuro 
Pro was able to overcome common digestive 
issues that affect an estimated eight out of 10 
babies fed on formula in their early years, whilst 
also supporting neurodevelopmental benefits.

Launched first in ASEAN and Latin America in 
the second quarter of 2023, and introduced 
in North America during the fourth quarter, 
Enfamil Gentlease Neuro-Pro has met 
with a positive consumer response that 
has helped us to gain market share.

Our success is rooted in a team-based approach 
to clinical excellence and delivery. For 120 
years, our R&D, Medical Affairs and Commercial 
Innovation teams have been pioneers in 
advancing research and innovation to provide 
superior nutrition that nourishes children in the 
early stages of their life. Our credible science 
has meant we have established high levels of 
consumer trust and paediatric recommendation. 
This is a position we never take for granted. 
We recognise trust needs to be earned every 
day and we work relentlessly to meet changing 
nutritional needs through a no-compromise 
commitment to product quality and food safety.

Our long-term growth opportunity
Our share of the core infant formula market 
remains a focus. Yet set against a global trend 
of declining birth rates, we see our long-term 
growth opportunity in specialised nutrition, 
where customisation and premiumisation 
provide us with attractive opportunities 
for innovation and product development.

By extending our categories into these white 
spaces via nutritional categories like digestion 
and allergies, we are driving momentum 
and lengthening our growth runways across 
our markets.

A science-driven innovator
Our science-as-solutions mindset is the inspiration 
behind our formulations that incorporate MFGM, 
a critical component in breast milk linked to 
long-term brain development (see case study). 

Doctors have told us that the science behind 
the benefits of MFGM can change healthcare 
practice by enabling more infants to receive 
benefits from early life nutrition that support 
long-term cognitive outcomes. It is differentiated 
and important benefits like these that have 

CASE STUDY

Enfa A+, CS-Biome: protecting 
early-year health and wellness

Babies born through caesarean section 
could be missing an important step in the 
development of their immune system 
compared to babies born through vaginal 
birth. This is a particular challenge in 
Asia where caesarean section births 
account for up to 40% of births in nations 
like the Philippines and Thailand.

Enfa A+ offers Brain-Immune-Gut (BIG) 
health benefits for caesarean section babies 
by supporting their microbiome with our 
exclusive immune blend, CS-Biome. This 
helps to promote optimal immune system 
function and offer babies the best start in 
life, irrespective of how they were born. 

Working closely with HCPs, Enfa A+ has 
received acknowledgment for its infant 
health benefits, which we have leveraged 
to a broader education campaign that 
promotes awareness of the importance 
of a baby’s microbiome development.

Launched initially in the Philippines in 
July 2023, Enfa A+ uses a differentiated 
formulation, which we’ve integrated into 
our existing manufacturing platform.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE36

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Market Opportunities: Nutrition continued

led us to extend MFGM’s use to our Digestive 
portfolio in brands such as Gentlease.

Elsewhere, we have extended the Enfamil brand 
in Asia with the launch of Enfamil CS-Biome. 
This supports the development needs that 
can arise from childbirth given the greater 
occurrence of caesarean section births in the 
region, which can impact the development of 
a baby’s microbiome and therefore the health of 
its immune system (see case study on page 35).

A differentiated go-to-market model
Our infant formula products have a consumer 
journey that differs to those in our Hygiene and 
Health businesses. Within Nutrition, HCPs play an 
integral role in educating parents on child nutrition 
and recommending the solutions for their needs. 
As channel mediators, HCPs are therefore critical 
to our market success, which means building their 
awareness and trust alongside that of consumers.

We review the latest clinical research continually to 
help improve understanding of how our products 
may be used to meet the specialised nutritional 
needs of infants and toddlers. We provide a 
variety of resources to HCPs, including medical 
education, roundtables and the workshops 
we facilitate with world-renowned experts. 
Our goal throughout is to foster a collaborative 
support environment that is second to none.

The investment we have made in educating 
HCPs on the scientific credibility of our products 
has resulted in our status as the number one 
trusted infant formula in the US; a testament 
to the trust we have established throughout 
this important stakeholder community.

Shaping the consumer journey
Whilst prenatal interactions with HCPs play a vital 
role in our category, the influence of consumer 
research on formula choice is increasing, and 
with it the importance of winning in search.

We are expanding the reach and quality of our 
digital engagement to capture this opportunity 
through content designed to foster consumer 
interactions based on truth, accuracy and 
trust. AI is set to play an increasingly important 
role in this arena by extending our consumer 
reach considerably through individualised, 
authentic and credible content that helps 
us to win in the information journey.

Our mission throughout is to reduce the 
complexity of the communication between HCPs 
and parents in order to strengthen dialogue. 
By bringing both sides closer together through 
engaging digital content, we can help to inform 
decisions and build confidence in choice.

Achievements and priorities
During 2023 the market environment for infant 
formula continued to be influenced by the 
prior year infant formula supply shortages in 
the US, which resulted from the temporary 
closure of a major factory belonging to a 
competitor. These past supply shortages have 
influenced and resulted in an evolving regulatory 
landscape, which we expect to increase both 
ongoing compliance costs and our capital 
requirement for the infant formula business. 

Our US market share is now normalising, following 
an extended period of elevated gains as we 
increased production in order to help feed 
as many infants and children as possible. 

in Estado de México. In 2024, we plan to expand 
the reach of this programme to more schools 
by partnering with Walmart on a campaign to 
install additional rainwater harvesting systems.

Through infrastructure improvements and 
education programmes in schools, we are 
able to support children’s learning and the 
broader community to build a better future. 

See page 53

for more details on our community investments.

CASE STUDY

Keeping children in schools by 
increasing access to water in Mexico

Access to clean water and sanitation is one 
of four global challenges our products seek 
to address. This is a pressing problem in 
Mexico, where it is estimated that four out 
of 10 schools don’t have water available 
every day. In areas with the highest water 
stress and high population concentration, 
access to water in schools can impact class 
hours, student attendance, performance 
and overall learning achievement. 

We’re working with local communities and the 
Agua Capital non-governmental organisation 
(NGO) to increase water availability in the areas 
surrounding Tlalpan, Atizapan and Chiapas, 
the latter being home to cocoa farming 
communities that support our Chocomilk brand.

We’re aiming to positively impact the lives of 
2.4 million people in vulnerable communities 
by generating 116,000 m3 of clean water to 
keep schools open. So far, we’ve installed 
11 rainwater harvesting systems at schools 

Stability in quality supply has been our 
uppermost priority throughout. Our teams 
worked tirelessly to ensure product availability 
was met on retail shelves and in hospitals.

The episode made unprecedented demands on 
our manufacturing platform. Our achievements 
in helping to overcome a nationwide infant 
formula shortage are a testament to the hard 
work, ingenuity and dedication of our teams.

Ensuring we maintain the highest levels 
of quality and food safety will remain our 
overriding priority as we work relentlessly 
to sustain the trust we have earned and the 
market leadership we are privileged to enjoy.

See page 44

for details of our 2023 financial performance in Nutrition.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE37

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Stakeholders

MAINTAINING THE TRUST  
OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS

Understanding the needs and 
expectations of our stakeholders 
is fundamental to our Purpose.

Our business can only grow and prosper 
by acting in the long-term interests of 
our consumers and customers, our people, 
our suppliers, our investors and shareholders, 
and the communities in which we operate. 

Our commitment to ‘Do the right thing. Always’ 
guides us in acting responsibly and with 
integrity, putting people first, seeking out new 
opportunities, striving for excellence and building 
shared success with our stakeholders. For us, 
high standards of corporate governance and 
incorporating stakeholder voices into our decision-
making are central to maintaining that integrity and 
trust, and strengthen our long-term relationships. 

See page 76

for our Section 172 Statement, which explains how the 
Directors have discharged their responsibilities during 
the year under review.

See page 76

for our Section 172 Statement.

By reaching more people in 
more places, we grow our 
business and increase our 
impact. We do that by gaining 
and retaining people’s trust.

OUR CONSUMERS

Putting consumers and 
people first is a guiding 
principle for our business. 

Our consumers want products 
that are safe, effective and 
provide value for money. 
Increasingly, they also want 
reassurance that the products 

they trust are responsibly 
sourced, with consideration and 
care for the people who make 
them and for natural resources

Consumer insight drives 
our innovation programme, 
helping us to provide trusted, 
quality products that help 
meet consumers’ hygiene, 
health and nutritional needs. 

How we engage
Group
–  We sell around 30 million products every day 

and we collect consumer insights through our 
sales teams, supply chain partners, customer 
and consumer teams. Most of our products are 
sold through our retail customers who provide 
us with feedback on consumer priorities 
(see more in Customers on the next page) 

–  Our sensory and consumer science labs 
combine this insight and feedback with 
behavioural analytics to develop superior 
solutions grounded in science 

–  Through our brands, we work to forge emotional 
connections with our consumers by delivering 
products and solutions that meet their needs 
and reflect their values

Board
–  In October 2023, the Board visited the Montvale, 
New Jersey R&D facility to learn more about the 
consumer-focused approach adopted by the 
R&D function

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  We are ranked number 24 out of the top 100 
consumer packaged goods companies in the 
Kantar PowerRanking, which identifies retailers 
and suppliers that set the standard of 
performance (as rated by trade partners)

–  Based on consumer insights, during the year 

we developed and launched Finish Ultimate Plus, 
Air Wick Vibrant, Nurofen Liquid Capsules and 
Lysol Air Sanitiser (read more on pages 28 to 30)

–  We continued our multi-year Nurofen ‘See My 

Pain’ campaign highlighting the Gender Pain Gap 
and launching ‘PAINPASS’, a tool that enables 
women to have data-centred conversations 
with HCPs

–  We simplified the communication between 

HCPs and parents through the use of engaging 
digital content tailored to the information needs 
of each group

–  Our Amazon Climate Pledge Friendly products 
continued to deliver benefits and outperform 
their benchmark by helping our consumers 
discover more sustainable products in our 
ranges and make choices that align with 
their values

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE38

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Stakeholders continued

OUR CUSTOMERS

Our partnerships with 
our retail customers and 
distributors are the way 
in which consumers access 
our products. 

feedback on evolving 
consumer priorities and 
patterns of demand. 
This informs our product 
and service innovation 
programmes and helps us to 
better meet consumers’ needs. 

Aside from the merchandising 
opportunities they provide, 
retailers also offer us vital 

We aim to build strong 
and successful customer 
relationships and partnerships 

founded on common purpose 
that ultimately help us 
to grow our business. 

In turn, we aim to exceed 
our customers’ expectations 
through successful innovation, 
efficient execution and high-
quality products and service 
that help our customers to 
grow their own businesses. 

OUR PEOPLE

Our colleagues collectively 
help fulfil our Purpose to 
protect, heal and nurture 
in the pursuit of a cleaner, 
healthier world. 

We believe in nurturing 
a workplace that supports 
and encourages all colleagues 

to thrive. The talent, skills, 
experience and values 
our colleagues bring and 
continuously develop 
strengthen our organisation.

We engage to build strong 
relationships with our people, 
ensuring an understanding of 
Reckitt’s strategic direction 
and the role that every one 

See page 76

for our Section 172 Statement.

of us plays in contributing 
to our collective success.

In turn, we strive to provide 
an inclusive, fulfilling and 
high-performing workplace 
where everyone has the 
freedom to succeed. 

How we engage
Group
–  We have a Chief Customer Officer for the Group 

who is focused on customer engagement, 
delivering profitable results and accelerating 
sales growth through execution excellence

Board
–  The Board recognises the importance of 

understanding our customers. The recent 
appointments of Tamara Ingram and 
Marybeth Hays strengthen the Board’s 
capability in this area

–  Customer relationships are coordinated globally, 
regionally or nationally through our customer 
service and sales teams. Joint meetings and 
workshops are used to define and build shared 
objectives, both commercial and non-financial, 
agree strategy and action plans, performance 
and growth metrics 

–  We develop joint sustainability business plans 
with many of our customers to help deliver 
on collective goals such as plastics and 
packaging reduction and emissions avoidance. 
Operationally, we provide ongoing support 
through our category, shopper, sustainability, 
channel and format, and regional specialists 

–  We seek to identify strategic synergies, 

promote purpose-led innovation and invest 
in partnerships and networks that deliver 
joint growth

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  Our customers rated us top tier in 42% of our 
markets in the Advantage Group Survey of 
retailers (+260 bps improvement on 2022). 
Specifically, Reckitt Hygiene was ranked 
number one for ‘Best E-commerce Supplier’ 
across all supermarket categories in Australia

–  Reckitt won ‘Best Healthcare Partner’ at the 

Watsons Singapore Health, Wellness and Beauty 
Awards, and Dettol featured as a ‘Must Have’ in 
the Boots Thailand Most Loved Beauty Awards

–  Drawing upon our relationship with Tesco in the 
UK, we worked on consumer behaviour change 
initiatives to drive the adoption of refills for our 
Dettol surface spray bottle

–  Customer Service Excellence Playbook 

developed, which drives sustained service 
improvement, better customer engagement 
and a reduced cost to serve

How we engage
Group
–  Regular global townhalls, hosted by the CEO 
and Global Executive Committee (GEC), 
including live-streamed Q&As plus supporting 
market and function-specific townhalls

–  Annual Global Employee Engagement Survey

–  Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) provide 
a space for underrepresented groups of 
colleagues to connect and support each 
other and share views with the business

–  ‘Always-on’ communication provided through 
our intranet, Rubi, supported by Workplace, 
a more tailored communication platform for 
employees to share updates, insights and news

Board
–  Mary Harris, our Designated Non-Executive 
Director for Engagement with Company’s 
Workforce, maintains regular engagement 
with various employee groups, including the 
Group’s ERGs

–  In October 2023, the Board undertook in-person 
engagement sessions with US employees at our 
Parsippany office 

–  The Board also receives briefings on the Group’s 

annual employee ‘pulse’ survey

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  We hosted nine global townhalls during 2023, 
including three on strategy, performance and 
results, five on wellbeing and allyship, plus our 
annual Global Compass Awards. Around 11% 
of employees attended and/or viewed our 
strategy, performance and results updates, 
with questions raised on a range of topics, 
including ongoing performance, our CEO’s 
priorities and how we are supporting our 
DE&I and sustainability agendas

–  A record 87% of employees took part in 

our annual GLINT employee survey, in which:

•  80% ‘believe in and are inspired by our 
Purpose to protect, heal and nurture in 
the pursuit of a cleaner, healthier world’; 

•  82% indicated they are ‘proud to work 

at Reckitt’, and 

•  78% would ‘recommend Reckitt as 

an employer’, 3% higher than external 
benchmarks and the highest positive 
response recorded to this question since 
we began the survey in 2020

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE39

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Stakeholders continued

OUR SUPPLIERS 
AND PARTNERS

Maintaining long-term 
relationships with suppliers 
and partners helps us to 
protect business continuity, 
drive innovation and deliver 
our Sustainability Ambitions. 

Ensuring our supplier 
relationships are founded 
on high standards helps us 
to drive progress across the 
value chain. From ensuring 
the fair treatment of workers, 
to reducing carbon emissions 
and water use, and protecting 
local ecosystems and nature, 
our engagement is helping to 

build resilience and maximise 
opportunities for all. 

Insights from across the value 
chain help us to understand 
long-term trends, build 
action programmes, guide 
innovation and develop 
expertise and capabilities 
to meet future challenges in 
partnership with our suppliers.

OUR INVESTORS

Investors provide financial 
capital in the form of equity 
and debt, which underpins our 
business and enables us to 
execute our strategy. In return, 
investors expect attractive 
returns through capital 
appreciation, dividends, 
share buybacks or interest. 

Our investment community 
includes current shareholders 
and prospective investors, 
mainly institutional and 
retail, as well as sell-side 
research analysts, investment 
and financing banks and 
ratings agencies. Many of 
our employees form part of 
this shareholder community, 
being shareholders also.

See page 76

for our Section 172 Statement.

Our Investor Relations 
programme promotes an open, 
consistent and transparent 
dialogue, with the aim of 
informing investors and 
market participants of our 
key attributes and strategy. 

How we engage
Group
–  We host regional supplier capability-building 

events in partnership with industry peers, where 
local suppliers are invited to attend and share 
best practice on salient topics

–  We have centralised more supplier relationships 
and procurement activity to monitor supplier 
performance and enable best practice sharing

–  We conduct regular supplier audits based 

on past performance and risk. Where needed, 
we work with suppliers through our capability 
building programme to help improve processes 
and raise standards

–  We engage with HCPs internationally to 

exchange information, share best clinical 
practice and sponsor research. We also 
contribute our expertise to professional journals, 
international symposiums and congresses

–  We collaborate with independent, purpose-
driven entrepreneurs whose objectives 
complement our own

Board
–  The Board receives briefings from the Supply 
function on our key supplier relationships, 
including in the context of progress against 
our wider supply strategy

How we engage
Group and Board
–  We communicate our financial results through 
webinars and management presentations 
to analysts and institutional investors

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  As a member of Manufacture 2030, we are 
helping our co-packers to improve their 
environmental performance, specifically 
emissions reduction and water use 

–  In partnership with Oxfam Business Advisory 
Service, we created a practical toolkit to help 
suppliers develop and implement site-level 
grievance mechanisms. The toolkit was piloted 
with suppliers in India, Pakistan, China, Peru 
and the UK across the manufacturing and 
agricultural sectors

–  We communicate our financial results at our 
Annual General Meeting to retail investors

–  Post results, the CEO and CFO attend 

roadshows to meet with top shareholders 
and prospective investors to discuss our latest 
financial performance and address any relevant 
associated topics 

–  Management and the Investor Relations team 
attend investor conferences throughout the 
year to communicate key messages from our 
most recent financial results and reiterate our 
company strategy

–  We updated our Supplier Balanced Scorecard 
to facilitate more granularity on sustainability 
performance, allowing us to review 
performance and action plans twice a year 

–  We hold ad hoc meetings with investors and 
sell-side analysts to address any strategy, 
operational, Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) and modelling queries

–  We incorporated sustainability metrics into 
our Supplier Vulnerability Tool, a framework 
used to assess supply risk data (including 
sustainability metrics)

–  We host a number of additional investor 

engagement events, including investor dinners, 
sales desks and credit investor updates

–  The Finance Directors of Hygiene and Health 
participated in investor conferences during 
the year

–  Our Global Head of Sustainability participated 
in a number of ESG investment panels as a 
speaker on biodiversity, in addition to hosting 
a biodiversity webinar in partnership with the 
publisher Responsible Investor and supporting 
the launch of the Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) framework

–  Our Chair hosted meetings with key investors to 
discuss the appointment of Kris Licht as new CEO

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  Following extensive outreach to investors by 
our new CEO Kris Licht, through one-on-one 
meetings and attendance at leading bank 
conferences, we updated the market with 
our Strategic Update alongside our Q3 results

–  We reinforced our strategic message: 

we are focused on the continuity of our 
strategy, delivering consistent execution 
and driving sustained value creation

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE40

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Stakeholders continued

COMMUNITIES

From the markets we support 
with our products to those 
at the heart of where we 
operate and source our 
ingredients, the communities 
across our value chain, are 
critical to our goal to make 
a positive impact. 

Our community focus is linked 
to our Purpose and areas 
where we can make the 
biggest impact: access to clean 
water, hygiene and sanitation 
for all; championing sexual 
and reproductive healthcare 
and rights; strengthening 
maternal and child healthcare; 
and improving access to 
healthcare and self-care.

With engaged and empowered 
communities, we benefit from 
long-term market growth 
and resilient supply chains, 
while advancing access to 
the highest-quality hygiene, 
wellness and nourishment. 

GOVERNMENTS, 
NGOS, INDUSTRY 
AND ACADEMIA

We engage with public 
policy makers to protect 
and strengthen our reputation 
and influence policy and 
regulatory development. 

We also work with civil 
society and NGOs on areas 
of common interest to 
identify opportunities where 
collective action can make 
an impact at scale. 

We work with universities 
and industry groups to 
support new innovation 
and process development. 

See page 76

for our Section 172 Statement.

In turn, these forums provide 
valuable research, insights and 
feedback to further strengthen 
our approach and help shape 
wider industry action.

How we engage
Group
–  Together with our partners, we use our 

expertise and global reach to drive measurable 
and sustainable impact in communities aligned 
with our commitment to a cleaner, healthier 
world and our focus on achieving a fairer 
society, while advancing the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals

–  We accelerate social entrepreneurship with 

expert partners, including Yunus Social Business 
and Health Innovation Exchange, by mentoring, 
funding and scaling these businesses

–  We leverage innovative finance and impact 
investments like Water Equity’s Fund IV and 
Watercredit micro-finance loans to help provide 
lasting access to clean water and sanitation

–  We drive behaviour change at scale through our 
leading brands; for example, through Dettol’s 
Hygiene Quest, a gamified school programme 
that educates millions of students each year

–  We work with suppliers and communities in 

our supply network through partners such as 
Earthworm Foundation, to manage our supply 
networks, promote sustainable livelihoods, 
and protect local ecosystems and habitats

Board
–  Through the Corporate Responsibility, 

Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance (CRSEC) 
Committee, the Board is kept updated on and 
monitors our Fight for Access Fund and other 
social impact initiatives

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  Enabling access to hygiene education is a key 
focus for our Dettol, Lysol, Harpic and Napisan 
brands. Our global hygiene campaigns have 
brought high-quality hygiene education to 
35 million people in over 7 countries and 
reduced absenteeism in schools

–  We launched the ‘Empowering our Youth’ 

strategic partnership with the United Nations 
Population Fund (UNFPA) to empower women and 
young people on sexual and reproductive health

–  In collaboration with local partners, through 
commercial incentives and investment in 
training and capacity building, rubber farmers in 
our latex supply chain have reduced their costs, 
built resilience and improved their incomes, 
leading to wider community benefits 

See page 52

for our Social Performance Review.

How we engage
Group
–  We engage with governments and national 

regulators, including the FDA in the US, through 
formal policy consultation processes and 
informally through bilateral engagement 
at formal public-private forums, such as 
the United Nations COP28 and Water Week

–  With NGOs: through global partnership 

programmes with Water.org and our WWF 
partnership, and through local supply chain 
partnerships such as with Earthworm Foundation

–  With industry peers: through trade associations 

including the International Association for Soaps, 
Detergents and Maintenance products (AISE), 
via the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) and the Consumer 
Goods Forum (CGF), and through partnerships 
such as the Climate & Health Coalition, 
facilitated by independent partners

–  We work with the Nature-based Insetting team, 
a spin-off from the University of Oxford, to help 
us understand and measure our impact on 
biodiversity in key supply chains, and the 
University of York on PhDs to support green 
chemistry and product resilience

Board
–  To coincide with the first ever Health Day at 

COP28, the Board held a Listening Session on 
the impacts of climate change on global health. 
Experts from the London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) provided 
the Board with a strategic overview of the 
associated health issues. The session also 
assessed the topic from the perspective of 
the communities Reckitt serves; in particular, 
the health challenges of water scarcity in Mexico 
and the spread of vector-borne diseases in India

2023 outcomes of engagement
–  With our partners, we emphasised the impact 
of climate change on health and collectively 
secured the first ever Health Day at COP28, 
now part of the COP agenda

–  Reckitt’s long-term collaboration with LSHTM 

has advanced hygiene best practices

–  Our ‘Oh Yes! Net Zero’ campaign, which aims to 

make Hull net zero, now has 175 local companies 
from the region, both large and small, signed up 
as members

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE41

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial Performance

A YEAR OF 
PROGRESS WITH 
MID-SINGLE-DIGIT 
GROWTH FOR 
HEALTH AND 
HYGIENE

We grew net revenue, 
increased free cash 
flow and reduced 
leverage, enabling 
us to deliver greater 
returns to shareholders.”

Jeff Carr
Chief Financial Officer

Group net revenue of £14,607 million grew by 
+3.5% on a LFL basis in the year, reflecting price / 
mix improvements of +7.8% and a volume decline 
of -4.3%. Our Hygiene brands delivered broad-
based growth (+5.1%) across our brand portfolio 
with improving volume trends throughout the 
year. Health growth (+5.0%) was led by our 
OTC and Intimate Wellness portfolios, and 
Nutrition declined (-4.0%) as the US lapped 
the prior year competitor supply issue. 

Total net revenue on an IFRS basis was up 
+1.1%, reflecting net M&A impact of -0.3% 
and foreign exchange headwinds of -2.1%.

44% of our Core Category Market Units (CMUs) held 
or gained share, with 47% in Hygiene, 46% in Health 
and 37% in Nutrition (weighted by net revenue). 

E-commerce net revenue grew by +9% in 2023 
and now accounts for 15% of Group net revenue. 

Adjusted gross margin was 60.0% (2022: 57.8%), 
an increase of +220bps, driven by pricing and 
productivity efficiencies – predominantly 
across revenue growth management and 
procurement. These levers more than offset 
inflation of mid-single digits in the year. 

Brand equity investment (BEI) increased by +13.2% 
(+£0.2 billion) on a constant FX basis as we invest 
behind innovation launches and the long-term 
strength of our brands. BEI percentage of net 
revenue was up +130bps to 13.1% (2022: 11.8%). 

Adjusted operating profit was £3,373 million 
(2022: £3,439 million) at an adjusted operating 
margin of 23.1% (2022: 23.8%), -70bps lower 
than prior year, with gross margin expansion 
offset by increased brand equity investments 
and inflation-led cost base increases. When 
excluding the one-off benefits of circa 80bps 
in 2022 related to US Nutrition, adjusted 
operating profit margin grew +10 bps. 

IFRS operating profit was £2,531 million 
(2022: £3,249 million) at an operating profit margin 
of 17.3% (2022: 22.5%). This was impacted by the 
IFCN goodwill impairment of £810 million (2022: £nil), 
reflecting higher interest rates and changes in the 
regulatory environment. 

Total adjusted diluted EPS was 323.4p in 2023 
(2022: 341.7p), -5.4% below 2022 as higher adjusted 
operating profit at constant exchange rates was 
more than offset by adverse foreign exchange 
and a higher adjusted effective tax rate in 2023. 
Total IFRS diluted EPS was 228.7p (2022: 324.7p).

Full year dividend increased by 5% to 192.5p 
(2022: 183.3p) per share, in line with our policy 
to deliver sustainable dividend growth. The final 
proposed dividend is 115.9p (2022: 110.3p) per share.

Free cash flow was £2,258 million in 2023 
(2022: £2,031 million) a +11% increase year on year 
driven by an improvement in net working capital. 

Net debt ended the year 1.9x adjusted EBITDA 
(2022: 2.1x adjusted EBITDA).

Net Revenue 

£14.6bn

£14.5bn as of 2022

Adjusted Operating Profit 

£3.4bn 

£3.4bn as of 2022

Free Cash Flow 

£2.3bn 

£2.0bn as of 2022

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE42

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial Performance continued

HYGIENE

Hygiene net revenue grew +5.1% on a LFL basis 
to £6,135 million for the full year. Innovation-led 
pricing and favourable mix (price / mix +11.1%) were 
the key drivers partially offset by volume decline 
of 6%. Importantly, our volume trend substantially 
improved quarter by quarter throughout the year. 
Net revenue growth was broad-based across all 
major brands delivering positive LFL net revenue 
growth and total Hygiene market share momentum 
improving in Q4 driven by continued momentum 
in Auto Dish (Finish). We successfully launched 
innovations in most categories that improved 
consumer delight, delivered more premium 
solutions for our consumers and grew penetration, 
in line with our category growth strategy. 

47% of Core Hygiene CMUs (weighted by net 
revenue) gained or held share during the year. 

Within Auto Dish, our market leading brand 
Finish, grew low-double digits LFL net 
revenue and grew market share driven by the 
successful launch of our new super premium 
tier, Finish Ultimate Plus All-in-One, delivering 
more superior solutions to consumers and 
driving premiumisation in the category. 

Lysol returned to growth in the year driven by 
strengthened brand equity and the broadening 
of the brand’s shoulders with continued 
strong growth in Laundry Sanitiser expanding 
household penetration and the recent creation 
of the Air Sanitisation category with the 
launch of Lysol Air Sanitisers in the US, the 
first and only antimicrobial product approved 
by the EPA that kills 99.9% of airborne viruses 
and bacteria while eliminating odours. 

42% 

of Group net revenue

Adjusted operating profit for Hygiene at 
£1,236 million was up +4.7% on a constant FX basis 
and +1.8% on an actual basis. Adjusted operating 
profit margin was 20.1%, down -30bps. Strong 
gross margin expansion was offset by increased 
investment behind innovation launches and brand 
building initiatives, and inflation-led fixed costs. 

FY 2023 Net Revenue

£6,135m

Adjusted Operating Profit1

£1,236m

Adjusted Operating Profit Margin1

20.1%

Volume

Price/Mix

LFL1

Net M&A

FX

Actual

-6.0%

Constant FX (CER)1

+11.1%

Actual

+4.7%

+1.8%

Actual

-30bps

+5.1%

–

-2.2%

+2.9%

1.  Adjusted measures are defined on page 223

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE42% 

of Group net revenue

43

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial Performance continued

HEALTH

Health net revenue grew +5.0% on a LFL basis to 
£6,062 million for the full year. This reflected price / 
mix improvements of +5.3% and volume decline 
of -0.3%. 

cold & flu season in Q4 2022. Mucinex added a 
new medicated throat spray to its InstaSoothe 
product range, further extending its presence 
in the $1 billion US sore throat market. 

46% of Core Health CMUs (weighted by net 
revenue) gained or held share during the year. 

Our OTC portfolio grew low-double digits on a LFL 
net revenue basis behind a combination of both 
volume and price / mix growth. Nurofen, Strepsils, 
Gaviscon and Biofreeze all grew-double digits, 
driven by innovation launches, premiumisation 
and pricing actions, brand whitespace expansion 
(Biofreeze Overnight Relief in the US and Nurofen 
Liquid caps into a number of European markets), 
as well as some retailer inventory rebuilding in 
Europe in Q1. Mucinex delivered low-single-digit 
growth which laps a very strong and earlier 

Intimate Wellness delivered high single-digit 
growth in the year. Growth was broad-based 
across Europe, following the rebranding of 
the product range during 2022. Our portfolio 
in China benefited from the end of COVID-
related lockdowns and innovation, including 
Durex Fetherlite, our new hyaluronic acid 
condom with water-based lubricant providing 
a natural moisturisation experience. Growth 
was also strong across LATAM, and India 
where we increased total distribution points 
share during the year by around +400bps. 

Dettol declined mid-single digits in the year, with 
a mixed performance across markets. A number 
of markets delivered growth and market share 
gains, underpinned by innovations, including an 
extension of Dettol Cool in India, Dettol Washing 
Machine Cleaner and Dettol Laundry Pods in China. 
However, growth was offset by declines in ASEAN 
due to category weakness and specific in-market 
challenges. The actions taken during the second 
half of the year to address these challenges 
have driven an improved performance in Q4. 

Adjusted operating profit for Health at 
£1,690 million was up +6.3% on a constant FX 
basis and +2.5% on an actual basis. Adjusted 
operating margin was 27.9%, an increase of 
+40bps, with gross margin expansion more than 
offsetting increased investment behind our 
brands and inflation-led fixed cost increases. 

FY 2023 Net Revenue

£6,062m

Adjusted Operating Profit1

£1,690m

Adjusted Operating Profit Margin1

27.9%

Volume

Price/Mix

LFL1

Net M&A

FX

Actual

-0.3%

Constant FX (CER)1

+5.3%

Actual

+6.3%

+2.5%

Actual

+40bps

+5.0%

-0.6%

-3.2%

+1.2%

1.  Adjusted measures are defined on page 223

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE44

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial Performance continued

NUTRITION

Nutrition net revenue declined -4.0% on a LFL basis 
to £2,410 million for the full year. Volume declined 
-10.0% due to the lapping of peak market shares 
in the US from the competitor supply shortage in 
the prior year and category-led volume declines 
in LATAM and ASEAN. Price / mix improvements 
were +6.0% with pricing actions partially offset 
by more normalised trade conditions in the US. 

37% of Core Nutrition CMUs (weighted by net 
revenue) gained or held share during the year. 

IFCN US net revenue declined high-single digits 
on a LFL basis in the year with non-WIC market 
shares rebasing during the second half as we lap 
the prior year competitor supply issue. Throughout 
the year, we maintained our leading volume and 

16% 

of Group net revenue

value market share position in the non-WIC stage 
1-3 segments where we operate. Our Enfamil 
brand remain the number one recommended 
infant formula by paediatricians in the US. 

Our Developing Markets business declined 
mid-single digits with category-led volume 
declines partially offset by premiumisation and 
growth in both the specialty and adult segments. 
A reduction in our transitional service arrangement 
(TSA) contract manufacturing volume relating 
to our disposed China business, contributed 
around 60bps to the year-on-year decline. 
LATAM grew mid-single digits, offset by market 
challenges across certain ASEAN markets. 

Adjusted operating profit for Nutrition at 
£447 million was down -22.4% on a constant 
FX basis and -22.5% on an actual basis. 
Adjusted operating margin was 18.5%, down 
-460bps, reflecting the year-on-year volume 
deleverage as we lap the competitor supply 
issue in the US, and negative mix as we lose the 
benefit from WIC sales in states where Reckitt 
does not hold the government contract.

Product liability claims have been filed against 
the Group’s Nutrition business relating to 
Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC). More details on 
this matter are included in Note 20 on page 190.

FY 2023 Net Revenue

£2,410m

Adjusted Operating Profit1

£447m

Adjusted Operating Profit Margin1

18.5%

Volume

Price/Mix

LFL1

Net M&A

FX

Actual

-10.0%

Constant FX (CER)1

+6.0%

Actual

-22.4%

-22.5%

Actual

-460bps

-4.0%

-0.1%

+0.5%

-3.6%

1.  Adjusted measures are defined on page 223

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE45

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial Performance continued

The following section should be read in conjunction with the full-year financial review from page 41 
and the alternative performance measures section from page 223.

Group operating profit
Adjusted operating profit was £3,373 million (2022: £3,439 million) at an adjusted operating margin of 
23.1%, 70bps lower than the prior year (2022: 23.8%). Excluding the one off benefit of c.80bps in 2022 
relating to US Nutrition, adjusted operating margin was 10bps higher than 2022. This increase was driven 
by higher gross margins, 220bps higher than 2022 from productivity efficiencies and pricing. This gross 
margin leverage was offset by higher BEI, 130bps higher than 2022 as we have invested behind our 
innovation launches and the long-term strength of our brands, and higher fixed costs, 160bps higher than 
2022 due to inflation led cost base increases. Adjusted operating profit in both 2023 and 2022 included 
the favourable effect of adjustments to trade spend and operational accruals, certain of which were 
subject to significant estimation uncertainty when initially recorded.

Late in the year end close process we identified, through our ongoing compliance procedures, 
an understatement of trade spend in two Middle Eastern markets related to the fourth quarter and 
prior quarters of 2023. As a result, full year net revenue was £55 million lower than previously expected 
which is fully reflected in the FY 2023 results (adjusted operating profit impact of £35 million).

IFRS operating profit was £2,531 million (2022: £3,249 million) at an IFRS operating margin of 17.3% 
(2022: 22.5%). IFRS operating profit in 2023 was impacted by a goodwill impairment charge of £810 million 
relating to IFCN (2022: £Nil), reflecting higher interest rates and changes in the regulatory environment, 
(see Note 9). IFRS operating profit in 2022 was impacted by a charge of £152 million from impairment 
of goodwill relating to the acquisition of Biofreeze. 

Net finance expense
Adjusted net finance expense was £247 million (2022: £256 million). Adjusted net finance expense 
in 2023 benefited from foreign exchange gains on certain financing liabilities (compared with losses 
in 2022), which offset the effect of higher interest rates in 2023 as compared to 2022. 

IFRS net finance expense was £130 million (2022: £161 million). The lower net finance expense under 
IFRS is principally due to £130 million of translational foreign exchange gains resulting from the liquidation 
of a number of subsidiaries to simplify the Group’s legal entity structure (2022: £69 million).

Tax
The adjusted effective tax rate (ETR) was 25.2% (2022: 21.9%). The 2022 ETR benefited from a higher level 
of reassessment of uncertain tax positions following progress on and conclusions of tax authority audits.

The IFRS tax rate was 31.4% (2022: 23.2%). The IFRS ETR in 2023 is higher than the adjusted ETR due to 
the non-deductible impairment of IFCN goodwill offset by the benefit from largely non-taxable gains on 
liquidation of subsidiaries. The IFRS ETR in 2022 benefited from a higher level of reassessment of uncertain 
tax positions following progress on and conclusions of tax authority audits, and largely non-taxable gains 
on sale of E45 and foreign exchange gains on liquidation of subsidiaries. 

Discontinued operations
The Group recognised a profit from discontinued operations of £9 million (2022: £7 million loss), 
in relation to the Group’s disposal of the RB Pharmaceuticals business (now Indivior plc).

Earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted diluted EPS was 323.4 pence (2022: 341.7 pence), a decrease of 5.4% as higher adjusted 
operating profit at constant exchange rates was more than offset by adverse foreign exchange 
and a higher adjusted ETR in 2023. 

IFRS diluted EPS was 228.7 pence (2022: 324.7 pence). 

Balance sheet
At 31 December 2023, the Group had total equity of £8,469 million (31 December 2022: £9,483 million).

Current assets of £5,302 million (31 December 2022: £5,285 million) increased by £17 million as lower 
inventories and lower corporation tax receivables were offset by higher cash and cash equivalents 
and higher assets held for sale.

Current liabilities of £8,338 million (31 December 2022: £8,341 million) decreased by £3 million. The decrease 
principally relates to lower trade and other payables, together with lower current tax liabilities and current 
provisions. These decreases were offset by the share repurchase liability in relation to committed 
purchases under the share buy-back programme. 

Non-current assets of £21,834 million (31 December 2022: £23,457 million) primarily comprise goodwill 
and other intangible assets of £18,588 million (31 December 2022: £20,203 million) and property, plant 
and equipment. The decrease in goodwill and other intangible assets of £1,615 million is predominantly 
due to the strengthening of sterling reducing the value of foreign currency denominated assets and 
the impairment of IFCN goodwill.

Non-current liabilities of £10,329 million (31 December 2022: £10,918 million) decreased by 
£589 million principally due to the strengthening of sterling reducing the value of foreign currency 
denominated liabilities.

Net working capital
During the year, net working capital decreased by £56 million to negative £1,479 million. Net working 
capital as a percentage of 12-month net revenue is -10% (31 December 2022: -11%) mainly due to lower 
trade payables and lower inventories.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE46

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial Performance continued

Cash flow

Adjusted operating profit
Depreciation, share-based payments and gain on disposal of fixed assets 
(net of proceeds)
Capital expenditure
Movement in working capital and provisions
Cash flow in relation to adjusting items
Interest paid
Tax paid

Free cash flow
Free cash flow conversion

585
(449)
(21)
(45)
(263)
(922)

2,258
97%

521
(443)
(408)
(38)
(209)
(831)

2,031
83%

Free cash flow (FCF) is the amount of cash generated from continuing operating activities after net 
capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets. Free cash flow 
reflects cash flows that could be used for payment of dividends, repayment of debt or to fund 
acquisitions or other strategic objectives.

Free cash flow of £2,258 million increased by £227 million or 11%. Free cash flow conversion improved 
by 14 percentage points to 97% as the benefit from working capital was only partially offset by higher 
tax and interest paid. 

Net cash generated from operating activities has increased by £239 million to £2,636 million 
(2022: £2,397 million). 

Net debt

Opening net debt
Free cash flow
Share buyback
Purchase of ordinary shares by employee share ownership trust
Shares reissued
Acquisitions, disposals and purchase of investments
Dividends paid to owners of the parent company
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
New lease liabilities in the period
Exchange and other movements
Cash flow attributable to discontinued operations

Closing net debt

31 Dec 2023 
£m

31 Dec 2022 
£m

(7,984)
2,258
(207)
(2)
48
(80)
(1,339)
(8)
(44)
76
(8)

(7,290)

(8,378)
2,031
–
–
54
220
(1,249)
(35)
(134)
(500)
7

(7,984)

31 Dec 2023 
£m

31 Dec 2022 
£m

3,373

3,439

At 31 December 2023, net debt was £7,290 million, a decrease of £694 million from 31 December 2022, 
as continued strong free cash flow was used to pay down debt and enabled higher capital returns through 
dividends (£1,339 million) and the new share buy-back program (£207 million). Net debt was 1.9x adjusted 
EBITDA at 31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: 2.1x).

The Group regularly reviews its banking arrangements and currently has adequate facilities available to it. 
The Group has committed borrowing facilities totalling £4,500 million (31 December 2022: £4,500 million), 
£4,450 million of which expire after more than two years, which are undrawn at year end. The Group 
remains compliant with its banking covenants. The committed borrowing facilities, together with cash 
and cash equivalents, are considered sufficient to meet the Group’s projected cash requirements.

Dividends
The Board of Directors recommends a final 2023 dividend of 115.9 pence (2022: 110.3 pence). The 
ex-dividend date will be 11 April 2024 and the dividend will be paid on 24 May 2024 to shareholders on 
the register at the record date of 12 April 2024. The final 2023 dividend will be accrued once approved 
by shareholders. 

Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)
ROCE in 2023 was 12.5% (2022: 13.2%), a decrease of 70bps from 2022, due to a lower Net Operating 
Profit after Tax (NOPAT) as a result of the higher adjusted tax rate.

Capital returns policy
Reckitt has consistently communicated its intention to use its strong cash flow for the benefit of 
shareholders. Our priority remains to reinvest our financial resources back into the business, including 
through value-adding acquisitions, in order to deliver sustainable growth in net revenue and improving 
earnings per share over time. 

In managing the balance sheet, we intend to maintain key financial ratios in line with those expected of 
an A-grade credit-rated business. This will broadly define acceptable levels of leverage over time. As we 
reduce leverage we will return surplus cash to shareholders as appropriate. In October 2023, our strong 
free cash flow generation and healthy balance sheet enabled us to announce a £1 billion share buy-back 
programme over the following twelve months. 

Growing the dividend is a long-term goal of the business. The Board’s dividend policy aims to deliver 
sustainable dividend growth in future years, subject to any significant internal or external factors. 
Accordingly, the 2023 dividend was increased by 5% in line with this objective. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE47

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review

DELIVERING OUR 
SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS

Our 2030 Sustainability Ambitions 
are an integral part of our business 
strategy and support long-term 
resilience and growth. They act to 
bring our Purpose to life: to protect, 
heal and nurture in the pursuit 
of a cleaner, healthier world.

Our sustainability activity is focused on three 
pillars of activity: innovating Purpose-led brands, 
enabling a Healthier Planet and contributing 
to a Fairer Society. These focus our work on 
delivering a cleaner, healthier world whilst 
contributing to our business resilience and 
growth. Our approach aims to create impact 
for society and impact for our business. 

Our business and brands help solve some of 
the world’s biggest challenges. Our portfolio 
is uniquely placed to support hygiene as a 
foundation for health, to enable self-care, support 
sexual health and wellbeing, and nutrition at all 
stages of life. Each of our brands contribute to 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
and create impact through their innovation 
programmes and consumer engagement 
activities that support change in the home. 

Collectively, the positive social and environmental 
impacts we create help advance the broader aims 
of the UN SDGs. Whilst we contribute to many of 
the goals, we believe we can make the biggest 
impact on five that are most closely connected 
to our brands and our social impact partnerships: 

Focusing on what’s material
During the year, we reviewed our approach to 
double materiality against the requirements of the 
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive 
(CSRD) and the latest guidance from the European 
Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG). 
This, along with external research, benchmarking 
and input from key stakeholders, has formed 
the basis of our updated double materiality 
assessment, the details of which we will disclose 
in our 2024 Annual Report and Accounts.

PURPOSE-LED BRANDS

See page 14

for our Sustainability Ambitions progress overview.

We are increasingly aware of the connection 
between planetary and public health, 
socioeconomic resilience and shared 
prosperity. Enabling and strengthening 
hygiene, health and nutrition, together with 
safeguarding the planet, are critical to our 
business resilience and long-term success.

More sustainable products
Our portfolio of brands help solve everyday 
problems and do so at scale, with around 30 million 
products sold around the world every day. 

We are committed to ensuring sustainability is front 
and centre of our brands’ purpose and product 
innovation whilst maintaining superior efficacy. 
This is reflected in our ambition to achieve 50% net 
revenue from more sustainable products by 2030. 

Alongside this, we are also aiming to achieve:

–  50% reduction in our product carbon footprint 

by 2030 versus 2015

–  50% reduction in product water footprint 

by 2040 versus 2015

–  50% reduction of virgin plastic in packaging 

by 2030 versus 2020

Our Sustainable Innovation Calculator, 
a streamlined product lifecycle assessment 
tool, evaluates the environmental impacts of 
our products by measuring five metrics: Carbon, 
Water, Plastics, Packaging, Ingredients and 
Chemistry. The outputs from the calculator 
are used to guide decision-making at a project 
level, enabling our product developers to make 
informed decisions on sustainability indicators, 
aligned with delivering our commitments.

In 2023, we have seen a marked improvement 
in sales from more sustainable products, with 
29.6% of net revenue generated from these as 
measured by our Sustainable Innovation Calculator, 
an uplift from 24.4% in 2022. This improvement 
reflects more sustainable innovations reaching 
the marketplace, and better use of our Calculator 
on new and existing product development 
across all GBUs. 

See pages 15-18 

for more about our brand innovations.

See pages 22-24 

for more about our Scientific Innovation 
programme and outcomes.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE 
48

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

HEALTHIER PLANET

See page 14

for our Sustainability Ambitions progress overview.

Net zero across our value chain
We have a holistic set of science-based targets 
to help tackle climate change and achieve 
net zero by 2040:

–  Reduce our product carbon footprint by 50% 

by 2030 versus 2015

–  Reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 

by 65% by 2030 versus 2015

–  Achieve 100% renewable electricity by 2030

Emissions reduction and energy use
Our product carbon footprint includes emissions 
across the whole value chain (Scopes 1, 2 and 
selected Scope 3). During 2023, we improved the 
stability of our model, enhancing the methodology 
and strengthening the approach. This process 
has resulted in our 2015 baseline being restated 
at 10.6 million tCO₂e (previously 11.1 million tCO₂e). 
Using the updated methodology, our 2023 product 
carbon footprint was 9.1 million tCO₂e, a 13.5% 
reduction on our 2015 baseline. Further information 
on this is available in our Basis of Reporting 
Criteria at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub.

Our approach to reducing our Scope 3 emissions 
is to focus on the largest emitting categories. Raw 
materials and packaging account for over half of our 
carbon footprint and 25 key raw materials comprise 
80% of our ingredients footprint. We have begun 
working with our suppliers to reduce the carbon 
emissions associated with these categories. In some 
cases, we will switch to low carbon alternatives 
and our R&D team is evaluating options for this 
while maintaining the safety and efficacy of our 
products. Downstream logistics makes up another 

significant proportion of our footprint and we are 
evaluating low carbon road- and sea-freight options.

Emissions information¹

In our operations, we continue to meet and 
exceed our target to reduce emissions from our 
manufacturing and warehousing operations, 
achieving a 67% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
emissions against our baseline. We have developed 
plans and targets for carbon reduction across 
our manufacturing sites which are reviewed 
monthly by our Supply Chain Leadership 
team. Specifically, we focus on optimising 
high carbon manufacturing processes and 
exploring options for asset replacement. 

We source renewable electricity and are evaluating 
alternative options and replacements for our 
thermal energy needs. 94% of the electricity 
purchased and consumed by our sites is renewable 
through a combination of on-site generation and 
renewable energy certificates. We are progressively 
implementing power purchase agreements (PPA) 
to reduce the use of renewable energy certificates.

In partnership with Manufacture 2030, we continued 
to work with our contract manufacturers through 
our Supplier Environmental Performance programme 
to measure, track and help progressively reduce 
their emissions. This included the launch of the 
‘FMCG Vertical’ campaign in March 2023, where 
we, along with other peer companies, promoted 
shared data provision and action planning. This 
simplifies environmental performance activity for 
both the suppliers involved and their customers. 

See our ESG data book

for more detailed emissions and energy data and the 
methodologies used to calculate this information.

See pages 218-222

for our Climate-related Financial Disclosures and 
TCFD statement.

Metric 

Scope 1 emissions 

Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 

Scope 2 emissions (location-based) 

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market-based) 

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (location-based) 

Unit 

tCO2e 

tCO2e 

tCO2e 

tCO2e 

tCO2e 

Scope 3 emissions (excluding indirect consumer use) million tCO2e

Scope 3 emissions (including indirect consumer use) million tCO2e

2022

2023

(restated)*

2022

115,705+

121,467

121,275

8,902+

9,450

9,448

241,600+

241,968

237,471

124,606

130,917

130,723

357,304

363,435

358,746

9.2

37.6

9.5

36.7

13.0

40.0

Total product carbon footprint  
(excluding indirect consumer use)2

Total product carbon footprint  
(including indirect consumer use)2

million tCO2e

9.1+

9.5

13.0

million tCO2e

37.3+

36.7

40.0

0.04

0.008

0.04

0.04

0.009

0.009 

Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity (market-based)  
– tCO2e per tonne of production3 

– tCO2e/£m revenue

Energy consumption resulting in  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions 

MWh 

1,220,968+

1,278,934 1,278,643

Proportion of energy consumption from UK operations  % 

Proportion of Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 
UK operations 

% 

10

12

11

11

11

11

+  Assured by ERM CVS as part of limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance 

Engagement ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 for Greenhouse Gas data issued by the International Auditing and Assurance 
Standards Board. The assurance report, along with the principles and methodologies we use in our reporting, can be found 
online at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub

1.  We report on emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 

Regulations 2013 and the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) requirements covering the 2023 reporting year 
(1 January–31 December). Emissions have been calculated in line with the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol – Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
(revised edition). Our GHG emissions and energy data includes emissions and energy consumption from operations covered 
by the Group Financial Statements for which we have operational control 

2.  Our total product carbon footprint includes Scope 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 emissions. 
3.  The scope of our GHG emissions per tonne of production covers manufacturing and warehousing. Including R&D and offices 

the GHG emissions intensity per unit of production in 2023 sites only was 0.04 tCO2e

*  Restatements: prior year Scope 1 and 2 data has been restated as a result of site divestments, and updates to local energy 
conversion factors and the International Energy Agency GHG emission factors. Prior year Scope 3 data has been restated 
as a result of methodology improvements

Full details on the calculation methodologies are available in our Basis of Reporting Criteria online at www. reckitt.com/reporting-hub. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE 
49

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

CASE STUDY

Flue2Chem: cross sector collaboration 
to tackle net zero

Reckitt has joined forces with a number 
of businesses, universities and NGOs 
in the pioneering Flue2Chem project, 
spearheaded by Unilever and the Society 
of Chemical Industry. The project aims to 
cut CO2 emissions by converting industrial 
waste gases into chemicals to create 
more sustainable consumer products.

It focuses on the potential to capture 
the carbon created as a byproduct of 
industrial processes, such as steel or paper 

manufacturing, and converting this into 
an ingredient that can be used in cleaning 
products for brands such as Dettol. This 
not only helps to tackle greenhouse 
gas emissions but also promotes a 
circular economy, recognising the value 
and potential of waste materials while 
reducing our reliance on fossil fuels.

Flue2Chem represents an opportunity 
to progress our journey towards a 
cleaner, healthier world. If successful 
and adopted at scale, Flue2Chem could 
cut 15 to 20 million tonnes of carbon 
dioxide emissions in the UK each year. 

Foundation 
Industries emit 
valuable CO2

CO2 is 
captured

CO2 is converted into key 
intermediates used widely in 
the chemical industry

Intermediates 
converted into 
surfactants

Surfactants are 
formulated into cleaning 
products and coatings.

Energy efficiency measures
When we set our science-based targets for 
emissions reduction in 2020, improving our 
energy efficiency was an important step in 
delivering a 65% carbon reduction. Since then, 
changes to our business structure and product 
mix alongside ensuring our purchased electricity 
is from renewable sources, has reduced the 
significance of energy efficiency on our carbon 
emissions. We remain focused on energy efficiency 
improvements for cost purposes, but the original 
target is no longer as relevant for decarbonisation. 
Instead, we are targeting gas efficiency and 
alternative thermal energy to reduce emissions.

As a result, progress towards our energy efficiency 
target has slowed and this year we reduced 
energy use per tonne of production by 4% against 
our baseline. We are still aiming to improve energy 
efficiency, with its associated reduction in energy 
costs, but with many projects having longer 
pay-back periods, absolute carbon reduction will 
remain the focus of our attention.

Plastics and packaging
By 2030, we plan to halve our use of virgin plastic. 
Our ambition is for all our plastic packaging to 
be recyclable or reusable by 2025, with at least 
a quarter coming from recycled materials.

During the year, we reviewed our Post-Consumer 
Recycled (PCR) plastic inclusion rates against 
our targets and planned activity. Progress to 
date is slower than anticipated at 5%. To help 
accelerate the inclusion of more PCR in our 
packaging, the GEC approved an additional 
financial commitment. This will support our work 
to increase PCR across many of our Hygiene and 
Health brands, focused on key packaging formats 
where the majority of plastic is used, and help 

1

correct our trajectory towards our target of 25% 
recycled content in plastic packaging by 2025. 

In addition, we’re working with Recyclass and 
other industry experts and associations to 
ensure we have access to the latest recycling 
guidelines, and in-country collection and 
recycling information. This enables our teams 
to design for recycling right from the start of 
a project. The guidance extends beyond plastic 
to other materials, ensuring we’re equipped 
with the knowledge to make the right choices 
in product design and development. 

We continue to make progress in reducing our use 
of virgin plastic. For example, Dettol’s new surface 
cleaner refill in the UK enables consumers to refill 
their original bottle and trigger packaging and 
results in 75% less plastic versus buying another 
750ml Dettol trigger bottle. Looking ahead, 
we’re investing in polymer science and research 
to find the solutions for our products which will 
help us deliver our reduction target by 2030.

See reckitt.com/reporting-hub

for more on Plastics and Packaging.

Reducing waste in our operations 
During the year, we reduced waste in 
manufacturing by 18% versus 2015, keeping 
us on track to achieve our 2025 target of a 
25% reduction against our baseline. All of our 
manufacturing sites have now achieved zero 
waste to landfill, with new waste management 
and disposal systems in our US Nutrition sites 
(previously the only remaining sites using landfill).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE50

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

Water stewardship
Our ambition is to halve our total product 
water footprint by 2040 versus 2015. Where 
we operate in water-stressed areas (17 sites) 
we aim to be water positive by 2030.

Our Sustainable Innovation Calculator encourages 
the design of products that reduce water 
consumption across the value chain. Volume and 
product mix changes have led to our product 
water footprint increasing by 9.9% versus our 
baseline. However the expansion of our Calculator 
across all parts of the innovation process has 
resulted in an improvement versus 2022. 

In the near term, our focus on driving water 
reduction has centred around our operations and 
the catchment areas we are part of, especially in 
water-stressed locations. Our progress on water 
reduction in our operations remained relatively 
static versus last year, with small improvements 
driven by production efficiencies, water treatment 
recovery, cleaning optimisation and water recycling. 
The return on investment from water saving 
projects is low given the relative price of water 
but within water-stressed locations it remains a 
key part of our water strategy for resilience in the 
long term. This extends to our catchment area 
work. Our Hosur site in India became our first water 
positive site in 2022 and we are advancing similar 
projects in our other water catchments of focus, 
near Mysore in India and in Mexico and Pakistan, 
partnering with local NGOs and governments 
to support communities and our sites there.

Biodiversity and nature-based solutions
We have committed to developing ecosystem 
protection and regeneration programmes 
with nature-based solutions in our key value 
chains by 2030. Our focus is on the areas 
where we can have the most impact, and our 

priority commodities include rubber, palm 
oil, natural fragrances, dairy and timber.

We have been a contributing member to and 
early adopter of the TNFD, whose framework 
helps companies identify nature-related 
dependencies, risks and opportunities. 
During the year, we participated in a pilot of 
the scenario modelling guidance focusing on 
our latex supply chain (see case study). 

To measure the biodiversity impacts of our 
activities on local ecosystems we are taking a 
science-based approach, developed over the 
last two years in collaboration with the Nature-
based Insights (NbI) team, a spin-off from the 
University of Oxford. This enables us to quantify 
both positive and negative impacts, assess 
potential interventions and understand which 
will have greatest impact. The outcomes are 
helping to shape new ways of working with 
suppliers and farmers that support sustainable 
development. Our partnerships with smallholder 
rubber farmers in Thailand for example, facilitated 
by our partner Earthworm Foundation, encourage 
good agricultural practices, protecting the 
ecosystem and strengthening productivity.

We work with a number of partners to help 
regenerate ecosystems and deliver social 
benefits, including the Earthworm Foundation’s 
palm landscape programmes in Indonesia and 
Malaysia. With WWF, our work on critical river 
systems in the Amazon and Ganges basins has 
helped strengthen the aquatic ecosystem by 
preventing pollution and with demonstrable 
impact on local wildlife. This supports the water 
catchment area of our sites and the sourcing 
regions we depend on for our ingredients.

See our Sustainability Report

online at reckitt.com/reporting-hub.

CASE STUDY

Applying the TNFD framework to our 
latex supply chain in Thailand

Reckitt relies on a range of ecosystems 
to supply ingredients, including rubber 
for latex condoms, palm oil for soaps, and 
natural fragrances. Our sustainable sourcing 
programme is designed to help protect and 
support these ecosystems with nature-
based solutions that can also help mitigate 
risks such as climate change. This, in turn, 
can have a positive social impact for local 
communities. Our suppliers and farmers are key 
stakeholders in protecting these ecosystems.

During the year, Reckitt’s Sustainable Sourcing 
team, in partnership with NbI, piloted the TNFD 
LEAP framework in our latex supply chain to 
establish a baseline of our current impact and 
identify the potential areas affected by latex 
sourcing. The Surat Thani landscape in Thailand 
was chosen for analysis due to its high levels 
of biodiversity and its importance in supplying 
rubber for our Durex brand. It is also the 
location of our existing partnership programme 
with Earthworm Foundation, which builds 
the capacity of local farmers in the region.

NbI’s analytical approach has helped us to 
identify areas under stress and focus our 
resources where we can have the most impact. 
Using the framework, NbI also conducted 
a deep dive into deforestation and water-
related risks. In addition, Earthworm identified 
the impact of high market prices for durian, 
a tropical fruit to which some rubber farmers 

were switching. Durian is generally produced 
with higher levels of fertilisers and pesticides, 
and unlike rubber requires irrigation to farm. 
Further land use change of rubber landscapes 
to durian therefore represents a risk to the 
intensity of local water demands and could 
reduce the long-term biodiversity and carbon 
gains made by mature rubber plantations.

Reckitt and NbI’s work in Thailand is one of over 
200 test cases to use the TNFD framework. 
Together we are working with local farmers 
and stakeholders to shape targets that are 
economically viable and bring a positive 
climate, biodiversity and social impact to the 
region. We are building a network to evolve 
the model that we have used in Surat Thani and 
we are aiming to extend this methodology to 
other key commodities in Reckitt’s supply chain, 
including palm oil in Indonesia and Malaysia.

See the TNFD guidance

on tnfd.global for more detail.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE51

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

FAIRER SOCIETY

See page 14

for our Sustainability Ambitions progress overview.

We are committed to enabling a fair, diverse 
and inclusive society as an employer and across 
our value chain.

Our people
Leveraging diversity
Our cultural diversity is a key strategic 
capability, harnessing diversity of thought 
to drive our performance. With over 40,000 
people from 125 different nationalities 
operating across 68 countries spanning six 
continents, we closely reflect and represent 
the consumers and communities we serve. 

Building a culture of inclusion
Our ambition is to build a business where 
every one of our colleagues feels able to 
be their authentic self as they contribute to 
our collective performance, that our brands 
reflect this value and support inclusion within 
the markets we serve, and that we set clear 
standards for the partners and businesses 
we work with throughout our value chain.

See pages 19-21

See page 38

for more on Our People.

Gender diversity
We aim to achieve gender balance at all 
management levels by 2030.

Board Directors

9 (60%)

6 (40%)

GEC and Direct Reports

64 (71%)

26 (29%)

Senior manager roles

400 (66%)

202 (34%)

All management roles

7,983 (49%)

8,294 (51%)

All employees

19,931 (55%)

16,120 (45%)

  Male 

  Female 

1.  Diversity data is taken as of 31 December 2023 for 
active Reckitt employees (excluding contractors)
2.  ‘All management’ includes: Executive Committee 

Member, Group Leadership team, Senior 
Management team, Middle Manager, Manager

3.  79 persons with undisclosed gender
4.  Further information on methodology for calculating 
diversity performance is available in our Basis of 
Reporting Criteria at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub

Developing our people
On-the-job learning and continuous development 
take place throughout the year. All employees 
have a formal annual performance review against 
business objectives. This is also a chance to discuss 
ongoing personal development plans, career 
ambitions and potential to take on different roles.

We continue to invest in a range of learning 
and development programmes and following 
feedback from colleagues have rejuvenated 

our approach to personal development. Reckitt 
colleagues now have access to a new learning 
platform which offers personalised development 
options based on role, function and career 
aspirations. Aligned to our 10 functional academies 
and LinkedIn’s Learning library, colleagues 
are able to drive their own development 
using the format that works for them. 

Since launch in April 2023, our LinkedIn Learning 
library had 9,500 active Reckitt users at the year-
end with a total of 14,898 learning hours (2hr 20 
minutes average training hours per person). 

Of our 10 functional learning academies, the 
Reckitt Marketing Academy was our champion in 
2023. Targeted at Reckitt marketing professionals, 
the Marketing Academy facilitates online and 
face-to-face learning and integrates a learning 
culture within the business operating model.

–  The online platform achieved an impressive 
89% participation rate, with 2,286 people 
registered across 58 markets

–  70+ countries now have a marketing 

upskilling plan

–  70 learning courses are available with an 
average 4.3/5 satisfaction score and the 
platform received Bronze for ‘best technology’ 
at the Learning Technologies Awards 

In terms of our Group leadership development 
programmes, we ran:

–  15 Accelerate/Advanced Accelerate inclusion 

focused programmes for high-potential women; 
the highest we have ever run in a year

–  7 Explore sessions for our purpose focused 
leadership programme for senior leaders, 
including two session in Amsterdam, two 
in the US, one in Malaysia and two in the UK

–  5 Global Commercial Future Leadership Potential 
programmes to spot and develop high-potential 
senior leaders of the future

In addition, our ‘Good to Great’ programme 
for high-potential leaders aspiring to global 
management positions or GEC/functional 
leadership roles had 37 people this year; 
a record number and investment. 

Supporting livelihoods
Reckitt has been an accredited Living Wage 
Employer in the UK since 2020. A living wage 
goes above and beyond the minimum wage 
and reflects the real cost of living. Having 
extended this commitment across our global 
markets in 2023, we now pay all our employees 
above the Fair Living Wage thresholds, as 
defined by the Fair Wage Network. We are 
also committed to paying a Fair Living Wage 
for all our contractors, interns and trainees. 

In 2023, we completed an assessment to identify 
if any Fair Wage gaps existed and, where they 
did, put plans in place to rectify through mid-year 
adjustments and our annual pay review process. 

See pages 100-136

for our Remuneration Report.

Our Sustainable Livelihood Framework goes 
beyond wages to also capture broader work 
on providing a safe working environment 
that promotes health and wellbeing, equality, 
employment rights, long-term financial 
security, and skills development to support 
ongoing career development for our people. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE52

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

In 2023, our Framework was expanded to 
include key Water, Sanitation and Hygiene 
(WASH) metrics. The metrics were developed 
to ensure that all of our facilities provide people 
with access to sufficient, free, safe water that 
meets required quality standards; access to 
sufficient personal hygiene and hand washing 
facilities; and adequate, improved, convenient 
toilet facilities (as per the WHO definition of 
adequate and improved). We are pleased to 
report that all of our facilities met these criteria. 

Enabling a fairer society across our value chain
Our global supply chain extends across 70 
countries. We work with manufacturing partners, 
distributors and various other organisations, 
from rural farms to multinational raw material 
and packaging material suppliers. 

Our focus over the past 12 months has been:

–  Expanding the scope of our sustainability 
programmes to identify and tackle human 
rights and environmental challenges by 
engaging more categories of indirect suppliers 
and distributors

–  Deploying effective remediation where 
we identify cases of modern slavery and 
transparently report our findings and actions

–  Supporting suppliers to implement 

effective site-level grievance mechanisms 
using the toolkit developed with Oxfam 
Business Advisory Service to enable grievances 
to be raised and effectively addressed close 
to source

–  Looking beyond audit to actively identify and 
address potential human rights impacts before 
they materialise

–  Enhancing our sustainable sourcing activities 
within our palm oil and latex supply chains to 
enable a healthier planet and deliver sustainable 
livelihoods and working conditions

–  Ongoing collaboration and partnership through 

industry associations and forums, such as 
AIM-Progress, the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative (PSCI) and the Consumer Goods Forum, 
to promote human rights and build sustainable 
solutions that make a tangible difference to 
tackle systemic issues such as modern slavery

We are committed to protecting human rights 
and use impact assessments and action plans 
in our key value chains and top 10 priority 
markets to monitor and drive improvement. 
Having completed our first Human Rights 
Impact Assessment of our Durex and Enfa 
brand value chains in Thailand, this year we 
completed an assessment of our Brazilian 
operations (see case study right). Using a tool 
developed with the Danish Institute for Human 
Rights together with our own knowledge and 
insights, we have identified a further eight 
priority markets in which we plan to conduct 
human rights impact assessments by 2030. 

During the year, we also continued our 
programmes of risk-based supplier audits, 
helping to strengthen labour standards in our 
supply chain. We complement these audits 
with a supplier capability programme to raise 
awareness, knowledge and skills of our suppliers 
on labour standards and human rights issues. This 
joint approach continues to improve standards 
within our supplier network and we report on this 
in more detail in our Modern Slavery Statement. 

See our Sustainability Report

online at reckitt.com/reporting-hub. 

CASE STUDY

Assessing human rights 
impacts in Brazil

As part of our commitment to protecting 
human rights across our value chains, we 
carry out human rights impact assessments 
to understand the actual and potential 
impacts affecting a particular market or 
geography. These assessments help us 
to create locally relevant action plans to 
drive improvement for our stakeholders. 

In 2023, we completed an assessment 
of our operations in Brazil, covering the 
value chains of our Olla condoms, SBP’s 
Aerosol Pesticides, and Veja’s Multipurpose 
Cleaners. It took into account consumers, 
our employees, tier 1 suppliers and workers 
in the raw material supply chain. 

It also identified several potential human rights 
issues, related to systemic issues in Brazil. 
These are areas of strength for Reckitt where 
we have programmes and strategies in place. 

We have identified three key areas where 
Reckitt can continue to drive improvements 
in our operations, across our value chain and 
for the communities where we operate: 

–  Continuing to take a leadership position 
on diversity, equity and inclusion matters

–  Working with local suppliers to ensure 

the responsible sourcing of raw materials 

–  Increasing access to intimate wellness 
products and information on sexual 
health in disadvantaged and lower 
income communities

The findings acknowledged the positive impact 
we are having through our purpose-led brands. 

See our Sustainability Report

at reckitt.com/reporting-hub for more detail 
on our human rights programmes.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE 
53

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

Our communities
We aim to reach half the world with our purpose-
led brands, engage two billion people through 
our programmes, partnerships and campaigns, 
and have a measurable, positive impact on 10 
million people by 2030. We have already exceeded 
this goal, impacting 18 million people to date.

We have set a target that at least 50% of 
our beneficiaries should be women. In 2023, 
we helped to progress this ambition through 
our support for initiatives such as the Climate 
Gender Equity Fund and Women in Innovation 
Fund (WiNFUND), which both support the 
scale-up of women-led grassroots innovation. 
An example from the WiNFUND, which is 
focused on healthcare, is CHIL AI Lab in Uganda, 
which leverages AI to extend specialised and 
affordable disease prevention and management 
services to women in remote areas.

We see our role as a catalyst to driving lasting, 
positive impact in communities. We drive 
systems change by leaning into the positive 
power of business and do what we do best: 

–  Driving behaviour change at scale via our 

market-leading brands. Examples include Dettol 
Hygiene Quest in partnership with Roblox that 
has engaged over five million children in 2023 
in the metaverse 

–  Scaling the social economy by supporting 
social entrepreneurship via mentorship 
and capacity building

–  Leveraging innovative finance to create lasting 

impact in communities 

1.  Clean water, sanitation and hygiene: We strive 
for universal access in communities around the 
world. In 2023, we enabled access to improved 
water and/or sanitation solutions for more than 
331,000 people in India, Indonesia and Kenya 
through our partnership with Water.org. 
Since 2018, this partnership has enabled lasting 
access to WASH for more than two million 
people. In 2023, to address critical capacity 
challenges in scaling up this programme, Reckitt 
invested $2.4 million into WaterEquity’s Global 
Access Fund IV, which seeks to increase access 
to a further 240,000 people by supporting 
financial institutions in emerging markets to scale 
their water and sanitation microloan portfolios.

2. Sexual health and rights: We empower women 

and young people to know their sexual rights and 
protect their sexual health. In 2023, Reckitt and 
Durex launched the ‘Safeteen First’ programme 
in partnership with UNFPA in Thailand and Mexico, 
which aims to positively impact 700,000 people 
by 2026 by reducing prevalence of STIs and 
unwanted teenage pregnancies through 
changing behaviours, breaking stigmas and 
increasing condom use.

3. Maternal and child health: We support mothers 
and infants to have the best start in life. In 2023, 
for example, our partnership with Wellbeing 
Foundation Africa in Nigeria connected with 
25,835 pregnant and lactating mothers to educate 
on critical hygiene practice to prevent infection. 

Our social impact investments are critical 
to furthering our fairer society goal to 
measurably impact 10 million people by 2030. 
This work is funded via our Fight for Access 
Fund, which totalled £31.4 million in 2023. 

See our Social Impact Report

online at reckitt.com/reporting-hub.

One of those enterprises is Kusini 
Water, based in South Africa, which 
utilises waste macadamia nut shells and 
nanotechnology to build water filtration 
systems that remove 99% of disease-
causing bacteria, parasites and debris. 

Kusini Water was able to reach an 
additional 8,000 people with clean water 
within six months of the acceleration 
period ending. It is also now working to 
implement clean water systems in a further 
13 schools across rural South Africa. 

Kusini Water alongside its Reckitt mentor, 
Deroosha Naidoo, was the subject of the 
‘Climate and Us’ film produced for Reckitt 
by BBC Storyworks Commercial Productions 
and presented by the Global Climate 
and Health Alliance at COP28 in UAE. 

CASE STUDY

Accelerating social entrepreneurship

We believe we can have the greatest 
impact when we work as a catalyst for social 
innovation, harnessing the positive power 
of business, our brands and our people. 

By accelerating the growth of health and 
hygiene social businesses, we can leverage 
the multiplier effect and address the access 
gap whist also unlocking economic growth, 
creating jobs and reducing poverty. And by 
working with entrepreneurs that inherently 
understand the needs of their communities, 
we can reach people with solutions that work.

In partnership with Yunus Social Business, 
we are providing innovative WASH social 
enterprises with the support they need to 
scale: capacity building, expert mentorship 
from Reckitt people and seed funding. 
We have done this so far in Brazil, South 
Africa and more recently, Nigeria. 

In South Africa and Brazil, six months from 
the close of the acceleration period, the 
12 enterprises reported the following: 

–  A 56% increase in the total number of 

full-time employees 

–  A 12x increase in the number of people 
positively impacted by their business 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE54

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability Performance Review continued

NON-FINANCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION STATEMENT

We are committed to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.

Relevant policies and risk management processes

Environmental 
matters 

Employees

Human rights

Our Environmental Policy sets out our objectives for reducing our environmental impacts. It requires compliance with relevant legislation, consideration of environmental 
issues in key decisions, and engagement with multiple stakeholders for better environmental performance which is monitored through our Group Environmental 
Management System. Our Supply Chain Leadership team routinely monitors environmental performance, including progress on our climate ambitions through our 
operational change carbon emissions programmes. These are also reviewed at Business Unit, Group and Board level on a quarterly basis. Our Sourcing for Sustainable 
Growth Policy sets out Reckitt’s human rights, health and safety, environment and sourcing requirements for all business partners. The policy details six responsible sourcing 
principles that drive us to conduct business with honesty and integrity, respect human rights, provide a safe and healthy working environment, use safe and sustainable 
ingredients, source raw materials responsibly, protect the environment and reduce environmental impact. The policy applies to Reckitt employees and third parties. 

Reckitt’s Code of Conduct governs standards of conduct in relation to our employees, as well as our stakeholders. All employees must complete code of conduct training 
and are encouraged to refer to the code frequently to ensure the right decisions are made. In addition, Reckitt has policies committing to equal opportunities at work and to 
providing a safe and healthy working environment. Health and safety performance is monitored through our Group Occupational Health and Safety Management system, 
enabling us to investigate any incidents and take any necessary action. We have a Speak Up policy and process, allowing any employee or third party to confidentially report 
a violation of the Code of Conduct, local law or regulation, or unethical behaviour. 

Social Performance 
Review, page 51

Our People, 
pages 19-20, and 38

Respecting human rights is an absolute and universal requirement and through our Code of Conduct we set out our commitment to respecting the fundamental human 
rights defined in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Labour and Human Rights Standard sets out the requirements and practices expected of our supply chain. 
Our Sourcing for Sustainable Growth Policy (see above) also encompasses principles of the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also follow the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Our Supply Chain Leadership team monitors our human rights and labour standards assessment programme 
on a monthly basis, while these are also reviewed at Business Unit, Group and Board level on a quarterly basis.

Social Performance 
Review, page 52

Our Suppliers, 
page 39

Additional information

Environmental 
Performance 
Review,  
pages 48-50

Social and 
community 
matters, including 
consumers

Reckitt’s Product Safety Policy describes our approach to safety assurance for products, covering product development; monitoring in-use safety and feedback from users; 
and reacting promptly and effectively to mitigate potential harm. In addition, our Responsible Marketing Policy covers the full marketing lifecycle of our products and applies 
to all marketing communications touchpoints and channels. It applies to everyone at Reckitt and external parties. We perform ongoing audits and adherence checks on policy 
implementation. We also monitor consumer, customer and employee feedback on an ongoing basis, through our consumer care lines or our Speak Up Line. 

Anti-bribery 
and corruption

Our policy is that all Reckitt companies, employees and contractors must comply with the anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws of all countries in which they 
operate. Directors and managers must ensure that the employees and contractors they supervise are aware of and comply with this policy. All employees and contractors 
must certify annually that they have complied with our Code of Conduct, and the Audit Committee reviews internal audit findings in relation to this. 

Emissions information

Social Performance 
Review, page 51-53

Our Stakeholders, 
pages 37-40

Page 48

Climate-related financial disclosures

Our climate-related financial disclosures can be found on pages 218-222 and are incorporated into the Strategic Report by reference

Diversity information 

Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes

Principal risks and impact of business activity 

Description of business model 

Non-financial key performance indicators

Risk Management, pages 55-56  |  CRSEC Committee Report, pages 96-99

Page 51

Pages 57-60

Page 12

Pages 13-14

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE55

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management

RISK MANAGEMENT 
AT RECKITT

Taking and managing risk is essential 
to operating and growing our business 
safely, effectively, and sustainably.

Our approach to risk management
Our Risk Management Framework provides 
a consistent approach to risk management 
across the organisation and facilitates the timely 
communication of risks to ensure the right people 
at the right level are managing the right risks.

Risk management process
We embed risk management at multiple levels 
of the organisation. Our framework ensures 
risks are identified, assessed, mitigated and 
monitored in an effective and consistent 
way and supports information flow and 
open communication between the GEC, 
GBUs, our functions, markets and sites.

Our Group Risk team facilitates the risk 
management process throughout the year. 
This ensures that we are appropriately prioritising 
our efforts and resources to manage our risks. 
The Group’s risk profile along with key mitigations 
and action plans are reported throughout the 
year, providing the GBU Leadership, GEC and 
Board with an enterprise-wide view of risk.

Risk governance
The Board provides oversight over our principal 
risks and the Audit Committee monitors the 
overall effectiveness of our risk management 
and internal controls framework.

Board oversight is achieved through several 
mechanisms which include reviews of strategic 
programmes, Committee meetings and 
focused reviews into selected risk areas.

The Group and GBU Risk, Sustainability & 
Compliance Committees (RSCCs) support the GEC 
in its oversight role. These are embedded within 
the governance structure of the organisation, 
with escalation between committees as needed. 
They meet quarterly to review, challenge 
and monitor risk management activities.

Ownership and accountability for the management 
of principal risks resides with the GEC. There is 
an accountable owner for each principal risk.

Our Risk Management Framework is aligned 
with the Three Lines of Defence model, which 
assigns roles and responsibilities for risk and 
control across line management, oversight 
functions and independent assurance providers.

Board
and
Committees

bjectives
gic o
Strate

Core
functions

GEC

Enterprise level
risk management 

C

o

m

m

u

n

i

c

GBUs

Continuous 
process of risk 
review and 
management

a

t

e

a

n

d

e

s

c

a

l

a

t

e

Sites, regions
and programmes

Operational level risk management

Roles and
responsibilities 

Policy and 
process 

Tools and
training

Enterprise Risk Management Framework

Risk appetite
The Board interprets risk appetite as the level of 
risk that the Company is willing to take to meet 
its business objectives. The Board’s appetite for 
risk is communicated to the organisation through 
our strategic and business planning process and 
control frameworks. The Board recognises that not 
only does risk mitigation need to be proportionate 
to the benefit gained, but also carefully balanced 
with a degree of flexibility to support Reckitt’s 
dynamic and entrepreneurial culture.

In assessing risk appetite, the Board reviews the 
three-year business plan and associated strategic 
risks. Risk appetite for specific financial risks such 
as funding and liquidity, credit, counterparty, 
foreign exchange, interest and commodity risk are 
set out in the Board-approved Treasury policies. 
Compliance with our safety standards and our 
legal and regulatory requirements is mandatory.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE 
 
56

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management continued

Emerging risks
Emerging risks and horizon scanning are integrated 
into our risk management process and provide 
a forward-looking view of major trends that 
have the potential to impact the business across 
a longer time horizon (>three years). We are 
currently monitoring a number of emerging risks.

The impact of industry on nature and biodiversity 
is a growing area of interest and emerging 
risk, both in terms of resilience of supply 
chains and the impact of growing regulatory 
frameworks. With this in mind, we have developed 
programmes to prevent deforestation, support 
water resources in areas of water stress and 
act to prevent pollution from manufacturing 
operations. We have also developed biodiversity 
impact monitoring systems that steer activity 
in key value chains. These help us introduce 
activity to mitigate impact on biodiversity and 
will support our emerging reporting against the 
guidance from the TNFD, to which we have been 
a contributing member for the past year. This 
complements our activity on climate change 
and reporting against the guidance of the TCFD, 
given climate change is frequently a driver of 
nature-related issues. For more information on 
our response to TCFD, please refer to page 218.

The emergence of generative AI tools presents 
new opportunity for how we work across all areas 
of the Company. However, the nature of this 
new technology and the speed at which these 
tools are being developed has the potential to 
impact data privacy, accuracy and reliability. Our 
Information Technology & Digital (IT&D) and Legal 
teams are working closely to ensure that any AI 
tools utilised across the organisation are fully risk 
assessed, with appropriate actions taken where 
necessary, and that our policies (e.g. AI Tools 
Policy) are adopted and regularly updated. 

Developments in disruptive science and 
technology may impact some of the categories 
in which we operate, such as the traditional cold 
and flu category. Our R&D and Science teams 
actively engage with the scientific community 
to stay abreast of leading developments 
in science, medical and regulatory affairs, 
and the impact of emerging technology.

Finally, we continue to see consolidation across the 
sector, with increasing levels of competition for 
acquisition targets. Our Corporate Development 
team, which is responsible for identifying, 
evaluating and executing on Reckitt’s global 
M&A opportunities, partners closely with each 
GBU to actively manage our portfolio and 
undertake competitive screening activities.

Our principal risks
The Group’s principal risks represent the 
most significant risks facing the Group and 
arise from one or a combination of internal 
or external factors. The Group’s risk profile 
is reviewed biannually, with risks assessed 
across a timeline of up to three years.

During the year, we undertook a review of our 
principal risks to make them more focused 
and specific to our business. This included re-
evaluating their potential impact and likelihood. 
The 10 listed are assessed as being the most 
material risks to the Group. Four risks previously 
reported fell below this threshold, and whilst 
they will continue to be managed in the same 
way, they have not been reported in detail here. 
These risks are Employee Health and Safety, 
Tax Disputes, Commercial, and People. 

O perational

6

7

1

9

4

Strategic

8

5

10

C

o

m

p

l
i

a

n

c

e

2

3

Remote

Possible

Likely

Highly likely

Likely
Likely

Possible

Remote

Principal risk

1. Cyber Security

Principal risk

6. ESG Transition

2. Changes to Product Regulations

7. Product Safety

3. Legal and Compliance 

8. Innovation

Speed
of impact 

Years

Months

Weeks

Days

Financial
impact 

Minor impact

Signiﬁcant 
impact

Major impact

4. Supplier Disruption

9. Reliance on Key Manufacturing Sites

5. Geopolitical Instability

10. Economic Volatility

Severe impact

Other key changes to the principal risks include:

–  Supply Disruption risk has been split into 
two more specific supply-related risks, 
Supplier Disruption and Reliance on 
Key Manufacturing Sites, to provide greater 
focus on these two key areas of our supply chain

–  Sustainability has evolved to ESG Transition 
in response to the changing regulatory 
environment and the growing ESG reporting 
agenda. This risk includes the work being done 

to understand the impact of climate risk and 
respond to our climate-related disclosures

–  Product Quality and Product Safety have been 

merged to create a Product Safety risk, 
reflecting the close interdependencies 
between these two areas

–  South Korea Humidifier Sanitiser (HS), which has 
been managed as its own principal risk for a 
considerable period, has now been subsumed 
within the Legal and Compliance principal risk

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE57

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management continued

Key

OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS

   Sustainable mid-single- 
digit growth

   High gross  
margin business

   Brand  
Investments

   Adjusted operating profit growth  
ahead of net revenue growth

   Strong cash flow and  
healthy balance sheet

   Capital Allocation  
Framework

The risks listed in this section and the activities being undertaken to manage them should be considered in context of the Group’s internal control framework described in the Corporate Governance statement on 
page 78. Each of our principal risks has been linked to Our Strategy. For more information refer to page 11. 

Risk

What is the risk?

Examples of how we are managing the risk

Mitigation progress this year

1  Cyber Security

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
Increasing

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

2  Changes to Product 

Regulations

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
Increasing

Oversight Committee: 
CRSEC Committee

A cyber security incident that could 
compromise the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of critical IT systems, 
and the data held on them, within our 
own network or that of a third party. 
Such an attack could impact our ability 
to manufacture and/or move products, 
resulting in a material impact on our 
market value and reputation.

This risk is heightened as we become a 
more digitally-enabled and data-driven 
Company with greater connectivity 
and mandatory internal and external 
compliance obligations to protect 
our customers, suppliers, consumers 
and critical business processes.

Failure to identify, assess and proactively 
respond to new or changing regulations 
or emerging detection methodologies 
impacting our products could result in 
increased regulatory scrutiny, costly 
product reformulations or product 
recalls, potential litigation and the license 
to sell a product being removed. 

–  We operate a Group-wide cyber security control 

framework, aligned with industry standards, including ISO 
and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 
This includes security controls and active monitoring across 
our factory environments to ensure we identify and manage 
any vulnerabilities

–  We undertake regular horizon scanning and threat 
detection activities, perform penetration testing 
and work closely with our third parties and partners 
to manage cyber risk.

–  Mandatory Cyber Awareness training is rolled out to all 
employees across the Group as part of our compliance 
training programme

–  During the year, we have seen cyber threats continue 
to rise. In response, we have continued to strengthen 
our governance and controls through the Cyber Security 
programme. This has included a campaign to raise 
awareness of cyber security across the organisation 
and ensure business-critical systems are supported 
by disaster recovery plans

–  We have launched a multi-year programme to strengthen 

security and resilience across our factories, including 
against cyber threats

–  Our Regulatory Intelligence programme proactively 
identifies new or changing regulations and trends 
in enforcement practice

–  Regulatory Affairs and Safety (RAS) works closely with 
the business to assess and respond to new regulations 
impacting our existing portfolio of products

–  Our Ingredient Steering Group monitors regulatory 
developments, reviews classification changes and 
completes impact assessments

–  We work closely with external regulators, engaging 

with them to advocate on any new or pending product 
regulations where it is feasible to do so

–  We have consolidated our Regulatory Operating model 

to reduce complexity

–  We have completed nitrosamine assessments for all 

products in line with regulatory requirements

–  We have strengthened our REACH compliance programme 
with enhancements to our systems, processes and data

–  We continue to strengthen our claims substantiation and 

have put in place long-term initiatives to establish corporate 
data standards and oversight to improve our data quality 
and availability

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE58

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management continued

Key

Risk

3 

Legal and 
Compliance

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
Increasing

Oversight Committee: 
CRSEC Committee

4  Supplier Disruption

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

5  Geopolitical 
Instability

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
Increasing

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

   Sustainable mid-single- 
digit growth

   High gross  
margin business

   Brand  
Investments

   Adjusted operating profit growth  
ahead of net revenue growth

   Strong cash flow and  
healthy balance sheet

   Capital Allocation  
Framework

What is the risk?

Examples of how we are managing the risk

Mitigation progress this year

We operate in multiple jurisdictions which 
creates a complex regulatory environment. 
A serious violation of competition, 
anti-corruption, human rights or data 
protection legislation or economic sanctions 
within our operations or our supply chain 
could result in significant fines, penalties 
and reputational damage.

A number of products are manufactured and 
sold in litigious jurisdictions, which increases 
the risk for potential class action and mass tort 
litigation that could result in significant legal or 
settlement costs and reputational damage. 

Over-reliance on a limited number of 
suppliers, geographic concentration, or an 
excessive dependence on specific routes, 
sub-suppliers or technologies could render 
our supply chain vulnerable to disruption.

Our business is dependent on a significant 
number of sole- and single-source suppliers 
for critical raw and pack materials.

–  A global Ethics and Compliance programme including 
annual training, ‘Speak Up’ hotline, compliance policies 
and procedures, targeted risk and control assessments 
and third-party due diligence

–  Embedded legal and compliance teams, supported by 

external experts as needed, to help us identify, understand 
and comply with current and emerging regulatory obligations

–  Group Privacy Office (GPO) and in-market privacy 

programmes to support the business and provide oversight 
of data protection policy compliance

–  Disputes and litigation are supervised by senior members of 
the Legal team, with General Counsel oversight of significant 
Group matters 

–  We carefully monitor all our third-party suppliers

–  Our Procurement team regularly risk assesses our suppliers 

across multiple dimensions using our supplier vulnerability tool

–  Action plans are put in place for any suppliers identified as 

critical to our supply chain to ensure continuity of supply in the 
event of a disruption. Where possible, these include business 
continuity planning and the qualification of alternative suppliers

–  Action plans are centrally tracked and monitored through our 

quarterly Supplier Risk Committee 

–  Our Code of Conduct has been updated and is supported 
with a refreshed code of conduct and ‘Speak Up’ training

–  We continue to evolve our Ethics and Compliance programme, 

including additional metrics to support the ongoing 
monitoring of key compliance risks

–  Our Legal and Compliance team has been working closely 

with our Sustainability team to ensure that evolving 
ESG regulations are fully understood and to support the 
management of ESG Transition risk (see principal risk 6 below)

–  We have continued to de-risk our sourcing of critical materials 
through the qualification of alternative suppliers and have 
reduced the total value of single-sourced spend across each 
GBU. In 2023, we reduced monosourcing of critical materials 
by 9.4%

–  We have started mapping our suppliers further up the value 
chain to identify any potential geographic concentration risk

–  An SKU simplification programme has been initiated 
to reduce complexity across our supplier base, and 
our procurement teams are working more closely with 
our R&D teams to ensure supplier resilience is built into 
the early stages of new product development

Geopolitical events, including threats of 
conflict, trade wars, economic sanctions 
and political polarisation, could disrupt our 
operations. Our presence in unstable regions 
and countries further increases this risk.

–  We maintain an extensive network of local regulatory and 

–  The GEC provides ongoing oversight over the management 

external affairs teams, which together with external advisors 
closely monitor the political and geopolitical environment

–  Our Issues and Crisis Management team supports the 

of the Group’s geopolitical risk profile. We continue to 
diversify our supply chain through regionalisation and 
onshoring to mitigate any regional instability

business with market-specific risk assessments and resources 
to support with regional issue and crisis management

–  Ad hoc horizon scanning and scenario planning activities are 
undertaken by the GEC and in-country management teams 

–  Geopolitical risk is considered within our business continuity 

planning for the resilience of our supply chain

–  Our Corporate Security Function identifies potential threats 
through the Corporate Security programme and supports 
the business with horizon scanning activities 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE59

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management continued

Key

   Sustainable mid-single- 
digit growth

   High gross  
margin business

   Brand  
Investments

   Adjusted operating profit growth  
ahead of net revenue growth

   Strong cash flow and  
healthy balance sheet

   Capital Allocation  
Framework

Risk

What is the risk?

Examples of how we are managing the risk

Mitigation progress this year

6 

ESG Transition

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
CRSEC Committee

7  Product Safety

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
CRSEC Committee

Changes in the regulatory environment 
and shifting stakeholder expectations 
emerging from the transition to a more 
sustainable, net zero economy could 
create significant uncertainty for Reckitt. 
There is a risk that we fail to deliver our 
ESG programme or deliver against our 
sustainability ambitions.

Across our broad consumer-facing 
portfolio, many of our products are 
ingested, have direct skin contact, 
are consumed by a varied range of 
demographics and vulnerable populations, 
and can contain corrosive/flammable 
chemicals. Failure to prevent, identify 
or respond to a product quality and/or 
safety issue may result in potential 
consumer harm or death, financial 
settlements (product liability claims), 
costly recalls and reputational damage. 

–  A Group ESG reporting function is in place and responsible 
for identifying, assessing and implementing emerging 
ESG regulation

–  We have established cross-functional steering 

committees providing governance and oversight across 
key ESG transition risks and sustainable product activities

–  Tools have been developed to support delivery against 

–  A taskforce to respond to the Corporate Sustainability 

our sustainability ambitions, including the SIC. This has been 
implemented across our innovation pipeline to quantify 
sustainability improvements across carbon, water, plastics 
and packaging, ingredients and overall Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) risk

–  Performance against our Sustainability Ambitions is centrally 

coordinated, monitored, and reported

–  A DE&I Board is in place to provide oversight across diversity 

and gender balance

Reporting Directive (CSRD) has been established, 
which is focused on preparing the business to meet 
its incoming requirements

–  We have started product carbon footprint modelling 
to identify and prioritise reductions in our product 
carbon footprint in partnership with our suppliers 
and innovation teams

–  Our Consumer Safety and Vigilance team partners with 

each of our GBUs, embedding product safety into operations 
and providing oversight and assurance services

–  We continued our five-year Global Safety Transformation 
programme to elevate our global safety approach across 
safety culture, processes, systems and data

–  A robust quality management system is in place 

–  We have deployed our global quality management system 

underpinned by clear policies and supporting systems, 
and is subject to regular independent audits

(Quality One) to support better control of, and visibility into, 
product quality and safety processes

–  Our manufacturing facilities adhere to Quality Manufacturing 
Systems and our adverse and critical events process and 
our dedicated Vigilance team allows us to monitor and 
respond to any product quality or safety issues

–  Role-based mandatory Product Safety training is in place, with 
all employees required to complete Adverse Events training

–  A cross-functional Quality, Regulatory and Safety (QRS) 

Council has been created to enhance Reckitt’s 
compliance programmes

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE60

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management continued

Key

Risk

What is the risk?

Examples of how we are managing the risk

Mitigation progress this year

   Sustainable mid-single- 
digit growth

   High gross  
margin business

   Brand  
Investments

   Adjusted operating profit growth  
ahead of net revenue growth

   Strong cash flow and  
healthy balance sheet

   Capital Allocation  
Framework

8 

Innovation

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

9  Reliance on Key 

Manufacturing Sites

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

10  Economic Volatility

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

Our continued growth and success 
depends on the relevance of our brands 
to consumers and our ability to innovate. 
Failure to effectively innovate, launch 
and market new products could lead to 
adverse financial performance and loss 
of market share.

–  Consumer trends, behaviour and needs are analysed through 
our Demand Centered Growth process based on targeted 
consumer segments

–  Innovation projects follow a standardised operating model, 
which includes defined stage gates and cross-functional 
approvals, with oversight from our Category and R&D teams

–  Enhanced reporting provides greater visibility over our 

innovation pipeline

–  To ensure we are identifying and responding to changing 
consumer needs, we continued to make investments in 
our science platforms to create superior, longer-term and 
differentiated products, strengthen our claims and lead 
with consumer-relevant solutions

–  We have enhanced our external partnership capability to 
drive co-creation of innovation through greater external 
orientation in key areas like sustainability

We are heavily reliant on a few key 
manufacturing sites to produce our 
products. An unexpected shutdown 
at one of these sites or a sustained 
increase in demand could lead to a 
significant interruption to the production 
of a specific component or product.

–  Each of our manufacturing sites is classified through 
a three-tier system based on revenue dependency 
or criticality to market. This drives our site inspection 
programme with Tier 1 sites being subject to more 
regular inspections

–  We operate a Global asset protection programme through 
our insurers, which includes a rotational review of sites

–  Our Global Health and Safety and Corporate Security teams 
maintain a framework of standards and complete a global 
audit compliance programme

Adverse economic conditions, together 
with high levels of volatility and 
unpredictability in the macroeconomic 
environment, could impact our ability to 
deliver consistent and predictable growth. 

–  Price volatility is managed through our CRM process, 
which determines the optimal price management 
strategies for energy and other key commodities

–  Our Treasury function oversees the Group’s risks relating to 

foreign exchange and interest rate risk management through 
several controls, including policies, oversight of market and 
GBU activities, monitoring and reporting 

–  Short- and medium-term strategies are being implemented 

to build redundancy into our manufacturing network. 
These include investment in line capacity, refocusing 
of manufacturing operations and dual sourcing for 
critical brands

–  We have deployed the Reckitt Production System 

across all our manufacturing sites to drive sustainable 
manufacturing performance

–  We continue to closely monitor the external environment 
and develop business continuity plans to minimise the 
impact of any disruption

–  We launched our Planning and Forecasting programme 
as part of our Finance for the Future Transformation 
programme. The programme aims to mitigate against 
unpredictability in the external environment and improve 
the accuracy of planning and forecasting activities. 
The programme will continue into 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE61

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Viability Statement 

THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS 
AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS

The Board’s Viability Review is based 
on the Group’s strategy, its long-term 
financial plan and its principal risks.

A financial forecast covering a five-year period 
was prepared (the base case). This period was 
selected as it is the period covered in the Group’s 
long-term forecasting process, based on the 
budget and projections for the following years and 
covers the introduction to market of the current 
new product pipeline. The period also covers the 
majority of Reckitt’s debt repayment profile. 

The financial forecast is based on a number of 
key assumptions aligned to the Group’s growth 
strategy, planned capital spending and capital 
allocation policy. The assessment of viability takes 
into account the Group’s cash flow, its currently 
available banking facilities and interest cover 
ratios in relevant financial covenants, and does 
not assume the raising of additional new debt 
or equity finance. If Reckitt performs in line with 
the base case forecasts, it will have sufficient 
funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall 
due, remain compliant with financial covenants 
and remain viable. Moreover, the Group has 
access to external debt markets on account of 
its credit rating together with a well-diversified 
supplier network, customer base and product 
range, and geographical activities with a strong 
innovation pipeline and dividend cover. 

Assessment of principal risks and viability 
To further test the robustness of the base case 
forecast, further analyses were prepared to 
consider the viability of the business in the 
event of adverse unexpected circumstances. 
Such adverse circumstances were modelled 
primarily upon the crystallisation of the Group’s 
principal risks (see pages 57-60, including how 
we are managing the risk). Principal risks have 
the potential to create adverse circumstances 
for the Group and can occur individually or in 
combination with each other. The assessment 
of viability considered the implications of 
crystallisation of each principal risk and 
estimating the impact on interest cover ratios 
and headroom over available borrowing facilities.

These principal risks were aggregated to create 
two scenarios which model plausible downside 
scenarios of increasing severity based on: 
(i) crystallisation of principal risks deemed to 
have the most relevant potential impact on 
viability; and (ii) crystallisation of all principal risks 
and the impact of adverse movements in foreign 
exchange and interest rates. The principal risks 
that were evaluated also include the failure to 
address existing and emerging environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) and sustainability 
risks and the changing societal and stakeholder 
expectations of businesses in addressing these. 

Viability Statement 
The Board believes that the Group is well-
positioned to manage its principal risks 
successfully. The Board’s belief is based on 
consideration of the historic resilience of 
Reckitt and has taken account of its current 
position and prospects, the actions taken to 
manage the Group’s debt profile, risk appetite 
and the principal risks facing the business 
in unexpected and adverse circumstances. 
Mitigating actions, should they be required, 
are all within management’s control and 
could include reduced capital expenditure or 
temporary suspension of dividend payments.

Conclusion 
As a result of the Viability Review, the Board 
has a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year 
period covered in the Viability Review.

The Board has also considered the potential 
impact of changes to environmental factors which 
may affect the business model and performance in 
the future, as set out in the Taskforce on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) statement on 
page 218. The analysis indicated that even with 
unexpected events occurring immediately and 
in combination, Reckitt would still have sufficient 
funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due 
and remain compliant with financial covenants.

The Board has further considered the occurrence 
of a Black Swan event: an event of greater 
adversity than those modelled above, with 
sufficient potential impact to risk the future of 
Reckitt as a strong and independent business 
operating in its chosen markets. The occurrence 
of a major issue could result in significant 
reputational impact, a substantial share price 
fall, significant loss of consumer confidence 
and the inability to retain and recruit quality 
people. Such an event could have an impact 
on the viability of the business. On the basis 
of a comprehensive set of mitigating controls 
in place across the business, considering the 
unknown nature of a Black Swan event and that 
its occurrence is considered highly unlikely, it has 
not been included in the Viability Review.

The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 
to 61, has been approved by the Board.

Catheryn O’Rourke
Company Secretary
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE62

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Governance Report

AT A GLANCE

DIVERSE LEADERSHIP

Tenure1,3

Gender1

4

5

  Under 3 years

  3-6 years

  6-9 years

  9+ years

40%

6

Board members skills overview2

  Core skill 

  Male

  Female 

60%

Nationality1

1

1

1

1

1

1

3

Financial Expertise

Strategy & Transformation

Consumer Goods & Retail

Healthcare & Pharmaceuticals

Leadership

Digital & Marketing

UK Corporate Governance Code: 2018 Statement of Compliance
For the year ended 31 December 2023, the Company complied 
with all the provisions of the Code and the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules requirements to provide a corporate 
governance statement.

How we comply with the Code

1. Board leadership and company purpose

Page

  British

  American

  French

Our Board of Directors

Group Executive Committee

6

  British/Dutch

Reckitt’s approach to governance

  American/British

  Danish

  Italian/British

  Italian/Brazilian

Board activities during 2023

Market Context, Our Strategy and  
Our Business Model

CRSEC Committee Report

2. Division of responsibilities

How we are governed

65-68

69-70

71-73

74-75

07-12

96-99

80-81

3. Composition, succession and evaluation

Board performance review and effectiveness

82

Nomination Committee Report

4. Audit, risk and internal control

Audit Committee Report

5. Remuneration

83-87

88-95

Remuneration Committee Report

100-132

See pages 65-68

for details of Board members who served during the year 
and as at the date of this Report.

1.  As at close of business on 31 December 2023
2.  Board skills as at 15 March 2024
3.  Board members who have served over nine years as 
at the date of this Report will retire at the 2024 AGM, 
with the exception of Mary Harris, who will remain 
on the Board for a fixed term until the 2025 AGM to 
support a smooth Remuneration Committee Chair 
succession (see page 64)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT63

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Governance Report continued

CHAIR’S 
INTRODUCTION 
TO GOVERNANCE

Our Board is committed to 
upholding the highest standards 
of governance in the long term 
interests of our shareholders 
and stakeholders.”

Chris Sinclair
Chair

Dear shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
Reckitt’s Corporate Governance Report for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2023. 
The Board is responsible for the effective 
leadership of the Group and for promoting 
its long-term sustainable success.

The Board provides leadership by setting 
the Company’s Purpose, strategy and values, 
overseeing implementation of the strategy by 
management and monitoring culture to ensure 
its alignment with our Purpose and values. 
The Board ensures there are appropriate 
processes in place to manage risk and monitors 
the Company’s financial and operational 
performance against objectives.

Evolution of the Board and Executive Team
Since I have now completed nine years on the 
Board, a process was undertaken during the year 
to identify my successor as Chair. This exercise 
was undertaken by the Nomination Committee 
(excluding me) and led by Andrew Bonfield. 
Further information on the process is described 
on page 86. It was successful, and I am delighted 
to be succeeded by Sir Jeremy Darroch who will 
take over as Chair of the Board with effect from 
the conclusion of the AGM. 

Sir Jeremy joined the Board as Senior Independent 
Director in November 2022. He is an outstanding 
leader with considerable expertise, a proven track 
record of performance and a unique insight into 
what motivates consumers as well as a passion 
for responsible and sustainable business.

Our evolution as a Company has also been 
accompanied by a transition in our executive 
leadership team. On behalf of the Board, I’d like to 
thank Nicandro Durante for the exceptional job he 
has done as CEO, helping to oversee the selection 
of a permanent CEO and a new CFO, and for 
working with Kris Licht to ensure a seamless 
transition for all our stakeholders. The Board came 
into this process knowing we had a strong bench 
of leadership talent and Kris Licht was identified 
as the outstanding candidate to be CEO. Kris has 
been instrumental in Reckitt’s transformation 
through his role as Chief Transformation Officer 
and his strong operational leadership of our Health 
GBU. He has a deep understanding of Reckitt’s 
business, customers, brands and culture. 

During the year, Jeff Carr, our Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) notified the Board of his 
intention to retire in March 2024. Following 
a thorough search, Shannon Eisenhardt was 
appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 
and will succeed Jeff as CFO in March 2024. 

Shannon brings extensive experience across 
the consumer goods and retail sectors, having 
worked with some of the most globally 
recognised brands. Shannon is a proven 
strategic and operational leader with a track 
record of building highly successful teams and 
delivering strong and consistent performance. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT64

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Governance Report continued

Following Kris’s appointment as CEO Designate 
in May, there were also changes to our Group 
Executive Committee (GEC) membership. 
Pat Sly was appointed as President Health 
having previously led Reckitt’s Global Nutrition 
business since 2021. Pat was succeeded as 
President Nutrition by Susan Sholtis, who 
rejoined Reckitt on 1 July 2023. Susan has 
a deep knowledge of the Nutrition business, 
having previously worked for more than 11 years 
at both Mead Johnson and Reckitt in general 
management and global marketing roles.

On 12 January 2024, we announced the 
appointment of Marybeth Hays as a Non-Executive 
Director, with effect from 1 February 2024. 
Marybeth has over 25 years of experience in the 
retail, healthcare and consumer goods sectors 
and we are delighted Marybeth has agreed 
to join the Board. More details on Marybeth’s 
appointment can be found on page 84.

In February 2024, we were also delighted to 
confirm the appointment of Fiona Dawson 
as a Non-Executive Director and as Chair 
Designate of the Remuneration Committee 
from 1 June. Fiona brings extensive consumer 
goods experience and is passionate about 
sustainability, health and wellbeing – particularly 
women’s entrepreneurship and human rights.

On the same day, we announced that Alan 
Stewart, currently Non-Executive Director and 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee, had 
notified the Board of his intention to retire 
from the Board following the AGM in May. 

To ensure continuity in relation to the 
Remuneration Committee, Mary Harris, former 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the 
current Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Engagement with the Company’s Workforce, 
will be reappointed as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee upon conclusion of this year’s AGM, 
for a fixed term until our next AGM in May 2025. 

Although Mary has now served nine years as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Company, 
the Board unanimously agreed that Mary is 
uniquely positioned to undertake the role of 
Remuneration Committee Chair during this 
interim period due to her extensive knowledge 
of the business, her in-depth understanding of 
investor and other stakeholder expectations 
and previous Remuneration Committee Chair 
experience. Mary is considered to continue to 
retain an independence of mind and to be an 
effective and valued contributor to the Board.

Elane Stock will take on the role of Designated 
Non-Executive Director for Engagement with 
the Company’s Workforce from Mary Harris, with 
effect from the conclusion of this year’s AGM.

At the conclusion of the 2025 AGM, Fiona will take 
on the role of Remuneration Committee Chair.

Board performance review
The Board undertakes an annual review of its 
own and its Committees’ performance and 
effectiveness. The Board performance review 
was facilitated by Lintstock Ltd (Lintstock), 
as part of its ongoing Board Development 
Programme. Details of this year’s Board 
performance review, together with our progress 
against the outcomes from our 2022 Board 
performance, can be found on page 82.

Our people and culture
Our culture and values define the way that Reckitt 
does business and this starts with our employees. 
We aim to create the space and opportunities 
to help our employees make a difference and 
do the right thing, always. It is our collective 
responsibility to build inclusion into everything 
we do, whilst ensuring we represent the people 
we are and the global community we serve. 
Our Code of Conduct reinforces our principles 
of business conduct and is communicated to all 
employees each year with mandatory training. 
Our values underpin our Code of Conduct and 
are enhanced by our Purpose and Compass. 

We are evolving a vibrant, inclusive and 
collaborative culture to deliver on our Purpose. 
In embedding inclusivity, all colleagues should 
feel free to participate fully, bring their authentic 
self to work and realise their full potential. 
Internally, we are strengthening our inclusive 
culture by focusing on leadership, people 
and policy. Externally, our inclusive approach 
to procurement, brands and partnerships 
aligns what we do with who we are.

Further details on our people, culture and inclusion 
can be found on pages 19 to 21 and page 51.

Engaging with our stakeholders
Effective engagement with our shareholders, 
our employees and wider stakeholders is key to 
Reckitt’s sustainable success. We, as directors, 
must act in a way that we consider, in good faith, 
would be likely to promote the success of the 
Company for the benefit of its shareholders 
as a whole. In our decision-making, the Board 
also considers wider stakeholder interests. 

Our key stakeholders include our employees, 
shareholders, customers, consumers, partners, 
and the communities in which we operate and 
the environment. Our Section 172 Statement, 
which explains how the Directors have discharged 
their responsibilities during the year under 
review, can be found on pages 76 to 77.

For further information on our Sustainability 
Ambitions, please see pages 14 and 47 to 54. 
Our Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
can be found on pages 218 to 222.

I am extremely proud of the Board and all 
our Reckitt employees for their continued 
commitment to our Purpose, Compass 
and the stewardship of our business, 
on behalf of all our stakeholders.

Chris Sinclair 
Chair
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT65

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose

OUR BOARD

The Board of Reckitt: experienced, 
diverse and balanced

Biographical details of the Directors 
as at 31 December 2023.

Chris Sinclair (73)
Chair of the Board

N

R

C

Kris Licht (47)
Chief Executive Officer

C

Sir Jeremy Darroch (61)
Senior Independent Director

N

R

Nationality American

Nationality Danish

Nationality British 

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2015 and as Chair of the Board and Nomination 
Committee in May 2018. Chris will retire as Chair 
and from the Board following the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Chris brings strong leadership skills and 
valuable strategic insight to the Board, 
through his experience as CEO and Chair of 
other large companies. He also has a strong 
understanding of international consumer-
focused businesses. He is the former Chair and 
CEO of Mattel, Inc. and previously served as 
CEO for various companies including Caribiner 
International, Quality Food Centers, Pepsi-Cola 
Co. and PepsiCo Foods and Beverages.

Detailed Board members biographies

can be found at reckitt.com/our-company/our-leadership/.

Committee Key

Chair

R

Remuneration

Current external appointments
None

N

Nomination

A

Audit

C

Corporate Responsibility,  
Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance

Appointment
Appointed as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
Designate on 1 May 2023, an Executive Director on 
1 June 2023 and became CEO on 1 October 2023. 

Skills and competencies
Kris has strong leadership and transformation 
experience with a proven track record in delivering 
growth and driving performance. He has in-depth 
knowledge of the consumer goods sector. 
Kris joined Reckitt in November 2019 as Chief 
Transformation Officer and in July 2020 became 
President Health & Chief Customer Officer. 
Prior to Reckitt, he has held a number of senior 
strategic and operational positions at PepsiCo 
and was a Partner at McKinsey & Company working 
in the consumer, health and retail practices.

Appointment
Appointed as Senior Independent Director and 
a member of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees in November 2022. Sir Jeremy 
will become Chair of the Board following the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Jeremy is an outstanding leader with considerable 
expertise in the consumer retail environment. 
He has a proven track record of driving business 
performance and a unique insight into what 
motivates consumers. He is the former Executive 
Chairman and Group CEO of Sky and prior to that 
was Group Finance Director of DSG International 
plc. He has also held board positions with Burberry 
Group plc and Marks and Spencer Group plc.

Current external appointments
Board member of the Consumer Brands Association

Current external appointments
Director of The Walt Disney Company

Chair, National Oceanography Centre

WWF Ambassador

Non-Executive Director of Ahren Acquisition Corp

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT66

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Jeff Carr (62)
Chief Financial Officer

Shannon Eisenhardt (49)
Chief Financial Officer Designate

Andrew Bonfield (61)
Non-Executive Director

A N

Pam Kirby (70)
Non-Executive Director

C

N A

Nationality British 

Nationality American 

Nationality British 

Nationality British 

Appointment
Appointed as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
in April 2020. Jeff will step down as CFO in 
March 2024 and will retire as an Executive Director 
on 31 March 2024.

Skills and competencies
Jeff brings extensive experience across 
consumer and retail companies. He has a record 
of transformational, strategic and operational 
leadership, consistent performance delivery 
and strong capital allocation discipline. Prior 
to Reckitt, he was the CFO and Management 
Board member at Ahold Delhaize, CFO of First 
Group plc and easyJet plc and held senior 
finance roles at Associated British Foods plc.

Appointment
Appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 2023 
and will become CFO in March 2024.

Skills and competencies
Shannon brings extensive experience across the 
consumer and retail sectors, having worked with 
some of the most globally recognised brands. 
Shannon held multiple senior management roles 
at NIKE, Inc., including as CFO of the NIKE Consumer, 
Marketplace and Brand segment. Prior to that, 
Shannon had spent almost two decades at Procter 
& Gamble in a range of finance roles. Shannon 
is a proven strategic and operational leader with 
a track record of building highly successful teams 
and delivering strong and consistent performance.

Current external appointments
Chair of the Audit Committee and Non-Executive 
Director of Kingfisher plc

Current external appointments
None

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2018 
and as Chair of the Audit Committee in January 
2019. Andrew will become Senior Independent 
Director following the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Andrew brings more than three decades of 
financial expertise to the Board. He is a strong 
leader, with experience gained in large, complex 
organisations and has a history of driving strong 
financial performance in the UK and globally. 
These skills are valuable to the Board and to his 
role as Chair of the Audit Committee. He is CFO 
of Caterpillar Inc., was Group CFO of National 
Grid plc, CFO of Cadbury plc and Executive 
Vice President and CFO at Bristol Myers Squibb.

Current external appointments
Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc.

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2015 and as Chair of the CRSEC Committee in 
July 2016. Pam will retire from the Board following 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Pam brings to the Board extensive knowledge of 
the healthcare sector and a wealth of international 
business and pharmaceutical experience. 
These skills are highly valuable to her role as 
Chair of the CRSEC Committee. She has served 
as Chair of SCYNEXIS, Inc., CEO of Quintiles 
Transnational Corporation and held senior 
positions in the international healthcare industry 
at AstraZeneca plc and Hoffman-LaRoche.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc

Member of the Supervisory Board of AkzoNobel N.V.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT67

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Alan Stewart (63)
Non-Executive Director

R

N

Olivier Bohuon (65)
Non-Executive Director

R

C

Margherita Della Valle (58)
Non-Executive Director 

A

Mary Harris (57)
Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Engagement with Company’s Workforce

R

Nationality British 

Nationality French 

Nationality Italian/British

Nationality British/Dutch 

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2022 and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
in May 2022. Alan will retire from the Board following 
the Company’s AGM in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Alan brings to the Board significant corporate 
finance and accounting experience from a variety 
of industries, including retail, banking and travel, 
as well as executive leadership experience 
within a listed company environment. He was 
CFO of Tesco PLC where he played a key role in 
the turnaround of Tesco. Prior to this he was also 
CFO of Marks and Spencer Group plc, CFO of 
AWAS, Group Finance Director of WH Smith PLC 
and CEO and CFO of Thomas Cook Holdings.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc

Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in January 2021.

Skills and competencies
Olivier is a successful leader, with many years’ 
experience as CEO of a large, global company. 
Olivier has a wealth of experience in healthcare 
products and markets and brings great insight 
to the Board. He was the CEO of Smith & 
Nephew plc and of healthcare, cosmetology 
and pharmaceutical company Laboratoires 
Pierre Fabre, and Corporate Executive Vice 
President of Abbott Laboratories and President 
of their pharmaceutical products division.

Current external appointments
Chairman of Majorelle

External Director of Takeda Pharmaceutical 
Company Limited

Co-Founder and Board member 
of AlgoTherapeutix SAS

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2020.

Skills and competencies
Margherita has extensive experience of financial 
markets and digital technologies. She is an 
experienced leader in business in both developed 
and developing markets. Margherita is Chief 
Executive Officer of Vodafone Group plc and 
prior to that held numerous senior finance roles 
within the business including as Chief Financial 
Officer. These skills, together with her strong 
leadership background, are valuable to the Board 
and her membership of the Audit Committee.

Current external appointments
Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Group Plc

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 
February 2015. Mary was Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee from November 2017 to May 2022, and 
will resume that role following the Company’s AGM 
in May 2024. Mary has been the Designated NED for 
Engagement with the Company’s Workforce since 
July 2019.

Skills and competencies
Mary has substantial experience in consumer 
and retail businesses across China, Southeast 
Asia and Europe. She brings to the Board a top-
level strategic outlook, with an international and 
consumer focus. Her previous experience in other 
Non-Executive Director roles, and as Chair of 
other Remuneration Committees, is invaluable 
to the Board and the Remuneration Committee.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Coca-Cola Europacific 
Partners plc

Supervisory Director of HAL Holding N.V.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT68

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Tamara Ingram, OBE (61)
Non-Executive Director

A

Mehmood Khan (65)
Non-Executive Director

C

Elane Stock (59)
Non-Executive Director

A

Marybeth Hays (55)
Non-Executive Director

Nationality British 

Nationality American/British 

Nationality American

Nationality American

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in February 2023.

Skills and competencies
Tamara has had an extensive career in advertising, 
marketing and digital communications and has a 
deep understanding of consumer brands and digital 
strategy. She was Global Chair of Wunderman 
Thompson and also held various leadership roles 
at WPP plc. She also served as CEO of McCann 
Worldgroup and Saatchi & Saatchi in London.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Marks and Spencer 
Group plc 

Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group plc

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2018.

Skills and competencies
Mehmood is a highly skilled medical practitioner 
and researcher. Mehmood has been Chief 
Executive Officer of Hevolution Foundation since 
October 2020. He was previously CEO of Life 
Biosciences Inc., and before that served as Vice 
Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer, Global 
Research and Development at PepsiCo Inc. He 
has extensive experience in both developing 
and developed markets, adding value to the 
CRSEC Committee through his knowledge 
of creating sustainable initiatives and past 
experiences of leading research and development 
efforts to create breakthrough innovations.

Non-Executive Director of Marsh & McLennan 
Companies, Inc.

Current external appointments
Chief Executive Officer of Hevolution Foundation 

Executive Chairman of Life Biosciences Inc.

Chairman of VCAT, US National Institute 
of Standards and Technology

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in September 2018.

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in February 2024.

Skills and competencies
Elane has held various senior leadership positions 
including Chief Executive Officer of ServiceMaster 
Brands, Group President at Kimberly-Clark 
International and Kimberly-Clark Professional and 
as a director and member of the Audit Committee 
of Yum Brands! and Equifax. Elane brings great 
sector-relevant experience and insight of consumer 
goods products to the Board, particularly in 
personal care and wellness. She also brings key 
knowledge of emerging markets and the changing 
channels of trade and consumer preferences.

Current external appointments
None

Skills and competencies
Marybeth has over 25 years of experience in the 
retail, healthcare and consumer goods sectors. She 
has held various senior roles at Walmart, including 
as Executive Vice President of Consumables and 
Health & Wellness for Walmart U.S. and as Chief 
Merchandising, Marketing and Supply Chain Officer 
for Walmart China. Marybeth was previously Vice 
President of Marketing at HanesBrands, Inc.

Current external appointments
Director and member of Audit Committee of 
JOANN Stores, Inc. 

Board member of Decowraps

Other Directors who served during the year
Nicandro Durante, Non-Executive Director from 
December 2013, was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer from October 2022 until October 2023 and 
stayed on as Executive Director until his departure 
in December 2023.

Fiona Dawson CBE will join the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and as Chair Designate 
to the Remuneration Committee effective 
1 June 2024. Fiona’s full biography will be available 
on our website upon her appointment.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT69

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

GROUP EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE

21 

24

27

210

22

25

28

211

23 

26

29

212

Kris Licht (47)
Chief Executive Officer

21 

Jeff Carr (62)
Chief Financial Officer

22

Nationality Danish

Nationality British

Key skills and experience
Kris has strong leadership and transformation 
experience with a proven track record in delivering 
growth and driving performance. He has in-depth 
knowledge of the consumer goods sector. 
Kris joined Reckitt in November 2019 as Chief 
Transformation Officer, and in July 2020 became 
President Health & Chief Customer Officer. 
Prior to Reckitt, he has held a number of senior 
strategic and operational positions at PepsiCo, 
and was a Partner at McKinsey & Company working 
in the consumer, health and retail practices.

Key skills and experience
Jeff joined Reckitt as Chief Financial Officer in April 
2020. Prior to that, he was CFO and Management 
Board member at Ahold Delhaize, and held 
the role of CFO at First Group plc and easyJet 
plc. Jeff brings extensive experience across 
consumer and retail companies. He has a record 
of transformational strategic and operational 
leadership, consistent performance delivery 
and strong capital allocation discipline. Jeff will 
step down as CFO in March 2024 and will retire 
as an Executive Director on 31 March 2024.

Shannon Eisenhardt (49)
Chief Financial Officer Designate

23

Volker Kuhn (56)
President Hygiene

24

Nationality American

Nationality German/Swiss 

Key skills and experience
Shannon joined Reckitt as CFO Designate in 
October 2023 and will become CFO in March 2024. 
Shannon brings extensive experience across the 
consumer and retail sectors, having worked with 
some of the most globally recognised brands. 
Shannon held multiple senior management roles at 
NIKE, Inc., including as CFO of the NIKE Consumer, 
Marketplace and Brand segment. Prior to that, 
Shannon had spent almost two decades at Procter 
& Gamble in a range of finance roles. Shannon is 
a proven strategic and operational leader with a 
track record of building highly successful teams 
and delivering strong and consistent performance.

Key skills and experience
Volker joined Reckitt in August 2020 as Chief 
Transformation Officer, and in May 2021 became 
President Hygiene. As well as leading the Hygiene 
BU’s global team, he has additional responsibility 
for New Growth Platforms, a cross-BU initiative. 
Prior to joining Reckitt, Volker spent 26 years with 
Procter & Gamble in a range of international finance, 
marketing, and senior general management roles. 

Detailed Executive Committee members biographies

can be found at reckitt.com/our-company/our-leadership/.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT70

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Pat Sly (47)
President Health

25

Susan Sholtis (57)
President Nutrition

26

Ranjay Radhakrishnan (53)
Chief Human Resources Officer

27

Fabrice Beaulieu (50)
Chief Marketing, Sustainability and 
Corporate Affairs Officer

28

Nationality American

Nationality American

Nationality British

Nationality French 

Key skills and experience
Pat joined Reckitt in 2017 as part of the Mead 
Johnson Nutrition acquisition. He was appointed 
as Chief Operating Officer, Nutrition in July 
2021, as President Nutrition in February 2022 
and as President Health in July 2023. Pat has 
more than 20 years of experience in senior 
leadership roles in general management, 
marketing and sales across North America, 
Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.

Key skills and experience
Susan joined Reckitt as President Nutrition in July 
2023. Susan brings to Reckitt a deep knowledge 
of the Nutrition business, having previously 
worked for over 11 years at Mead Johnson 
Nutrition and Reckitt in a number of senior 
leadership roles in the US and Europe, including 
general management, marketing and sales.

Key skills and experience
Ranjay joined Reckitt as Chief Human Resources 
Officer in March 2020. Ranjay has over 30 years’ 
experience in the human resources function 
across different geographies and industries. 
Prior to joining Reckitt, Ranjay was the Chief 
Human Resources Officer at InterContinental 
Hotels Group plc and spent over two decades 
at Unilever in senior leadership roles.

Key skills and experience
Fabrice joined Reckitt in 1999 and the GEC in April 
2022. Since joining the Company he has worked 
internationally in senior leadership roles across 
marketing and general management. He oversees 
the Marketing Centres of Excellence and the 
Sustainability and Corporate Affairs functions. 
He is responsible, amongst others, for reimagining 
and scaling Reckitt’s playbook for digitally led, 
sustainable and profitable growth. Fabrice is 
a graduate of EM Lyon Business School, France.

Sami Naffakh (53)
Chief Supply Officer

29

Angela Naef, PhD (48)
Chief R&D Officer

210

Filippo Catalano (51) 
Chief Information & Digitisation Officer

211

Catheryn O’Rourke (51)
General Counsel & Company Secretary

212

Nationality French 

Nationality American 

Nationality Italian

Nationality American

Key skills and experience
Sami joined Reckitt as Chief Supply Officer 
in July 2020. He is responsible for global 
supply chain operations, including planning, 
procurement, manufacturing and logistics. 
Sami will be leaving Reckitt in July, to be 
succeeded by Harald Emberger, previously 
Chief Supply Chain Officer at Beiersdorf AG.

Key skills and experience
Angela joined Reckitt as Chief R&D Officer in 
September 2020 and is responsible for elevating 
Reckitt’s science capability and platforms as well 
as for driving external partnerships. She is focused 
on enabling the R&D organisation to deliver 
meaningful solutions addressing the mega 
trends and sustainability to deliver growth.

Key skills and experience
Filippo joined Reckitt as Chief Information 
& Digitisation Officer in April 2021. Filippo is 
responsible for building and maintaining Reckitt’s 
IT, Data and Digital capabilities. Filippo brings 
to Reckitt extensive leadership experience in 
defining and shaping IT, digital portfolios and 
technology-enabled new business models 
across leading consumer goods organisations.

Key skills and experience
Catheryn joined Reckitt in February 2022 and 
is responsible for legal and compliance matters 
across the Group. She brings to Reckitt more 
than 20 years of professional expertise in 
running global legal and compliance teams, 
managing litigation and corporate transactions, 
advising on financial reporting and disclosure 
as well as supporting Board governance.

Other Group Executive Committee members who served in the year
Nicandro Durante, Non-Executive Director from December 2013, was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer from October 2022 until October 2023 and stayed on as Executive Director until his departure 
in December 2023.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT71

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

RECKITT’S APPROACH 
TO GOVERNANCE

The Board is responsible for the effective 
leadership of the Group and for promoting 
its long-term sustainable success, generating 
value for shareholders and contributing to wider 
society, whilst focusing on governance with the 
highest regard to the principles of the Code. 
The Board provides leadership by setting our 
Purpose, strategy and values, monitoring our 
culture and ensuring alignment with our Purpose 
and Compass, and overseeing implementation by 
management. All Directors must act with integrity, 
lead by example and promote the Company’s 
culture and values. The Board also ensures there 
are appropriate processes in place to manage 
risk, including the Company’s risk appetite and 
monitors financial and operational performance 
against objectives. The Board consists of a 
balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
who together have collective accountability to 
Reckitt’s shareholders as well as responsibility 
for the overriding strategic, financial and 
operational objectives and direction of Reckitt.

The Board manages the overall leadership of the 
Group with reference to its formal Schedule of 
Matters Reserved for the Board. This schedule is 
reviewed annually, with the last review undertaken 
in November 2023, and broadly covers:

–  Matters which are legally required to be 

considered or decided by the Board, such 
as approval of Reckitt’s Annual Report and 
Financial Statements, declaration of dividends 
and appointment of new Directors

–  Matters recommended by the Code to be 
considered by the Board, such as terms of 
reference for the Board and its Committees, 
review of internal controls and risk management

–  Compliance with regulations governing 

UK publicly listed companies, such as the UK
Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules and the Prospectus 
Regulation Rules

–  Matters relating to developments in, or changes 
to, the Group’s strategic direction, or material 
corporate or financial transactions

The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board

is available on the Reckitt website at 
reckitt.com/investors/corporate-governance.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT72

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Governance structure 
The Company has a clear and effective 
governance structure, which allows the Board, 
its Committees and the Executive team to make 
decisions effectively. The Board has established 
four Committees to assist in the execution of its 
responsibilities. Each Committee operates under 
terms of reference approved by the Board. The 
terms of reference are reviewed regularly, with 
the last review taking place in November 2023. 
There are also three supporting Management 
Committees: the Disclosure Committee, the 
Group Executive Committee (GEC), and the Risk, 
Sustainability & Compliance Committee (RSCC).

Shareholders
Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the Company and play an important role in the governance structure. Further information on our engagement with 
shareholders can be found on page 39.

Our Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the overall leadership of the Group and for promoting its long-term sustainable success whilst focusing on its strategic 
direction, Purpose, values and governance with the highest regard to the principles of the Code. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board, 
its Committees and Management Committees.

Nomination Committee
Chaired by Chris Sinclair

Audit Committee
Chaired by Andrew Bonfield

Remuneration Committee
Chaired by Alan Stewart

CRSEC Committee
Chaired by Pam Kirby

Responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on 
suitable candidates for appointment 
to the Board, its Committees and 
senior management and to regularly 
review and refresh their composition 
to ensure that they comprise a 
diverse group of individuals with 
the necessary skills, knowledge and 
experience to effectively discharge 
their responsibilities, whilst keeping 
in mind the importance of diversity.

Responsible for monitoring the 
integrity of Reckitt’s Financial 
Statements and for ensuring 
effective functioning of internal 
audit, internal controls and risk 
management. It is also responsible 
for managing the Company’s 
relationship with its External Auditor.

Responsible for assisting the Board 
in fulfilling its oversight responsibility 
by ensuring that the Remuneration 
Policy and practices reward fairly and 
responsibly, are linked to corporate 
and individual performance and take 
account of the generally accepted 
principles of good governance. 
The Committee is responsible for 
determining the remuneration for 
the Chair, Executive Directors and 
senior management.

Responsible for supporting the 
Board in reviewing, monitoring and 
assessing the Company’s approach 
to responsible, sustainable, ethical 
and compliant corporate conduct 
and to assist the Board in upholding 
its Compass.

See pages 83-87

for more details in the  
Nomination Committee Report.

See pages 88-95

for more details in the  
Audit Committee Report.

See pages 100-132

for more details in the  
Remuneration Committee Report.

See pages 96-99

for more details in the  
CRSEC Committee Report.

Disclosure Committee
Chaired by CFO

Group Executive Committee 
Chaired by CEO 

Responsible for 
ensuring accuracy and 
timeliness of disclosure 
of financial and other 
public announcements.

Responsible for overseeing Reckitt’s management and ensuring 
collaboration between GBUs, functions and in-market operations. 
It recommends and implements the strategy and related budget 
as approved by the Board. The GEC drives business and cultural 
transformation, reviews business performance and approves business 
development plans and major investments. It plays a critical role in 
talent management and development and oversees the integration 
of sustainability within business operations.

Risk, Sustainability &  
Compliance Committee 
Chaired by CEO

Provides oversight of risk across the organisation and 
makes recommendations to the CRSEC Committee 
for actions to be taken in respect of the Group’s legal 
compliance and ethics, sustainability, external affairs, 
employee health and safety, quality, consumer safety 
and regulatory matters, including compliance strategies, 
policies, programmes and key activities.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT73

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

How we manage conflicts of interest
Directors have a duty to avoid interests, direct or 
indirect, which might conflict with the interests 
of the Group. Under the terms of our Articles, 
such conflicts can be authorised by the Board. 
Procedures are in place to manage and, where 
appropriate, approve such conflicts. Any 
authorisations granted by the Board are recorded 
by the General Counsel & Company Secretary 
in a Register of Conflicts, together with the 
date on which the conflict was authorised. Any 
conflicts authorised during the year are reviewed 
annually by the Nomination Committee and the 
Board. In addition, each Director certifies on 
an annual basis that the information contained 
in the Register of Conflicts is correct.

The Company indemnifies the Directors and 
Officers of the Company and any Group subsidiary 
to the extent permitted by law in respect of the 
legal defence costs for claims against them and 
third-party liabilities. The indemnity would not 
provide cover for a Director or Officer if that 
individual was found to have acted fraudulently 
or dishonestly. Additionally, Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance cover was maintained 
throughout the year at the Company’s expense.

How Board meetings are structured
Board meetings are conducted in an open 
atmosphere conducive to challenge and debate. 
Agendas are tailored to the requirements 
of the business and agreed in advance by 
the Chair and CEO with the support of the 
General Counsel & Company Secretary.

The Board receives operating and financial reports 
from the CEO and CFO on strategic and business 
developments, as well as financial performance 
and forecasts at each meeting. Specific 
presentations are also made by non-Board 

members on material matters to the Group. 
In addition, the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, 
CRSEC and Nomination Committees update the 
Board on the proceedings of those meetings, 
including key topics and areas of concern.

At the conclusion of every scheduled Board 
meeting, the Chair holds a session with the 
other Non-Executive Directors, without 
the Executive Directors present, providing 
further opportunity for the Non-Executive 
Directors to assess the performance of 
management and individual Executive Directors 
and help drive future agenda items.

The Board uses its meetings as a way of 
discharging its responsibilities, including 
as set out in section 172 of CA 2006 to 
promote the success of the Company for 
the benefit of its members as a whole.

Board and Committee meeting attendance
In 2023, there were five scheduled Board 
meetings. The October Board meeting was a 
strategy session held in person in New Jersey, 
USA to allow the Board to immerse itself in 
the Group’s operations, to visit local sites and 
meet the local workforce. During the three-day 
meeting, the Board received presentations on 
the Company’s strategy, including deep dives 
into each GBU, innovation, supply and IT & 
Digital strategy. The Board also met informally 
with senior leadership from the US team and 
hosted employee engagement sessions.

The table opposite sets out the attendance by 
Directors at scheduled Board and Committee 
meetings that each Director was eligible to 
attend. Directors who were not members 
of individual Board Committees were also 
invited to attend one or more meetings 
of those Committees during the year.

Where a Director is unavoidably absent from a Board or Committee meeting, they still receive and 
review the papers for the meeting and may provide verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, 
usually through the Chair of the Board or the Chair of the relevant Committee, so that their views 
are considered at the meeting.

Board

5 

Audit  
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

CRSEC 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

4 

3 

4 

2 

meetings

meetings

meetings

meetings

meetings

Andrew Bonfield

Olivier Bohuon

Jeff Carr

Jeremy Darroch

Margherita Della Valle

Nicandro Durante1

Shannon Eisenhardt2

Mary Harris

Tamara Ingram

Kris Licht3

Mehmood Khan

Pam Kirby

Chris Sinclair

Alan Stewart

Elane Stock

5 of 5

4 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

4 of 5

4 of 5

1 of 1

5 of 5

5 of 5

3 of 3

5 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

4 of 4

4 of 4

3 of 4

4 of 4

4 of 4

4 of 4

1.  Nicandro Durante resigned from the Board on 31 December 2023
2.  Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed to the Board on 17 October 2023
3.  Kris Licht was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2023

2 of 3

3 of 4

2 of 2

3 of 3

2 of 2

3 of 3

3 of 3

3 of 3

4 of 4

4 of 4

4 of 4

2 of 2

2 of 2

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT74

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Stakeholders

  Customers

  People

  Partners

  Communities

Government and  
industry associations

  Consumers

  Shareholders

2023 BOARD ACTIVITIES

Mergers and acquisitions
–  Oversight of potential merger and 
acquisitions (M&A) activities and 
portfolio strategy

Business updates
–  Review of GBU business performance

–  Deep dives on functions such as Finance, 

HR, Supply, IT & Digital and Cyber

Strategy

Group plans and budgets
–  Reviewed the Group’s financial plan 

for 2024 and individually for the GBUs

–  Reviewed forecasts and business 

performance 

Strategy
–  Board members met in person for a 

three-day meeting in October 2023 to 
discuss strategy and the innovation pipeline

–  Reviewed strategy for each GBU, supply 

chain and IT & Digital function

–  Received updates on competitive 

environment and broader 
market developments

Our activities during the year

Governance and Oversight

Board and Committee performance review
–  Conducted the annual Board performance 
review and had oversight of Committee 
performance reviews. Identified areas for 
improvement and recommended actions

–  Considered and proactively addressed 

actions from the 2022 Board 
performance review

Talent, succession and board composition
–  Oversight of Group talent planning and 

succession, including senior management 
succession and retention

–  Considered and approved Board changes, 
including the appointment of Chair, CEO, 
CFO, SID and new Non-Executive Directors 
as detailed on pages 83 to 87

Shareholders and stakeholders
–  Held the 2023 AGM as a physical meeting. 

Shareholders had the opportunity to 

pre-submit questions as well as ask them 
during the meeting

–  Held Board and employee engagement 

meetings, to understand employee views, 
as part of October strategy meetings

Compliance
–  Reviewed and approved governance 

matters, such as the Schedule of Matters 
Reserved for the Board, Committee terms of 
reference, Directors’ conflicts of interest and 
compliance with the Code and best practice

–  Kept abreast of upcoming changes in the 
UK corporate governance and regulatory 
framework

–  Approved Reckitt’s 2022 Modern Slavery 
and Human Trafficking Statement, as 
recommended by the CRSEC Committee

FEBRUARY MEETING

MAY MEETING

AGM

–  Approval and publication of Full Year Results

–  Review of Sustainability Strategy

–  In person engagements 

–  Approval and publication of Annual 

–  Approval of Modern Slavery 

Report 2022

Act Statement

–  Consideration of Full year dividend proposal

with shareholders and Q&A 

–  AGM resolutions proposed 

to shareholders

JULY MEETING

–  Approval and publication 

of Half Year Results

–  Consideration of Interim 

dividend proposal

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT   
75

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Stakeholders

  Customers

  People

  Partners

  Communities

Government and  
industry associations

  Consumers

  Shareholders

ESG

Financial

–  Reviewed the Group’s sustainability strategy 
and approach, including progress against 
the delivery of our Sustainability Ambitions

–  Received updates on sustainability activities 

and initiatives

Risk Management and Internal Controls

Principal and Emerging Risks
–  Conducted an annual review of Reckitt’s 

principal and emerging risks and 
consideration of risk management approach

–  Reviewing the appropriateness and 

effectiveness of the system of internal 
control and risk management

Reporting
–  Reviewed and approved Reckitt’s Annual 
Report and Financial Statements including 
compliance with reporting requirements

Financial resources
–  Reviewed the Company’s financial 
position, Group debt and funding 
arrangements and capital allocation

–  Reviewed and approved Reckitt’s full-year, 

–  Approved bond issuance

half-year and quarterly results

–  Approved initiation of share 

–  Provided results presentations to investors 

buyback programme

and employees during the year

–  Interim and final dividend payments

Going concern
–  Reviewed long term going concern and 

–  Approved the final 2022 and 

interim 2023 dividend payments

liquidity considerations

–  Considered and approved the 2023 

Annual Report Viability Statement upon 
recommendation of the Audit Committee

Treasury policies
–  Reviewed and approved the Group’s 

Treasury policies

Our activities during the year

OCTOBER MEETING

SITE VISIT

NOVEMBER MEETING

–  Board three-day strategy sessions

–  Board visit to R&D facility and review of 

–  2024 Plan agreed

–  Board and employee engagement sessions

R&D functional strategy

–  Board performance review

LISTENING SESSIONS 

–  Conducted listening session on the 

intersectionality of Health and Climate

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT   
76

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

SECTION 172 
STATEMENT

This statement shows how our 
Directors have acted in a way 
that they consider, in good faith, 
would be most likely to promote 
the success of the Company for 
the benefit of its members as a 
whole during 2023, having regard 
to stakeholders, including matters 
under Section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the 
Companies Act 2006.

Understanding the needs and expectations 
of our stakeholders is fundamental to our 
Purpose: to protect, heal and nurture in the 
relentless pursuit of a cleaner and healthier 
world. In making decisions, the Directors 
consider what is most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for its shareholders 
in the long term, as well as the interests 
of the Group’s other stakeholders.

Our stakeholders

CASE STUDY

Consumers

CEO appointment

Governments, 
NGOs, Industry 
& Academia

Customers

Communities

People

Investors

Suppliers & 
partners

We recognise that our business can only 
grow and prosper by acting in the long-term 
interests of our key stakeholders, namely 
our people, our consumers and customers, 
our shareholders, investors and partners, the 
communities in which we operate and the 
environment. Further information on our key 
stakeholders can be found on pages 37 to 40.

The Board considers our key stakeholders and 
the matters set out under Section 172 of the 
CA 2006 in its discussions and decision-making. 
The following table sets out examples of how 
the Board has considered matters under section 
172 during the year in performing its duties.

In appointing Kris Licht as CEO, following 
an extensive search which considered both 
internal and external candidates, the Board 
took account of the need to build on the strong 
momentum in the business over the past three 
years, Kris’ strong strategic and operational 
leadership experience, as well as his in-depth 
knowledge of Reckitt’s business, culture, 
customers and other stakeholders, as well 
as of the consumer goods sector generally.

How the Board engaged 
with stakeholders:

Page

CASE STUDY

Consumers

Customers

People

Suppliers & partners

Investors

Communities

Governments, NGOs, 
Industry & Academia

37

38

38

39

39

40

40

Shareholder returns

The Board recognises the importance of 
shareholder returns and, during the year, 
increased both the 2022 final dividend 
and the 2023 interim dividend by 5%. 
In October, the Board also announced 
a £1 billion share buyback programme. 
In announcing this enhanced shareholder 
returns programme, the Board took account 
of the Group’s strong free cash flow 
generation, the views of shareholders, 
and that capacity existed to return excess 
capital to shareholders without impacting 
the successful delivery of the business plan 
or the Group’s capital allocation priorities.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT77

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

(a) Considering long-term consequences
The Board strives to act in the long-term 
interests of its key stakeholders, and this 
frames its oversight of corporate strategy, 
which is founded on creating long-term 
shareholder value. Our Sustainability 
Ambitions frame decision-making, and 
provide important interim milestones 
to 2030. These parameters, set by the 
Board, are reflected within strategy 
work and objectives, which extends 
to: capital investment; Group budgets; 
dividend plans; and future resourcing 
requirements. Reckitt’s risk management 
framework, including the Group’s Principal 
Risks, further underpin the Board’s 
long-term approach. The Board and its 
Committees are responsible for risk 
governance, and oversight is achieved 
through several mechanisms including 
strategy reviews, Committee meetings 
and deep dives into selected risk areas.

(b, c) Fostering stakeholder relationships
Constructive two-way dialogue with 
Reckitt’s key stakeholders, including 
employees, customers and consumers, 
investors, suppliers and partners, 
governments and regulators, tracks 
priorities and helps identify issues as 
they arise. Strategic engagement with 
stakeholders reflects the structure of 
our business as one Group with three 
autonomous business units with decision-
making authority. The Board creates the 
right conditions for this approach by 
setting Reckitt’s long-term direction, 
overarching decision-making framework 
and culture. This is in-line with the Board’s 
own experience and understanding of 
stakeholder needs, Reckitt’s Sustainability 
Ambitions and engagement on the future 
of the retail and consumer goods industry.

(d) Protecting communities and 
the environment
We understand as a business the effects 
our operations have on the environment and 
the need to embed sustainability to create 
positive impacts both for communities and 
the wider society in which we operate, as 
well as for our business. Our Sustainability 
Ambitions to 2030 focus on our impact 
through our purpose-led brands and 
innovative products; sustaining a healthier 
planet through our work on climate change, 
natural resources and biodiversity; and 
enabling a fairer society through our activity 
in our own business and across our value 
chain. The Board oversees and reviews 
performance against Reckitt’s Sustainability 
Ambitions and delegates regular oversight 
of sustainability to the CRSEC Committee.

(e, f) Setting culture and conduct
The Board is responsible for monitoring 
Reckitt’s culture and values, and the delivery 
of our strategy can only be achieved with 
the highest standards of business conduct. 
All Directors must act with integrity, lead 
by example, and promote the Company’s 
culture and values. We aim to create 
the space and opportunities to help our 
employees make a difference and do the 
right thing, always. The CRSEC Committee 
reports to the Board after each of its 
meetings, to provide an update on Reckitt’s 
ethics and compliance priorities, including 
the Group’s Speak Up programme.

Relevant s172(a) disclosures

Relevant s172(b, c) disclosures

Relevant s172(d) disclosures

Our Strategy

Board activities 
and governance

08-11

71-75

Focus on risk management

78

Reckitt’s decision-making 
framework

Stakeholder engagement 
and actions

72

37-40

Sustainability Ambitions 
Progress Overview and 
Performance Review

Audit Committee report

14

47-54

88-95

CRSEC Committee report

96-99

Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures

218-222

Relevant s172(e, f) disclosures

Board oversight/focus on 
culture and ethical conduct

Reckitt’s approach to DE&I, 
health, safety and wellbeing

96-99

19-21

112-114

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT78

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

FOCUS ON RISK 
MANAGEMENT

Risk Appetite
The Board is responsible for compliance with 
the Code and the Financial Reporting Council’s 
(FRC) Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting. The sectors and environment within 
which Reckitt operates are dynamic and fast-
moving, and in some areas, highly regulated, and 
so controls are kept under review. The system 
is designed to assess and manage, rather than 
eliminate, risks to our business objectives. The 
Board relies on these controls insofar as they are 
able to provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group’s principal and emerging risks and 
mitigating actions are detailed on pages 55 to 60.

As part of our risk management process, 
we regularly evaluate risks to achieving objectives, 
and the likelihood of such risks materialising and 
impacting the ability of the Group to cope with 
the circumstances should they occur. In doing so, 
we are inherently considering our risk appetite 
through the actions taken, controls implemented 
and processes followed to reduce the likelihood 
of risk events taking place, mitigating the 
potential impact and ensuring that the cost 
of doing so is proportionate to the benefit gain.

Principal risks
Reckitt is committed to maintaining strong 
internal controls and further enhancing 
these. Further information on internal control 
activities during the year can be found on 
page 94 of the Audit Committee Report.

Functional and operational management meet 
to discuss performance measured against 
strategic aims and goals, with risks and risk 
controls incorporated into the discussions. 
During the year, the Directors undertook a robust 
assessment of the principal and emerging risks 
facing the Group, including those that could 
threaten our business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity. Each principal and emerging 
risk is overseen by the Board, or a designated 
Committee of the Board, and is subject to formal 
deep-dive reviews as appropriate at Board, GEC 
and GBU meetings. More details on the Group’s 
principal strategic risks and uncertainties can be 
found in the Strategic Report on pages 55 to 60.

Risk management and internal controls
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, 
oversees the Group’s overall Risk Management 
Framework, the effectiveness of internal controls 
and monitors Reckitt’s compliance with the 
requirements of the Code in respect of risk 
management and internal controls. The Audit 
Committee monitored the key elements of the 
Group’s internal controls framework throughout 
the year and conducted an annual review of 
the effectiveness of Reckitt’s system of risk 
management and internal control in respect of 
2023, which covered all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
Audit Committee’s annual review was supported by 
a report prepared by the Internal Audit function on 
the Group’s risk management and internal controls.

On an ongoing basis, the Board reviews the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control system, including through 
monitoring reports from management on their 
assessment of risks and internal control systems, 
assurance received from management regarding 
compliance with relevant policies, and assurance 
received on the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal control environment. In addition, the Board 
reviews reports from the Audit Committee, the 
Internal Audit function and the External Auditor, 
the Company’s response to incidents and threats, 
including those relating to cybersecurity and 
safety. The Board reviewed information gathered 
from the Company’s formal Speak Up programme 
including the results of an investigation conducted 
in two Middle Eastern markets (see page 93). It 
also considers the External Auditor’s observations 
on the financial control environment.

In particular, the Audit Committee monitored 
progress against Reckitt’s ongoing controls 
transformation programme to strengthen internal 
control over financial reporting. The Group’s 
financial controls transformation programme is 
intended to increase the overall level of control 
environment maturity and improve consistency 
across the Group. During 2023, it reviewed the 
results of testing performed by the internal 
controls and Internal Audit teams to confirm 
the effective operation of key financial controls 
across the Group, in particularly following the 
launch of the Group’s revised financial control 
framework during the year. More details on the 
financial control framework can be found in the 
Audit Committee Report on page 94. The Audit 
Committee also continues to monitor progress 
in relation to IT General Controls and technology 
security and control initiatives, with regular 

updates from the Chief Information and Digitisation 
Officer and on the related assurance programmes.

Where areas for improvement are identified, the 
Audit Committee is updated regularly with respect 
to progress on those remediation activities as 
well as reviewing ongoing control improvements 
identified. It is recognised that improvements 
will be ongoing through 2024 and the Audit 
Committee will continue to support management 
and review the remediation activities to monitor 
that management have the appropriate resources 
and an appropriate remediation timeline is in place.

Climate-related risk and environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) matters
The Board oversees, considers and reviews 
the Group’s ESG strategy and has oversight 
of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
As part of the Board’s annual review of our 
principal and emerging risks, sustainability was 
considered. The Board’s focus included, both ESG 
performance and reporting. More information 
on our Sustainability Ambitions can be found on 
pages 47 to 54. Our Climate Related Financial 
Disclosures can be found on pages 218–222.

The CRSEC Committee supports the Board in 
reviewing, monitoring, and assessing our approach 
to sustainability, which includes climate change. 
The CRSEC Committee reports to the Board 
regularly at Board meetings, providing an update 
on sustainability objectives and progress against 
our targets. Further details on the activities of the 
CRSEC Committee can be found on pages 96 to 99.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT79

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

How we monitor culture

Board interactions and engagement to monitor culture throughout the year

Connecting directly 
with employees

Monitoring employee 
perceptions

Board members meet with employees regularly. As part of this year’s October Board meeting schedule, Board members met 
informally with senior leadership from the US and hosted employee engagement sessions. The Board reviewed feedback 
from the round-table discussions. In her role as Designated NED for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce, Mary Harris 
attended meetings where employees were able to speak directly with Mary. The Board received feedback from Mary on 
these discussions. Further information on Mary’s role as Designed NED for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce can 
be found on pages 38 and 80.

Regular global all-employee surveys include questions to gauge employees’ perceptions and understanding of leadership, 
inclusion and wellbeing at Reckitt, and identify areas which require greater attention. This year’s survey highlighted that 
employees would recommend Reckitt as a place to work; believe in and are inspired by our Purpose to protect, heal and 
nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner, healthier world; are proud to work for Reckitt; and agreed that we are achievers. 
Similar to last year, responses from the survey also identified areas that need further improvement, such as: removing barriers 
that slow down work; transparency on equal opportunities and career progression; and investing in and developing people. 
The Board will continue to monitor progress against these areas.

Creating a forum for 
employees to be heard

Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are employee networks that aim to raise the visibility of underrepresented communities. 
They provide a space for colleagues to connect and support each other and are also represented on the Global Inclusion 
Board. In addition, throughout the year, Mary Harris, the Designated NED for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce, 
has maintained regular engagement with various employee groups, including the ERGs.

Ensuring employees 
are informed 

Quarterly all-employee global live-streaming results broadcasts were held by the CEO, CFO and GBU leaders to present 
our results and employees are invited to ask questions and interact directly with presenters.

Staying informed of legal 
and compliance matters 

At each Board meeting, the CRSEC Committee reports to the Board on legal compliance and ethics matters, including the 
Group’s Speak Up programme, which provides safe communication channels for employees wishing to raise concerns on 
potential violations of regulations, internal policies or any misconduct observed at Reckitt.

Maintaining open 
communications 

Following the Q3 2023 results announcement, a CEO chat was broadcast to update Reckitt employees on the continued 
strategic direction beyond Q3 and provided employees with an opportunity to ask questions.

FOCUS ON 
CULTURE

Reckitt is rooted in a culture that is purpose driven, 
innovative and entrepreneurial. Our leadership 
behaviours unite us through a shared ambition 
to Own, to Create, to Deliver and, above all, 
to Care about the outcomes we deliver. Doing 
the right thing, always, is at the centre of our 
Compass, which guides our business and the 
leadership behaviours that drive our success. 
Our people are what makes Reckitt unique. 
They believe in and are inspired by our Purpose. 
During the last four years, we have established 
deep cultural foundations that empower our 
people as the key value drivers of our business. 
We redefined our leadership behaviours to place 
a greater emphasis on care as we serve the 
needs of all our stakeholders. We elevated the 
importance of teamwork in delivering outcomes 
and protecting against the pursuit of results at 
any cost. More information on our culture can be 
found on pages 19 to 21 of the Strategic Report.

How the Board monitors culture
A key focus of the Board is to monitor culture 
and ensure alignment between our Purpose, 
values, and behaviours. Our culture and 
values at Reckitt are defined by the Board 
and the GEC. Regular interactions with 
employees help the Board monitor culture 
and are detailed in the table opposite.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT80

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Division of Responsibilities

HOW WE ARE 
GOVERNED

Board roles and responsibilities
To ensure the Board performs effectively, there is 
a clear division of responsibilities, set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board, between the leadership 
of the Board and the executive leadership of the 
business. The key roles are defined in greater 
detail on the following pages.

A full description of the roles and responsibilities 
of the Chair, CEO and Senior Independent Director 
can be found on our website: www.reckitt.com.

Managing time commitment and ‘overboarding’
On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are 
made aware of the need to, and are required to 
confirm that they will, allocate sufficient time 
to their role to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. They are also required to seek 
agreement from the Chair before taking on 
additional commitments, and to declare any actual 
or potential conflicts of interest. Non-Executive 
Directors are engaged under the terms of a letter 
of appointment. Initial terms of appointment are 
for three years with three months’ notice, with all 
Directors standing for election or re-election at 
every AGM. The Board has reviewed the length of 
service of each Director and considers that each 
Non-Executive Director standing for re-election 
or election at this year’s AGM is independent. 
In particular, in relation to the reappointment 
of Mary Harris as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee for a fixed term between the 

Non-Executive

The Chair
–  Leading the Board and taking responsibility 

for the Board’s overall effectiveness 
in directing the Company

–  Upholding the highest standards of integrity 
and ethical leadership, leading by example 
and promoting a culture of openness and 
debate, based on mutual respect, both in 
and outside the boardroom and in line with 
our Purpose, values, strategy and culture

–  Chairing Board, Nomination Committee 
and shareholder meetings and setting 
Board agendas

The Senior Independent Director
–  Acting as a sounding board for the Chair 

–  Encouraging constructive challenge and 

–  Promoting the highest standards 

facilitating effective communication between 
the Board, management, shareholders and 
wider stakeholders, while promoting a culture 
of openness and constructive debate

–  Ensuring an appropriate balance is maintained 
between the interests of shareholders and 
other stakeholders

–  Leading the annual performance review 

process for the Board and its Committees 
and addressing any subsequent actions

of corporate governance

–  Building a well-balanced, diverse 

and highly effective Board

–  Ensuring Directors receive accurate, 

timely and clear information

–  Ensuring there are appropriate induction 
and development programmes for all 
Board members

–  Ensuring the long-term sustainability 

of the Company

–  Evaluating the Chair’s performance 

–  Being available to shareholders and 

on Board-related matters

on an annual basis

–  Acting as an intermediary for other Directors 

–  Chairing Board and Nomination Committee 

as necessary

meetings in the absence of the Chair

Non-Executive Directors
–  Providing independent input into Board decisions 

through constructive challenge and debate, 
strategic guidance and specialist advice

objectives set, ensuring that management 
is held to account

–  Reviewing financial information and ensuring 

–  Setting and approving the Company’s long-term 

it is complete, accurate and transparent

strategic, financial and operational goals

–  Examining the day-to-day management of the 
business against the performance targets and  

–  Ensuring there are effective systems of internal 
control and risk management and that these are 
continually monitored and reviewed

Designated Non-Executive Director for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce
–  Overseeing the Board’s engagement with 
the Company’s workforce together with 
management, to understand more about 
engagement and the culture of the Company

engagement initiatives

–  Developing and implementing employee 

stakeholders to address any concerns that 
they have been unable to resolve through 
normal channels

–  Leading the search and appointment process 

for a new Chair, when necessary

–  Setting appropriate levels of remuneration 

for Executive Directors and ensuring 
performance targets are closely aligned 
with shareholder interests

–  Development of succession planning and the 

appointment and removal of senior management

–  Taking into account and responding 

to shareholders’ views

–  Providing an employee voice in the boardroom 
and reporting on matters relating to Company 
culture, purpose and improvements

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT 
81

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Division of Responsibilities continued

Company’s 2024 and 2025 AGMs, see page 64. 
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors 
who served during the year to be independent. 
Whilst both Chris Sinclair and Pam Kirby will have 
served nine years in February 2024, the 2024 AGM 
represents a natural point for them to stand down, 
and enables smooth succession of their roles. The 
period from February to the AGM is considered 
sufficiently short not to impair their independence.

The Board and Directors are confident that each 
Director individually has the expertise and relevant 
experience required to perform the role of a 
Director of a listed company and to contribute 
effectively to the Board and Committees to which 
they are appointed. The Company recognises 
the developmental advantages of an external 
non-executive role on a non-competitor board 
and Executive Directors are permitted to seek 
such a role, provided that they do not take on 
more than one non-executive directorship in, 
nor become the Chair of, a FTSE 100 company.

Nicandro Durante, who was an Executive 
Director until the end of the year, was Chair 
of TIM Participações S.A. and Jeff Carr is 
currently a Non-Executive Director of Kingfisher 
plc and Chair of its Audit Committee.

Board support
The General Counsel & Company Secretary 
is responsible for organising Board meetings, 
as well as collating any papers for the Board 
to review and consider. Board and Committee 
papers are accessible to all Directors through 
a secure and confidential electronic document 
storage facility. This facility is maintained by 
Reckitt’s Secretariat function and additionally 
holds other information which the Chair, the CEO 
or the General Counsel & Company Secretary 

Executive

The Chief Executive Officer
–  Principally responsible for the day-to-day 
management of Reckitt, in line with the 
strategic, financial and operational objectives 
set by the Board

–  Effective development and implementation of 
strategy and commercial objectives as agreed 
by the Board

–  Maintaining relationships with investors and 

–  Chair of the GEC, consisting of the CEO, 

advising the Board accordingly

are regularly updated on key matters, including 
progress on delivering strategic objectives

–  Regularly reviewing the organisation structure, 

developing a Group Executive team and 
planning for succession

the CFO and senior management executives, 
who together are responsible for execution 
of the Company’s strategy and achieving 
its commercial aims

–  Managing Reckitt’s risk profile and establishing 

effective internal controls

–  Ensuring there are effective communication 

–  Providing clear leadership to promote the 
desired culture, values and behaviours to 
inspire and support the Company’s workforce

flows to the Board and the Chair, and that they  

–  Ensuring the long-term sustainability of 

the business

–  Responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal controls over financial 
reporting and for the preparation and integrity 
of financial reporting

–  Ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely 

and clear information in respect of the Group’s 
financial performance and position

–  Developing and recommending the long-term 

strategic and financial plan

–  Ensuring the Board receives high quality, 
timely information in advance of Board 
meetings to ensure effective discussion

–  Ensuring there are policies and processes 

in place to help the Board function efficiently 
and effectively

–  Facilitating an induction programme for 

–  Keeping abreast of shareholders’ views

all Board members

The Chief Financial Officer
–  Supporting the CEO in developing and 
implementing the Company’s strategy

–  Leading the global finance function, 

and developing key talent and planning 
for succession

The Company Secretary
–  Providing advice and support to the Chair 

and all Directors

–  Advising and keeping the Board up to date 

on all relevant legal and governance 
requirements and ensuring the Company 
is compliant

may deem useful to the Directors, such as press 
releases and pertinent company information.

All Directors have individual access to advice 
from the General Counsel & Company Secretary 
and a procedure exists for Directors to take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT 
82

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Composition, Succession and Evaluation

BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
AND EFFECTIVENESS

2022 recommendations

Action taken during 2023

Board succession
Whilst Board composition was rated highly, 
it was noted that ensuring appropriate 
geographical representation, gender diversity 
and recruiting Non-Executive Directors 
with IT & Digital and marketing experience 
would be beneficial to the Board.

Through the Nomination Committee, the Board 
maintained a strong focus on Board renewal 
during 2023. The appointment of Tamara Ingram 
in February 2023, Marybeth Hays in February 
2024 and Fiona Dawson in June 2024, brings 
material leadership and marketing, retail and 
omni-channel experience to the Board.

Talent and succession planning
Chair and CEO succession were 
identified as key priorities for 2023.

Execution and delivery 
To ensure appropriate oversight of execution 
and delivery, risk management, investment 
in the capabilities and systems to deliver 
the strategy, with a particular focus on 
Supply, IT & Digital and Cyber Security.

As detailed in the Nomination Committee Report, 
successful exercises have been undertaken 
during 2023 resulting in the appointment 
of Sir Jeremy Darroch as Chair, Kris Licht 
as CEO and Shannon Eisenhardt as CFO.

The Board has during the year maintained 
a specific focus on these areas, receiving 
detailed briefing on Supply, IT & Digital and 
Cyber Security as part of its Board, Audit 
Committee and CRSEC Committee agendas.

Board Performance review process 2023 
The Board undertakes an annual review of 
its own and its Committees’ performance 
and effectiveness, with a formal externally 
facilitated performance review of the Board 
conducted at least every three years. In 2020, 
we engaged Lintstock to facilitate a three-year 
Board Development Programme, which was 
extended for an extra year in 2023. In this final 
year, the review consisted of both an online 
questionnaire and interviews with the Directors. 

The 2023 Board performance review considered 
the effectiveness of the Board, as well as that 
of each Board Committee and the individual 
Directors. The areas of focus included Board 
composition and succession planning, quality of 
information received, Board dynamics and support, 
management and focus of meetings, Board 
Committees, strategic oversight, risk management 
and mitigation, internal control, advancement of 
diversity and inclusion, oversight of sustainability 
disclosures and board relations. A report, with 
action points and recommendations for the 
Board to consider, was distributed to Directors 
and the results of the review were subsequently 
discussed by the Board at its November meeting.

Key themes identified through the performance 
review included the need to focus in 2024 
on Board succession, risk management and 
providing the Board with more opportunities 
to engage with the business (for example, 
by holding meetings in proximity to key sites).

In addition, the Chair’s performance was 
considered by the Senior Independent Director 
with input from his fellow Non-Executive 
Directors and discussed following the November 
Board meeting without the Chair present. The 
discussion concluded that the Chair continued 
to devote sufficient time to his role and 
continued to lead the Board constructively, 
demonstrating objective judgement and 
encouraging a culture of openness and debate.

Lintstock is independent of and has no other 
links with the Company or its Directors in 
connection with the performance review. 

Actions taken to address the findings of the 2022 
review are also outlined in the table opposite.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT83

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT

Member

Scheduled  
meetings attended

Chris Sinclair (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Andrew Bonfield
Member for the whole year

Alan Stewart
Member for the whole year

Pam Kirby
Member for the whole year

Sir Jeremy Darroch
Member for the whole year

52/2

52/2

52/2

52/2

52/2

This year the Committee’s focus was 
on succession planning, ensuring that 
the right people are in place to enable 
Reckitt to execute its strategic aims.”

Chris Sinclair
Chair of the Nomination Committee

Committee priorities in 2023
–  The selection and appointment of our new 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Kris Licht, 
who was appointed as CEO Designate in 
May and formally became CEO on 1 October

–  The selection and appointment of our new 

Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Shannon 
Eisenhardt, who was appointed as CFO 
Designate on 17 October, and will succeed 
Jeff Carr in March 2024

–  Chair succession planning. In November, 
we announced that Sir Jeremy Darroch, 
currently the Senior Independent Director 
(SID), would succeed Chris Sinclair as Chair 
of the Board, from the conclusion of the 2024 
Annual General Meeting (AGM), and that 
Andrew Bonfield will take on the role of 
SID from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM

Key objectives for 2024
–  Support a smooth Chair transition for 

Sir Jeremy Darroch

–  Support the smooth transition of the Executive 

Directors, onboarding of the new Non-Executive 
Directors and transition of Remuneration 
Committee Chair

–  Continue succession planning for the Board 
and senior management roles and to keep 
Committee memberships under review

Committee membership
Members of the Committee are appointed by 
the Board. Membership currently comprises the 
Chair, the SID and the Chairs of each of the Board’s 
Committees. In accordance with the principles 
of the Code, the Committee is made up of a 
majority of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The General Counsel & Company Secretary acted 
as Secretary to the Committee during the year.

The membership of the Committee is reviewed 
annually by the Chair as part of the annual 
performance review of the Committee. 
All Directors are required to seek election or 
re-election each year at the AGM. Biographical 
details of the Directors, including their skills and 
experience, can be found on pages 65 to 68.

Role and responsibilities
The role of the Committee, as set out in 
the Committee’s terms of reference, is to 
ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new Directors to the Board and to lead 
the process for Board appointments. 
The Nomination Committee has principal 
responsibility for making recommendations 
to the Board on new appointments and on the 
composition of the Board and its Committees. 
The Committee also assists the Board in 
succession planning for senior management. 

The role of the Committee includes, but is 
not limited to, the following matters:

–  Reviewing the composition (including skills, 
experience, independence, knowledge 
and diversity) of the Board and making 
recommendations to the Board with regards 
to any changes deemed necessary, taking 
into account the length of service of the 
Board as a whole and the need to regularly 
refresh membership

–  Reviewing the composition of each of the Board 
Committees and evaluating the performance 
and effectiveness of each Director

–  Keeping under review the leadership 
capabilities of the Company, covering 
both executive, non-executive and senior 
management positions, ensuring plans are 
in place for orderly succession, with a view 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT84

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

to ensuring the continued ability of the 
Company to compete effectively in the markets 
in which it operates. Management succession 
planning is considered to be so important that 
it is also reviewed by the full Board

–  Ensuring that all newly appointed Directors 

undertake an appropriate induction programme 
to ensure that they are fully informed about the 
strategic and commercial issues affecting the 
Company and the markets in which it operates, 
as well as their duties and responsibilities as a 
Director of the Board and member of one or 
more Board Committees

–  Keeping under annual review and monitoring 

potential conflicts of interest, and, if appropriate, 
authorising situational conflicts of interest, 
whilst ensuring the risk of unacceptable 
influence resulting from any conflict of interest 
is minimised

Further details on the Committee’s role and 
responsibilities can be found in its terms of 
reference, available at www.reckitt.com.

Board composition
The Committee regularly reviews the 
composition of the Board and its Committees, 
considering the balance of skills and experience, 
diversity and how effectively Directors work 
together to achieve Reckitt’s objectives. 

Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed 
for a three-year term and generally continue to 
serve one or more further terms. All Directors are 
nominated for appointment by the Committee, 
which is subsequently approved by the Board.

In January 2024, we announced the appointment 
of Marybeth Hays as a new Non-Executive Director, 
effective from 1 February 2024. Marybeth brings 
over 25 years of experience in retail, healthcare 
and consumer goods and we are delighted 
she has joined the Board. Biographical details 
for Marybeth can be found on page 68.

In February 2024, we announced the appointment 
of Fiona Dawson CBE as a Non-Executive Director 
and as Chair Designate of the Remuneration 
Committee. Fiona will join the Board on 1 June.

In accordance with the Code, all existing 
Directors will stand for election or re-election 
at the AGM, with the exception of Chris Sinclair, 
Pam Kirby and Alan Stewart who have each 
already notified their intention not to stand for 
re-election at the AGM, Chris and Pam having 
reached the end of their nine-year term.

The Committee recommends that all existing 
Board members have their appointments renewed. 
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed to 
shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.

Details of the specific contributions each Director 
makes to Reckitt’s long-term success are set out in 
the Notice of AGM, available at www.reckitt.com/
investors/annual-general-meetings.

Key activities during 2023
Meetings of the Committee are held as needed but are required to take place at least once a year. 
In 2023, the Committee held two scheduled meetings and three additional meetings. Meetings 
take place ahead of Board meetings and the Chair of the Committee reports formally to the Board 
on its proceedings.

FEBRUARY

Succession planning
CEO succession and senior management succession planning

APRIL

JULY

Succession planning
The Committee met to review the CEO succession and then approved 
its recommendation to the Board to appoint Kris Licht as CEO

Succession planning
The Committee considered senior management succession planning, 
including for the role of CFO. The Committee also conducted a review 
of the current composition of the Board Committees and succession 
planning for Committee Chair roles

AUGUST

Succession planning
CFO succession planning and recommendation of appointment of CFO

NOVEMBER Succession planning

Update on succession planning generally

Recommendation of appointment of Chair and Senior Independent 
Director positions

Governance matters
Annual review of Committee terms of reference

Annual review of potential conflicts of interest

Committee performance review

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT85

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

Succession planning
The Committee regularly reviews and monitors the 
Board’s structure, size and composition, including 
the balance of skills, experience, independence, 
knowledge and diversity required and makes 
recommendations to the Board of any changes 
deemed necessary. Consideration is given to the 
length of service of the Board as a whole and 
Directors individually. In addition, the Committee 
keeps the leadership needs of the Company under 
review, including senior management positions, 
ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession 
and so that the Company can continue to compete 
effectively in the markets in which it operates.

The Committee considers Board renewal on 
an ongoing basis, and makes recommendations 
to the Board regarding proposed appointments. 
The Committee is also responsible for making 
recommendations from the Non-Executive 
Directors for the role of SID and proposes 
the membership and the role of Chair for 
each of the Board Committees.

Induction programmes
New Directors receive a tailored induction 
programme on appointment to the Board. The 
induction programme generally includes meetings 
with the other Directors, the General Counsel & 
Company Secretary and GEC members on a 1:1 
basis, relevant Committee Chairs (depending 
on proposed Committee memberships), the 
Presidents of the GBUs and senior representatives 
from our advisors such as our lawyers and 
External Auditor. The meetings are usually 
held in person, virtually or a mix of both. 

New Directors may also carry out market 
visits and attend key Reckitt sites.

Chief Executive Officer search, selection and induction process
In September 2022, we announced that Nicandro Durante, who was at the time the SID, would undertake 
the role of CEO while the Committee identified the best long-term candidate to take Reckitt on the next 
phase of its journey. 

Following an extensive search, which considered both internal and external candidates, we were pleased 
to announce in April that Kris Licht had been selected to become Reckitt’s new CEO.

Further details on the stakeholder considerations the Board had in mind whilst selecting the new CEO 
can be found in our Section 172 Statement, on page 76.

STEP 1

STEP 3

The Committee considered and identified 
the skills, experience and expertise required 
for the role of CEO, taking into account the 
long-term strategic priorities of the business.

The Committee evaluated the potential 
candidates and identified a shortlist of 
candidates who were invited for meetings 
and interviews.

STEP 2

STEP 4

The Committee outlined a role specification 
and engaged Egon Zehnder, an independent 
search agency, to conduct a search for 
potential candidates, while also considering 
potential internal candidates with relevant 
skills, experience and expertise. Egon 
Zehnder’s search focused on ‘best in class’ 
CEOs with consumer goods experience. 
Following conclusion of their search, Egon 
Zehnder drew up a long list of candidates 
for the Committee to review. Potential 
internal candidates were also reviewed.

Following the conclusion of the interviews, 
the Committee met to review and provide 
feedback on both potential external and 
internal candidates. This resulted in the 
Committee’s recommendation to the Board 
to appoint Kris Licht as Reckitt’s new CEO.

STEP 5

After the Board approved the Committee’s 
recommendation, the appointment 
was announced and a formal induction 
process commenced, including a handover 
from Nicandro Durante.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTAs part of the Board’s annual performance 
review, the Committee reviews the Board’s 
composition, diversity and how effectively 
members work together to achieve objectives. 
Directors are evaluated both collectively and 
individually, to demonstrate whether each 
Director continues to contribute effectively. 
Following conclusion of the performance review, 
the Committee reports to the Board on the 
outcomes of the review that have or will influence 
its composition and whether each Director is 
committing sufficient time to fulfil their duties.

The Board, having had sight of the results of the 
Committee’s performance review, considers the 
Committee to continue to operate effectively.

Diversity and inclusion
The Board and Committee fully recognise the 
importance of diversity, including gender and 
ethnicity, at Board and senior management levels 
in compliance with the Code. Inclusion is core 

to Reckitt’s Purpose to ‘protect, heal and 
nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner 
and healthier world’. We recognise that it 
is critical for us to have a diverse employee 
population and a Board and senior management 
team that is reflective of the markets we 
operate in and the consumers we serve.

We are committed to equality of opportunity in 
all areas of employment and business, regardless 
of personal characteristics. We always recruit 
the best and most suitable candidates for 
any role, and we strive for a well-balanced 
representation of backgrounds, nationalities, 
cultures, skills and experiences at all levels 
across the Group. Ultimate responsibility for 
and sponsorship of this policy rests with the 
GEC. Senior management is accountable and all 
Reckitt employees are responsible for ensuring 
that our diversity policies and programmes 
are actively implemented and followed.

86

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

Chief Financial Officer search,  
selection and induction
During the year, a search commenced for a 
successor for the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
position. MWM Consulting Limited (MWM), an 
external search firm, were instructed to conduct 
a search for external candidates who met the 
required criteria. From the individuals identified, 
interviews were held with the CEO and CEO 
Designate, Chair and the SID. Feedback was 
provided to the Committee at its meeting in July. 
Following conclusion of the interview process, 
the Committee made a recommendation to 
the Board to appoint Shannon Eisenhardt.

Chair succession
During the year a process was undertaken to 
identify my successor as Chair. This exercise 
was undertaken by the Nomination Committee 
(excluding me and Jeremy Darroch) and led by 
Andrew Bonfield. Based on discussions with 
Board members and a thorough market review, 
Jeremy Darroch was identified as the best 
successor to me as Chair, and his appointment 
was recommended by the Nomination 
Committee and approved by the Board.

Board Directors ongoing training and development
The Chair has overall responsibility for ensuring 
that all the Directors receive suitable training to 
enable them to carry out their duties. As part of 
their role, Directors are also expected to personally 
identify any additional training requirements 
they feel would benefit them in performing their 
duties. We arrange ongoing training including 
on legal and financial regulatory developments 
relevant to the Company and the Directors.

Training is also provided by way of briefing 
papers or presentations at scheduled Board 
meetings, as well as meetings with senior 
executives or external sources. The Directors may, 
at the Company’s expense, take independent 
professional advice and are encouraged to 
continually update their professional skills and 
knowledge of the business and wider industry. 

During the year, training materials have been made 
available for Board members to view, on ongoing 
UK corporate governance reforms. We also aim 
to have one Board strategy meeting held at an 
off-site business location each year. This gives 
new Directors an opportunity to engage directly 
with employees and key personnel in other 
jurisdictions and be immersed in our business.

Group Executive Committee (GEC) changes
The GEC changes during the year reflect the 
Committee’s focus on succession planning and the 
alignment of our functional leaders with Reckitt’s 
strategic priorities and growth opportunities. 

In July, Susan Sholtis joined the GEC on her 
appointment as President of the Nutrition GBU. 
Shannon Eisenhardt became a GEC member on 
her appointment as CFO Designate in October.

Nicandro Durante, who was CEO up until October 
and then remained an Executive Director, resigned 
from the Board and as a GEC member at the end 
of 2023.

Biographical details of GEC members can be found 
on pages 69 to 70.

Committee performance review
A performance review of the Committee 
was conducted as part of the broader Board 
performance review (see page 82). All areas 
received positive ratings overall, with succession 
planning for the Chair scoring the highest.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT87

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

Although we do not have a written Board diversity policy, the Committee and the Board are committed 
to recruit members of the Board on the strict criteria of merit, skill, experience and cultural fit of any 
potential candidates, and to seek diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and 
personal strengths. This commitment is demonstrated through our Board composition which comprises 
eight nationalities and seven women as at the date of this Report. Our Board consists of one member 
from an ethnic minority, in line with the Parker Review recommendation and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Policy on Diversity and Inclusion on Company Boards and Executive Management.

Our GEC, comprising the most senior management level in the business, represents seven different 
nationalities from across the globe, embodying our truly multinational focus. The Company’s wider global 
leadership community holds over 49 nationalities between them, representing a broad background of 
collective skills, cultures and experience. This widens our understanding of our consumers, who themselves 
come from the broadest possible backgrounds allowing us to be best placed in serving their needs.

Number of  
board members

Percentage  
of the board

Number of  
senior positions 
on the board 
(CEO, CFO, SID 
and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

White British or other 
White (including 
minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic 
Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/
Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, 
including Arab

Not specified/ 
prefer not to say

12

80%

100%

–

1

–

–

2

–

7%

–

–

13%

–

–

–

–

–

9

1

1

–

1

–

76%

8%

8%

–

8%

–

Representation of women at Board and senior management levels
As at 31 December 2023, 40% of our Board members are women and we have achieved the 40% target 
as outlined in the FTSE Women Leaders Review (formerly the Hampton-Alexander Review). In addition, 
we will comply with the FCA’s Policy on Diversity and Inclusion on Company Boards and Executive 
Management, which requires that at least one of the senior Board roles should be held by a woman, 
with the appointment of Shannon Eisenhardt as CFO in March 2024.

As at 31 December 2023, representation of women within the GEC was 33%, and within the GEC and 
their direct reports was 29%. We are cognisant of the gap in performance towards the 40% for women 
in leadership within the GEC as detailed in the FTSE Women Leaders Review (and in Provision 23 of 
the Code). 

We recognise that representation of women at our most senior levels needs improvement, and the 
Committee continues to make a commitment to increase women’s representation at this level.

As at 31 December 2023, women employees accounted for 45% of our global workforce and make up 
51% of our manager population.

Number of  
board members

Percentage  
of the board

9

6

–

60%

40%

–

Number of  
senior positions 
on the board 
(CEO, CFO, SID 
and Chair)

100%

–1

–

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

8

4

–

67%

33%

–

Men

Women

Not specified/ 
prefer not to say

1.  Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 2023 and will take on the role of CFO in March 2024

We continue to put diversity and inclusion at the centre of everything we do. Further details can be 
found at pages 19 to 21 and in our Fairer Society section on page 51.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT88

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

AUDIT 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT

Member

Andrew Bonfield (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Pam Kirby
Member for the whole year

Margherita Della Valle
Member for the whole year

Elane Stock
Member for the whole year

Tamara Ingram
Member from February 2023

Meetings 
attended

54/4

54/4

53/4

54/4

54/4

The focus this year remained on 
oversight of Reckitt’s internal controls 
and risk management framework in 
the context of the upcoming revisions 
to the Corporate Governance Code.”

Andrew Bonfield
Chair of the Audit Committee

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2023.

This report details how the Committee has discharged its role, duties and performance during the year 
under review in relation to internal control, financial and other reporting, risk management, the internal 
audit function and our relationship and interaction with the External Auditor.

Committee priorities in 2024
–  Maintaining oversight and providing assurance to the Board on Reckitt’s risk management and internal 

control procedures, including monitoring key areas in the context of risk and control

–  Sustaining a strong culture of risk management and embedding and strengthening internal controls 

across the Group

–  Monitoring potential legislative and regulatory changes which may affect the work of the Committee

–  Reviewing cyber security risks and controls

Committee membership and experience

Name

Recent and relevant financial experience

Andrew Bonfield (Chair) – Financial expert

Sectoral experience relevant 
to Reckitt’s operations

– Consumer goods 

– Chartered Accountant

– Pharmaceuticals/healthcare

– Currently CFO of a global US Fortune 

100 company

– Multiple CFO roles at other large companies, 

including in the consumer goods sector

Pam Kirby

– Sits on another FTSE 100 company’s 

– Pharmaceuticals/healthcare

Audit Committee

Margherita Della Valle 

– Financial expert

– Technology

– Consumer goods

– Holds a Master’s degree in Economics

– Technology

– Previously held Group CFO and senior 

finance roles

Elane Stock

– Holds Master’s degrees in Finance

– Consumer goods

– Previously member of the audit committee 

– Emerging markets

of two US listed entities

Tamara Ingram

– Member of the Audit Committee of 

– Consumer goods

a US-listed company

– Digital strategy

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT89

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

All Committee members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors who have financial, 
economics and/or business management 
expertise in large companies.

The Board is satisfied that, in compliance with 
the Code, Committee members as a whole have 
competence relevant to the Company’s sector 
(consumer goods).

As Chair of the CRSEC Committee, Pam Kirby’s 
membership of the Audit Committee ensures that 
relevant issues, such as risk, whistle-blowing and 
compliance, are shared and coordinated between 
the two Committees.

Committee members are expected in particular 
to have an understanding of:

–  The Group’s operations, policies and internal 

control environment

–  The principles of, and recent developments in, 

financial reporting

–  Relevant legislation, regulatory requirements 

and ethical codes of practice

–  The role of internal and external audit and 

risk management

Committee appointments are generally 
made for a three-year period. Members of the 
Committee are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 

On joining the Committee and during their tenure, 
members receive additional training tailored 
to their individual requirements. Committee 
members also meet with management covering 
internal audit, risk management, legal, tax, treasury 
and financial matters, as well as meetings with the 
External Auditor.

During the year, members of the Committee 
received regular briefings from management 
on matters covering governance and legislative 
developments, accounting policies and practices, 
and tax and treasury. 

During the year, the Head of Secretariat acted 
as Secretary to the Committee.

Committee performance review
A performance review of the Committee 
was conducted as part of the Board’s external 
performance review, conducted by Lintstock.

The performance review of the Committee 
utilised a bespoke questionnaire sent 
to Committee members followed by an 
interview. Matters evaluated by Committee 
members included meeting management and 
composition, Committee support, Committee 
relationships, quality of information and the 
work of the Committee and its review of 
controls and reporting. All areas received 
positive ratings overall, with management 
of Committee meetings scoring the highest.

The Board, having had sight of the results of 
the Committee’s performance review, considers 
the Committee to be operating effectively.

Meetings
During 2023, the Committee held four scheduled 
meetings at times aligned to the Company’s 
reporting cycle. In addition, one non-scheduled 
meeting was held via videoconference, as 
permitted by the Company’s articles of association 
and the Committee’s terms of reference. 

Committee meetings usually take place ahead of 
Board meetings and the Committee Chair provides 
an update to the Board on the key issues discussed 
at each meeting. Committee papers are provided 
to all Directors in advance of each meeting, 
including a copy of the Committee minutes.

Meetings are attended by senior representatives 
of the External Auditor and by the Group Head 
of Audit, CFO, CFO Designate and SVP Corporate 
Controller. The Chair of the Board and the CEO are 
also invited to attend. Other management attend 
when deemed appropriate by the Committee.

Time is allocated at the end of each meeting 
for private discussion with internal audit and 
the External Auditors, without other invitees 
being present, as well as a private session 
of the Committee members. 

Committee members’ meeting attendance 
during the year is set out on the first page 
of this Audit Committee Report.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTThe Committee and the Board received 
confirmation from management that the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
had been prepared in accordance with the 
assurance framework and that appropriate 
verification had been undertaken.

In addition, the Committee also reviewed 
KPMG’s audit findings report, draft audit opinion 
and draft management representation letter.

Following the Committee’s review, the 
Committee was satisfied that the 2023 
Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, met its objectives and 
accordingly recommended to the Board 
that the 2023 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements be approved and that the 
Board make its statement on page 137.

90

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

Fair, balanced and understandable 
The Committee reviewed the 2023 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements to confirm 
that it is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides sufficient information to 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position, 
performance, business model and strategy. 

The Committee relies upon the following 
assurance framework in making its assessment 
of fair, balanced and understandable:

–  All sections of the 2023 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements were prepared in 
accordance with the Standard Operating 
Procedures (SOPs) as approved by the 
Disclosure Committee

–  A detailed review of the 2023 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements was undertaken 
by senior management and the Disclosure 
Committee to ensure consistency in 
messaging and appropriate balance

–  A comprehensive review by the Directors 

and the senior management team of 
the form, content and consistency of 
narrative, the disclosures contained in the 
Financial Statements and the underlying 
processes and controls supporting the 
preparation of the 2023 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements

–  The comprehensive verification process, 

supporting any facts, figures and statements 
included in the 2023 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements

Role and responsibilities
The Committee is part of the Group’s 
governance framework and supports the 
Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in ensuring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting, internal controls and overall 
risk management process, and relationship 
with the Company’s External Auditor.

Financial reporting
–  Monitor the integrity of the financial 

statements of the Company including 
interim and annual financial statements

–  Review the appropriateness of significant 

accounting policies and practices

–  Review significant financial judgements and 
estimates, taking into account the External 
Auditor’s view on the financial judgements 
and estimates

–  Advise the Board on whether, taken as a 

whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy

Risk management systems and internal controls
–  Review and monitor the effectiveness of 

the management of risk and overall system 
of Internal Control

–  Review the framework and analysis to 
support both the Going Concern and 
the long-term Viability Statement

Whistle-blowing, fraud and compliance 
–  In conjunction with the CRSEC Committee, 
review the Company’s arrangements for its 
workforce to raise concerns about possible 

wrongdoings in financial reporting and other 
matters; review the Company’s procedures 
for detecting fraud; and its systems and 
controls for ethical behaviours and the 
prevention of bribery

External audit
–  Make recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment, removal, remuneration and 
terms of engagement of the External Auditor

–  Review and assess the External Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity taking into 
account relevant UK law, professional and 
regulatory requirements

–  Develop, recommend and implement the 
Group’s policy in relation to the provision 
of non-audit services

–  Review and approve the annual audit 
plan and assess the effectiveness of 
the audit process

Internal audit
–  Review and approve the annual internal 

audit plan and monitor and review 
its effectiveness

–  Review and monitor the effectiveness of 
the internal audit function, ensuring the 
necessary resources are in place for it 
to perform effectively

There were no significant changes to the 
Committee’s role and responsibilities during 
the year.

The Committee’s role and responsibilities 
are set out in its terms of reference, 
which are available at www.reckitt.com.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT91

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

Key activities during the year

FEBRUARY

MAY

JULY

NOVEMBER

–  Review of the 2022 preliminary results 
announcement, including the Financial 
Statements and recommend for 
approval by the Board

–  Review of the 2022 Annual Report 

and Financial Statements, the going 
concern basis of preparation and 
Viability Statement, including whether 
the Committee could recommend that 
the Board approve the 2022 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements

–  KPMG’s 2022 audit findings report, 
observations on Reckitt’s internal 
controls for the 2022 financial year, 
management representation letter 
and report on the 2022 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements

–  KPMG’s final non-audit fees for 2022

–  Annual review of risk management 

and internal controls including 
review of risks across Group 
functions and of the integrated 
risk management framework

–  Approval of KPMG’s 2023 audit fees 

and terms of engagement

–  Conduct assessment of External 
Auditor independence and ethics

–  KPMG’s strategy for the 2023 audit

–  Conclude on audit quality delivery and 
assess External Auditor effectiveness

–  Work undertaken in respect of the 

2023 internal audit plan and monitoring 
the 2023 internal audit plan

–  Review of whistle-blowing procedures

–  Consider legal matters, including 
provisioning and compliance risk 
and compliance controls

–  Consider tax and treasury matters, 
including provisioning for uncertain 
tax positions and compliance with 
statutory reporting obligations

–  Review of risk management and 

business continuity

–  Review of the Company’s IT controls, 

with a focus on cyber risk

–  Review of the 2023 half-year results 
announcement, including the going 
concern basis of preparation and 
recommendation for approval 
by the Board

–  KPMG’s half-year review report 
findings to 30 June 2023 and 
management representation letter

–  KPMG’s assessment of its objectivity 

and independence

–  Review internal audit findings and 
responsiveness of management

–  Review of the Committee’s 

2024 standing agenda and terms 
of reference

–  Results of the performance review 

of the Committee

–  Monitor legislative and governance 
changes regarding proposed audit 
reform and changes to the Code

–  Review of the Company’s IT controls 

with a focus on cyber risk

–  KPMG’s interim IT control findings 
relating to the 2023 audit cycle

–  Annual review and approval of 

Group Treasury policies

–  Review KPMG’s non-audit fees for 
2023 and review of independence

–  Review of internal controls 

and the Company’s controls 
transformation programme

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT92

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

Significant and key financial reporting matters
The key matters reviewed and evaluated by the 
Committee during the year were as follows.

The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
and approving the appropriateness of the interim 
and annual Financial Statements and related 
announcements, including:

–  Recommending that, in the Committee’s view, 
the Financial Statements are fair, balanced 
and understandable. In addition to the 
detailed preparation and verification 
procedures in place for the 2023 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, management 
continued its focus on narrative reporting 
with clear written and visual messaging 
to communicate the Group’s strategy

–  Reviewing the appropriateness of the 

accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
used as set out from pages 160 to 200 and 
concluding that the judgements and 
assumptions used are reasonable

–  Reviewing the Group’s policy relating to, 

and disclosure of, alternative performance 
measures (APMs)

Areas of significant financial judgement
The areas of significant financial judgement in 
relation to the 2023 Group Financial Statements 
considered by the Committee, together with a 
summary of the actions taken, were as follows.

Recoverability of goodwill 
and other intangible assets
Under International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS), goodwill and indefinite-life assets must be 
tested for impairment on at least an annual basis. 
Impairment testing is inherently judgemental and 
requires management to make multiple estimates, 
on future performance, for example around future 

price and volume growth, future margins, terminal 
growth rates and discount rates. The Group’s 
impairment testing utilised cash flow projections 
included within one-year budgets and five-year 
strategic plans. Cash flows beyond the five-year 
period were projected using terminal growth rates.

As a result of impairment testing performed 
in 2023, management determined that an 
impairment charge of £810 million relating to its 
IFCN cash-generating unit (CGU) was required 
at 31 December 2023 (2022: impairment charge 
of £152 million relating to the Biofreeze CGU 
and £15 million relating to other CGUs). 

In November 2023, the Committee reviewed 
the detailed results of the impairment testing 
for the Group’s CGUs, with a particular focus 
on the Biofreeze CGU, as no headroom existed 
between the Biofreeze recoverable amount and 
carrying value following impairment in 2022. The 
Committee challenged the key assumptions 
which underpinned the Biofreeze recoverable 
amount, including anticipated category growth, 
market share improvement, the commercial 
success of new product launches and international 
market expansion. The Committee confirmed 
the key judgements and estimates made by 
management including market expansion and 
discount rate, and reviewed the sensitivity of 
the Biofreeze impairment model to changes in 
key assumptions. Subsequent to the impairment 
review the Committee reviewed the transfer of 
Biofreeze goodwill (£160 million) to the Health 
CGU, the transfer occurring due to the completion 
of the integration of Biofreeze into Health in 
2023, and considered it to be appropriate.

In February 2024, following management’s 
considerations of the external auditor’s 
observations, the Committee reviewed the detailed 

results of the impairment testing in relation to the 
IFCN CGU and challenged the key assumptions 
which underpinned the IFCN recoverable amount 
at 31 December 2023. This included the effect 
of changes to the regulatory environment, the 
level at which US market share stabilises, net 
revenue growth rates, the commercial success 
of new product launches and the expansion 
of speciality nutrition. The evolving regulatory 
environment has increased the judgemental 
nature of estimating the future cash flows, thereby 
resulting in increased scrutiny and focus by the 
Committee and challenge to management. 
This challenge resulted in refinement of the 
assumptions underpinning management’s estimate 
of the recoverable amount of the IFCN CGU. 

The Committee also reviewed the discount rate 
used by management to calculate the value in use 
of IFCN, in particular the increase in the discount 
rate in 2023 due to a higher risk free-rate. 

The Committee confirmed the key judgements 
and estimates made by management and 
reviewed the sensitivities of the impairment 
model to reasonable changes in key assumptions. 

The Committee reviewed management’s 
disclosures in relation to goodwill, other intangible 
assets and related impairment reviews included 
within Note 9 and considered them appropriate.

Forward purchase of shares held 
by non-controlling interests
On 25 May the Group entered into an agreement 
pursuant to which it will proceed to acquire 
the remaining interests associated with the 
Company’s majority owned activities in mainland 
China and Hong Kong (RB Manon) from its 
existing minority shareholders. The transaction 
will be implemented through the purchase, 

in multiple stages, of the non-controlling 
shareholdings held by the minority shareholders.

Amounts payable under the agreement are 
dependent on the revenue and profits of RB 
Manon in future periods. Management’s estimate 
of the present value of amounts payable at the 
date of the agreement is £298 million. The key 
assumptions underpinning this estimate relate 
to future revenue and profit growth of Reckitt’s 
business in China, and the discount rate used to 
determine the present value of future cash flows. 
The Committee reviewed these assumptions 
and considered them to be reasonable. 

As the agreement to acquire the non-controlling 
interest has multiple elements, judgement is 
required to allocate the total amount payable 
under the agreement to each element. 
Management determined that the main elements 
in the agreement related to (1) a forward contract 
for the purchase of a non-controlling interest 
in RB Manon, with £167 million allocated to this 
element charged to shareholders equity, and 
(2) services provided by the minority shareholders 
in relation to the transition of leadership and 
shares in RB Manon, with the residual amount 
of £131 million allocated to this element, which 
will be charged to the income statement over 
the performance period for these services. 

The Committee reviewed the identification and 
allocation of consideration to each element in 
the agreement, and the disclosures included 
in Note 30, and considers them appropriate. 

Tax provisioning
From time to time, the Group may be involved in 
disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a 
number of jurisdictions around the world where 
the approach of the local authorities is particularly 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT93

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

difficult to predict. The amount of uncertain tax 
position liabilities recorded in relation to these 
investigations is an area where management and 
tax judgement are important. The Committee 
reviewed the key judgements made with 
management, including relevant professional 
advice that may have been received in each 
case, and considered the level of recognised 
uncertain tax position liabilities to be appropriate.

As required under IFRS, management has included 
disclosure in the Financial Statements outlining 
the amount of uncertain tax position liabilities, the 
methodology by which they have been recognised 
and the sources of estimation uncertainty in 
relation to these uncertain tax position liabilities 
or the rationale for why sensitivity disclosure is 
not meaningful and has not been provided in 
the Financial Statements. The Committee has 
reviewed these disclosures, included within 
Notes 1 and 22, and considers them appropriate.

Legal liability provisioning
At 31 December 2023 a provision of £137 million 
(2022: £221 million) was held on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet in relation to regulatory, 
civil and criminal investigations as well 
as litigation proceedings. 

The Committee has reviewed the status of 
potential legal and constructive liabilities 
during the year, and at the year end, including 
the South Korea Humidifier Sanitiser (HS) issue, 
Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC), Phenylephrine (PE) 
and other significant matters. The Committee 
challenged management on the judgements 
made in determining the level of provisions 
recognised and was satisfied with the level of 
provisioning and associated disclosure for the 
HS issue, NEC, PE and other significant matters 
(see note 20). The Committee was also briefed 

on the implications of the recent NEC state 
court jury award in Belleville, Illinois (see note 33) 
and challenged management on their exercise 
of judgements described in the disclosure.

Other key financial reporting matters
Other key matters reviewed and evaluated in 
relation to the 2023 Group Financial Statements 
considered by the Committee, together with a 
summary of the actions taken, are set out below.

Investigation in the Middle East
As part of the Group’s ongoing compliance 
procedures, an investigation was conducted in 
two Middle Eastern markets in late 2023 and early 
2024. The investigation was led by the Group’s 
Ethics and Compliance function, supported 
by external legal counsel, internal audit and 
corporate controllership. The Committee was 
kept updated as the investigation progressed 
and discussed the findings of the investigation 
ahead of the release of the 2023 preliminary 
results announcement and finalisation of the 
2023 Annual Report. An understatement of 
trade spend, which related to the fourth quarter 
and prior quarters of 2023, was identified and 
incorporated into the 2023 financial statements. 
The Committee reviewed the investigation 
reports and related accounting adjustments. 
The Committee will continue to monitor the 
actions and internal control enhancements taken 
by management in response through 2024. 

Going concern and Viability Statement
A Viability Review was undertaken by 
management, encompassing its going concern 
review. The Committee reviewed and challenged 
the key assumptions used by management in its 
Viability Review and going concern assessment, as 
well as the scenarios applied and risks considered. 

Based on its review, the Committee considers 
that the application of the going concern basis 
for the preparation of the Financial Statements 
was appropriate and confirmed the suitability 
of the Viability Statement covering a five-year 
period, as set out on page 61. The use of a 
five-year period for the Viability Review is the 
period of the Group’s long-term forecasting 
process and covers the various business cycles.

Internal audit
Role of internal auditor
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and 
monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function. The Group Head of Audit is accountable 
to the Chair of the Committee, although for 
administrative matters reports to the CFO. The 
function operates independently of the business, 
with no responsibility for operational management. 
The independence of the Group Head of Audit 
and the internal audit function is considered as 
part of the annual internal audit effectiveness 
review. Further details can be found on page 94.

The function is responsible for providing 
independent and objective assurance on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of Reckitt’s risk 
management and internal control systems. 
Its mandate is set out in a written charter, approved 
by the Committee, and it uses a formal internal audit 
methodology consistent with the Institute of Internal 
Auditors internationally recognised standards.

The risk-based audit plan focuses on areas 
deemed critical to achieving our business 
objectives and covers Reckitt’s commercial 
businesses, manufacturing facilities, information 
systems, programmes and higher risk areas 
and processes. Following each audit, control 
weaknesses are reported to senior management, 
together with recommendations and updates. 
Resulting management actions are tracked 
until they are satisfactorily closed. Audits that 
identified significant weaknesses in the control 
environment normally receive a follow-up 
audit within 12 to 18 months as appropriate. 

At each Committee meeting the Group Head 
of Audit presents an update which includes an 
assessment of the control environment together 
with any material issues, the performance 
of the internal audit function, and any other 
topics as required. A private session with the 
Committee is also held at every meeting. 

Risk management
The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities in ensuring the integrity 
of the Group’s financial reporting (including 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements), 
system of risk management and internal control, 
and the relationship with the External Auditor. 
The Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board in relation to approval of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements.

Prior to the start of each financial year the 
Committee reviews and approves the annual audit 
plan and assesses the adequacy of the function’s 
budget and resources. The function brings in 
specialist skills from external service providers, 
as necessary. The strengthening of the finance 
second line will allow the function in future periods 
to transition away from an agreed rotation and 
scope policy to a more risk-based approach. 

The Committee regularly monitors our system 
of risk management and internal control 
(including internal financial controls). The finance 
function, headed by the CFO, has implemented 
policies, processes, and controls to enable the 
Company to review and comply with changes 
in accounting standards and relevant financial 
regulations. These policies, processes and 
controls are kept under review on an ongoing 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT94

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

basis to ensure both internal and external 
developments are reviewed and acted upon. 

achieving targeted goals is detailed in the Strategic 
Report, which can be found on pages 55 to 60.

In monitoring the integrity of financial reporting 
and any other risks falling within its remit, 
the Committee receives regular reports from the 
SVP Corporate Controller, Group Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer, Group Head of Tax and Group 
Head of Treasury on material developments in 
the legislative, regulatory, and fiscal landscape in 
which the Group operates. It also receives reports 
on IT and cybersecurity risks and controls, and 
on the Group’s whistle-blowing arrangements.

The Committee reported to the Board in February 
2024 that it considers the internal control 
framework to be functioning appropriately, 
to enable the Board to meet its obligations 
under section 4 of the Code, to maintain 
sound risk management and internal control 
systems, and to report to shareholders on 
these in the Annual Report (see page 137). 

Reckitt’s ongoing controls transformation 
programme in preparation for internal 
controls changes arising from the revisions 
to the Code has identified certain control 
improvement opportunities that management 
is currently undertaking. 

The basis for the preparation of the Group 
Financial Statements is set out on page 160 
under Accounting Policies.

The External Auditor’s report, setting out its 
work and reporting responsibilities, can be 
found on pages 138 to 155. The terms, areas of 
responsibility and scope of the External Auditor’s 
work are agreed by the Committee and set out 
in the External Auditor’s engagement letter.

More information on the Group’s principal and 
emerging risks and strategy for growth and 

The Viability Statement can be found on page 61.

The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on 
page 137 details the Directors’ responsibility 
for the Financial Statements, for disclosing 
relevant audit information to the External 
Auditor and for ensuring that the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable.

Internal controls framework
Internal control processes are implemented through 
clearly defined roles and responsibilities, supported 
by clear policies and procedures, delegated to the 
GEC and senior management. Reckitt operates 
a ‘three lines of defence’ model in monitoring 
internal control systems and managing risk.

1.  Management in the first line ensures that 

controls, policies and procedures are followed 
in dealing with risks in day-to-day activities. 
Such risks are mitigated at source with controls 
embedded into relevant systems and 
processes. Supervisory controls, either at 
management level or through delegation, 
ensure appropriate checks and verifications 
take place, with any failures dealt with promptly. 
Throughout Reckitt, a key responsibility for any 
line manager is to ensure the achievement of 
business objectives with appropriate risk 
management and internal control systems.

2. Each function and GBU has its own 

management which acts as a second line 
of oversight. This second line sets the local 
level policies and procedures, specific to its 
own business environment, subject to Group 
policy and authorisation. The second line 
further acts in an oversight capacity over 
the implementation of controls in the first line. 

The financial performance of each function 
and GBU is monitored against pre-approved 
budgets and forecasts ultimately overseen 
by the executive management and the Board. 
As part of the second line, the corporate control 
team identifies financial risks and mitigates 
these with appropriate internal controls, 
set out through minimum expected financial 
control requirements. The effectiveness 
of the global financial control framework 
is reviewed annually. Further, the Group’s 
compliance controls include the operation 
of an independent and anonymous ‘Speak Up’ 
whistle-blowing hotline, annual management 
reviews and the provision of training specific 
to individual needs within the business.

3. The third line of defence is provided by 

the internal audit function which provides 
independent and objective assurance 
to management and the Committee on 
the adequacy and effectiveness of risk 
management systems and internal controls 
operated by the first and second lines 
of defence. Internal audit also facilitates 
the risk management process.

Reckitt’s internal control framework provides 
assurance that business objectives are 
achieved, that business is conducted in an 
orderly manner and in compliance with local 
laws, that records are accurate, reliable 
and free from material misstatement, and 
that risks are understood and managed.

The corporate control team is accountable 
for managing global financial control policies and 
frameworks and for monitoring the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal financial control 
environment. Corporate control is responsible for 
reporting and monitoring controls at local, GBU 

and global levels, working with markets to improve 
risk and controls capability and to support the 
development of remediation plans and corrective 
actions for financial control weaknesses.

To improve the maturity of the control 
environment and meet upcoming changes 
to the Code, the Company has established a 
multi-year controls transformation programme. 
In 2023, the controls transformation programme 
launched an updated, standardised and risk-
focused controls framework for financial and 
IT general controls, including new evidence 
standards to enable consistent documentation 
of the operating effectiveness of financial 
and IT general controls. Following launch, the 
second line of defence team, supported by 
external advisors, conducted a comprehensive 
fit-gap assessment to determine the required 
uplift to comply with the new framework and 
evidence standards. As anticipated, gaps 
versus the framework and standard have 
been identified in relation to the retention of 
evidence and the formality and consistency of 
control operation. Where required, plans have 
been developed and remediation activity is 
underway in markets, IT and group. In 2023, the 
effectiveness of the global financial control 
framework has been assessed through analysis 
of the results from the fit-gap assessment and 
subsequent remediation, alongside consideration 
of findings on the internal control environment 
from internal audits conducted in 2023. 

At each meeting, the Committee reviews 
a report outlining the status of the controls 
transformation programme, the results of the 
fit-gap assessment and remediation progress, 
and other notable controls activity since the 
previous meeting. In 2024, assurance over 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT95

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

the operating effectiveness of controls in the 
revised framework will be provided by testing 
conducted by the second line of defence team.

Internal auditor effectiveness review
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of 
the internal audit function throughout the year 
through the Group Head of Audit’s attendance at 
Committee meetings, review of work presented 
throughout the course of the year and the 
annual internal audit effectiveness review. 
The annual review involves the solicitation of 
feedback through a survey circulated to internal 
stakeholders including Committee members, GEC, 
GBU, functional and operational leadership teams.

The survey assessed the skills and experience, 
audit quality, audit scope, audit cost, audit 
communication, independence, and change catalyst 
of the internal audit function. The survey reported 
strong, positive feedback with management 
viewing the function as comprised of high quality 
and skilled individuals who demonstrate a high 
level of integrity, independence, and objectivity. 

The Committee has considered the conclusions of 
the effectiveness review and the work performed 
by the function during the year and remains 
satisfied that the resourcing, quality, experience 
and expertise of the function is appropriate 
for the Company and that the function was 
objective and performed its role effectively.

External Auditor
The Committee is responsible for maintaining the 
relationship with the External Auditor on behalf 
of the Board. The Company’s External Auditor is 
KPMG LLP (KPMG). Following a competitive tender 
undertaken in 2017, KPMG was formally appointed 
as the Group’s External Auditor by shareholders 
in 2018. The Company will be required to conduct 
its next external audit tender no later than 2027. 

For the year ended 31 December 2023, the 
Company has complied with the Competition 
and Markets Authority Order: The Statutory 
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.

such as the monitoring of its progress against 
the agreed audit plan and scope. KPMG reports 
to the Committee annually with an audit 
quality scorecard, providing a holistic view of, 
and their investment in, audit quality and how 
they measure their audit quality progress.

The Committee considers and makes a 
recommendation to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
External Auditor, taking into account independence, 
effectiveness, lead audit partner rotation and 
any other relevant factors, and oversees the 
tendering of the external audit contract. 

The Committee approves the External Auditor’s 
terms of engagement and remuneration and 
reviews the strategy and scope of the audit 
and the work plan. 

The Committee also monitors the rotation 
of the lead audit partner every five years in 
accordance with the FRC’s Ethical Standard. The 
current lead audit partner, Andrew Bradshaw, has 
completed his second year as lead audit partner.

External auditor effectiveness review
The annual evaluation of the External Auditor 
was carried out in early 2023 and the results 
reported to the Committee in May. The 
assessment of the External Auditor was 
conducted using a survey circulated to the 
Board, GEC, GBU, finance and other functional 
leadership and local finance management. 
The survey covered the four competency 
areas in the FRC’s Guidance on Audit Quality: 
practice aid for Audit Committees (published 
in December 2019): Judgement; Quality Control; 
Skills and Knowledge; and Mindset and Culture.

Besides the annual evaluation of the External 
Auditor, the Committee continually reviews the 
External Auditor’s effectiveness through means 

External Audit fees and non-audit services
The Committee reviews the nature and level 
of non-audit services undertaken by the 
External Auditor during the year to satisfy itself 
that there is no impact on its independence. 
The Committee is required to approve all 
non-audit services. The Board recognises 
that in certain circumstances the nature of 
the service required may make it timelier and 
more cost-effective to appoint an auditor that 
already has a good understanding of Reckitt. 

The total fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 
31 December 2023 were £20.7 million, of which 
£1.3 million related to non-audit and audit-related 
work (to which KPMG was appointed principally for 
the above reasons). The Group’s internal policy on 
non-audit fees (effective 1 January 2017) states 
that, on an annual basis, non-audit fees should not 
exceed 50% of the Group’s external audit and audit-
related fees for the year. The Board confirms that, 
for the year ended 31 December 2023, non-audit 
and audit-related fees were 6.7% of the audit fees. 

Details of services provided by the External 
Auditor are set out in Note 4 on page 169.

Independence and reappointment
Reckitt has a formal policy in place to safeguard 
the External Auditor’s independence. In addition, 
as part of its audit strategy presentation to the 
Committee in May, KPMG identified its own 
safeguards in place to protect its independence 
and confirmed its independence in February 
to the Committee. 

The Group has a policy that restricts the 
recruitment or secondment of individuals 
employed by the External Auditor into positions 
that provide financial reporting oversight where 
they could exercise influence over the financial 
or regulatory statements of the Group or the 
level of audit and non-audit fees. Other than the 
provision of advisory services to a Director in 
their personal capacity, KPMG had no connection 
with the Directors during the financial year.

The External Auditor is a key stakeholder in 
helping the Committee fulfil its oversight role 
for the Board. The Committee remains satisfied 
with the External Auditor’s independence 
and effectiveness and believes KPMG is best 
placed to conduct the Company’s audit for 
the 2024 financial year. KPMG has expressed 
a willingness to continue as External Auditor 
of the Company. Following a recommendation 
by the Committee, the Board concluded, on the 
Committee’s recommendation, that it was in the 
best interests of shareholders to appoint KPMG 
as the Company’s External Auditor for the financial 
year ending 31 December 2024. The Committee 
and Board’s recommendation was free from third 
party influence and there was no contractual 
term of the kind mentioned under Regulation 
(EU) No 537/2014 imposed on the Company. 

In accordance with Section 489 of CA 2006, 
resolutions to propose the reappointment of KPMG 
as the Company’s External Auditor and to authorise 
the Committee to fix its remuneration will be 
put to shareholders at the AGM on 2 May 2024.

Andrew Bonfield
Chair of the Audit Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT96

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, 
SUSTAINABILITY, ETHICS 
AND COMPLIANCE 
COMMITTEE REPORT

Member

Pam Kirby (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Mehmood Khan
Member for the whole year

Chris Sinclair
Member for the whole year

Olivier Bohuon
Member for the whole year

Kris Licht
Member from 1 June 2023

Meetings 
attended

54/4

54/4

54/4

53/4

52/2

The Committee receives regular briefings 
from key functional teams to enable it 
to discharge its oversight responsibilities 
and works with the Audit Committee 
on areas of crossover, as needed.”

Pam Kirby
Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, 
Ethics and Compliance Committee

Committee  
areas of focus

Legal  
compliance  
and ethics

CRSEC

External  
affairs

Sustainability

R&D and  
regulatory 
compliance

Product  
safety and  
quality

Area of focus

Further detail

Pages

Legal compliance and ethics

Risk Management

Section 172 Statement

Audit Committee Report

Sustainability

Sustainability Performance Dashboard

Sustainability Performance Review

Product safety and quality

Our Supply Chain

Our Stakeholders

Sustainability Performance Review

R&D and regulatory compliance

Scientific Innovation

Nutrition – Market Opportunities

External affairs

Our Stakeholders

Section 172 Statement

55-60

76-77

88 -95

14

47-54

25-27

37-40

47-54

22-24

34-36

37-40

76-77

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT97

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics 
and Compliance (CRSEC) Committee Report for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

This report details how the Committee has 
discharged its role and responsibilities during 
the year in relation to monitoring and assessing 
our approach to responsible, sustainable, 
ethical and compliant corporate conduct in 
accordance with our Purpose and Compass, 
and our broader societal responsibility.

Committee membership
Members of the Committee are appointed by the 
Board on the recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee, which reviews membership in terms 
of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience. 

On joining the Committee and during their tenure, 
members receive additional briefings and training 
tailored to their individual requirements. This 
includes meetings with internal management 
covering CRSEC matters. All members of the 
Committee receive regular briefings from senior 
executives on matters covering governance, 
regulatory and legislative developments, 
product safety and corporate responsibility, 
sustainability and ethics-related matters, and 
Reckitt’s practices and policies in these areas. 

During the year, the Deputy Company Secretary 
acted as Secretary to the Committee.

Meetings
In 2023, the Committee held four meetings. 
Meetings usually take place ahead of Board meetings 
and the Chair of the Committee reports formally 
to the Board on the Committee’s proceedings. The 
CEO, CFO, Chief R&D Officer, Group Head of Audit, 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, Chief Supply 
Officer, Group Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, 
Chief Marketing, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs 
Officer, Global Head of External Communications 
& Affairs, Group Head of Sustainability, Chief 
Safety Officer, SVP Head of Global Quality and 
the Global Director of Health & Safety, Quality and 
Compliance and Corporate Security regularly attend 
meetings. Other Directors are invited to attend 
all meetings. Other senior management attend 
when deemed appropriate by the Committee.

Time is allocated at each meeting for private 
discussion with the Chief R&D Officer, Group 
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, Chief 
Supply Officer, Chief Marketing, Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs Officer, Global Head of 
External Communications & Affairs, Group Head 
of Sustainability and Group Head of Audit without 
other invitees being present, as necessary, 
as well as a private meeting of the Committee 
members. All Board members are provided 
with copies of Committee papers and minutes.

In addition to reviewing matters at Committee 
meetings, the Committee Chair held regular 
meetings with our CEO, Chief R&D Officer, Chief 
Supply Officer, Chief Marketing, Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs Officer, Global Head of 
External Communications & Affairs, Group Head 
of Sustainability and Group Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer, to review progress against 
the strategy and to represent the Board in 
supporting the efforts in these critical areas.

Committee performance review
This year, a performance review of the 
Committee was conducted as part of 
the Board’s external performance review 
(see page 82). All areas received positive 
ratings overall, with Committee oversight of 
legal compliance and ethics scoring the highest. 
The Board, having had sight of the results of 
the Committee’s performance review, considers 
the Committee to be operating effectively.

Role and responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee is part of the Group’s 
governance framework and supports the 
Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in ensuring the integrity of the Group’s 
corporate responsibility and sustainability, 
ethics and compliance policies, programmes 
and activities. Its role and responsibilities are 
set out in its terms of reference, which can 
be found at www.reckitt.com. We review our 
terms of reference annually. During the year, 
the Committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed and considered to be appropriate.

The Audit Committee has a monitoring function 
in respect of risk management and internal 
control systems, which also includes the assurance 
framework established by management to 
identify and monitor risks identified by the 
CRSEC Committee. The Committee liaises with 
the Audit Committee and the Chair of the CRSEC 
Committee is a member of the Audit Committee.

Standing agenda items reviewed by 
the Committee throughout the year
The Committee has several standing agenda items 
which it considers in-line with its terms of reference 
and in the context of the Group’s Principal Risks:

–  Assessment and recommendations on policies, 

processes and procedures for corporate 
responsibility, sustainability, compliance 
and ethical conduct

–  Overseeing the Group’s conduct with regard 
to its corporate and societal obligations as 
a responsible global citizen on behalf of all 
its stakeholders

–  Reviewing and monitoring implementation and 

compliance with our Speak Up Policy and review 
of insights and trends from reports

–  In conjunction with the Audit Committee, 

reviewing the Company’s whistle-blowing, 
fraud and compliance arrangements, including 
the adequacy and security for the workforce to 
raise concerns, and the systems and controls for 
the prevention of bribery and modern slavery

–  Monitoring and reviewing processes for risk 
assessment for corporate responsibility, 
sustainability, and compliance and 
ethical conduct

–  Monitoring targets for corporate responsibility, 

sustainability and compliance and ethical 
conduct. Reviewing internal and external 
reports on progress towards those targets 
and KPIs

–  Receiving reports from management 
committees in respect of corporate 
responsibility, sustainability, ethics, and 
compliance and investigating and taking 
action in relation to issues raised or reported 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT98

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued

Key activities during 2023

FEBRUARY

MAY

JULY

NOVEMBER

Legal compliance & ethics
– Report on data privacy controls 

and maturity assessment

ESG Transition
– Monitoring sustainability targets

Legal compliance & ethics
– Third party due diligence

ESG Transition
– Sustainability matters and 

target tracking

– Deep dive on post-consumer recycled 

– Modern Slavery and Human 

plastics (PCR)

Trafficking Statement

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

Changes to Product Regulations
– Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)

Changes to Product Regulations
– REACH regulations

– Report on developments 
in regulatory environment

Product Safety & Supply
– Product safety performance

Employee Health & Safety
– Performance monitoring

External affairs
– Humanitarian responses

– Social impact and gender 

pay gap reporting

– Partnerships and thought leadership, 

including WiNFund

– Review of ongoing regulatory matters

Product Safety & Supply
– Ingredient Steering Group

Employee Health & Safety
– Deep dive on corporate security

External affairs
– Humanitarian responses

– UN Water Conference

– IFCN and marketing practices

Legal compliance & ethics
– Third party due diligence reviews

– Annual compliance training and Code 

of Conduct

ESG Transition
– Sustainability matters and 

target tracking

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

– Deep dive on consumer safety 

evolution and maturity

Changes to Product Regulations
– PLM

– Report on developments 
in regulatory environment

Product Safety & Supply
– Market access and maintenance 

of products, including raw 
material sourcing

Employee Health & Safety 
– Performance monitoring

External Affairs
– External affairs activity, including 

public policy and advocacy

– COP28

Legal compliance & ethics
– Deep dive on legal and compliance 

programme and risks

ESG Transition
– Review of performance against 

sustainability targets

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

Changes to Product Regulations
– Report on developments 
in regulatory environment

Product Safety & Supply
– PLM

Employee Health & Safety
– Employee health and safety 

performance and risks

External Affairs
– COP28

– Board Listening Session and 

intersectionality between Climate 
and Health

Governance
– Review of Committee terms 

of reference

– Committee performance review

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT99

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued

Spotlight on: Legal Compliance & 
Ethics function – Risks and Mitigations
In November, the Committee 
received an update on the Legal 
Compliance & Ethics function’s 
ongoing programme and activities.

An annual Ethics & Compliance plan is 
developed around key themes, including 
enabling responsible business, sustaining 
ethical and compliant business as usual 
processes, monitoring and training 
programmes, data protection governance 
and the updating and rollout of policies.

A number of activities were detailed 
and their status discussed, including 
updates to various global policies and 
processes, a revised Code of Conduct, 
updates to the annual compliance training 
programmes and the launch of a new 
Speak Up whistleblowing campaign.

Recent work in collaborating with IT & 
Digital on the creation of an Artificial 
Intelligence Tools Policy and on 
enhancing Reckitt’s responsible data 
programme were also considered.

Committee priorities for 2024
–  Review the remit and activities of the 
Committee within the broader Reckitt 
governance framework

–  Monitor and prepare for future developments 
in corporate governance and non-financial 
reporting requirements and review internal 
processes, policies and procedures, 
to ensure compliance

–  Continually review and update the 

Board on Reckitt’s quality, safety and 
regulatory responsibilities

–  Assist the Board to review our sustainability 
objectives and chart progress against our 
targets, including overseeing the Group’s 
conduct with regard to its corporate and 
societal obligations as a responsible global 
citizen on behalf of all stakeholders

–  Monitor and review the processes for risk 

assessment of key Principal Risks including 
in relation to ESG Transition, Quality, Legal 
and Compliance, and Product Regulation

–  Maintain responsiveness to global events 
impacting consumers, where Reckitt can 
provide support and assistance

–  Keep abreast of market access conditions and 
maintenance of products, given the current 
UK political and wider economic landscapes

Pam Kirby
Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, 
Ethics and Compliance Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT100

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT

Member

Alan Stewart (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Olivier Bohuon
Member for the whole year

Jeremy Darroch
Member for the whole year

Mary Harris
Member for the whole year

Chris Sinclair
Member for the whole year

Meetings 
attended

55/5

54/5

55/5

55/5

55/5

Central to our remuneration 
philosophy are the principles of pay 
for performance and shareholder, 
as well as strategic, alignment.”

Alan Stewart
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Contents of Directors’ Remuneration Report

100 

Letter from the Chair

102  Reckitt’s remuneration at a glance

106  Remuneration Committee governance

108  Annual Report on Remuneration

126  Additional remuneration disclosures

LETTER FROM THE CHAIR

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2023.

I would like to thank shareholders for their support 
of our 2022 Annual Report on Remuneration at our 
AGM on 3 May 2023, which received a strong vote 
in favour of 93%.

Changes to the Board
During 2023, we announced several changes 
to the Board. 

Kris Licht was appointed CEO to succeed Nicandro 
Durante. Kris was appointed CEO Designate 
on 1 May 2023 and to the Board as Executive 
Director effective 1 June 2023, before assuming 
the role of CEO on 1 October 2023. Nicandro 
Durante remained an employee of the Company 
and on the Board until 31 December 2023 to 
ensure a smooth transition. Kris was appointed 
CEO Designate on a salary of £900,000, which 
increased to £1,100,000 upon taking the role of 
CEO, in line with the salary paid to Nicandro.

Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed CFO 
Designate on 17 October 2023 and will succeed 
Jeff Carr as CFO by 31 March 2024. Shannon was 
appointed to the Board as Executive Director 
upon joining the Company. Shannon previously 
served as CFO of Nike Consumer, Brand and 
Marketplace. Shannon was appointed on a salary 
of £760,000 in line with the salary paid to Jeff.

Ongoing incentive opportunities and LTIP award 
levels for Kris and Shannon are in line with the 
outgoing individuals. Both Kris and Shannon did 
not receive a salary increase on 1 January 2024.

In addition, Sir Jeremy Darroch, currently Senior 
Independent Director, will succeed Chris Sinclair 
as Chair of the Group Board of Directors in 
May following the 2024 AGM. Chris will retire 
as Chair and step down from the Board at the 
same time. Sir Jeremy will be appointed on the 
same terms and fees as Chris. Andrew Bonfield 
will succeed Sir Jeremy as Senior Independent 
Director upon Sir Jeremy’s appointment as 
Chair with effect from the 2024 AGM. I would 
like to extend the Board’s and my thanks to 
Chris for his membership of the Remuneration 
Committee and his time as Board Chair.

As previously announced, I will retire from the 
Board at the 2024 AGM. Fiona Dawson CBE will 
be appointed to the Board as Non-Executive 
Director and Chair Designate to the Remuneration 
Committee effective 1 June 2024. In order to 
ensure continuity and effective succession, 
Mary Harris, former Chair of the Company’s 
Remuneration Committee, will be reappointed as 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee from the 
conclusion of the 2024 AGM until the conclusion 
of the Company’s 2025 AGM, upon which Fiona 
Dawson will take over. On behalf of the Committee, 
I would like to thank Mary and welcome Fiona. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT101

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

The remuneration arrangements for both the 
outgoing and incoming Directors are in line 
with the Remuneration Policy approved by 
shareholders with details for Kris and Shannon also 
published on announcement. Further details are 
set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.

Performance for the year under review
2023 was a challenging year for many companies 
including Reckitt, with continued economic 
shocks and geopolitical uncertainties across the 
world. Despite these, Reckitt continued to make 
progress in 2023, with like-for-like net revenue 
(LFL NR) growth of +3.5%, led by growth across 
the Hygiene and Health businesses, while Nutrition 
began rebasing and held market leadership in the 
US. We delivered growth through premiumisation, 
household penetration and category creation. 
Gross margins returned to historic strength 
with adjusted operating profit margin at 23.1% 
and adjusted EPS at 323.4p. We also increased 
investment in brands and innovation, and launched 
a fixed cost optimisation programme. In 2023 we 
generated strong free cash flow and significantly 
increased cash returns to shareholders, enhanced 
by our new, sustainable share buyback programme 
announced in October 2023. We have also 
proposed a 5% increase in our annual dividend, 
for the second year in a row, in line with our 
policy to deliver sustainable dividend growth. 

During the year, we have built strong winning 
teams and strengthened our culture, to 
harness the things that are special about 
Reckitt: our entrepreneurial spirit, passion for 
performance, and action orientation. We have 
gained real credibility on sustainability and 
become a significantly more inclusive and 
diverse company, which sets us up well as we 
continue to drive these through the business.

Performance outcomes for 2023
The Committee carried out a thorough evaluation 
of the performance of both the Group and the 
Executive Directors in the round, having regard 
to broader circumstances to assess whether 
the formulaic incentive outturns are appropriate 
and justified. Based on the assessment, the 
Committee determined that the level of annual 
bonus payout and the total vesting level of the 
LTIP set out below are appropriate and justified 
in this context and that no discretion would be 
applied. The framework and the assessment 
against performance which the Committee 
used are set out in detail on page 110.

Annual bonus
Reckitt operates an annual bonus plan that is 
strongly aligned to performance, measured 
against targets of NR and adjusted profit before 
income tax, with a downward modifier based 
on net working capital (NWC) added from 2023.

NR growth of 3.5% exceeded the initial guidance 
and market expectations at the beginning of 2023. 
The Health and Hygiene GBUs both delivered LFL 
NR growth at the upper end of the medium-term 
goal of mid-single-digit growth. The Nutrition GBU 
declined in the year as our US business lapped 
high and unsustainable comparatives due to a 
competitor supply issue from the prior year, but still 
performed above initial expectations. This Group 
performance resulted in a multiplier towards the 
upper end of the NR growth target range. Profit 
has exceeded the target range, driven by our NR 
performance and strong gross margin expansion. 
However, NWC at -7.7% in the year whilst being 
industry leading was below targets set and resulted 
in a downward modifier of 0.89x being applied to 
the outcome. This resulted in an overall payout of 
82% of the maximum. This is in line with all other 
employees on the same Group-wide measures.

The bonus for Kris and Shannon in respect of 
Executive Director services is pro-rated for 
the period as an Executive Director. One-third 
of bonus payments to Executive Directors 
are deferred into Reckitt shares for three 
years in line with the Policy. More details are 
set out on page 115 of the Annual Report.

2021–2023 LTIP
The Reckitt LTIP is designed to align participants 
with shareholders through making awards 
with stretching performance conditions 
denominated in both performance share options 
and performance share awards. Vesting of 
awards under the 2021 LTIP was dependent on 
LFL NR growth, EPS and ROCE targets. As set 
out in the 2021 Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
targets were adjusted for the disposal of 
IFCN China, given the size of that transaction, 
to ensure that the new targets were no harder 
or easier to achieve than the original targets.

As a result of good performance over the three 
years, NR growth was at 4.8% p.a.. This was close 
to maximum of the target range and resulted in a 
vesting of 98% of this element. EPS performance 
based on both actual and constant FX was 
between threshold and maximum, resulting in 
vesting of 59% and 46% of maximum for each 
element respectively. ROCE performance was 
also between threshold and maximum, resulting 
in a vesting of 62% of maximum. As set out on 
page 116, the overall resultant outcome is that 
78% of the total award vests. This outturn follows 
two years of zero vesting in 2020 and 2021, 21.5% 
vesting in 2022 and 100% vesting in 2023.

In line with our Policy, there is a further 
two-year holding period attached to Kris’ 
and Jeff’s LTIP awards. Nicandro and Shannon 
did not participate in the 2021 LTIP.

2024 remuneration
Salaries for 2024 for the CEO and CFO are 
unchanged from 2023 at £1,100,000 and 
£760,000, respectively. The 2024 salary increase 
budget for the wider UK employee population 
was 5.5% to 6% depending on location.

There are no changes to the bonus opportunity 
for the CEO and CFO, remaining at 120% 
and 100% of salary at target, respectively. 
Performance measures and weightings for 
the 2024 annual bonus will be the same as for 
2023, being NR and adjusted profit before tax, 
with a downward modifier based on NWC.

In line with prior years, the Committee has set the 
performance targets at a stretching level having 
considered the internal business plan and external 
expectations. As in prior years, the Committee will 
carry out a thorough assessment of performance 
in the round taking into account a wide range 
of factors before determining bonus payouts.

There are no changes to the 2024 LTIP awards 
including performance measures and weightings. 
Performance will continue to be assessed based 
on NR growth, ROCE, relative TSR, and ESG 
measures, which have been reviewed in light 
of share price performance, Group performance 
and individual performance. Kris’ 2024 LTIP 
award will consist of 150,000 performance share 
options and 75,000 performance shares and 
Shannon’s award will be 80,000 performance 
share options and 40,000 performance shares. 
These awards will be made in early March 2024 
following the full-year results announcement. 
Jeff will not receive a 2024 LTIP award.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT102

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Remuneration Policy review
In line with the normal three-year cycle, our 
Remuneration Policy is due for renewal at the 
2025 AGM. Over the course of 2024 we will 
undertake a full review of the Policy and its 
implementation, with a view to ensuring that 
our remuneration arrangements continue 
to appropriately incentivise the delivery of 
the strategy and the creation of long-term, 
sustainable shareholder value. This will include 
review of our incentive structures throughout 
the organisation. We will consult with our 
shareholders as part of this process.

Conclusion
On behalf of the Committee, I would like 
to thank shareholders for their continued 
support and engagement during the year. 
We welcome any comments you may have 
on this report and I look forward to your 
support at the upcoming AGM on 2 May 2024.

Finally, I would also like to thank my fellow 
Committee members during my tenure as Chair 
for their insight and commitment and shareholders 
for their invaluable feedback and support.

Alan Stewart
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

During the year, the Chair and Non-Executive 
Director (NED) fees have been reviewed with 
regard to increases given to the wider workforce 
and market practice. Taking into account the 
increased time commitment and responsibilities 
of the roles over the last few years, and the 
knowledge and skills required to undertake 
the roles, the fee for the Chair will increase to 
£680,000 and the basic NED fee will increase 
to £110,000, with effect from 1 January 2024. 
The additional fee for the Senior Independent 
Director (SID) will also increase to £35,000. 
There are no changes to fees for Committee Chair, 
Committee member or Designated Non-Executive 
Director for Engagement with Company’s 
Workforce. 25% of the Chair fee and basic 
NED fee continues to be paid in shares. We will 
continue to review NED fees to ensure they are 
appropriate and competitive against the market.

Context for remuneration of the wider workforce
Reckitt is committed to fair and consistent 
reward policies for its employees, aligned with 
our Compass, remuneration philosophy and our 
culture. The Remuneration Committee reviews 
various aspects of workforce remuneration 
and related policies regularly. In 2023, Reckitt 
has made significant developments and 
demonstrated further commitment to support 
sustainable livelihoods, ensure pay equity 
and gender pay gaps are addressed, build 
an inclusive culture and facilitate employee 
development. The annual employee survey 
shows high levels of satisfaction and pride among 
Reckitt’s employees and we are recognised 
as Top Employers in several markets. For more 
information, please refer to pages 120-122.

RECKITT’S REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE

Reckitt strives for leading global performance. 
Our management team is multinational and 
we compete for talent globally. Central to our 
remuneration philosophy are the principles 
of pay for performance and shareholder, as 
well as strategic, alignment. Combined with 
our Compass and business model, these 
principles define how decisions are made, 
how people act and how we reward them.

To reinforce our philosophy, the majority 
of the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are made up of variable at-risk pay, 
linked to stretching targets that align with 
our strategy and shareholder value creation, 
and are largely delivered in Reckitt shares. 
In addition, we have market-leading shareholding 
requirements for Executives. This approach is 
cascaded throughout our senior leadership.

Context for remuneration at Reckitt
Reckitt’s Compass

Put consumers
and people ﬁrst

Reckitt’s remuneration philosophy

Pay for 
performance

Strategic 
alignment

Shareholder
alignment

Build shared
success

Do the
right thing.
Always.

Seek out new
opportunities

Strive for
excellence

Reckitt’s strategy
–  Purpose and culture fit for the future

–  Excellent brand portfolio for value creation

–  Scaled global footprint

See pages 8-11

–  Enhanced returns to shareholders

for more details of our Company strategy.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT103

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

The tables below illustrate the remuneration principles at Reckitt, which are driven by our Compass, 
strategy and the remuneration philosophy 

1

2

High proportion of variable pay
Maximum CEO pay under the Remuneration Policy

Market-leading share ownership policy

In-employment shareholding requirement

Number  
of shares

Value 
of shares (£)1

% of 2023 
annual salary

Summary of our Remuneration Policy
The table below summarises the current Directors’ Remuneration Policy which can be found on pages 
160-167 of the 2021 Annual Report and is also available on our website in the Corporate Governance 
section. The Committee is of the view that the current remuneration framework remains fit for purpose 
and therefore no changes to the Policy were proposed for 2024.

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

Up to Year 10

Fixed pay

Salary, 
benefits 
and 
pension

Variable
pay
92%

LTIP
64%

Salary 7%
Pension 1%

Fixed
pay
8%

APP
(cash)
19%

APP
(shares)
10%

CEO

CFO

CEO

CFO

200,000

11,112,000

1,010%

100,000

5,556,000

731%

Annual bonus 
(APP)

One-year 
performance 
period

Two-thirds paid in cash; one-third in 
Reckitt shares deferred for three years
No further performance conditions

Post-employment shareholding requirement2

Number  
of shares

Value 
of shares (£)1

% of 2023 
annual salary

LTIP 

100,000

5,556,000

50,000

2,778,000

505%

366%

Performance shares and 
performance share options
Three-year performance period

Two-year holding period
No further performance 
conditions

Note: Value of the CEO’s maximum 2024 package. This 
illustrates fixed remuneration plus full payout of the annual 
bonus (APP) and full vesting of the LTIP awards including 
50% share price growth

1.  Based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 

of £55.56

2.  Reflecting 50% of the in-employment shareholding 

requirement

3

4

Attract and retain the  
best global talent

Ensure alignment with strategy 
across the business

–  Engage highly performance-driven individuals

–  Alignment of performance metrics with strategy

–  Reflect global competitive practice across our 

–  Alignment across the business of metrics 

industry peer group

and ownership

Ten-year life for options from grant

Shareholding 
requirements

Period of eight years from appointment to achieve requirements
Two-year shareholding requirement post-departure

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT104

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

   Purpose and culture 
fit for the future

   Excellent brand portfolio  
for value creation

   Scaled global  
footprint

   Enhanced returns 
to shareholders

Element

Key features of operation of policy

How will we implement for 2024

Link to strategy

Salary, benefits and pension

– Salary increases and pension contribution set in 

– Zero salary increase for CEO and CFO

– To enable the total package to support 

context of wider workforce

– CEO and CFO pension contribution of 10% of salary 

recruitment and retention

– Salaries and benefits set competitively against peers

in line with the wider workforce in the UK 

Annual bonus (APP)

– Target bonus of 120% of salary for CEO and 100% 

– Targets set for NR and adjusted profit before 

– To drive strong performance, with 

for CFO

income tax

– One-third deferred into awards over Reckitt shares 

– NWC target to act as a downward modifier

for three years

– Malus and clawback provisions apply (in circumstances 
including material misstatement of financial results, 
gross misconduct and corporate failure)

– Threshold performance results in zero payout, 

with maximum of 3.57x target for truly exceptional 
performance on all three metrics

– Remuneration Committee assessment of 

performance in the round

– Three-year performance period and two-year 

– Targets set for LFL NR growth (40% weighting); 

holding period

– Malus and clawback provisions apply (in circumstances 
including material misstatement of financial results, 
gross misconduct, and corporate failure) until two 
years after vesting

ROCE (25% weighting); relative TSR (25% weighting); 
and ESG (10% weighting, split equally between 
two metrics)

significant reward for overachievement 
of annual targets linked to Reckitt’s 
strategic priorities

– Use of deferral for longer-term 

shareholder alignment

– To incentivise and reward long-term 
performance and align the interests 
of Executive Directors with those 
of shareholders

– Performance conditions are applied to both 

– Two-year holding period for longer-term 

performance share options and performance shares

shareholder alignment

LTIP
Performance shares and 
performance share options

– Options have approximately seven years to exercise 

– Remuneration Committee assessment of 

post vesting

performance in the round

Shareholding requirements

– CEO: 200,000 shares

– Period of eight years from appointment to 

– Promotes long-term alignment 

– CFO: 100,000 shares

achieve requirements

with shareholders

– Two-year shareholding requirement post-departure

– Promotes focus on management 

of corporate risks

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT105

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Summary of performance and payout
Annual performance plan
The performance outcome for the annual bonus was 82% of maximum. A third of the bonus is deferred, 
by way of an award over Reckitt shares.

Performance
measure

Threshold
(zero bonus)

Actual/Achieved

Maximum
(3.57x target)

Multiplier

LTIP
The 2021 LTIP vested at 78% of maximum, against the performance conditions over the three-year period.

Performance
measure

LFL NR growth
(3-year CAGR) 
(50% weighting)

Threshold
(20% vesting)

Achieved

Maximum
(100% vesting)

Vesting 
(% of total award)

0.9% p.a.

 Actual 4.8% p.a.

Like-for-like
Net Revenue

Adjusted proﬁt
before income tax
at constant rates

£14.07bn

Actual £14.86bn

1.74x

£14.93bn

EPS (ﬁnal year) on an actual 
foreign exchange basis
(12.5% weighting)

289p

 Actual 323.4p

£2.85bn

Actual £3.23bn

1.89x

Average NWC

-7.4%

Actual -7.7%

Total 

Achieved

£3.19bn

-9.6%

0.89x

2.93x

EPS (ﬁnal year) on 
a constant FX basis 
(12.5% weighting)

ROCE (ﬁnal year) 
(25% weighting)

Total vesting

Achieved

308p

 Actual 332.4p

13.7%

 Actual 14.6%

4.9% p.a.

360p

382p

15.4%

98%

59%

46%

62%

78%

2023 base 
salary
(£)

Target bonus 
opportunity  
(% of salary)

Multiplier 
achieved

Bonus payout  
(% of salary)

Value 
delivered  
in cash
(£)

Value 
deferred  
into shares
(£)

Kris Licht

575,0001

100%/120%2

2.93x

293%/352%2

 1,230,600

 615,300

Shannon Eisenhardt

158,3331

Jeff Carr

760,000

Nicandro Durante

1,100,000

100%

100%

120%

2.93x

2.93x

2.93x

293%

 309,278

 154,639

293%  1,484,533

 742,267

352%  2,578,400

 1,289,200

Performance 
share 
options 
granted

Performance 
shares 
granted

Total  
vesting 
%

Performance 
share 
options 
vesting

Performance 
shares 
vesting

Total value 
of award 
vesting
(£)3

Kris Licht2

Jeff Carr

50,000

25,000

80,000

40,000

78%

78%

 39,000

 19,500

1,083,420

 62,400

 31,200

1,733,472

1.  Nicandro and Shannon did not participate in the 2021 LTIP
2.  Kris’ LTIP award was granted in relation to his previous role which did not sit on the Board, however, the full value of the award 

1.  The 2023 base salary for Kris Licht and Shannon Eisenhardt are pro-rated for the period served as Executive Directors
2.  Kris’ target bonus opportunity as CEO Designate was 100% of salary, which increased to 120% of salary on his appointment as CEO

has been shown for transparency 

3.  Based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 of £55.56

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT£3.62m

Remuneration Committee governance
Committee membership and meeting attendance
The Remuneration Committee is made up entirely of NEDs who are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. Membership and meeting attendance of the 
Remuneration Committee during the year were as follows:

£4.81m

Member

Member since

Meetings attended

£5.26m

Alan Stewart, Committee Chair

February 2022

Jeremy Darroch

Mary Harris

Chris Sinclair

January 2021

November 2022

May 2017

March 2016

5/5

4/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

The Chief Human Resources Officer was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year. Meetings 
were also attended by the CEO, CFO and SVP Reward by invitation. Deloitte was the appointed advisor 
to the Committee throughout the year. Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person 
attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.

106

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

2023 single figure

Kris Licht

Sharon Eisenhardt

£1.24m

Jeff Carr

Nicandro Durante

£m

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

Olivier Bohuon

Fixed remuneration

Annual bonus (cash)

Annual bonus (shares)

LTIP

Buyout

Executive Director shareholding
Reckitt operates a market-leading shareholding requirement with an eight-year timeframe for 
achievement and a two-year post-employment holding period. The chart below illustrates the progress 
towards this for the Executive Directors.

Kris Licht

Shannon
Eisenhardt

Jeff Carr

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

£3.18m1

£0.25m1

£5.24m1

0

25,000

50,000

75,000

100,000

125,000

150,000

175,000

200,000

Shares held2

Shares deferred from 2023 APP3

2024 vesting4

1.  Current shareholding value based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 of £55.56
2.  Includes shares owned outright and shares subject to post-vesting holding restrictions
3.  This is the estimated number of shares awarded, after tax under the Deferred Bonus Plan, including those to be deferred from 

the 2023 APP

4.  For Kris and Jeff this is the number of shares vesting in May 2024 under the 2021 LTIP, after tax. For Shannon this also includes 

the restricted shares from buyout awards vesting in December 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT107

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

The Committee’s role and key activities during the year
The Committee’s purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility 
by ensuring that the Remuneration Policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly, are designed 
to support the strategy and long-term success of the Company and take account of the generally 
accepted principles of good governance.

Reckitt’s Remuneration Policy and the Corporate Governance Code
Reckitt’s Remuneration Policy and practices reflect the philosophy of pay for performance, shareholder 
alignment and strategic alignment over the short, medium and long term. When determining the current 
Policy and its implementations, Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance Code was taken into 
account as follows:

The key activities and decisions made by the Committee during the year are set out below:

Clarity

Changes to the Board and GEC
Approved the leaving arrangements for Nicandro Durante and Jeff Carr and the remuneration 
arrangements for Kris Licht and Shannon Eisenhardt.

Approved remuneration arrangements for appointments to the GEC.

Wider workforce
Reviewed wider workforce remuneration and related policies.

Reviewed changes to the all-employee share plan launch dates.

Reviewed current shareholdings for senior employees with share ownership requirements.

Performance outcomes and target setting
Reviewed and approved performance outcomes to 2022 annual bonus and 2020–2022 LTIP, taking 
into account wider performance of the Company and Executive Directors.

Approved 2024 annual bonus measures and targets and 2024 LTIP award and performance 
measures. Approved 2023 LTIP performance targets.

Determined 2024 remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and GEC members.

Regularly reviewed performance for inflight bonus and LTIP awards.

Internal and external governance
Reviewed 2023 AGM voting, wider market trends, shareholder guidelines and corporate 
governance updates.

Reviewed Remuneration Committee terms of reference.

Reviewed Remuneration Committee effectiveness.

Arrangements are transparent and reflect shareholder alignment and Reckitt’s 
strategic priorities, thereby effectively engaging with the wider workforce and 
shareholders. The Committee consulted with shareholders as part of the design 
phase of the Policy and communicated to the wider workforce details of how 
Executive pay is set, its alignment with the Company’s approach to the wider 
pay policy and how decisions are made by the Committee. It also gave employees 
the opportunity to ask any questions on these topics.

The Policy is simple and clear, comprising fixed pay, such as salary and benefits, 
pension schemes that are offered to most of the workforce, plus variable pay 
which incorporates the annual bonus, LTIP (performance share options and 
performance share awards) and a clear Share Ownership Policy for senior members 
of the business. Variable pay is set against financial targets to incentivise short- 
and long-term financial performance and alignment with shareholders.

The malus and clawback provisions which apply to annual bonus and LTIP awards 
act as a safeguard to the Company and are one mechanism used to help encourage 
the right behaviours, which lead to long-term shareholder alignment and sustained 
value creation. The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus and 
LTIP outcomes both upwards and downwards.

Simplicity

Risk

Predictability

The total of fixed pay and variable pay (target and maximum) illustrated in the 
scenarios of total remuneration in our Policy provide an estimate of the potential 
future remuneration of the Executive Directors, including the total remuneration 
if a 50% share price growth is achieved.

Proportionality

There is a clear link between pay for performance and business strategy, with 
stretching financial targets applied to annual bonus payouts and LTIP vesting.

Alignment 
to culture

Financial targets apply to the annual bonus and LTIP awards across the wider 
workforce to drive business performance. These targets are reviewed on an annual 
basis. Malus and clawback provisions apply to annual bonus and LTIP, and together 
with deferred annual bonus, holding periods and share ownership for the Executive 
Directors (and any other relevant senior employees), drive the right behaviours 
expected within Reckitt. The remuneration arrangements of the wider workforce 
reinforce employee engagement.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT108

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION

The rest of this report sets out how we have implemented our Remuneration Policy in 2023, and how 
we intend to implement the Policy in 2024.

Remuneration arrangements for the new CEO and CFO
CEO
Kris was appointed as CEO Designate on 1 May 2023 and to the Board as Executive Director effective 
1 June 2023 before assuming the role of CEO on 1 October 2023. His remuneration was fully disclosed 
upon the announcement of his appointment on 26 April 2023 and in line with the approved Policy.

As CEO Designate Kris received a salary of £900,000 per annum, which increased to £1,100,000 after 
taking up the role of CEO, in line with his predecessor. He did not have a salary increase on 1 January 
2024. Kris receives a pension allowance of 10% of salary in line with the wider Reckitt workforce in the UK 
and other benefits including relocation in line with Reckitt’s benefits and international mobility policies.

As CEO Designate, Kris had a target APP of 100% of salary, which increased to 120% of salary as CEO, 
with a maximum multiplier of 3.57x. In line with the Policy, one-third of any bonus will be deferred into 
Reckitt shares for a period of three years. Kris will be eligible for an LTIP grant to be made in 2024 of 
75,000 performance shares and 150,000 performance share options for the three-year performance 
period 2024 to 2026, followed by a two-year holding period. Share awards granted to Kris prior to 
his appointment as CEO Designate in respect of his previous role will continue on their original terms. 
These LTIP awards are subject to the same performance measures and targets as the LTIP awards 
granted to Executive Directors, full details of which will be provided in the relevant Directors’ 
Remuneration Report when they vest.

The share ownership requirement as CEO is 200,000 shares and he will be subject to the post-
employment shareholding requirement. There are no buyout awards associated with his appointment.

CFO
Shannon was appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 2023, joining the Board as an Executive Director 
on the same day, and received a salary of £760,000 per annum, in line with her predecessor. Shannon 
receives a pension allowance of 10% of salary in line with the wider Reckitt workforce in the UK and 
other benefits including relocation in line with Reckitt’s benefits and international mobility policies.

Shannon has a target APP opportunity of 100% of salary with a maximum of 3.57 times, with one-third 
of any bonus awarded deferred into Reckitt shares for a period of three years. Her 2023 annual bonus 
has been pro-rated based on the portion of the year employed. Shannon received an initial 2023-2025 
LTIP grant of 29,453 performance shares and 58,905 performance share options, for the three-year 
performance period 2023 to 2025. This has been calculated as a pro-rata award of the CFO’s annual 
LTIP award of 40,000 performance shares and 80,000 performance share options, based on the period 
employed during the performance period. All LTIP awards will be subject to a two-year holding period.

The share ownership requirement for Shannon will be 100,000 shares and she will be subject to the 
post-employment shareholding requirement.

Shannon has also been granted replacement awards to compensate for remuneration arrangements 
forfeited on leaving her previous employer. The terms of the buyout awards substantively replicated 
the rules of the Company’s LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and are in line with the 
current Policy approved at the 2022 AGM. The structure takes into account shareholder guidance and 
market practice and they remain subject to performance conditions where appropriate and mirror the 
time horizons of forfeited awards. As Shannon is participating in the 2023 Reckitt LTIP, she will not be 
compensated for any 2023 LTIP awards made by her previous employer. Details of these awards were 
disclosed at the time of the grant and are detailed below. Dividend equivalents will accrue on the awards 
and vest at the same time as the relevant award, delivered in shares.

Performance share awards
Performance share awards lapsing due to Shannon’s leaving her previous employer have been replaced 
by awards of Reckitt performance shares of equivalent value as follows:

–  An award of 3,526 performance shares granted in relation to the long-term incentive award over 

Nike shares granted to Shannon in August 2021 and vesting based on Nike’s performance over the 
three-year period to 31 May 2024 as to be disclosed in Nike’s 2024 Proxy Statement. Any shares which 
vest following assessment of performance will be released in August 2024 to mirror the time horizons 
of forfeited awards

–  An award of 5,248 performance shares granted in relation to the long-term incentive award over Nike 
shares granted to Shannon in August 2022. Since Shannon had served less than half of the three-year 
Nike performance period, to further align her with Reckitt’s performance this award will be subject to 
the same performance conditions and targets as the Reckitt 2022 LTIP award. Any shares which vest 
following assessment of performance will be released in August 2025 to mirror the time horizons of 
forfeited awards

The vesting of these awards will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year 
and included in the single figure table for that year.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT109

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Restricted share awards
An award of 5,564 restricted shares were also granted to replace the Nike restricted shares granted in 
December 2021, which lapsed upon Shannon’s leaving. The first tranche of 2,782 restricted shares vested 
on 10 December 2023 and the second tranche will vest in December 2024. The value of these awards 
is included in the 2023 single figure table on page 117.

Bonus replacement award
The Nike FY24 bonus for the period from 1 June 2023 to 16 October 2023, being the date before Shannon 
joined Reckitt, has also been bought out. The value of this will be based on the average annual bonus 
outturn (in % of maximum terms) for the Named Executive Officers excluding the CEO in the Nike 2024 
Proxy Statement, pro-rated for time and delivered in cash in line with the original terms of the award. 
The value of the FY24 Nike annual bonus will be determined and paid as soon as practicable following 
the publication of the Nike 2024 Proxy Statement. An estimated bonus replacement award value based 
on the FY24 Nike target performance is included in the single figure table on page 117.

Shannon also forfeited market value option awards upon leaving her previous employer. These have not 
been bought out and replaced at Reckitt as they were underwater when she joined.

Remuneration arrangements for the departing CEO and CFO
CEO
Nicandro Durante stepped down as CEO in October 2023 and remained on the Board as an Executive 
Director until 31 December 2023 to ensure a smooth transition, at which time he left the Group. 
Nicandro was paid salary and benefits until his departure date. There is no payment in lieu of notice. 

Nicandro is considered a ‘good leaver’ and his incentives have been treated accordingly. Nicandro was 
paid an annual bonus in respect of 2023, with two-thirds delivered in cash and one-third is awarded as 
Reckitt shares deferred for three years. Any outstanding deferred bonus awards will vest in line with 
normal timescales.

Nicandro’s 2022 and 2023 LTIP awards remain subject to performance against the original performance 
conditions over the respective three-year performance periods. Both of these awards will be reduced on 
a pro-rata basis to reflect the proportion of the performance period employed as an Executive Director. 
These will also be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the respective performance 
periods. Nicandro remains subject to the post-employment shareholding requirement.

CFO
Jeff Carr will remain on the Board as an Executive Director until 31 March 2024 to ensure a smooth 
transition, at which time he will leave the Group. He will be paid salary, benefits and pension 
contributions which are unchanged from 2023, until his departure date. There is no payment in lieu 
of notice. Jeff will receive a capped contribution of £8,000 plus VAT towards legal fees incurred 
in connection with his departure.

Jeff is considered a ‘good leaver’ and his incentives have been treated accordingly. Jeff was paid 
an annual bonus in respect of 2023, with two-thirds delivered in cash and one-third in Reckitt shares 
deferred for three years. He remains eligible for an annual bonus in respect of 2024 which will be based 
on the same performance measures and targets as for the other Executive Directors and pro-rated 
based on the portion of the performance year employed. Any bonus awarded will be delivered at 
the original dates, with two-thirds in cash and one-third deferred into Reckitt shares for three years. 
Any outstanding deferred bonus awards will vest in line with normal timescales.

Jeff’s 2021 LTIP award will vest in May 2024 and be subject to a two-year holding period and is not 
subject to time pro-rating as he was employed for the full performance period. The 2022 and 2023 LTIP 
awards will be pro-rated based on the proportion of the relevant performance period employed and 
remain subject to the original performance and time horizons. He will not receive a 2024 LTIP award.

Jeff remains subject to the post-employment shareholding requirement.

2023 performance and remuneration outcomes
In reviewing Executive Director remuneration, the Remuneration Committee took into account 
remuneration decisions for the wider workforce and individual performance of the Directors. The 
Committee also reviewed market practice, primarily against the FTSE 30 (excluding financial services 
companies) and considered an international remuneration peer group which Reckitt competes with for 
talent and is subject to similar market forces. Operationally, the international peer group is representative 
of the three Reckitt product categories of Hygiene, Health and Nutrition. This comprises 22 companies 
as follows: Abbott Laboratories, Bayer, Campbell Soup, Church and Dwight, Clorox, Coca-Cola, Colgate, 
Danone, GSK, Haleon, Henkel, Johnson & Johnson, Kellogg, Kimberly-Clark, Kraft Heinz, Nestlé, Novartis, 
PepsiCo, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Sanofi and Unilever. This peer group is also used to benchmark 
remuneration for the GEC.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT110

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Assessment of incentive outcomes
The Committee thoroughly evaluates the performance of both the Company and the Executive Directors 
in the round to assess whether the formulaic level of annual bonus payout and long-term incentive 
vesting are appropriate and justified. The Committee has formalised its approach to this assessment 
and the framework which is applied is illustrated below.

Annual bonus in respect of 2023 performance
Executive Director 2023 bonus opportunity
In line with the Remuneration Policy, the CEO and the CFO target bonus opportunities are 120% 
of salary and 100% of salary, respectively. Kris Licht’s target bonus opportunity as CEO Designate 
was 100% of salary. The bonus outcome and payout are calculated as follows:

What is the formulaic outcome?
Committee to consider year-on-year change, whether this reflects  
performance trend and impact on the single figure outcome.

Consider the quality of earnings
Committee to review the results to ensure they reflect the underlying  
performance and also consider any exceptional items.

Compare outcome against the shareholder experience
Committee to consider absolute and relative shareholder return over the relevant periods, the 
dividend payment(s) and the likely shareholder response to results based on broker feedback.

Compare outcome with overall Company performance
For example, market share, competitor benchmarking, sustainability, people and culture, strategic 
progress, wider stakeholder experience and analyst feedback.

Consider any events and other input
For example, reputation/risk related, any change of accounting standards etc.  
Draw on input from CRSEC Committee, Audit Committee and management functions  
and consider the impact of any external head or tailwinds.

Compare with historical use of discretion 
In addition, consider whether bonus and LTIP outcomes are consistent.

Final APP and LTIP outcomes 
Committee to agree whether adjustments are required to formulaic results  
and determine the final outcomes for APP payouts and LTIP vesting.

–  For each performance measure a target range is set

–  A performance multiplier is calculated for each measure, calculated by the extent to which the 

performance for that measure is achieved. These multipliers can be up to 1.89x for outperformance 
of the stretching range set by the Committee. Net working capital is a downward modifier only and 
the multiplier is capped at 1.00x target

–  Three individual multipliers are then multiplied together

Net revenue 
multiplier  
(up to 1.89x)

X

Adjusted profit 
before tax 
multiplier  
(up to 1.89x)

X

NWC modifier 
(up to 1.00x)

=

Performance 
multiplier

(Threshold = 0x; 
target = 1.0x; 
max = 3.57x)

–  The total performance multiplier can range from zero for performance at threshold or below, to 3.57 
for truly exceptional performance. The 3.57 multiplier will only be awarded if maximum performance 
is achieved on all metrics (i.e. 1.89 x 1.89 x 1.00)

–  This total performance multiplier is then applied to the target bonus opportunity to calculate the 

overall formulaic bonus outcome. This is different to usual UK market practice whereby performance 
measures are assessed independently and payment under one metric may result in payout regardless 
of performance in other metrics. In Reckitt, the three measures combine to give the resultant payout

Base salary

X

Target bonus 

=

Final bonus 
outcome

Cash

Shares

2/3

+

1/3

–  The effect of the multiplicative approach means that a high-performance multiplier can only 

be achieved for outperformance on both top-line and bottom-line performance, with excellent 
management of working capital

–  Similarly, underperformance in one of the performance metrics will reduce the overall bonus payout, 

even in the case of outperformance of the rest

–  For example, if we grow NR above the stretching requirement for maximum performance and 
maintain an excellent level of NWC, but fail to meet the profit threshold, the bonus payout will 
be zero (i.e. 1.89 x 0 x 1.00)

–  One-third of any APP is deferred into an award over Reckitt shares, to strengthen alignment 

with shareholders

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT111

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

2023 performance targets
The Remuneration Committee set targets for the Executive Directors prior to the 2023 financial year. 
These were based on NR and adjusted profit before income tax, both measured in GBP at a constant FX. 
NWC is also used as a downward modifier on both measures. All targets were based on the business 
plan at the time, with reference also being made to external expectations of performance and market 
practice of companies in a similar stage of the business cycle to Reckitt.

At the time the Committee finalised the targets, consensus expectation was 2.6% for LFL NR growth. 
In setting the targets, the Committee also had regard to competitor performance.

2023 financial performance against APP targets
As stated earlier in the annual report, 2023 marked a year of continued progress, with strong mid-single-
digit growth for our Health & Hygiene GBUs and the expected rebasing of our US Nutrition business as 
it maintains market leadership and delivered strong performance, but laps the prior year competitor 
supply issue. 

LFL NR growth was 3.5% resulting in the bonus metric of £14.86 billion (on a constant FX basis), 
significantly exceeding the market expectations when the targets were set.

For 2023, operating margin was 23.1%, in line with guidance, resulting in the bonus metric of adjusted 
profit before income tax (on a constant FX basis) of £3.23 billion which outperformed target range 
set by the Committee at the start of the year.

During 2023, NWC was -7.7%. The NWC metric for APP purposes is an Operating NWC and is calculated as 
a 12-month average.

The chart below illustrates performance compared to the targets:

Performance
measure

Threshold
(zero bonus)

Actual/Achieved

Maximum
(3.57x target)

Multiplier

Like-for-like
Net Revenue

Adjusted proﬁt
before income tax
at constant rates

£14.07bn

Actual £14.86bn

1.74x

£14.93bn

£2.85bn

Actual £3.23bn

1.89x

Average NWC

-7.4%

Actual -7.7%

Total 

Achieved

£3.19bn

-9.6%

0.89x

2.93x

As illustrated above, 2023 NR was at the upper end of the performance range, and adjusted profit before 
income tax exceeded the maximum of the performance range set for the 2023 annual bonus. With a 
0.89x modifier on NWC, the overall formulaic bonus multiplier was 2.93x of target (82% of maximum).

These results reflect continued progress in 2023, delivering a four year growth CAGR at the top end of 
our peer group during a period of significant market volatility and supply challenges. Total adjusted 
diluted EPS was 323.4p in 2023, with FCF increased by 11% to £2.3 billion. Reckitt is well positioned today 
to continue to deliver mid-single-digit growth in the medium term. We have an excellent portfolio of 
market-leading, high margin brands in growth categories. With the proposed 5% increase in our annual 
dividend, we continue to deliver returns to shareholder in line with our capital allocation policy.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT112

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Overall Group performance taken into consideration
As it does every year, the Committee thoroughly evaluated the performance of both the Group and the Executive Directors in the round to assess whether the level of annual bonus payout is both appropriate and 
justified. The framework that the Committee applies is set out on page 110 and more details including progress on delivery of the strategy, wider people, culture and sustainability is provided below:

Strategic delivery
Purpose and culture fit for the future
–  Invested in our people and the values we 

want to define them, creating a culture that 
is purposeful, entrepreneurial and caring

–  Transformed our capabilities to innovate 
great products and extend categories. 
We have deepened our consumer value 
proposition and set new standards in 
customer service excellence

–  High levels of endorsement from our people 
as revealed by the annual employee survey

Excellent brand portfolio for value creation 
–  Over The Counter products grew by 11% 
on a LFL NR CAGR basis compared to 2019

–  More than 70% of the brands occupy 

market-leading positions in their categories 
on a NR basis

–  Launched breakthrough products such as 

Lysol Air Sanitiser and extended categories 
through excellence in innovation

Scaled global footprint
–  Scaled global footprint spans in developed 

and emerging markets in long-term 
growth categories

–  7.5% 4-year LFL NR CAGR versus 2019 for 
developed markets and 6.6% 4-year LFL 
NR CAGR versus 2019 for emerging markets

Sustainability
Purpose-led brands
–  29.6% NR from more sustainable products, 
improved from 24.4% in 2022, driven by 
innovation programme 

–  5% PCR plastic inclusion rate with additional 
financial commitment to increase this further

Fairer society
–  23% Group Leadership team, 34% Senior 
Management team and 51% managers 
are women

–  £31.4 million Fight for Access social 

impact investment

–  260bps increase in share of markets 

–  Continued progress in reducing the use 

recognised as top tier by retail partners

of virgin plastic

Enhanced returns to shareholders
–  Delivered LFL NR growth of 3.5% ahead 

of ingoing expectations 

–  Superior industry-leading gross margins 
with adjusted operating margin at 23.1%

–  Reduced leverage and grew FCF by 11% 

Healthier planet
–  67% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 

emissions compared to our 2015 baseline

–  100% renewable electricity purchased for 
manufacturing. Overall 94% of electricity 
used across all sites is renewable

to £2.3 billion

–  7% reduction in water use and 4% reduction 

–  Launched new share buyback programme in 
October with a goal of buying back £1 billion 
of our shares over the following 12 months

–  Proposed 5% increase in annual dividend, 
for the second year in a row, with a total 
return of £1.5 billion to shareholders

in energy use

–  Revisions in the water stress mapping 

confirmed 17 sites in 2023. Our Hosur site 
in India became our first water positive site 
in 2022 and we’re advancing similar projects 
near Mysore and in Mexico and Pakistan

–  18% in waste reduction from manufacturing 

versus 2015; all manufacturing sites have now 
achieved zero waste to landfill

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT113

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Customers and communities
–  Drove customer collaboration with our top 
Global customers to deliver Supply Chain 
value, improving cost to serve and deliver 
improved instock and reliability of service, 
which were recognised by top customers 
with awards

–  Partnered with customers on sustainable 
logistics projects; focused on reducing 
carbon footprint and increasing productivity 
and efficiency

–  Continued sales partnerships to improve 
efficiency, customer service and logistics 
and meet customer demands

–  Supported women entrepreneurs and 

innovation via projects such as the WIN Fund 
and Climate Gender Equity Fund

Wider stakeholder experience
Suppliers and external partners
–  Partnered with the Fair Rubber Association 
and Earthworm Foundation to improve the 
livelihoods of smallholder latex farmers 
in Thailand and protect the ecosystem

–  Continued to engage palm oil suppliers 
through our partnership with Earthworm 
Foundation and Action for Sustainable 
Derivatives; funded two landscape 
programmes in Malaysia and Indonesia as 
a means of addressing risks and investing 
in a more sustainable palm supply chain 
from farm level onwards

–  Engaged our third-party manufacturers 
through Manufacture 2030 to help them 
reduce their environmental footprint through 
innovative projects and behavioural changes. 
This included the launch of the ‘FMCG 
Vertical’ campaign with peer companies 
which promoted shared data provision 
and action planning

–  Continued to partner with Oxford University’s 
NbI team to develop the analytic framework 
for assessing carbon, biodiversity and social 
impacts in our priority supply chains of latex, 
palm oil and fragrances

–  Continued to run programmes focusing on 

diversity and Human Rights with our suppliers 
and external manufacturers

–  Continued our programmes of risk-based 

supplier audits, helping to strengthen labour 
standards in our supply chain

People development
Continued focus on embedding and 
cascading the Leadership Behaviours 
of Own, Create, Deliver and Care and 
celebrated role models in excellence of living 
our Leadership Behaviours and Compass 
through the Global Compass Awards.

We have transformed our offering in this area, 
with the introduction of several initiatives:

–  LinkedIn Learning Library: Introduced in April 
2023, we have c.9,500 unique users with 
c.15,000 hours of combined learning time 
across Reckitt

–  Functional learning academies: 10 academies 

across Reckitt offering technical and 
professional qualifications

–  myDevelopment – Learning: A new platform 
offering personalised development options

–  Mentor and coaching programmes: Thriving 

programmes, including initiatives for specific 
groups such as Accelerate for women and 
Global Commercial Future Leadership 
Potential programmes to spot and develop 
high-potential senior leaders

People and culture
Pay, recognition and benefits
Our January 2023 global pay review budget 
was 70% higher than that of the previous 
year. In January 2024, our budget remained 
at a broadly similar level to 2023 in line 
with our goal to ensure all our colleagues 
are paid competitively and fairly, albeit 
slightly lower given falling inflation.

We continue to be an accredited Living Wage 
Employer and paying at least the Living Wage 
to all our UK employees and contractors.

In line with our 2030 Sustainability Ambitions, 
our Sustainable Livelihood Framework has 
been developed to promote a working 
environment supporting health and 
wellbeing, equality, employment rights, 
financial security and skills development.

In 2022, we formed a partnership with the Fair 
Wage Network and conducted analysis across 
c.70% of our workforce in our top 10 markets. 
In 2023, we extended this to cover all of our 
workforce. We are proud to confirm that all our 
employees are paid at least the living wage in 
their location. We are also embedding this in 
our new hire and annual pay review processes. 

In 2023, extensive work has been underway to 
prepare for the future of pay equity reporting 
in Europe with the intention to expand scope 
in future years. We already analyse pay equity 
data on a mandatory basis in countries including 
Australia, Canada, the US and South Africa. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT114

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Diversity and Inclusion
In 2023, we sharpened our Inclusion strategy 
to focus on three key areas – people, brands 
and procurement.

We undertook and achieved the Global Equality 
Standard (GES), a global D&I certification. 
The GES uses an assessment framework 
developed in partnership with the UK 
Government and public and private sector 
organisations. We have subsequently achieved 
local GES accreditation in Brazil and India.

Our Global ERGs continue to be critical in policy 
changes and development programmes, 
advocating conscious inclusion and shaping 
our innovation process. The ERGs together 
have over 50 market chapters enabling us to 
respond to local needs and issues that matter.

Over 10,000 people have taken part in our 
Conscious Inclusion programme that promotes 
the role we all play in creating a more inclusive 
workplace. Events on allyship and neurodiversity 
and the introduction of new ERGs, including 
an LGBTQ+ group in India, underline our 
commitment to conscious inclusion. 

In 2023, our final score for the Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate Equality Index (HRC CEI) 
is 100 (out of 100). HRC’s CEI rates companies’ 
levels of LGBTQ+ inclusion. 

We are now recognised as a top Global 
employer and top 100 employer in the UK for 
LGBTQ+ Inclusion by Stonewall. Durex won 
Brand Ally of the Year at the Pink News Awards 
in 2023 and we achieved a Disability Confident 
Level 1 ranking in the UK

We have also been named one of The Best 
Workplaces for Women 2023 in Australia and 
New Zealand, through the trust index survey, 
ensuring women feel safe, heard, challenged 
and valued. Reckitt was also named a LinkedIn 
Top Company in 2023 in the UK and Netherlands.

Our Global Wellbeing Policy recognises mental 
health, supported by Employee Assistance 
Programmes, webinars and events such 
as our Global Steps challenge and Mental 
Health month.

We continue to host monthly Better Life 
webinars to help our people maintain a healthy 
lifestyle and work-life balance. A people leader 
coaching programme, Coach-On-Demand, 
in partnership with HINTSA is now accessible 
for everyone, everywhere. Monitoring the 
gender pay gap remains a priority and Reckitt 
voluntarily discloses the gender pay gap for 
our 10 largest markets, covering approximately 
70% of our global permanent workforce.

See Our People Report 

for more information on inclusion at Reckitt.

Employee engagement and wellbeing
We continued with our annual employee 
survey in August 2023 with an overall 87% 
response rate.

Some key highlights from this were:

–  80% of our colleagues stated they ‘believe 

in and are inspired by our Purpose to protect, 
heal and nurture in the relentless pursuit 
of a cleaner, healthier world’;

–  82% of us are ‘proud to work at Reckitt’; and

–  82% also agreed ‘we are achievers’.

With high engagement from employees, we 
have seen reduced overall voluntary attrition 
rate especially for high potential employees 
compared to last year. We are proud to be 
named a Top Employer in 15 countries – 
Bahrain, Canada, China, Germany, Hungary, 
Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Saudi 
Arabia, South Africa, Spain, UAE, UK and USA, 
by the Top Employers Institute which has been 
reinforced by our annual employee survey 
feedback in which 78% of our colleagues 
would ‘recommend Reckitt as an employer’ 
(3% higher than external benchmarks). 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT115

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Decision on 2023 bonus outcomes
Reckitt’s performance showed progress in 2023 despite complex external market conditions. We 
exceeded our ingoing NR guidance and worked hard to strengthen our earnings model. We brought our 
gross margin back to its historical strength, which in turn enabled us to increase BEI investment (+13%) 
behind our brands and support our innovation launches. We generated strong free cash flows and 
significantly increased returns to shareholders through our dividend and the start of our new and 
ongoing share buyback programme. Given this performance and wider assessment as described above 
and in the Remuneration Chair’s letter, the Committee concluded that the formulaic APP payout based 
on performance against targets is justified and no discretion will be applied.

Under the Remuneration Policy, one-third of the annual bonus will be delivered by way of an award over 
Reckitt shares and deferred for a three-year period. Kris’ and Shannon’s 2023 APP awards were pro-rated 
for the period they served as Executive Directors.

Base salary

(£) X

Target  
bonus X

Performance 
multiplier

Total bonus
(£)

=

=

Cash
(£)

Deferred  
into shares
(£)

Kris Licht

575,0001

100%/120%2

Shannon Eisenhardt

158,3331

Jeff Carr

760,000

Nicandro Durante

1,100,000

100%

100%

120%

2.93x

2.93x

2.93x

2.93x

 1,845,900

1,230,600

615,300

463,917

309,278

154,639

2,226,800

1,484,533

742,267

3,867,600

2,578,400

1,289,200

1.  The 2023 base salary for Kris Licht and Shannon Eisenhardt are pro-rated for the period served as Executive Directors 
2.  Kris’ target bonus opportunity as CEO Designate was 100% of salary, which increased to 120% of salary on his appointment as CEO

Vesting of the 2021 LTIP
The Reckitt LTIP is designed to align participants with shareholders through making awards with 
stretching performance conditions denominated in both performance share options and performance 
share awards. Kris Licht’s award under his previous role and Jeff Carr’s award were granted under the 
previous Remuneration Policy on 28 May 2021. Neither Nicandro nor Shannon participated in the 2021 LTIP 
as both they were not employees of the Company at the time of grant.

2021 performance targets
Vesting of awards under the 2021 LTIP was dependent on the performance conditions set out in the table 
below. The targets were adjusted for the disposal of IFCN China during 2022 and were disclosed in detail 
in the 2021 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 

Assessment of performance versus targets
The chart below illustrates performance compared to the targets. As set out below, performance against 
performance measures over the three-year performance period results in an overall 78% vesting of the 
2021 LTIP award. In 2023 an impairment was made in respect of IFCN goodwill, reflecting higher interest 
rates and changes in the regulatory environment. For measuring ROCE for LTIP purpose, capital employed 
was not adjusted in order to ensure Management will not benefit from the impairment. 

Performance
measure

LFL NR growth
(3-year CAGR) 
(50% weighting)

Threshold
(20% vesting)

Achieved

Maximum
(100% vesting)

Vesting 
(% of total award)

0.9% p.a.

 Actual 4.8% p.a.

EPS (ﬁnal year) on an actual 
foreign exchange basis
(12.5% weighting)

289p

 Actual 323.4p

EPS (ﬁnal year) on 
a constant FX basis 
(12.5% weighting)

ROCE (ﬁnal year) 
(25% weighting)

Total vesting

Achieved

308p

 Actual 332.4p

13.7%

 Actual 14.6%

4.9% p.a.

360p

382p

15.4%

98%

59%

46%

62%

78%

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT116

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Overall Group performance taken into consideration
As it does every year, the Committee thoroughly evaluated the performance of both the Group and the 
Executive Directors in the round to assess whether the level of vesting under the LTIP is both appropriate 
and justified. The framework that the Committee applies is set out on page 110. The Committee took into 
account the progress on delivery of the strategy and wider people, culture and sustainability in 2023 as 
disclosed on pages 112-114 of this report and over the performance period of the 2021 LTIP, as disclosed in 
previous Annual Reports, as well as the shareholder experience over this period.

Decision on 2021 LTIP vesting outcome
The Committee is satisfied that this outcome is aligned with the shareholder experience and the wider 
assessment of performance over the last three years and concluded that the overall vesting level is 
justified and appropriate in this context and that no discretion will be applied.

Vesting of the LTIP for the Executive Directors over the last five years is shown below:

2017–2019

2018–2020

2019–2021

2020–2022

2021–2023

Based on the performance assessment above, the 2021 LTIP award to Kris and Jeff will vest as detailed 
below. Kris’ LTIP award was granted in relation to his previous role which did not sit on the Board. 
However, the full value of the award has been included for transparency. As mentioned previously, 
neither Shannon nor Nicandro participated in the 2021 LTIP award.

Interests 
held

Exercise 
price

Vesting %

Interests 
vesting

Share price
(£)1

Estimated 
value
(£)

Kris Licht
Performance shares
Performance share options

Jeff Carr
Performance shares
Performance share options

25,000
50,000

n/a
£64.67

40,000
80,000

n/a
£64.67

78%
78%

78%
78%

 19,500
 39,000

55.56
55.56

1,083,420
0

 31,200
 62,400

55.56
55.56

1,733,472
0

1.  As the share price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average market 

0%

0%

21.5%

100%

78%

value over Q4 2023 of £55.56. The actual value at vesting will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual Report

There is a further two-year holding period attached to the 2021 LTIP award for Kris and Jeff, which means 
that vested performance shares (net of tax withholding) will not be released until 1 January 2026, and the 
resultant shares (net of any tax withholding and the exercise cost as appropriate) from the exercise of 
any vested performance share options will not be released until 1 January 2026.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT117

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2023, based on the information set out in the previous sections. 
This is compared to the prior year figure:

Base salary
Taxable benefits4
Pension benefit5
Annual bonus6
LTIP7,8
Buyout awards9

Fixed remuneration
Variable remuneration

Total

Kris Licht1

2023
£

575,000
57,553
57,500
 1,845,900
 1,083,420
–

690,053
 2,929,320

 3,619,373

Current Executive Directors

Shannon Eisenhardt2

2022
£

–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

2023
£

158,333
192,775
15,833
 463,917
–
411,971

366,942
 875,888

 1,242,830

2022
£

–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

Jeff Carr

2023
£

760,000
16,884
76,000
 2,226,800
 1,733,472
–

852,884
 3,960,272

 4,813,156

2022
£

721,000
16,817
72,100
2,573,970
2,516,000
–

809,917
5,089,970

5,899,887

Former Executive Director

Nicandro Durante3

2023
£

1,100,000
292,130
–
 3,867,600
–
–

1,392,130
 3,867,600

 5,259,730

2022
£

363,044
199,346
–
1,555,279
–
–

562,390
1,555,279

2,117,669

1.  Kris Licht received an annual salary of £900,000 as CEO Designate on the Board between 1 June 2023 and 30 September 2023. This increased to £1,100,000 upon taking the role of CEO from 1 October 2023. His salary was pro-rated for the period served 

as an Executive Director. Kris Licht’s salary in respect of his employment as President Health and Chief Customer Officer, a role which did not sit on the Board, is not included

2.  Shannon Eisenhardt received an annual salary of £760,000 for the period from 17 October 2023 (when she joined Reckitt and the Board) to the end of the year (2.5 months of the year). Her salary was pro-rated for the period since joining the Company
3.  Nicandro Durante stepped down as CEO in October 2023 and from the Board on 31 December 2023. Nicandro’s remuneration shown for 2022 relates to services as an Executive Director only 
4.  Benefits for Kris Licht in 2023 primarily consist of one-off relocation costs, the use of a car, healthcare and tax support. For Shannon Eisenhardt, the benefits include one-off relocation costs including temporary accommodation, the use of a car, home leave 
flights, healthcare and tax support. For Jeff Carr, the benefits include a car allowance and healthcare. For Nicandro Durante, this includes mainly one-off relocation costs, the use of a car, healthcare and tax support. Where relevant the costs above include 
a gross-up for tax

5.  The Company paid all current Executive Directors a cash allowance in respect of pension provision to the value shown in the table above. These payments reflect the full pension provision outlined in the Policy Table. Directors are only entitled to pension 

on a defined contribution (or cash allowance) basis, with no defined benefit accrual. Nicandro Durante did not receive a pension allowance

6.  Annual bonus reflects financial performance at 82% of the maximum level of the performance range set for the 2023 bonus; the Committee’s assessment of performance of both the Company and the Executive Directors in the round, and the Committee’s 
determination of the level of annual bonus payout at 82% of the maximum level in line with the formulaic outcome is appropriate as set out on pages 110-115. One-third of this is deferred into share awards for three years and will vest subject to continued 
employment. Kris Licht’s annual bonus has been pro-rated for time served as both CEO Designate (annual bonus target of 100% of salary) and CEO (annual bonus target of 120% of salary). Kris Licht’s annual bonus in respect of his employment as President Health 
and Chief Customer Officer, a role which did not sit on the Board, is not included. Shannon Eisenhardt’s annual bonus has been pro-rated for time served as CFO Designate

7.  Reflects the estimated value of LTIP performance share options and performance shares granted to Kris Licht and Jeff Carr in May 2021, which are due to vest in May 2024 at 78% of maximum. Valued using an average share price over Q4 2023 of £55.56. 

See the relevant section on page 116 for more details. None of this value is attributable to share price growth over the vesting period. The Committee did not apply discretion in determining the remuneration resulting from the 2021 LTIP vesting. Kris Licht’s LTIP 
award was granted in relation to his previous role which did not sit on the Board, however, the full value of the award has been included for transparency. Neither Shannon Eisenhardt nor Nicandro Durante participated in the 2021 LTIP awards

8.  The value of the 2022 LTIP vesting for Jeff Carr has been restated from last year, which used an average share price of £58.22 over Q4 2022 to estimate the value of the vesting. The actual value shown above is based on the share price on the date of vesting 

of £62.90 on 30 May 2023. As the share price at the date of vesting was lower than the share price at the date of the award, none of the value is attributable to share price growth

9.  As part of Shannon Eisenhardt’s recruitment package, she received buyout awards in respect of awards forfeited on leaving her former employer. The value shown in the table relates to both an award of restricted shares (£305,352) and the FY24 Nike annual 
bonus award (£106,619). The restricted share awards vest in equal tranches. The first tranche that vested in December 2023 has been valued based on the closing share price of £53.82 at the date of vesting, and the second tranche vesting in December 2024 
has been estimated based on the share price at the date of grant, being £55.94. The payment in respect of the FY24 Nike annual bonus is based on Shannon’s target bonus opportunity, pro-rated for the period 1 June to 16 October 2023, for the portion of Nike’s 
performance year elapsed until Shannon joined Reckitt, assuming a target payout. As part of this calculation, Shannon’s Nike salary has been converted into pounds sterling using an average Q4 2023 USD:GBP FX of 1:0.806. Shannon was also granted performance 
shares awards as part of her buyout – the value of these will be included in the single figure table for the financial period in which the relevant performance period ends

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT118

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Shareholding of Executive Directors compared to requirements
The bar chart below illustrates the Executive Directors’ shareholding compared to the Company’s 
shareholding requirements. Executives have a period of eight years from appointment to achieve the 
requirements of 200,000 shares for the CEO and 100,000 for the CFO. All current Executive Directors are 
showing expected progress towards meeting these requirements as reflected below:

Kris Licht

Shannon
Eisenhardt

Jeff Carr

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

£3.18m1

£0.25m1

£5.24m1

0

25,000

50,000

75,000

100,000

125,000

150,000

175,000

200,000

Shares held2

Shares deferred from 2023 APP3

2024 vesting4

1.  Current shareholding value based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 of £55.56
2.  Includes shares owned outright and shares subject to post-vesting holding restrictions
3.  This is the estimated number of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan, after tax, including those to be deferred from the 2023 APP
4.  For Kris Licht and Jeff Carr, this is an estimate of the number of shares vesting in May 2024 under the 2021 LTIP, after tax. 

For Shannon, this also includes the restricted shares from buyout awards vesting in December 2024

Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements (audited)
Executive Directors are expected to acquire significant numbers of shares over eight years and retain 
these until retirement from the Board, with a portion required to be retained post-employment as 
described below.

These shareholding requirements (200,000 shares for the current CEO and 100,000 shares for the current 
CFO) are the most demanding in the market and are equivalent to c.1,010% and c.731% of salary for the CEO 
and CFO, respectively, based on a share price of £55.56. These requirements are also more than double the 
current annual LTIP award using a Black-Scholes valuation of 10% for the performance share options.

We also have post-employment shareholding requirements for a further two years. The post- 
employment shareholding requirement is enforced through a restriction on Executive Directors’ vested 
shares, held by our external share plan administrator, which requires Company permission before these 
shares can be sold. This restriction excludes shares purchased by the Executive Directors.

The two-year post-employment shareholding requirement is 50% of the shareholding requirement or 
actual shareholding on leaving if lower. This represents more than c.505% of salary for the CEO and 
c.366% for the CFO and is more stretching than the majority of other UK companies’ in-employment 
shareholding requirements; it is also greater than the current annual LTIP award.

The table below shows the current shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective 
shareholding requirements as of 31 December 2023:

Shareholding 
requirement 
(number of shares)

Total beneficial 
interests 
(number of shares)1

Shares awarded  
under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan2

Shares subject to 
time vesting only3

To vest in 20244

Unvested, subject 
to performance5

Vested but not 
exercised

To vest in 2024

Unvested, subject  
to performance

Performance shares

Options held

Kris Licht
Shannon Eisenhardt
Jeff Carr
Nicandro Durante6

200,000
100,000
100,000
200,000

25,995
1,471
51,069
1,105

 20,856
 1,474
 26,697
 17,011

10,000
1,474
–
–

 10,335
–
 16,536
–

80,000
38,227
80,000
58,333

50,000
–
80,000
–

39,000

62,400
–

160,000
58,905
160,000
116,666

1.  ‘Total beneficial interests’ includes shares owned outright and shares subject to post-vesting holding restrictions
2.  ‘Shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan’ shows the estimated number of shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan, after tax, including an estimate of those to be deferred from the 2023 annual bonus
3.  For Shannon Eisenhardt, this is the unvested restricted shares under buyout awards, after tax as detailed on page 109. For Kris Licht, includes the award under the Share Ownership Policy (SOP) granted before his appointment to the Board based on continued 

employment and the achievement of shareholding requirements

4.  This is an estimate of the number of shares vesting to Kris Licht and Jeff Carr in May 2024 under the 2021 LTIP, as detailed on page 116, after tax 
5.  For Shannon Eisenhardt, this includes the performance shares granted under buyout awards 
6.  Nicandro Durante’s shareholding immediately following cessation of employment on 31 December 2023. Since stepping down from the Board on 31 December 2023, Nicandro has been subject to the post-employment shareholding requirements of 100,000 shares 

(or his actual holding on leaving if lower) for two years following cessation of employment (to 31 December 2025). Shares purchased by Nicandro are not subject to the post-employment shareholding requirement

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT119

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

2023 LTIP awards and other awards granted in 2023 (audited)
The table below sets out the LTIP awards and other awards made to Kris Licht, Shannon Eisenhardt, Jeff Carr and Nicandro Durante during 2023. Dividend equivalents accrue on performance shares during the 
performance period, but will only pay out on vested performance shares. Vesting of these awards in full requires achievement of stretching performance conditions over the three-year period. In line with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy, for Executive Directors there is a further two-year holding period for the 2023 LTIP commencing after the end of the three-year performance period. Both Nicandro and Jeff have been 
treated as a ‘good leaver’ and their 2023 LTIPs will be pro-rated for the performance period worked as Executive Directors, subject to the same performance conditions and vest according to the original timescales.

Performance shares
Kris Licht
Shannon Eisenhardt
Jeff Carr
Nicandro Durante

Performance share options
Kris Licht
Shannon Eisenhardt
Jeff Carr
Nicandro Durante

Buyout awards4
Shannon Eisenhardt

Date of grant

21 Mar 2023
26 Oct 2023
21 Mar 2023
21 Mar 2023

21 Mar 2023
26 Oct 2023
21 Mar 2023
21 Mar 2023

26 Oct 2023
26 Oct 2023
26 Oct 2023
26 Oct 2023

Shares over 
which awards 
granted

Market price at 
date of award
(£)1

Exercise price 
(£)2

Face value
(£)3

Face value less 
exercise price
(£)

Performance period

Exercise/vesting period

Holding period

40,000
29,453
40,000
75,000

80,000
58,905
80,000
150,000

2,782
2,782
3,526
5,248

59.18
55.94
59.18
59.18

59.18
55.94
59.18
59.18

55.94
55.94
55.94
55.94

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

58.28
58.87
58.28
58.28

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

2,367,200
1,647,601
2,367,200
4,438,500

4,734,400
3,295,146
4,734,400
8,877,000

155,625
155,625
197,244
293,573

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025
1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025
1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025
1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025

Mar 2026
Mar 2026
Mar 2026
Mar 2026

72,000
0
72,000
135,000

1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025
1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025
1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025
1 Jan 2023–31 Dec 2025

Mar 2026–Mar 2033
Mar 2026–Mar 2033
Mar 2026–Mar 2033
Mar 2026–Mar 2033

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
1 Jun 2021–31 May 2024
1 Jan 2022–31 Dec 2024

Dec 2023
Dec 2024
Aug 2024
Aug 2025

1 Jan 2028
1 Jan 2028
1 Jan 2028
1 Jan 2028

1 Jan 2028
1 Jan 2028
1 Jan 2028
1 Jan 2028

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

1.  The market price at date of award is the closing share price on the date of grant
2.  The exercise price is based on the average closing share price over the five business days prior to the date of grant
3.  For performance shares, the face value is based on the share price at the date of award and assumes the stretching performance criteria are met to achieve full vesting. For performance-based share options, the face value in the table above is calculated as the 
number of share options multiplied by the market price at date of award. However, the actual value to a participant at the time of exercise will be the difference between market price at that time and the exercise price for the number of share options vesting, 
after the assessment of performance against the stretching performance criteria set. It should be noted that the ‘face value’ shown above would therefore only be realised if the stretching performance conditions are met in full and the share price at the time 
of exercise is double the exercise price

4.  These are buyout awards granted to Shannon in respect of legacy awards from her previous employer. The two awards of 2,782 shares are subject to continued employment, the award of 3,526 shares is subject to Nike performance and the award of 5,248 shares 

is subject to Reckitt performance

Unchanged from previous years, the Reckitt 2023 LTIP awards are based 40% on NR, 25% on ROCE, 25% on relative TSR and 10% on ESG measures.

NR continues to be measured as LFL growth over three years. ROCE is measured based on the final year of the performance period and is a measure of how efficient the Group is at converting its capital into 
earnings. For LTIP purposes ROCE is measured on a constant currency basis. In addition, LTIP targets include impairments prior to the start of the performance period, whereas in the calculation elsewhere in the 
Annual Report total assets have been adjusted to add back impairments of Goodwill, except where the impaired asset has been disposed or partially disposed. If there are any impairments during the performance 
period, the Committee will ensure that this does not lead to an increase in the vesting by adjusting the capital employed accordingly and to ensure a LFL comparison to the targets. Relative TSR is measured against 
a peer group comprising 20 relevant peer companies, with the addition of Haleon from the 2023 LTIP. The targets associated with the 2023 LTIP awards were disclosed in the 2022 Annual Report on Remuneration.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT120

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Wider workforce pay arrangements
Reckitt cascades its reward policy fairly and consistently throughout the organisation and the 
Remuneration Committee considers the arrangements for the wider workforce when setting 
Executive Directors’ remuneration. During the year, the Committee considered workforce remuneration 
and related policies on several occasions, as well as the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture.

Information reviewed by the Remuneration Committee includes salary structures, bonus design and 
targets, the LTIP, share ownership, our global mobility policies, provision of benefits and Reckitt’s 
all-employee share plans. The Committee is pleased to note from this review that the Company’s 
remuneration policies continue to be aligned with those of the Executive Directors, with a cascade 
throughout the organisation.

We continued to ensure that all our employees are paid fairly by being an accredited Living Wage 
Employer and further developing the Sustainable Livelihood Framework in 2023. We also continued 
with various initiatives on Diversity and Inclusion, such as the Stronger Together conversations and our 
Conscious Inclusion programme. Focusing on further developing our people, we introduced several 
learning programmes such as functional learning academies and mentor and coaching programmes.

Employee wellbeing has also been a key area of focus in 2023. We continued to host monthly wellbeing 
webinars and introduced a Better Site Life programme for our factory-based colleagues. We also 
expanded our people leader coaching programme to everyone and introduced a new Caregivers 
Support programme in partnership with HINTSA as well as curated content for moments that matter. 

Our annual employee survey gathered an impressive 87% response rate in 2023, revealing key highlights 
such as 80% believe in our Purpose, 82% have pride in working at Reckitt, and 82% are in agreement 
that ‘we are achievers.’ Reckitt was recognised by Top Employers Institute as a Top Employer 2023 in 15 
countries, which, coupled with a 78% recommendation rate from our colleagues, demonstrates Reckitt’s 
sustained commitment to its employees.

For more details please refer to the People and culture section on pages 113-114. 

At Reckitt, we are proud of our people and their achievements, as well as our reward policies and 
practices that reflect our values and culture. We continue to focus on maintaining an open, transparent 
culture by promoting continuing dialogue across the Company. During 2023, Mary Harris’s activity as the 
Designated Non-Executive Director for Engagement with Company’s Workforce has allowed her to feed 
back the views of the workforce to the Remuneration Committee as well as the wider Board. Each year 
the Company holds several engagement sessions with employees and organises site visits during which 
townhall meetings and smaller group discussions with our people take place. Details of this engagement 
can be found in the Section 172 Statement, which can be found on pages 76-77.

The table on page 121 summarises the remuneration structure for the wider workforce.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT121

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Salary

Annual bonus

Long-term incentive

Pension

All employee shares

Share ownership

Benefits

A pension/gratuity 
scheme is offered to 
more than 80% of our 
global employees.

Countries where pension 
provision is not prevalent 
in the local market and/or 
is provided by the state 
remain an exception to 
the above.

In the UK, all Reckitt 
employees are eligible 
to receive a Company 
pension contribution 
of at least 10% of 
pensionable salary, 
irrespective of 
any personal 
contribution made.

Our APP is consistently 
implemented across the 
organisation with 16,000 
participating employees.

Target bonuses and 
maximum multipliers 
increase with progression 
and promotion.

Bonus payouts, aligned 
with Executive Directors, 
are tied to Reckitt’s 
financial performance.

All employees are 
incentivised based on 
net revenue and a profit 
measure, varying by role. 
Most roles include a third 
measure, such as NWC.

Additional bonus plans 
for specific areas like 
sales and factories are 
in operation.

Salary increases are 
based on individual 
performance ratings, 
talent ratings, and local 
market practices and 
conditions e.g. inflation.

For 2024, the salary 
increase budget for 
the wider UK workforce 
was 5.5% to 6%.

The average total pay 
across the Group in 2023 
was £57,057.

The median CEO pay 
ratio is 1:99 (page 123).

Reckitt is accredited 
by the Living Wage 
Foundation and all our 
employees are paid at 
least the living wage 
in their location. 
This certifies our 
commitment to 
employees that they 
will receive a wage that 
not only exceeds the 
minimum wage but also 
recognises the actual 
cost of living in the UK.

Reckitt grants LTIP 
awards to the GEC, 
Group Leadership 
team and Senior 
Management team.

Awards under our Middle 
Manager High Potential 
awards are made to 
selected employees 
below these levels 
to reward long-term 
performance and 
value creation.

The 2024 awards use 
the same measures 
and performance 
period as for the 
Executive Directors.

Awards are a fixed 
number of options 
and shares, based 
on employee level, 
performance and 
potential. In addition, 
participants below the 
GEC receive restricted 
shares awards. Managers 
can recommend 
additional awards 
to key employees. 

We offer a global share 
plan for all employees to 
buy Reckitt shares at a 
discount over three years. 
This is offered to over 95% 
of our employees globally 
where local legislations 
permit, and is supported 
by a network of 120 
local champions 
and communicated 
in 24 languages.

At the end of 2023, around 
14,000 Reckitt employees 
were participating in one 
of our three share plans, 
with just under a total of 
£76 million of employee 
savings in our all-employee 
share plans, or about 
£5,500 on average per 
participating employee.

We allow and encourage 
a 12-month savings 
sabbatical for employees 
on maternity leave.

Reckitt is proud of our 
ownership culture.

Our GEC and Group 
Leadership team have 
shareholding requirements 
with eight years within 
appointment to reach target. 
These are very demanding 
and reviewed annually by the 
Remuneration Committee.

Amongst the GEC, the total 
shareholding requirement 
is around £56 million1 and 
the average shareholding 
requirement among this 
group, excluding the CEO, 
is c.511% of salary.

Aggregate actual holding 
for the GEC is £26 million1, 
equivalent to an average 
of 297% of salary.

Total shareholding 
requirement for all 
employees with 
requirements is £86 million1, 
equivalent to an average 
of 401% of salary.

Current actual holding is 
£56 million1 and the actual 
average holding is 263% 
of salary.

We provide regularly reviewed, market-
competitive and inclusive benefits for 
all our employees. Core benefits include:

Life insurance for all employees at least 
2x base salary.

Global parental leave policy. At least 
26 weeks paid maternity leave and 
four weeks paid paternity leave.

Employee Assistance Programme in 
every country which has helped our 
employees during the pandemic and 
beyond.

Health insurance for most employees, 
where the state does not cover it, with 
spouse and/or children also covered in 
some markets. Video GP access in the 
UK and the US.

International Transfer Policy for global 
mobility and career development. 
Employees transfer on local terms basis. 
Additional benefits for some moves, 
such as international healthcare, pension, 
school fees, tax support and home leave.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT122

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Salary

Annual bonus

Long-term incentive

Pension

All employee shares

Share ownership

Benefits

Comparison with Executive Director remuneration

Salary increases take 
into account the 
approach for the wider 
workforce. Salaries are 
also set competitively 
against peers in support 
of the recruitment 
and retention of 
Executive Directors.

The CEO and CFO did 
not receive a salary 
increase for 2024.

For Executive Directors, 
bonuses are directly 
related to Reckitt’s 
financial performance: 
NR, adjusted profit 
before income tax 
targets, as well as 
NWC which acts as 
a downward modifier 
only. APP operates on 
a multiplicative basis, 
in the same way as for 
the wider workforce.

One-third of annual 
bonus payments for 
Executive Directors are 
subject to a three-year 
deferral into awards over 
Reckitt shares.

We have malus and 
clawback and other 
safeguards in place to 
manage any potential risk 
that may arise from the 
use of the APP.

1.  Based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 of £55.56
2.  Compared against constituents of the FTSE 30

Executive Directors’ 
LTIP grants comprise 
performance share 
options and performance 
share awards (based on 
a fixed number), which 
for the 2024 awards 
will vest subject 
to the achievement 
of LFL NR, ROCE, 
relative TSR and ESG 
performance targets.

In addition to the LTIP’s 
three-year performance 
period, Executive 
Directors are subject 
to an additional 
two-year holding 
period commencing 
at the end of the 
performance period.

Executive Directors are 
eligible to participate 
in the all-employee 
Sharesave Scheme on 
the same basis as all 
employees.

Under the Policy, our 
Executive Directors 
are eligible to receive 
a Company pension 
contribution of 10% of 
salary, in line with the 
wider workforce in 
the UK.

They are eligible to take 
this as a cash alternative.

Executive Directors receive benefits 
which consist primarily of the provision of 
a Company car/allowance, risk insurances 
and healthcare.

In addition, Executive Directors are 
eligible for the benefits available to the 
wider UK workforce.

The Executive Directors have 
shareholding requirements 
of 200,000 shares for the 
CEO and 100,000 for the 
CFO, the most demanding 
requirements in the UK 
market2. These are equivalent 
to c.1,010% and c.731% of 
salary1, respectively.

Executive Directors are 
additionally subject to 
a post-employment 
shareholding requirement 
which is enforced through 
restrictions put in place by 
our share plan administrator.

The table on page 118 sets out 
the progress of the Executive 
Directors towards their 
shareholding requirements.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT123

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Gender pay gap
The Board reviews the Company’s gender pay gap and publishes an annual gender pay report that can 
be found on our website under the Fairer Society heading of Our Impact section. To increase transparency 
on this issue Reckitt voluntarily discloses the gender pay gap for our 10 largest markets by workforce size, 
including the UK, which together make up around 70% of our global permanent workforce.

As disclosed in Our People Report, Reckitt has set targets to increase the number of women in senior 
leadership positions and has a number of initiatives to increase this representation.

A summary of the gender pay statistics is also included below:

The gender pay gap in the UK as at 5 April 2023 is

Median -10.6%

The gender pay gap in the UK as at 5 April 2022 is

Median -10.8%

Mean 3.7%

Mean 2.4%

In particular, the Remuneration Committee believes the pay ratio is consistent with the Group’s wider 
policies on employee pay, reward and progression. Reckitt ensures that employees are paid fairly for 
their role, based on the location they work in and their performance in role. As such, the base salary, 
annual bonus and benefits are based on the same principles for the identified employees as they are 
for the CEO. During 2023 Nicandro Durante was CEO until 30 September and Kris Licht was CEO from 
1 October; in calculating the CEO pay ratio we have therefore used the aggregate of the amounts paid 
to each of them in respect of their service as CEO. The median pay ratio has increased from 2022 which 
reflects the fact that the CEO’s remuneration fluctuates year-on-year as a significant proportion of the 
package is variable pay and in 2022 the annual bonus paid to the CEO was lower than 2023.

In calculating the ratio we have used Option A, in line with shareholder guidelines. The employees used 
in the calculations were selected on 5 March 2024 following the end of the financial year.

For identifying the three employees at the lower quartile, median and upper quartile, the following 
methodology has been used:

–  All UK employees’ total remuneration as at 31 December 2023 has been considered, excluding leavers 

Further data and information on the initiatives Reckitt is taking on diversity and inclusion are set out in 
Our People Report.

and employees who were absent for more than 20 days during the financial year, as these would 
distort the ratio

CEO pay ratio
The table below provides pay ratios of the CEO’s total remuneration to the remuneration of UK 
employees at the lower quartile, median and upper quartile. This is in line with UK reporting requirements.

For 2023, the total pay and benefits paid to both Nicandro Durante and Kris Licht whilst in the role of CEO 
have been combined to calculate the total CEO pay for 2023.

–  Full-time equivalent salary, variable pay, allowances and benefits (using the part-time values and 

converting these to full-time equivalent values) have been calculated. In order to calculate the value 
of taxable benefits we have taken the P11D value, due to ease of accessing data. Actual pension 
contributions have been used, and, where appropriate, converted to full-time equivalents

The table below summarises the identified employees in 2023:

CEO

Year

2023
2022
2021
2020
2019

Method

Option A
Option A
Option A
Option A
Option A

25th percentile  
pay ratio

Median pay ratio

75th percentile  
pay ratio

1:136
1:82
1:170
1:244
1:158

1:99
1:61
1:121
1:177
1:115

1:57
1:34
1:78
1:100
1:70

The calculations reflect the application of Reckitt’s reward policy across the organisation as set out in the 
section on wider workforce pay arrangements.

25th percentile
(£)

Median pay
(£)

75th percentile
(£)

Total employee pay and benefits
Salary component

39,069
29,528

53,506
40,845

93,980
66,260

In addition, Note 5 to the Financial Statements sets out the total employment costs and average number 
of employees globally, during 2023. Based on these, the average global pay during 2023 was £57,057 and 
consequently the pay ratio between the CEO and average global employee was 1:93.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT124

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2024
Salary
As set out earlier in this report, neither the CEO nor CFO received a salary increase for 2024. 
The budgeted average increase for the UK workforce was 5.5% to 6% depending on location. 
The CEO’s salary for 2024 is £1,100,000 and the CFO’s is £760,000.

Pension
The CEO and CFO are eligible to receive a pension contribution, or equivalent cash allowance, 
of 10% of salary, which is in line with the Company’s level of contribution for all UK employees.

2024 Annual bonus
There are no changes to the bonus opportunity for the CEO and CFO, remaining at 120% and 100% of 
salary at target, respectively. Bonuses for 2024 will remain based on Reckitt’s NR and adjusted profit 
before income tax targets, measured in GBP at a constant exchange rate, with the outcome under each 
of the measures combined multiplicatively to give a maximum bonus outcome of 3.57x the target bonus 
opportunity if both targets are met.

As with the 2023 bonus, the NWC metric will act as a downward modifier, applying on a multiplicative 
basis to the combined outcome of the NR and adjusted profit before income tax targets, with a maximum 
multiplier of 1x. One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into Reckitt shares for three years.

As it does every year, the Committee will continue to evaluate the performance of both the Group and 
the Executive Directors in the round and with regard to broader circumstances to assess whether the 
level of annual bonus payout is appropriate and justified, before determining the final bonus payout.

We have not disclosed the performance target ranges for 2024 as we consider them to be commercially 
sensitive. However, we commit to retrospectively disclosing the performance ranges in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2024.

2024 LTIP awards
Award levels
There are no changes to the LTIP award levels for the CEO or CFO for 2024. These have been reviewed in 
light of share price performance, Group performance and individual performance. Kris Licht’s 2024 LTIP 
award will consist of 150,000 performance share options and 75,000 performance shares and Shannon 
Eisenhardt’s award will be 80,000 performance share options and 40,000 performance shares. These 
awards are expected to be made in early March 2024, following the full-year results announcement. Jeff 
Carr will not receive a 2024 LTIP award.

Performance conditions
The LTIP performance metrics and their associated weightings are unchanged from the 2023 LTIP awards 
and are as follows:

–  LFL NR growth (40% weighting)

–  ROCE (25% weighting)

–  Relative TSR (25% weighting)

–  ESG (10% weighting)

The Committee went through a robust process when setting these targets, taking into account a number 
of factors and different reference points and the Committee considers that the targets set are very 
stretching. Awards granted in 2024 will vest in line with the descriptions below, which require significant 
outperformance of targets.

LFL NR growth
NR is measured as LFL growth over three years. At the time these targets were set the Committee took 
into account market consensus and our stated ambition for LFL NR growth is mid-single-digit in the 
medium term. In this context, the Remuneration Committee believes that the performance ranges are 
appropriately stretching and incentivise management to deliver outperformance. 20% of this element will 
vest for achieving 2.0% per annum growth increasing to full vesting for achieving 5.0% per annum growth.

ROCE
ROCE is measured in the final year of the performance period and is a measure of how efficient the 
Group is at converting its capital into earnings. For LTIP purposes, ROCE is measured on a constant 
currency basis. In addition, LTIP targets include impairments prior to the start of the performance period, 
whereas in the calculation elsewhere in the Annual Report total assets have been adjusted to add back 
impairments of Goodwill, except where the impaired asset has been disposed or partially disposed.

If there are any impairments during the performance period, the Committee will ensure that this does 
not lead to an increase in the vesting by adjusting the capital employed accordingly and to ensure a LFL 
comparison to the targets. 20% of this element will vest for achieving 14.9% increasing to full vesting for 
achieving 16.9%.

Relative TSR
Relative TSR directly aligns LTIP participants with the shareholder experience and will only reward for 
TSR outperformance against our peers.

As it does every year, the Committee reviewed the constituents of the peer group to ensure that they 
remain appropriate to assess performance against and also considers whether any additional peers 
should be added. The outcome of this review was that all of the current peer companies remain 
appropriate and that Kenvue (which was listed as an independent business in 2023) should be added 
to the peer group.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT125

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Therefore, the peer group for the 2024 LTIP awards comprises 21 companies with which we compete 
for capital and to which shareholders compare us and is also an appropriate group against which 
to incentivise LTIP participants to outperform. The peer companies are primarily drawn from the 
constituents of the MSCI World House and Personal Products Index, with others forming part of the 
broader ‘FMCG’ industry which are subject to similar industry dynamics and market challenges as Reckitt. 
The constituents will be reviewed on an annual basis and, in particular, as new comparators come to the 
market. The TSR peer group for the 2024 LTIP award is set out below:

Beiersdorf

Estée Lauder

Kimberly-Clark

Church & Dwight

Clorox

Colgate Palmolive

Danone

Essity

Haleon

Henkel

JDE

Kao

Kenvue

Lindt

L’Oréal

Mondelēz

Nestlé

Procter & Gamble

Shiseido

Unicharm

Unilever

Under the relative TSR measure, 20% of the award will vest for TSR at the median of the peer group, 
increasing to full vesting for upper quartile performance or above. 

ESG
ESG measures were introduced from the 2022 LTIP to align participants with, and incentivise delivery of, 
our 2030 Sustainability Ambitions. There are two equally weighted metrics for the 2024 LTIP award. The 
ESG targets are based on rigorous methodology, are independently assured and, in the case of our carbon 
emissions, support our delivery of externally validated SBTs on emissions reduction. Targets are based on 
achievement in the final year of the performance period and take into account the plans that we have to 
achieve the Sustainability Ambitions. The measures and targets are as follows:

i.  Percentage of net revenue from more sustainable products – this has been an annual reporting KPI 
since 2012 and supports our ambition of 50% of NR being from more sustainable products by 2030. 
This is measured using our SIC. The calculator evaluates the sustainability impact of every new product 
versus existing products and established benchmarks. It helps measure carbon, water, plastics, 
ingredients and packaging footprints in new products for our global brands, targeting their reduction 
to enable more sustainable products in the future. It includes Scope 3 product emissions (including 
the carbon and water impact from consumer use), which is the most impactful lifecycle stage of our 
products. We achieved 29.6% of NR from more sustainable products in 2023 and have set the targets 
for this measure based on the Plan to 2030, such that 20% of this element will vest for achieving 43% 
of NR from more sustainable products increasing to full vesting for achieving 46% in 2026.

ii.  Percentage reduction in GHG emissions in operations – this supports the delivery of our externally 
validated SBTs for 2030 to help maintain global warming at less than 1.5°C, including a 65% reduction 
in GHG emissions in operations against our 2015 baseline. For the purposes of reward outcomes, 
any offsetting activities will not count towards achievement of these targets. A total of 20% of this 
element will vest for achieving a 67% reduction in GHG emissions in operations by 2026, increasing 
to full vesting for achieving a 70% reduction. The threshold of a 67% reduction is above the goal that 
we set for ourselves by 2030, with the maximum target of a 70% reduction significantly beyond this, 
requiring us to exceed our 2030 SBT ahead of schedule. These targets are considered stretching 
taking into account internal forecasts.

Summary of 2024 LTIP targets
Performance will be assessed for each measure, at the end of the three-year performance period, 
on a sliding scale as set out below:

LFL NR growth (3-year CAGR) 
(40% weighting)

ROCE (final year) on a constant foreign exchange basis 
(25% weighting)

Relative TSR 
(25% weighting)

ESG: % of NR from more sustainable products (final year) 
(5% weighting)

ESG: % reduction in GHG emissions in operations (final year) 
(5% weighting)

Threshold  
(20% vesting)

Maximum  
(100% vesting)

2.0%

5.0%

14.9%

16.9%

Median

Upper quartile

43%

67%

46%

70%

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT126

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

ADDITIONAL REMUNERATION DISCLOSURES

Percentage change in the remuneration of Directors
We are required to publish the annual percentage change in remuneration (salary or fees, benefits and annual bonus) for each Director compared to the annual average percentage change in remuneration for the 
employees (excluding Directors) of the Parent Company. Since the CEO and CFO are the sole employees of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, this statutory disclosure is not possible. In the table below we are therefore 
voluntarily disclosing the percentage change in remuneration for all UK employees in order to provide a representative comparison. The Company considers UK employees to be an appropriate comparator group as 
the Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements are similar in structure to the majority of these employees and it reflects the economic environment where the Executive Directors are employed. The analysis 
is based on a consistent set of employees for each comparison, i.e. the same individuals or roles appear in the 2022/23 comparison, and similarly for previous year comparisons.

All UK employees1
Chris Sinclair (Chair of the Board)
Olivier Bohuon3
Andrew Bonfield4
Jeff Carr (CFO)5
Jeremy Darroch6
Nicandro Durante (former CEO)7
Shannon Eisenhardt (CFO Designate)8
Mary Harris
Tamara Ingram9
Mehmood Khan
Pam Kirby
Kris Licht (CEO)10
Alan Stewart11
Elane Stock
Margherita Della Valle12

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2019/20

Salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

6.5%
5.3%
23.2%
-0.7%
5.4%
516.2%
139.8%
–
-1.6%
–
3.4%
2.6%
–
17.2%
3.4%
3.4%

1.6%2
–
–
–
0.4%
–
46.5%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

6.1%
–
–
–
-13.5%
–
148.7%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

4.1%
10.0%
2.6%
6.2%
3.0%
–
178.0%
–
-3.8%
–
2.6%
2.0%
–
–
2.6%
2.6%

2.1%2
–
–
–
0.4%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

15.6%
–
–
–
12.8%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

5.9%
3.6%
–
2.4%
41.5%
–
1.9%
–
2.0%
–
2.7%
2.0%
–
–
2.7%
105.4%

6.2%2
–
–
–
37.3%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

-8.9%
–
–
–
29.3%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

4.5%
10.0%
–
4.1%
–
–
14.1%
–
14.4%
–
4.7%
7.3%
–
–
4.7%
–

1.5%2
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

505.4%
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

1.  The percentages for ‘All UK employees’ reflect the average percentage change in full-time equivalent salary, taxable benefits and allowances, and bonus for colleagues based in the UK between 2019/20, 2020/21, 2021/22 and 2022/23. It only includes colleagues 

employed in both years in the comparison

2.  The percentage change in taxable benefits for all UK employees excludes international transfer benefits as this is volatile from year to year based on each individual’s circumstances
3.  Olivier Bohuon was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2021 and so no comparison is shown for 2020/21 and 2019/20
4.  Andrew Bonfield held the role of Senior Independent Director on an interim basis from 1 September to 31 October 2022. The additional fees for this period are included above
5.  Jeff Carr joined on 9 April 2020 as the CFO of the Company so no comparison is shown for 2019/20. The percentage change shown for 2020/21 reflects actual remuneration received during 2020 for service from Jeff Carr’s appointment on 9 April 2020 to 

31 December 2020

6.  Jeremy Darroch was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2022 and so no comparisons are shown for 2021/22 and before. The comparison for 2022/23 reflects that the 2022 fee was only received for part of the year
7.  Nicandro Durante stepped down as a NED on 1 September 2022 and became Executive Director from 2 September 2022. The percentage change figures for 2021/22 and 2022/23 reflect an aggregate of remuneration paid for both his Executive and Non-Executive 

roles during 2022

8.  Shannon Eisenhardt joined on 17 October 2023 as the CFO Designate of the Company and so no comparison is shown
9.  Tamara Ingram was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2023 so no comparison is shown
10. Kris Licht was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 1 June 2023 so no comparison is shown
11. Alan Stewart was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2022 and so no comparison is shown for 2021/22 and before. The percentage change figures for 2022/23 reflect that the 2022 fee was only received for part of the year
12. Margherita Della Valle joined on 1 July 2020 so no comparison is shown for 2019/20. The comparison for 2020/21 reflects that the 2020 fee was only received for part of the year

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT127

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends and share buybacks) and total employee 
pay expenditure for 2022 and 2023, along with the percentage change in both.

Total shareholder distribution1
Total employee expenditure2

2023 
(£m)

1,546
2,569

2022 
(£m)

% change 
2022/23

1,249
2,408

23.8%
6.7%

1.  Details of shareholder distribution are set out in Notes 24 and 28 to the Financial Statements and are made up of dividends of 

£1,339 million and share buybacks of £207 million

2.  Details of employee expenditure are set out in Note 5 to the Financial Statements

Exit payments made in the year (audited)
Details of Nicandro Durante’s and Jeff Carr’s leaving arrangements are provided earlier in this report.

Payments to past Directors (audited)
No other benefits or payments were delivered to former Directors in the year in excess of the minimum 
threshold of a pre-tax value of £15,000 set by the Remuneration Committee for this purpose.

Performance graph
The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 100 Index over the period since 
1 January 2014. This shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical holding of £100 invested 
on 31 December 2013. The FTSE 100 Index was selected on the basis that it contains companies 
of a comparable size, in the absence of an appropriate industry peer group in the UK.

TSR since 1 January 2014
£ value of £100 invested at 1 January 2014

180

160

140

120

100

80

158

162

133

118

144

121

141

99

114

101

166

125

151

142

166

149

156

154

168

150

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024

Reckitt

FTSE 100

Source: Thompson Reuters Datastream

The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration for the role of CEO over the last 10 years.

(£000) 
CEO single figure of 
remuneration

Kris Licht

Nicandro 
Durante

Laxman 
Narasimhan

2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023

4,5991
8,4341
5,967
918

3,6196

2,118
5,260

Rakesh 
Kapoor

12,787
25,527
15,289
8,999
14,314
938

Annual 
bonus (as a 
percentage 
of maximum)

LTIP vesting 
(as a 
percentage 
of maximum)

72%
100%
0%
0%
84%
12%2
100%
91%
100%4
82%

40%
80%
50%
50%
65%
0%3
0%3
21.5%
100%5
78%7

1.  Includes buyouts in respect of legacy arrangements from previous employer
2.  Zero for Rakesh Kapoor
3.  Laxman Narasimhan was not with the Group at the time these awards were granted
4.  Laxman Narasimhan was not eligible for a 2022 APP following his resignation as CEO
5.  Nicandro Durante was a NED at the time these awards were granted and therefore did not receive an award and Laxman 

Narasimhan’s award lapsed following his resignation as CEO

6.  Includes the LTIP which was granted in relation to Kris Licht’s previous role which did not sit on the Board
7.  Nicandro Durante was not with the Group at the time these awards were granted. The awards for Kris Licht were in relation 

to his previous role which did not sit on the Board

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT128

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Single total figure of 2023 remuneration for NEDs and implementation for 2024 (audited)
The following NED fee policy will apply from 1 January 2024. The table also sets out the fees that were 
in place for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Base fees
Chair of the Board
Non-Executive Director

2024 fees

2023 fees

Fee 
delivered in 
Reckitt 
shares
(£)

Cash fee
(£)

Fee delivered 
in Reckitt 
Shares
(£)

Cash fee
(£)

510,000
82,500

170,000
27,500

495,000
76,500

165,000
25,500

Additional fees
Chair of Committee
Member of Committee
Designated Non-Executive Director for Engagement 
with Company’s Workforce
Senior Independent Director

35,000
20,000

20,000
35,000

–
–

–
–

35,000
20,000

20,000
30,000

–
–

–
–

The fee for the Chair of the Board has been increased to £680,000, an increase of 3%. The base fee 
for NEDs has been increased to £110,000, an increase of 7.8%. This increase partly reflects the increased 
time commitment required to meet the scope and complexity of the NED role over the last few years. 
This represents a c. 5.1% to 6.6% increase in total fees, depending on responsibilities. The proportion 
delivered in Reckitt shares continues to be 25% of the base fee, being £170,000 for the Chair and £27,500 
for the NEDs. We will continue to review NED fees to ensure they are appropriate and competitive 
against the market.

In addition, NEDs are eligible to receive support from the Company to complete a UK tax return, 
if required.

The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each NED for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 and the prior year:

Chris Sinclair
Olivier Bohuon
Andrew Bonfield1
Jeremy Darroch2
Mary Harris
Tamara Ingram3
Mehmood Khan
Pam Kirby
Alan Stewart4
Elane Stock
Margherita Della Valle

2023 fees

2022 fees

Cash
(£)

495,000
119,833
111,500
126,500
116,500
88,458
96,500
131,500
111,500
96,500
96,500

Shares
(£)

165,000
25,500
25,500
25,500
25,500
23,375
25,500
25,500
25,500
25,500
25,500

Total
(£)

660,000
145,333
137,000
152,000
142,000
111,833
122,000
157,000
137,000
122,000
122,000

Cash
(£)

470,250
93,500
113,500
24,667
119,750
–
93,500
128,500
94,458
93,500
93,500

Shares
(£)

156,750
24,500
24,500
–
24,500
–
24,500
24,500
22,458
24,500
24,500

Total
(£)

627,000
118,000
138,000
24,667
144,250
–
118,000
153,000
116,916
118,000
118,000

1.  Andrew Bonfield held the role of Senior Independent Director on an interim basis from 1 September to 31 October 2022. 

The additional fees for this period are included above

2.  Jeremy Darroch joined the Board on 1 November 2022. Fees shown for 2022 are paid from this date
3.  Tamara Ingram joined the Board on 1 February 2023. Fees shown are paid from this date
4.  Alan Stewart joined the Board on 1 February 2022. Fees shown for 2022 are paid from this date

Travel and expenses for NEDs are incurred in the normal course of business, for example, in relation 
to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. The costs associated with these are all met by 
the Company.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT129

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Summary of shareholder voting at the 2023 AGM
The following table shows the results of the voting on the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 
2023 AGM and 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2022 AGM:

Votes for

For  
%

Votes  
against

Against  
%

Total

Votes 
withheld

The CEO and CFO service contracts contain a 12-month notice period. Kris Licht was appointed CEO 
Designate on 1 May 2023 and to the Board as Executive Director effective 1 June 2023, before assuming 
the role of CEO on 1 October 2023. Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed Executive Director to the Board 
and CFO Designate on 17 October 2023. Directors’ service contracts and letters of engagement are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.

Advisors
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) was appointed by the Remuneration Committee as independent advisor 
effective from 1 January 2014 following a review of the advisor in late 2013. The Committee 
undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Deloitte remains independent of the Company 
and that the advice provided is impartial and objective. Deloitte is a founding member of and 
signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at 
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. During 2023, Deloitte LLP also provided the Group with 
advice and compliance support in a number of areas, including corporate, indirect and employment 
taxes, global mobility, and advisory and technology consulting.

These services were provided under separate engagement terms and the Committee is satisfied that 
the provision of these services did not impair Deloitte’s ability to advise the Committee independently. 
Deloitte’s total fees for the provision of remuneration services were £230,000 on the basis of time and 
materials. It should be noted that although we are only required to disclose the value of fees for services 
which materially assisted the Remuneration Committee, as with previous years, we have disclosed the 
full value of remuneration services from Deloitte, which includes advice to management and to the 
Remuneration Committee.

Approve the 2022 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
Approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy

513,944,128

93% 39,845,715

7% 553,789,843

1,961,573

493,637,970

92% 45,472,574

8%

539,110,544

3,364,148

The Remuneration Committee had extensive dialogue with shareholders during 2021 on the 2022 
Remuneration Policy, including engaging with shareholders representing more than 50% of our 
shareholder register. The majority of shareholders and advisory bodies providing input were supportive 
of the changes we made to our Remuneration Policy and this was demonstrated by the high levels of 
support received for both the Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2022 AGM. Following his 
appointment as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Alan Stewart also met with a number of major 
shareholders in November 2022.

Directors’ service contracts
NEDs have letters of engagement which set out their duties and time commitment expected. They 
are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election and annual re-election by shareholders. 
Appointments are renewable for subsequent three-year terms by mutual consent. Details are set 
out below:

Date of appointment

Length of service as of 
31 December 2023

Years

Months

Chris Sinclair
Olivier Bohuon
Andrew Bonfield
Jeremy Darroch
Mary Harris
Tamara Ingram
Mehmood Khan
Pam Kirby
Alan Stewart
Elane Stock
Margherita Della Valle 1 July 2020

10 February 2015 (appointed Chair of the Board on 3 May 2018)
1 January 2021
1 July 2018
1 November 2022
10 February 2015
1 February 2023
1 July 2018
10 February 2015
1 February 2022
1 September 2018

8
3
5
1
8
0
5
8
1
5
3

11
0
6
2
11
11
6
11
11
4
6

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT130

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Directors’ interests in shares and options under the LTIP1 and buyout awards (audited)

Grant date

At 01.01.23

Granted during 
the year

Exercised/vested 
during the  
year (including 
dividend shares)2

Lapsed during 
the year

At 31.12.23

Option price 
(£)

Market price at 
date of award 
(£)

Market price  
at date of 
exercise/vesting 
(£)

Kris Licht
Performance-based share options

Performance-based share awards

Shannon Eisenhardt
Performance-based share options
Performance-based share awards
Buyout awards
Buyout awards
Buyout awards
Buyout awards

Jeff Carr
Performance-based share options

Performance-based share awards

Nicandro Durante
Performance-based share options

Performance-based share awards

01.05.20
28.05.21
20.05.22
21.03.23
01.05.20
28.05.21
20.05.22
21.03.23

26.10.23
26.10.23
26.10.23
26.10.23
26.10.23
26.10.23

01.05.20
28.05.21
20.05.22
21.03.23
01.05.20
28.05.21
20.05.22
21.03.23

06.09.22
21.03.23
06.09.22
21.03.23

50,000
50,000
80,000
–
25,000
25,000
40,000
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

80,000
80,000
80,000
–
40,000
40,000
40,000
–

150,000
–
75,000
–

–
–
–
80,000
–
–
–
40,000

58,905
29,453
2,782
2,782
3,526
5,248

–
–
–
80,000
–
–
–
40,000

–
150,000
–
75,000

–
–
–
–
25,000
–
–
–

–
–
2,782
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
40,000
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

83,334
100,000
41,667
50,000

50,000
50,000
80,000
80,000
–
25,000
40,000
40,000

58,905
29,453
–
2,782
3,526
5,248

80,000
80,000
80,000
80,000
–
40,000
40,000
40,000

66,666
50,000
33,333
25,000

65.20
64.67
63.32
58.28
–
–
–
–

58.87
–
–
–
–
–

65.20
64.67
63.32
58.28
–
–
–
–

64.77
58.28
–
–

–
–
–
–
65.70
63.68
62.42
59.18

–
55.94
55.94
55.94
55.94
55.94

–
–
–
–
65.70
63.68
62.42
59.18

–
–
64.58
59.18

1.  Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee and the awards are subject to an additional two-year holding period commencing at the end of the performance period
2.  Dividend equivalents accrue on performance shares during the vesting period from the 2022 LTIP awards onwards and will be disclosed on vesting

Exercise/vesting period

May 2023–May 2030
May 2024–May 2031
May 2025–May 2032
Mar 2026–Mar 2033
May 2023
May 2024
May 2025
Mar 2026

Mar 2026–Oct 2033
Mar 2026
–
Dec 2024
Aug 2024
Aug 2025

May 2023–May 2030
May 2024–May 2031
May 2025–May 2032
Mar 2026–Mar 2033
May 2023
May 2024
May 2025
Mar 2026

–
–
–
–
62.90
–
–
–

–
–
53.82
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
62.90
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

May 2025–Sep 2032
Mar 2026–Mar 2033
May 2025
Mar 2026

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT131

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Directors’ interests in shares in the Deferred Bonus Plan1 (audited)

Kris Licht
Deferred Bonus Plan
Deferred Bonus Plan
Deferred Bonus Plan

Jeff Carr
Deferred Bonus Plan
Deferred Bonus Plan
Deferred Bonus Plan

Nicandro Durante
Deferred Bonus Plan

Grant date

At 01.01.23

Granted during 
the year

Exercised/
vested during 
the year

Lapsed during 
the year

At 31.12.23

Option price 
(£)

Market price at 
date of award 
(£)

Market price at 
date of vesting 
(£)

Vesting period

25.03.21
21.03.22
21.03.23

25.03.21
21.03.22
21.03.23

8,059
5,997
–

9,163
13,131
–

–
–
10,041

–
–
14,721

21.03.23

–

8,895

–
–
–

–
–
–

–

–
–
–

–
–
–

–

8,059
5,997
10,041

9,163
13,131
14,721

8,895

–
–
–

–
–
–

–

64.22
57.92
58.28

64.22
57.92
58.28

58.28

–
–
–

–
–
–

–

Mar 2024
Mar 2025
Mar 2026

Mar 2024
Mar 2025
Mar 2026

Mar 2026

1.  One-third of the annual bonus is delivered in the form of conditional share awards which are deferred for three years
2.  Dividend equivalents accrue on deferred bonus shares during the vesting period and will be disclosed on vesting

Executive employees may also participate in the all-employee Sharesave Scheme on the same basis as all other employees. The table below details options held.

Sharesave Scheme

Jeff Carr

Grant date

At 01.01.23

Granted during 
the year

Exercised during 
the year

Lapsed during 
the year

At 31.12.23

Option price 
(£)

Market price 
at exercise 
(£)

Exercise period

31.08.21

403

–

–

–

403

44.56

–

Feb 2025–Jul 2025

There have been no changes to the Directors’ interests as set out in the above tables between 31 December 2023 and 21 March 2024.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT132

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company (audited)
The Directors in office at the end of the year and those in office at 21 March 2024 had the following 
beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:

Chris Sinclair
Olivier Bohuon
Andrew Bonfield
Jeff Carr
Jeremy Darroch
Nicandro Durante1
Shannon Eisenhardt2
Mary Harris
Tamara Ingram3
Mehmood Khan
Pam Kirby
Kris Licht4
Alan Stewart
Elane Stock
Margherita Della Valle
Marybeth Hays5

21 March
2024

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

14,322
1,149
1,121
51,069
234
1,105
1,471
3,262
215
1,083
5,462
25,995
427
2,992
738
0

14,322
1,149
1,121
51,069
234
1,105
1,471
3,262
215
1,083
5,462
25,995
427
2,992
738
–

12,733
931
873
30,000
0
1,105
–
3,017
–
833
5,219
13,271
191
2,732
504
–

1.  Nicandro Durante stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2023 and his interest in shares is shown up to this date
2.  Shannon Eisenhardt joined the Board on 17 October 2023
3.  Tamara Ingram joined the Board on 1 February 2023
4.  Kris Licht joined the Board on 1 June 2023
5.  Marybeth Hays joined the Board on 1 February 2024 
6.  No person who was a Director (or a Director’s connected person) on 31 December 2023 and at 21 March 2024 had any notifiable 

share interests in any subsidiary

7.  The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of Directors’ shareholdings 

and options to subscribe for shares

As approved and signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.

Alan Stewart
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). 
The report meets the requirements of the FCA Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules. In this report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration, as set out in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (July 2018) (the Code), are applied in practice. The Remuneration Committee confirms that 
throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT133

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

REPORT OF THE 
DIRECTORS

Introduction
We present below our Directors’ Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2023. Certain 
matters required to be included in this Directors’ 
Report are included in the Strategic Report 
on pages 2 to 61, including an indication of the 
likely future developments of the business, 
research and development activities of 
the Group and details of important events 
affecting the Company. The Corporate 
Governance Report can be found on pages 62 
to 136 and is deemed to be incorporated 
into this Directors’ Report by reference.

Further disclosure requirements which are 
deemed to form part of the management report 
can be found on the following pages of this Annual 
Report, and are incorporated into this Directors’ 
Report by reference:

Acquisitions and disposals 

199

Awards under employee share  
schemes and long-term  
incentive schemes 

Corporate Governance Statement  
including internal control and  
risk management statements 

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities,  
including disclosure of information  
to the Auditor 

197-198

62-81

137

Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas  
(GHG) emissions 

Employment policy and  
employee involvement 

Engagement with employees,  
suppliers, customers and others 

Environmental, social  
and governance (ESG) matters 

Financial risk management  
and financial instruments 

Future developments in the business 

Post Balance Sheet events 

Research and development activities 

Shareholder information 

Sustainability and  
corporate responsibility 

Viability Statement 

Charitable donations 

Subsidiary undertakings  
(including overseas branches) 

14; 218-222

19-21

37-40; 76-77

14; 47-54

181-189

2-61

200

22-24

228-231

14; 47-54

61

51-53

208-217

Information on the Board’s stakeholder engagement 
and activities can be found on pages 37 to 40 and 
further information is also set out in the Section 172 
Statement, which can be found on pages 76 to 77.

There is no additional information requiring 
disclosure under Listing Rule 9.8.4R.

Results and dividends
The Consolidated Income Statement can be 
found on page 156. The profit for the year 
attributable to equity shareholders of the 
Company amounted to £1,682 million.

The Directors resolved to pay an interim 
dividend of 76.6 pence per ordinary share 
(2022: 73.0 pence), which was paid to 
shareholders on 15 September 2023.

The Directors recommend a final dividend for the 
year of 115.9 pence per share (2022: 110.3 pence) 
which, together with the interim dividend, 
makes a total dividend for the year of 192.5 pence 
per share (2022: 183.3 pence). During the year 
no shareholders waived their right to receive 
dividend payments. The final dividend, if approved 
by the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of the Company, will 
be paid on 24 May 2024 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 12 April 2024.

Directors
Details of the Company’s Directors who served 
during the financial year ended 31 December 
2023 and details of Directors appointed during 
2024 can be found on pages 65 to 68.

The rules governing the appointment and 
retirement of Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) 
and all appointments are made in accordance with 
the Code. Under the terms of reference of the 
Nomination Committee, all Director appointments 
must be recommended by the Nomination 
Committee for approval by the Board of Directors. 
All Directors must submit themselves for re-election 
each year at the AGM. With the exception of Chris 
Sinclair, Pam Kirby and Alan Stewart, all Directors 
will offer themselves for election or re-election 
at the 2024 AGM in compliance with the Code. 

Details of the Directors standing for election or 
re-election can be found in the 2024 Notice of AGM. 

Information on the service agreements of 
Executive Directors can be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 100 
to 132. The letters of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office.

Powers of Directors
The Board of Directors is responsible for the 
management of the business of the Company 
and may exercise all powers of the Company 
subject to the provisions of the Company’s 
Articles and the CA 2006. The Articles contain 
specific provisions and restrictions regarding 
the Company’s power to borrow money. Powers 
relating to the alteration of share capital are also 
included in the Articles and shareholders are asked 
to renew such authorities each year at the AGM. 

A copy of the Articles is available on the 
Company’s website at www.reckitt.com or 
can be obtained upon written request from 
the Company Secretary or the UK Registrar 
of Companies, Companies House.

Directors’ insurance and indemnities
The Company indemnifies the Directors and 
Officers of the Company and any Group subsidiary 
to the extent permitted by Section 236 of CA 
2006 in respect of the legal defence costs for 
claims against them and third-party liabilities. 
The indemnity would not provide cover for a 
Director or Officer if that individual was found 
to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 

The Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
cover was maintained throughout the year ended 
31 December 2023 at the Company’s expense.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE134

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Report of the Directors continued

Directors’ interests
A statement of Directors’ interests in the 
share capital of the Company is shown on 
page 132 of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. Details of Executive Directors’ options 
to subscribe for shares in the Company are 
included on pages 130 and 131 in the audited 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.

During the year, none of the Directors had a 
material interest in any derivative or financial 
instrument relating to the Company’s shares. 
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 126-132. No Director has a material interest 
in any ‘contract of significance’ (as defined by the 
FCA) to which the Company, or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings, is a party as at 31 December 2023.

Share capital
As at 31 December 2023, the Company’s issued 
share capital consisted of 736,535,179 ordinary 
shares of 10 pence each of which 714,028,649 were 
with voting rights and 22,506,530 ordinary shares 
were held in treasury. Each share carries the right 
to one vote at general meetings of the Company. 
Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued 
and of options and awards granted during the year 
are set out in Note 24 to the Financial Statements. 

The rights and obligations attached to the 
ordinary shares are contained in the Company’s 
Articles. There are no restrictions on the voting 
rights attached to the Company’s ordinary shares 
or the transfer of securities in the Company 
except in the case of transfers of securities:

–  That certain restrictions may from time to 
time be imposed by laws and regulations 
(for example, insider trading laws)

–  Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the United 

Kingdom Listing Authority whereby certain 
employees of the Company require the approval 
of the Company to deal in the Company’s 
ordinary shares

No person holds securities in the Company 
which carry special voting rights with regard 
to control of the Company. The Company is not 
aware of any agreements between holders 
of securities that may result in restrictions on 
the transfer of securities or on voting rights.

Allotment of shares
At the 2023 AGM, authority was granted to 
the Directors under Section 551 of CA 2006 to 
allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or 
convert any security into, shares of the Company. 
The authority granted to the Directors will 
expire at the conclusion of this year’s AGM. 

At the 2024 AGM, a resolution will be proposed 
to the shareholders to renew the Directors’ 
authority to allot equity shares representing 
approximately one-third of the Company’s issued 
share capital as at the latest practicable date 
prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.

In accordance with the Investment Association 
Share Capital Management Guidelines, 
Directors will once again seek authority to allot 
further ordinary shares, in connection with 
a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, 
up to a further one-third of the Company’s 
existing issued share capital on the same 
date. The authorities sought would, if granted, 
expire at the earlier of six months after the 
Company’s next accounting reference date, 
or at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company 
held in 2025, whichever is the sooner.

Under Section 561 of CA 2006, shareholders have 
a right of first refusal in relation to certain issues 
of new shares. A special resolution will also be 
proposed to renew the Directors’ power to allot 
shares in the capital of the Company without 
complying with the pre-emption rights in the CA 
2006 in certain circumstances up to a maximum 
of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital.

This disapplication authority sought is in line 
with institutional shareholder guidance and, 
in particular, with the Pre-Emption Group 
Statement of Principles issued in November 2023.

This authority will maintain the Company’s 
flexibility in relation to future share issues, including 
issues required to finance business opportunities, 
should appropriate circumstances arise.

Authority to purchase own shares
Authority was granted to the Directors at the 2023 
AGM for the purposes of Section 701 of CA 2006 to 
repurchase shares in the market and this authority 
remains valid until the conclusion of this year’s AGM.

On 25 October 2023, the Company announced, 
consistent with its capital allocation framework, 
a £1 billion share buyback programme to be 
carried out over 12 months (the Programme). 
On 30 October, the Company announced 
the commencement of the first tranche of 
that Programme to return up to £250 million 
to shareholders, and which completed on 
30 January 2024. On 20 December 2023, 
the Company announced the second 
tranche of the Programme to return a 
further up to £250 million to shareholders, 
and which commenced on 1 February 2024.

During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, 
the Company purchased in aggregate 3,782,835 
ordinary shares of 10 pence each and subsequently 
transferred them to treasury. The total cost of 
the shares purchased during the financial year 
ended 31 December 2023 was £207 million. 
A further 4,303,628 ordinary shares have been 
repurchased between 1 January 2024 and the 
date of this Report at a total cost of £233 million. 

As at the date of this Report there are 27,645,021 
ordinary shares held in treasury (representing 
3.89% of the issued ordinary shares) for the 
purposes of satisfying the Company’s obligations 
under employee equity incentive schemes. 

Shares held in treasury are not eligible to 
participate in dividends and do not carry 
any voting rights. 

At the 2024 AGM, the Directors will seek to renew 
the authority granted to them. Such authority, 
if approved, will be limited to a maximum of 
70,880,000 ordinary shares, representing less 
than 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital (excluding treasury shares) calculated as 
at the latest practicable date prior to publication 
of the Notice of AGM, and sets the minimum 
and maximum prices which may be paid.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE135

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Report of the Directors continued

Change of control and significant agreements
There are a number of agreements that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control of the Company following a takeover. 
The shareholder agreement between the 
Company and JAB Holdings B.V. (JAB) at the 
time of the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to 
nominate Board Directors. 

A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the 
Company’s ordinary shares entitles JAB 
to nominate two Directors or one Director 
respectively. JAB’s current holding is below 
this amount and there is currently no nominated 
Director on the Board. None of these are deemed 
to be significant in terms of their potential impact 
on the business of the Group as a whole.

There are no significant agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees providing 
for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid, except 
that provisions of the Company’s share plans may 
cause options and awards granted under such 
plans to vest on a takeover, and if the employment 
of an Executive Director or other employee is 
terminated by the Company following a takeover 
then there may be an entitlement to appropriate 
notice and/or compensation as provided in 
applicable contracts or terms of employment.

There is no information that the Company is 
required to disclose about persons with whom it 
has contractual or other arrangements with, which 
are essential to the business of the Company.

Employees
During 2023, the Group employed over 40,000 
(2022: 40,000) employees worldwide, of whom 
5,038 (2022: 4,870) were employed in the UK.

The Group is committed to the principle of equal 
opportunity in employment: no applicant or 
employee receives less favourable treatment on 
the grounds of nationality, age, gender, religion, 
race, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation or 
any other protected characteristics. Employment 
applications are considered on the basis of 
aptitude and ability, and fair consideration is given 
to all applications regardless of nationality, age, 
gender, religion, race, ethnicity, disability, sexual 
orientation, or any other protected characteristics. 

We have issued specific guidance on inclusive 
recruitment practices for managers with 
hiring responsibilities. Where an employee 
has an existing disability or becomes disabled 
during their employment, practical efforts are 
made to assist the employee in continuing 
their employment and arranging appropriate 
support such as workplace adjustments. 

All employees, are treated in a fair and inclusive 
way throughout their careers, whether 
that means accessing training, learning and 
development opportunities and career 
progression. Further details of our Inclusion 
and Anti-Harassment policies can be found 
at www.reckitt.com and on pages 19-21.

It is essential to the continued improvement 
in performance, efficiency and productivity 
throughout the Group that each employee 
understands the Group’s strategies, policies and 
procedures. Open and regular communication 
with employees at all levels is an essential part 
of the performance management process. 

On-the-job learning and continuous development 
take place throughout the year, with all employees 
having a formal annual Performance Development 
Review with their line manager to discuss business 
objectives and create a Personal Development 
Plan. This is also an important opportunity for 
employees to discuss their ongoing development 
and career ambitions. We encourage continuous 
development conversations throughout the 
year. These annual reviews also provide a 
way of identifying candidates for our Future 
Leader Development Programmes. 

The Group operates multi-dimensional two-way 
internal communications programmes which 
include the provision of a Group intranet and 
the publication of regular Group newsletters. 
Opinions of employees are sought on a variety 
of issues through mechanisms including global 
surveys, opinion polls, team meetings and 
feedback forums. Further information on the 
Group’s employee engagement activities 
is included on pages 19 to 21, 38 and 77. 

We regularly check in with our employees 
through townhall meetings and our intranet. 
We also hold forums, focus groups and 
listening sessions with leaders to give us 
timely insights on topics which matter most.

A continuing programme of learning and 
development reinforces the Group’s commitment 
to employee development. The Group 
recognises the importance of employee health 
and wellbeing as set out on pages 19 to 21. 

Reckitt’s Leadership Behaviours are vital 
to how we embed our culture and achieve 
strong and sustainable performance. We have 
defined leadership behaviours that capture 
our uniqueness, capitalise on our strengths and 
challenge us to do better. At Reckitt, we Own, 

Create, Deliver and Care. These behaviours are 
for everyone in the organisation and are part 
of our annual performance and development 
reviews. We create an inclusive environment for 
employees to act with integrity, responsibility 
and consistency in line with our Purpose, Fight 
and Compass set out on pages 8 and 19-21.

Employee matters, incentives 
and share ownership
Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and 
economic factors affecting the performance 
of the business. Employees typically have 
three to five performance objectives which 
are directly linked to their job and their specific 
contribution to the overall performance of the 
Group. In addition, presentations, videos and 
Q&A sessions are held for employees around 
the world on publication of the Group’s financial 
results to provide employees with awareness of 
the financial and economic factors affecting the 
Company’s performance, and so that employee 
views are fed back to management and taken 
into account when decisions are made.

The Company operates three all-employee 
share plans. Through these schemes, the Board 
encourages employees to become shareholders 
and to participate in the Group’s employee share 
ownership plans, should they wish. Savings-related 
share plans covering most of the world give 
employees the opportunity to acquire shares in 
the Company by means of making regular savings. 

We currently have just under 14,000 colleagues 
participating in one of Reckitt’s all-employee 
share plans. Further details on our all-employee 
share plans and awards made under executive 
share plans can be found in Note 24 on pages 
196 to 198 of the Financial Statements.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE136

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Report of the Directors continued

Political donations
During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries did not make any political donations or incur 
any political expenditure, nor were any contemplated. In keeping with previous practice, at the 
forthcoming AGM shareholders will be asked to approve, on a precautionary basis, for the Company 
and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political expenditure for the period ending 
31 December 2024.

Financial instruments and risk
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group are set out in Note 15, from page 181 
of the Financial Statements. The Note sets out information on the Company’s policy for hedging each 
major type of forecasted transactions for which hedge accounting is used, and our exposure to currency, 
price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk in relation to the use of financial instruments.

Amendment to Articles of Association
The Articles of the Company were adopted in 2012 and amended in 2015 and 2021. Any amendments 
to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of CA 2006, by special resolution 
of the shareholders.

Independent Auditor
The External Auditor, KPMG, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing 
the reappointment of KPMG, and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine its remuneration 
for the financial year ending 31 December 2024, will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.

Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 December 2023, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 
(3% or more) in the total voting rights of the company:

Holder

Notification

Interest

Rights

Massachusetts Financial Services Company
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited

16 January 20131
20 October 20222

Indirect
Direct

5.00
5.04

1.  Under a Section 793 CA 2006 request, Massachusetts Financial Services Company confirmed on 17 January 2024 that 

its aggregate holding had decreased. The voting percentage was not disclosed

2  Under a Section 793 CA 2006 request, Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited confirmed on 24 January 2024 that 

its aggregate holding had decreased. The voting percentage was not disclosed

As at 15 March 2024, the company has not received any further notifications under DTR 5 of the 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.

Application of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
We report against the requirements of the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Details of how 
the Company has applied the Code principles and provisions can be found in the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 62 to 132.

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The forthcoming AGM of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc will be held on Thursday, 2 May 2024 at 2pm at the 
London Heathrow Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN.

A separate Notice of Meeting, setting out the resolutions to be proposed to shareholders, is available at 
www.reckitt.com/investors/annual-general-meetings/. The Board considers that each of the resolutions 
is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole. The Directors unanimously 
recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions, as they intend to do so in respect 
of their own beneficial holdings.

By Order of the Board

Catheryn O’Rourke
Company Secretary
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

103-105 Bath Road
Slough, Berkshire
SL1 3UH

Company registration number: 6270876

Legal Entity Identifier: 5493003JFSMOJG48V108

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE137

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES

In respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements

The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group and Parent Company financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, we are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK accounting 
standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 102, 
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the 
UK and Republic of Ireland. The Group, in addition 
to complying with its legal obligation to apply UK-
adopted international accounting standards, has 
also applied IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company 
and of the Group’s profit or loss for that period. In 
preparing each of the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:

–  select suitable accounting policies and then 

apply them consistently;

–  make judgements and estimates that are 

reasonable, relevant and reliable and, in respect 
of the Parent Company financial statements 
only, prudent;

–  for the Group financial statements, state 
whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and, due to a requirement 
of the US SEC, state they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards 
as issued by the IASB;

–  for the Parent Company financial statements, 

state whether applicable UK accounting 
standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Parent Company financial statements;

–  assess the Group and Parent Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern; and

–  use the going concern basis of accounting 

unless they either intend to liquidate the Group 
or the Parent Company or to cease operations, 
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the 

Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are responsible 
for such internal controls as they determine 
are necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
and have general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors 
are also responsible for preparing a Strategic 
Report, Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that 
complies with that law and those regulations.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
In accordance with Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.16R, the financial 
statements will form part of the annual financial 
report prepared under DTR 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. 
The external auditor’s report on these financial 
statements provides no assurance over whether 
the annual financial report has been prepared 
in accordance with those requirements.

Responsibility statement of the Directors 
in respect of the annual financial report
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions 
are listed on pages 65 to 68 of the Annual Report, 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge:

–  the financial statements, prepared in 

accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 

view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and

–  the Annual Report and financial statements 

include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position 
of the issuer and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.

We consider the Annual Report and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group and Parent’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.

In the case of each Director in office at the 
date the Directors’ report is approved:

–  so far as we are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s and Parent’s 
auditors are unaware; and

–  we have taken all the steps that we ought 
to have taken as a director in order to 
make ourselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group and 
Parent’s auditors are aware of that information.

On behalf of the Board

Catheryn O’Rourke
Company Secretary
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
103-105 Bath Road
Slough, Berkshire
SL1 3UH

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE138

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

1. Our opinion is unmodified
In our opinion:

–  the financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023, and of the Group’s profit for 
the year then ended;

–  the Group`s financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 

international accounting standards;

–  the Parent Company`s financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK 

accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and 
Republic of Ireland; and

–  the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 

requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Additional opinion in relation to IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the IASB:
–  As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with 
its legal obligation to apply UK-adopted international accounting standards, has also applied IFRS 
Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).

–  In our opinion the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 

IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the IASB.

What our opinion covers
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
(“the Company”) for the year ended 31 December 2023 (“FY23”) included in the Annual Report, which 
comprise:

Group (Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and its subsidiaries)

Parent Company (Reckitt Benckiser Group plc)

Group Income Statement, Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, Group Balance Sheet, 
Group Statements of Changes in Equity, Group 
Cash Flow Statement and Notes 1 to 33 to the 
Group financial statements, including the 
accounting policies in note 1. 

Parent Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company 
Statement of Changes in Equity and Notes 1 to 12 
to the Parent Company financial statements, 
including the accounting policies in Note 1.

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and 
applicable law. Our responsibilities are described below. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion and matters included in 
this report are consistent with those discussed and included in our reporting to the Audit Committee.

We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance 
with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.

2. Overview of our audit
Factors driving our view of risks
Following our FY22 audit, and considering developments affecting the Group since then, we have 
updated our risk assessment.

The risk of impairment associated with the IFCN CGU has increased since last year due to the impact of 
higher interest rates on the discount rate, and increased uncertainty over forecast growth assumptions in 
light of the return of a key competitor to market and increased regulatory pressures in the US.

We also identified a new Key Audit Matter for FY23 associated with the accounting treatment of the 
purchase of the remaining interests in the Group’s majority owned entities in mainland China and Hong 
Kong (“RB Manon”) from its existing minority shareholders. The risk focuses on the judgement applied in 
allocating the total amount payable between the purchase of the non-controlling interest which is taken 
to equity in FY23, and services provided by the minority shareholders which are charged to the income 
statement over the service period.

We have assessed that the risk relating to contingent liabilities has increased from FY22 following an 
adverse verdict in the first NEC case. This increases the probability of outflow of economic benefit and 
increases the level of judgement involved in the ability to reliably estimate any such outflow.

We have not observed a change in the level of risk in relation to the remaining Key Audit Matters.

Our risk assessment also considered compliance with laws and regulations, specifically those that could 
reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.

Our risk assessment also considered compliance with laws and regulations, specifically those that could 
reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.

Key Audit Matters

Vs FY22 Item

Recoverability of IFCN CGU’s goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets

Recoverability of Biofreeze CGU’s goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets

Revenue recognition in relation to trade spend arrangements and associated accruals

Contingent liabilities arising from the US litigation concerning Necrotising Enterocolitis 
(NEC) and the amendment to the South Korean Humidifier Sanitiser (HS) law

5.1

5.2

5.3

5.4

Accounting for the forward purchase of shares held by the non-controlling interest of 
“RB Manon”

New 5.5

Provisions for uncertain tax positions

Recoverability of the Parent Company’s investment in Reckitt Benckiser Limited

5.6

5.7

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION139

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

2. Overview of our audit continued
Audit Committee interaction
During the year, the Audit Committee met five times. KPMG attend all Audit Committee meetings and are 
provided with an opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee in private sessions without the 
Executive Directors being present. For each Key Audit Matter, we have set out communications with the 
Audit Committee in section 5, including matters that required particular judgement for each.

The matters included in the Audit Committee Chair’s report on page 88 are materially consistent with our 
observations of those meetings.

Our Independence
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in 
accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public 
interest entities.

Materiality
(item 7 below)
The scope of our work is influenced by our view of materiality and our assessed risk of material 
misstatement.

We have determined overall materiality for the Group`s financial statements as a whole at £140m (FY22: 
£130m) and for the Parent Company’s financial statements as a whole at £70m (FY22: £65m).

Consistent with FY22, we determined that normalised profit before tax from continuing operations 
(“PBTCO”) remains the most appropriate benchmark for the Group. Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is well 
established and operates in a stable environment across multiple geographies. Therefore, users of the 
financial statements will be primarily interested in profitability of the Group and its ability to generate 
returns for shareholders, of which the most relevant benchmark is PBTCO. As such, we based our group 
materiality on normalised PBTCO, of which it represents 4.5% (FY22: 4.1%).

We have not performed any non-audit services during FY23 or subsequently which are prohibited by the 
FRC Ethical Standard.

Materiality for the Parent Company’s financial statements was determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Parent Company total assets of which it represents 0.46%% (FY22: 0.45%).

We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders for the year-ended 31 December 2018.The period 
of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 6 financial years ended 31 December 2023.

Group Materiality

The group engagement partner is required to rotate every 5 years. As these are the second set of the 
Group’s financial statements signed by Andrew Bradshaw, he will be required to rotate off after the FY26 
audit.

The average tenure of partners responsible for component audits as set out in section 8 below is 2 years, 
with the shortest being 1 and the longest being 6. There were no key audit partners with tenure over 5 
years.

Total audit fee

Audit related fees (including interim review)

Other services

Non-audit fee as a % of total audit and audit related fee %

Date first appointed

Uninterrupted audit tenure

Next financial period which requires a tender

Tenure of Group Engagement Partner

Average tenure of component signing partners

£19.4m

£0.9m

£0.4m

6.4%

3rd May 2018

6 years

2028

2 years

2 years

Group Performance Materiality

Highest Component Materiality

Parent Company Materiality

Lowest Component Materiality

Audit Misstatement
Posting Threshold 

FY23 £m

FY22 £m

140

130

105

85

75

75

70

65

8

8

6

5

0

25

50

75

100

125

150

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION140

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

2. Overview of our audit continued
Group scope
(item 8 below)
We have performed risk assessment and planning procedures to determine which of the Group’s 
components are likely to include risks of material misstatement to the Group’s financial statements, the 
type of procedures to be performed at these components and the extent of involvement required from 
our component auditors around the world.

The Group operates in more than 60 countries across six continents with the largest market being the United 
States of America. The Group is organised into three Global Business Units: Hygiene, Health and Nutrition.

We scoped the audit by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment and assessing the 
risk of material misstatement at the group and component level.

We have considered components on the basis of their contribution to net revenue, total normalised 
profits and losses that made up profit before tax and total assets.

Of the Group’s 380 (FY22: 406) reporting components, we instructed 52 components (FY22: 53) across 
23 countries (FY22: 23 countries) to perform full scope audits for group purposes and two components to 
perform specified audit procedures (FY22: one).

The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.

Our scoping provided 81% coverage of net revenue (FY22: 79%), 87% coverage of total assets (FY22: 
85%), and 78% coverage of profits and losses that made up profit before tax (FY22: 77%).

In addition, we have performed group level analysis on the remaining components to determine whether 
further risks of material misstatement exist in those components.

We consider the scope of our audit, as communicated to the Audit Committee, to be an appropriate 
basis for our audit opinion.

Coverage of group financial statements
Net revenue

Total assets

19%

1%

1%

13%

Proﬁt before tax

22%

11%

80%

86%

Full scope audits   

Speciﬁed audit procedures

Remaining components

The impact of climate change on our audit 
In planning our audit, we have considered the potential impact of risks arising from climate change on the 
Group’s business and its financial statements. The Group has set out its targets as part of their 2030 
Sustainability Ambitions, which include energy, emissions, water, waste and packaging related metrics. 
This includes two targets validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (“SBTi”) to reduce absolute 
operational Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 65%, absolute product carbon footprint emissions by 50% 
both by 2030 from a 2015 base year. Other targets aim to reduce water use per tonne of production by 
30% by 2025 from a 2015 base year, increase the use of renewable electricity to 100% by 2030 and for 
100% of plastic packaging to be recyclable or reusable by 2025. Further information is provided in the 
Strategic Report on page 47 and in the Sustainability Performance Review on page 14.

Whilst the Group has set these targets, in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements the Directors 
have stated that they have considered the impact of climate change risks and that they do not believe 
that there is a material impact on the financial reporting judgements and estimates and as a result the 
valuations of the Group’s assets and liabilities have not been significantly impacted by these risks as at 
31 December 2023.

As a part of our audit we have performed a risk assessment to determine if the potential impacts of 
climate change may materially affect the financial statements and our audit. We did this by making 
enquiries of management and inspecting internal and external reports in order to independently assess 
the climate-related risks and their potential impact. We held discussions with our own climate change 
professionals to challenge our risk assessment.

The most likely potential impact of climate risk and plans on these financial statements would be on the 
forward-looking assessments of non-current assets.

We have considered the sensitivity of the assumptions used in the impairment testing of goodwill and 
indefinite-life intangible assets. Given that the climate change related assumptions are not considered a 
major source of estimation uncertainty, the carrying amounts of these assets in the financial statements 
are not considered to be materially sensitive to the impact of risks arising from climate change. We 
considered the impact of ESG related costs on the value in use of the Group’s CGUs, the impact of such 
costs on cash flows is minimal and not considered a key assumption when assessing impairment. We 
have considered the impact of climate change targets on the fair value of pension assets, however given 
the nature of the assets being primarily bonds and insurance contracts, this has not been considered to 
be a key assumption in the valuation. We have also considered the costs and consumer preferences 
impact of climate change as part of our consideration of the going concern basis of preparation.

67%

We determined that climate related risks do not have a significant impact on our audit or key audit 
matters. We have read the Group’s disclosures of climate related information in the Strategic Report and 
the Group’s TCFD Summary on page 218 and considered consistency with the financial statements and 
our audit knowledge.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION141

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

3. Going concern, viability and principal risks and uncertainties
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend 
to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded 
that the Group’s and the Parent Company’s financial position means that this is realistic. They have also 
concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability 
to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements 
(“the going concern period”).

Going concern
We used our knowledge of the Group, its industry, and the general economic environment to identify the 
inherent risks to its business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period. The risks 
that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Group’s and Parent Company’s available financial 
resources and metrics relevant to debt covenants over this period were:

Our conclusions
–  We consider that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 

financial statements is appropriate;

–  We have not identified, and concur with the Directors’ assessment that there is not, a material 

uncertainty related to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt 
on the Group’s or Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for the going concern 
period;

–  We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in note 1 
to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Parent Company’s use of that basis for 
the going concern period and we found the going concern disclosure in note 1 to be acceptable; and

–  The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 137 is materially consistent with the 

financial statements and our audit knowledge.

–  The failure to identify, assess and proactively respond to new or changing regulations could result in 
increased regulatory scrutiny, costly product reformation or product recalls, potential litigation and 
removal of the license to sell a product.

–  A reliance on limited number of suppliers, geographic concentration, or an excessive dependence on 
specific routes, sub-suppliers or technologies could render the supply chain vulnerable to disruption.

–  Geopolitical events, including threats of conflict, trade wars, economic sanctions and political 

polarisation, could disrupt operations.

–  Failure to identify or respond to a product quality and/or safety issue may result in potential consumer 

harm or death, financial settlements, costly recalls and reputational damage.

–  Reliance on a few key manufacturing sites to produce products exposes the Group to unexpected 

shutdown at one of these sites.

–  Adverse economic conditions, together with high level of volatility and unpredictability in the 

macroeconomic environment, could impact consumer demand for the Group’s brands.

We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the liquidity or covenant compliance in the 
going concern period by comparing severe, but plausible downside scenarios that could arise from these 
risks individually and collectively against the level of available financial resources and covenants 
indicated by the Group’s financial forecasts.

Our procedures also included an assessment of whether the going concern disclosure in note 1 to the financial 
statements gives a complete and accurate description of the Directors’ assessment of going concern.

Accordingly, based on those procedures, we found the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
preparation without any material uncertainty for the Group and Parent Company to be acceptable. 
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in 
outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the 
above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the Parent Company will continue in operation.

Disclosures of emerging and principal risks and longer-term viability
Our responsibility
We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a material inconsistency between 
the Directors’ disclosures in respect of emerging and principal risks and the viability statement, and the 
financial statements and our audit knowledge.

Based on those procedures, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:

–  the Directors’ confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 61 that they have carried out a 

robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity;

–  the Principal and Emerging Risks disclosures describing these risks and how emerging risks are 

identified and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated; and

–  the Directors’ explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.

We are also required to review the Viability Statement set out on page 61 under the Listing Rules.

Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our 
financial statements audit. As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent 
events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time 
they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s and Parent Company’s longer-term viability.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION142

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

3. Going concern, viability and principal risks and uncertainties continued
Our reporting
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to these disclosures.

We have concluded that these disclosures are materially consistent with the financial statements and our 
audit knowledge.

4. Emphasis of matter: Uncertain outcome of NEC litigation
We draw attention to notes 9, 20 and 33 which disclose that the Group is subject to product liability 
actions in the United States in relation to alleged links between one of its infant formula products and 
Necrotising Enterocolitis (NEC), a gastrointestinal condition in preterm infants. On 13 March 2024 an 
adverse legal ruling awarded one plaintiff $60 million in the only trial to date. The Directors have 
disclosed a contingent liability in respect of these matters, no amounts are included within provisions 
and no related net cash outflows have been included in the value in use of the related IFCN CGU. 

Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.

5. Key audit matters
What we mean
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement 
(whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on:

–  the overall audit strategy;

–  the allocation of resources in the audit; and

–  directing the efforts of the engagement team.

We include below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance together with our key 
audit procedures to address those matters and our results from those procedures. These matters were 
addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, for the purpose of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole. We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

5.1 Recoverability of the goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the IFCN CGU (Group)
Financial Statement Elements

Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets (IFCN)

Impairment charge (IFCN)

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

FY23 

FY22

£5,104m

£6,231m

£810m

–

Vs FY22

Our assessment is that the risk has increased compared to FY22 due to the impact of 
higher interest rates on the discount rate, and increased uncertainty over forecast growth 
assumptions in light of the return of a key competitor to market and increased regulatory 
pressures in the US.

Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: Acceptable

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: forecast-based assessment
The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the Infant and Child Nutrition 
(“IFCN”) cash generating unit (“CGU”) is assessed using value in use which is based on forecast financial 
information within a discounted cash flow model (“the IFCN Model”).

Key assumptions in the IFCN Model include the discount rate, forecast financial performance, in particular 
net revenue and margin growth, and external factors impacting forecast category growth and terminal 
growth rates.

In the current year the Group recognised an impairment charge against goodwill relating to the IFCN CGU 
of £810m (FY22: nil), reflecting the impact of higher interest rates on the discount rate, and increased 
uncertainty over net revenue and margin growth assumptions in light of the return of a key competitor to 
market and increased regulatory pressures in the US.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the recoverable 
amount of the IFCN CGU, and consequently the impairment charge, has a high degree of estimation 
uncertainty with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount. 

We also identified a fraud risk related to the estimation of the recoverable amount of the goodwill and 
intangible assets relating to the IFCN CGU in response to possible pressures on the Group to realise value 
from significant acquisitions.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION143

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Sensitivity analysis: We considered the sensitivity of the recoverable amount of the goodwill and 
intangible assets relating to the IFCN CGU to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and focused 
our attention on those assumptions which we considered the most critical to the recoverable amount of 
the IFCN CGU.

Benchmarking assumptions: In response to the risk of fraud, we evaluated the net revenue growth 
assumptions in the IFCN Model with reference to historic performance and external market data relating 
to projected growth for the relevant categories. 

We critically challenged the Group’s assumptions relating to forecast market shares, considering 
recovery of a key competitor’s supply shortages in the North American market, through comparison to 
historical trends and external data sources.

We benchmarked margin and other costs assumptions against historical achievement, external cost 
inflation growth forecasts and our assessment of the Group’s historic ability to achieve productivity 
savings. We also benchmarked the terminal growth rate assumption against market forecasts.

Personnel interviews: We compared judgements made centrally to discussions we held directly with the 
relevant members of the Global Business Unit and country management. We considered and challenged 
the Group’s assumptions and corroborated these views with the Group’s in-market teams.

Valuation expertise: Using our own valuation specialists, we challenged the appropriateness of key 
assumptions underlying the estimation of the recoverable amounts of the goodwill and intangible assets 
relating to the IFCN CGU, this included the discount rate used in the IFCN Model. We assessed whether 
the premium applied to the discount rate was appropriate considering the inherent forecasting 
uncertainty. We also benchmarked the recoverable amount of the IFCN CGU using implied earnings 
multiples to comparable companies and historic transactions within the industry, as well as considering 
latest market conditions.

Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the Group’s disclosures in note 9 of the sensitivity of the 
outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the 
recoverable amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the IFCN CGU.

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included:

–  Our approach to audit of the impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible 

assets relating to the IFCN CGU, including details of our planned substantive procedures and the 
extent of our control reliance.

–  For the recoverable amounts of the IFCN CGU, whether and where the Group’s estimate lay within 

our reasonable range.

–  The adequacy of the disclosures, particularly as they relate to the sensitivity of the recoverable 

amount of the IFCN CGU to key assumptions including net revenue growth, margin growth, 
discount rate and terminal growth rate.

Areas of particular auditor judgement
We identified an area of particular auditor judgement to be the assessment of whether the Directors’ 
overall estimate of the recoverable amount of the IFCN CGU, considering key assumptions including 
net revenue, gross margin, discount rate and terminal growth rate, fell within our acceptable range.

We also identified an area of particular auditor judgement to be the assessment of the Directors’ 
conclusion regarding the post balance sheet adverse verdict in the first NEC case’s effect on the 
recoverable amount of the IFCN CGU and whether that continued to fall within our acceptable range.

Our results
We found the goodwill and indefinite life intangible asset balances relating to the IFCN CGU and the 
related impairment charge to be acceptable (FY22 result: the Group’s conclusion that there is no 
impairment of the goodwill and intangible assets relating to the IFCN CGU to be acceptable).

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 92 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible 
assets relating to the IFCN CGU as an area of significant attention, page 167 for the accounting policy on 
recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets and note 9 for the financial disclosures.

5.2 Recoverability of Biofreeze CGU goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets
Financial Statement Elements

We performed the tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the 
nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the 
detailed procedures described.

Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets (Biofreeze)

Impairment charge (Biofreeze)

FY23 

FY22

£613m

£807m

£0m

£152m

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION144

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
Our assessment of risk vs FY22

In FY22 no headroom existed between the recoverable amount and the net book value of 
the Biofreeze CGU following an impairment recognised as a result of category slowdown in 
an unfavourable macroeconomic environment. Our assessment is that the risk is similar in 
FY23 in relation to the impairment test carried out on 30 September 2023.

Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: Acceptable

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: forecast-based impairment assessment
The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the Biofreeze cash 
generating unit (“CGU”) is assessed using value in use which is based on forecast financial information 
within a discounted cash flow model (“the Biofreeze Model”).

Vs FY22

Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Sensitivity analysis: We considered the sensitivity of the recoverable amount of the goodwill and 
indefinite life intangible assets relating to the Biofreeze CGU to reasonably possible changes in 
assumptions and focused our attention on those assumptions which we considered the most critical to 
the recoverable amount of the Biofreeze CGU.

Benchmarking assumptions: In response to the risk of fraud, we evaluated the net revenue growth 
assumptions in the Biofreeze model with reference to historic performance and external market data 
relating to projected growth for the relevant categories.

We critically challenged the Group’s assumptions relating to price and volume growth through 
comparison to external market data sources and evaluated the Group’s assumptions for achieving 
growth through planned innovation and international growth by assessing against historic performance 
and comparison to external data sources.

We benchmarked margin and other costs assumptions against historical trends, and our assessment of 
the Group’s historic ability to achieve productivity savings. We also benchmarked the terminal growth 
rate assumption against market inflation forecast.

In FY22 the Group recognised an impairment charge of £152m, that reflected underperformance driven 
by category slowdown in an unfavourable macroeconomic environment. Following this impairment, no 
headroom existed between the recoverable amount and net book value.

Personnel interviews: We compared judgements made centrally to discussions we held directly with the 
relevant members of global business units and country management. We considered and challenged the 
Group’s assumptions and corroborated these views with the Groups’ in-market teams.

Key assumptions in the Biofreeze Model include the discount rate, forecast financial performance, in 
particular net revenue and margin growth, and external factors impacting forecast category growth and 
terminal growth rates. 

On 30 September 2023, in light of changes in level at which goodwill associated with Biofreeze was 
monitored, the Group reallocated the goodwill into the Health group of cash generating units (GCGU). 
Due to limited headroom, an impairment assessment of the Biofreeze CGU inclusive of goodwill was 
carried out immediately ahead of the goodwill reallocation. 

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the recoverable 
amount of the Biofreeze CGU at 30 September 2023 has a high degree of estimation uncertainty with a 
potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a 
whole, and possibly many times that amount. 

We also identified a fraud risk related to the estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and 
intangible assets relating to the Biofreeze CGU in response to possible pressures on the Group to realise 
value from significant acquisitions.

Valuation expertise: Using our own valuation specialists, we challenged key assumptions including the 
discount rate and terminal growth rate used in the Biofreeze Model. We assessed whether the premium 
applied to the discount rate was appropriate considering the operational integration of Biofreeze 
processes into the wider Health business unit. We also benchmarked the recoverable amount of the 
Biofreeze CGU using implied earnings multiples with comparable companies, historic transactions within 
the industry, and to Biofreeze’s acquisition multiple, as well as considering latest market conditions.

Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the Group’s disclosures in note 9 of the sensitivity of the 
outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the 
recoverable amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the Biofreeze CGU at 
30 September 2023. In particular we assessed whether appropriate disclosures were provided to explain 
the circumstances leading to reallocation of goodwill and the results of impairment assessment 
performed ahead of this reallocation.

We performed the tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the 
nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the 
detailed procedures described.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION145

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included:

Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: Acceptable

–  Our approach to impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to 
the Biofreeze CGU, including details of our planned substantive procedures and the extent of our 
control reliance.

–  For the recoverable amounts of the Biofreeze CGUs, whether and where the Group’s estimate lay 

within our reasonable range.

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: subjective estimate
The Group regularly enters into complex arrangements providing pricing, placement and other 
promotional rebates and allowances to its customers. These trade spend arrangements can vary in 
complexity by market, product category and customer.

–  The adequacy of the disclosures, particularly as they relate to the sensitivity of the recoverable 

amounts of the Biofreeze CGU to key assumptions including net revenue growth, margin growth, 
discount rate and terminal growth rate.

Revenue is measured net of outflows arising from such arrangements which, for agreements or practices 
spanning a period end, requires an estimate of the extent and value of future activity. These estimates 
can be subjective and require the use of assumptions that are susceptible to management bias and fraud.

Areas of particular auditor judgement
We identified an area of particular auditor judgement to be the assessment of whether the Directors’ 
overall estimate of the recoverable amounts of the Biofreeze CGU, considering key assumptions 
including net revenue, gross margin, discount rate and terminal growth rate, fell within our 
acceptable range.

Our results
We found the Group’s conclusion ahead of reallocation of goodwill to Health GCGU that there is no 
impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the Biofreeze CGU to be 
acceptable; (FY22 result for the Biofreeze CGU we found the goodwill and indefinite life intangible 
assets balance, and the related impairment charge, to be acceptable.

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 92 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible 
assets relating to the Biofreeze CGU as an area of significant attention, page 167 for the accounting 
policy on recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets and note 9 for the financial 
disclosures.

5.3 Revenue recognition in relation to trade spend arrangements and associated accruals (Group)
Financial Statement Elements

Trade spend accruals

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

FY23 

FY22

£1,125m

£1,137m

Vs FY22

We have not identified any significant changes to our assessment of the level of risk 
relating to trade spend arrangements and related accruals compared to FY22.

The Group operates a variable compensation scheme with outturns directly linked to financial 
performance against targets. Strong financial performance could create an incentive to defer revenues 
into the next financial year by overstating trade spend accruals. Weaker financial performance may also 
create an incentive to understate trade spend accruals. Whilst the risk of a material misstatement in an 
individual market is remote, there is a risk that inappropriate judgements in multiple markets may, in 
aggregate, materially misstate the Group’s financial statements.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that trade spend 
accruals carry a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes 
greater than our materiality for the Group’s financial statements as a whole.

Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Accounting policies: We critically assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies 
relating to trade spend against requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

Historical comparisons: For a selection of the more judgemental accruals, our component teams 
assessed the historical accuracy of the accruals by:

–  comparing those recognised in the prior year to the actual trade spend subsequently incurred; and

–  where there were significant differences, considering whether such differences related to a change in 

estimate or an error to respond to the risk of fraud and error, and evaluating whether any 
overstatement or understatement identified was material.

Tests of detail: Testing was focused on those trade spend accruals we considered to be more 
judgemental, or potentially subject to management bias or fraud. We performed procedures to a 
precision level sufficient to address the risk of fraud. For a sample of these trade spend accruals, our 
component teams:

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION146

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
–  reperformed the calculation to assess whether it was mathematically accurate;

–  identified the key assumptions in the calculation of each accrual selected, such as forecast sales 

volumes, rebate structure and settlement mechanism;

–  agreed those key assumptions to relevant documentation, such as invoices received after the balance 

sheet date, customer agreements or third-party consumption data; and

–  assessed whether the key assumptions were consistent with external data points and the Group’s 

historic experience of comparable trade spend arrangements.

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 88 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered revenue recognition in relation to trade spend 
arrangements and associated accruals as an area of significant attention, page 168 for the accounting 
policy on revenue recognition in relation to trade spend arrangements and associated accruals, and 
note 1 for the financial disclosures.

5.4 Contingent liabilities arising from the US litigation concerning Necrotising Enterocolitis (NEC) and the 
amendment to the South Korean Humidifier Sanitiser (HS) law (Group)
Financial Statement Elements
Financial statements disclosure in note 20 and note 33

Expectation vs outcome: We performed analytical procedures over the aggregated balance at a group 
level, and our component teams completed disaggregated analytical procedures over the individual 
balances.

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

Vs FY22

Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in note 1 in relation to the 
degree of estimation in the trade spend accruals and the resulting amount of trade spend deducted 
from Net Revenue.

We performed the detailed tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls 
because our knowledge of the design of these controls and related IT controls indicated that we would 
not be able to obtain the required evidence to support reliance on controls.

We have assessed that the risk relating to contingent liabilities has increased from FY22 
following an adverse verdict in the first NEC case. This increases the probability of 
outflow of economic benefit and increases the level of judgement involved in the ability 
to reliably estimate any such outflow. 

We have not identified any significant change to the level of risk relating to contingent 
liabilities arising from the amendment to the South Korean Humidifier Sanitiser (HS) Law 
compared to FY22

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included:

–  Our approach to the audit of the trade spend accruals including details of our planned substantive 

procedures and the extent of our control reliance.

–  As described in section 6, our response to the additional specific fraud risk identified relating to 

the investigation commissioned by the Directors in two Middle Eastern markets that identified an 
understatement of trade spend accruals and our related findings.

–  Our assessment of findings from our component team’s procedures, including the historical 

comparisons of FY22 accruals and whether those indicated material errors, and whether the FY23 
accruals in relation to trade spend were acceptable.

Areas of particular auditor judgement
We performed an assessment of whether the Group`s overall estimate, considering the Group’s 
accounting policies, and the complex nature of the agreements entered into, is acceptable. We also 
considered whether an unadjusted overstatement identified through our procedures directly related 
to the key audit matter was material.

Our results
We found the trade spend accruals recognised to be acceptable (FY22 result: acceptable).

Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: Acceptable

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: dispute outcome
The Group is named in a number of litigations relating to NEC in the United States and HS issues in South 
Korea.

The South Korean HS law amendment enacted on 25 September 2020 significantly altered the legal 
framework under which HS claims were previously made and settled. As a result, judgement is needed to 
assess whether the recognition criteria for a provision have been met for additional litigation under the 
HS law amendment. 

An adverse verdict in the first NEC case on 13 March 2024 increases the probability of economic outflow 
and increases the level of judgement involved in the ability to reliably estimate any such outflow in 
relation to the NEC product liability actions in the United States. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION147

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
The amounts involved in these litigations are potentially significant, and the application of accounting 
standards to determine the amount, if any, to be provided for, is inherently subjective. Given the 
uncertainty relating to the likelihood, amount and timing of any possible economic outflow, there is a risk 
over the classification of any liability as a provision or a contingent liability and the transparency of 
disclosures therein.

Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Inquiry of lawyers: We inquired of the Group’s internal and external counsel to obtain an understanding 
of developments. In relation to the HS matter we inquired into the progress of litigation and the 
establishment of a mediation panel between HS companies and claimant groups. In relation to the NEC 
litigation we inquired as to the progress through discovery and the likely prospects of successfully 
defending the cases based on available evidence, including scientific evidence, and therefore the ability 
to reliably estimate any economic outflow. We requested and received formal correspondence directly 
from the Group’s external counsel for both the HS matter and NEC litigations that evaluated the current 
status of legal proceedings.

We corroborated the consistency of the judgement made by the Directors to inquiries with both internal 
and external legal counsel.

Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures of contingent liabilities 
related to the NEC litigations and the HS matter in note 20, particularly the uncertainties relating to the 
amount and timing of any resulting outflow.

We performed the tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the 
nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the 
detailed procedures described. 

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included: 

–  Our approach to the assessment over the ongoing litigation relating to NEC in the United States 

and the HS issue in South Korea.

–  Our conclusions on the appropriateness of the Group’s methodology and accounting policies.

–  The adequacy of the disclosures, particularly as it relates to the uncertainties in relation to the 

amount and timing of any resulting outflow.

Areas of particular auditor judgement
We identified an area of particular auditor judgement to be consideration of whether the contingent 
liability disclosure is sufficiently transparent in respect of the uncertainties that exist in relation to the 
amount and timing of any resulting outflow.

Our results
We found the Group’s assessment that the impact of the HS law amendment as contingent liabilities 
and transparency of disclosure to be acceptable (FY22 result: acceptable).

We found the Group’s assessment that the potential outflows from the NEC litigations are 
treated as a contingent liability and the transparency of the related disclosure to be acceptable 
(FY22 result: acceptable).

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 88 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered contingent liabilities arising from the amendment to the 
South Korean HS law and NEC litigation in the United States as areas of significant attention, page 168 for 
the accounting policy on contingent liabilities arising from the amendment to the South Korean HS law, 
and note 20 for the financial disclosures.

5.5 Accounting for the forward purchase of shares held by the non-controlling interest of 
“RB Manon” (Group)
Financial Statement Elements

Trade and other payables

Forward purchase of shares held by NCI (within Total Equity)

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

FY23 

£158m

£167m

FY22

n/a

n/a

On 25 May 2023 the Group entered into a new agreement outlined below, and therefore 
this is a new risk for FY23.

Vs FY22

New

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION148

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: n/a

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: accounting treatment
The Group has entered into an agreement to acquire the remaining interests in the Group’s majority 
owned entities in mainland China and Hong Kong (“RB Manon”) from its existing minority shareholders.

Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in explaining the various 
component parts of the deal, the accounting judgements made and how the values of the components 
were calculated.

We performed the tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the 
nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the 
detailed procedures described.

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included: 

The estimated present value of the total amounts payable under the agreement is £298 million and is not 
a key source of estimation uncertainty. However, the agreement has two components – purchase of the 
non-controlling interest which is taken to equity, and services provided by the minority shareholders 
which are charged to the income statement over the service period.

–  Our approach to the audit of the accounting treatment for the transaction, including details of our 

planned substantive procedures and the extent of our control reliance.

–  Our approach to the audit of the accounting judgement relating to the allocation of the amount 

payable in relation to the two components of the transaction.

Significant judgement is required to allocate the total amount payable between equity and the income 
statement in future periods.

We also identified a fraud risk in response to possible pressures to reduce future income statement 
expenses.

Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Accounting analysis: We interpreted the relevant standards and best application in relation to the terms 
of the deal in order to assess the Group’s valuation of the component parts.

Valuation expertise: Using our own valuation specialists, we challenged the value of the non-controlling 
interest in the RB Manon business determined by the valuation specialists engaged by the Group. Our 
valuations specialists have also reviewed and challenged specialists engaged by the Group on their 
valuation methodologies and approaches to calculate the fair value and key assumptions such as WACC, 
marketability considerations and any minority / controls considerations.

–  The adequacy of the disclosures,

Areas of particular auditor judgement
We identified an area of particular auditor judgement to be the assessment of whether the Directors’ 
overall accounting judgement of the allocation of the total consideration to the deal components 
(i.e. payment for transitional services or equity) is acceptable.

Our results
We found the Group’s accounting treatment to be acceptable (FY22 result: not applicable, as this was 
not a key audit matter in FY22).

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 88 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered accounting for the share purchase agreement for the 
non-controlling interest of RB Manon as an area of significant attention, page 167 for the accounting 
policy on the relevant treatment and note 30 for the financial disclosures.

Benchmarking assumptions: We performed benchmarking to previous transactions with the parties 
involved in RB Manon.

5.6 Provisions for uncertain tax positions (Group)
Financial Statement Elements

Uncertain tax positions

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

FY23 

FY22

£619m

£722m

Vs FY22

We have not identified any significant changes to our assessment of the level of risk 
relating to provisions for uncertain tax positions compared to FY22.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION149

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: Acceptable

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: subjective estimate
Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax jurisdictions, and the complexities of 
transfer pricing and other international tax legislation, it is subject to periodic challenge by local tax 
authorities on a range of tax matters arising in the normal course of business.

These challenges by the local tax authorities include but are not limited to:

Historical comparisons: We assessed the historical accuracy of the provisions, with reference to any 
recent tax authority audits and related results, and we considered the impact on the remaining provision.

Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in notes 1 and 22 in 
respect of uncertain tax positions.

We performed the tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the 
nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the 
detailed procedures described.

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included:

–  Our approach to the audit of the provisions for uncertain tax positions, including details of our 

–  transfer pricing arrangements relating to the Group’s operating model;

planned substantive procedures and the extent of our control reliance.

–  transfer pricing arrangements relating to the ownership of intellectual property rights that are used 

–  For the provisions for uncertain tax positions, whether and where the Group’s estimate lay within 

across the Group;

our reasonable range.

–  deductibility of interest on intra-group borrowings; and

–  The adequacy of the disclosures, particularly as it relates to the sensitivity of the uncertain tax 

–  the European Commission’s ongoing State Aid investigations into transfer pricing ruling practices of 

position to possible changes in key assumptions.

certain member states.

Provisions for uncertain tax positions require judgements and estimates to be made in relation to tax issues 
and exposures where the Group may be challenged by local tax authorities on its interpretation of tax 
legislation. Auditor judgement is required to assess whether the Directors’ overall estimate falls within an 
acceptable range. This takes into account the method and assumptions underpinning exposures calculated 
such as: the clarity of relevant legislation and related guidance; advice from in-house specialists; opinions 
of professional firms; past experience; and precedents set by a particular tax authority.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the estimates of 
uncertain tax positions have a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable 
outcomes greater than our materiality for the Group`s financial statements as a whole and possibly many 
times that amount.

Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Our tax expertise: We used our own international and local tax specialists to assist us to:

–  Inspect and assess the Group’s centrally prepared transfer pricing policies to determine whether they 

reflect the risks, activities and substance of each of the entities within the supply chain; and

–  Assess the Group’s tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse 

and challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions for tax uncertainties based on our 
knowledge and experiences of the application of tax legislation.

Areas of particular auditor judgement
We identified an area of particular auditor judgement to be the clarity of the associated disclosure in 
relation to the estimation uncertainty associated with uncertain tax positions.

Our results
We found the level of the uncertain tax provisioning to be acceptable (FY22 result: acceptable).

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 88 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered provisions for uncertain tax positions as an area of 
significant attention, page 167 for the accounting policy on uncertain tax positions and note 22 for the 
financial disclosures.

5.7 Recoverability of the Parent Company’s investment in the subsidiary, reckitt benckiser limited (Parent 
Company)
Financial Statement Elements

Parent company investment

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

FY23 

FY22

£15,174m £15,078m

Vs FY22

We have not identified any significant changes to our assessment of the level of risk 
relating to the recoverability of the Parent Company’s investment in the subsidiary, 
Reckitt Benckiser Limited, compared to FY22.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION150

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Key audit matters continued
Our results

FY23: Acceptable

FY22: Acceptable

Description of the Key Audit Matter
The risk: low risk, high value
The carrying amount of the Parent Company’s investment in its subsidiary, Reckitt Benckiser Limited, 
represents 98.7% (FY22: 99.6%) of the Parent Company’s total assets. Its recoverability is not at a high risk 
of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement. However, due to its materiality in the 
context of the Parent Company`s financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the 
greatest effect on our overall Parent Company audit.

Our response to the risk
Our procedures to address the risk included:
Comparing valuations: We compared the carrying amount of the investment to the market capitalisation 
of the Group as Reckitt Benckiser Limited, either directly or indirectly, owns all other subsidiaries of the 
Group.

We performed the test above rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the 
nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the 
detailed procedure described.

Communications with the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc’s Audit Committee
Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit Committee included:

–  Our approach to the assessment of the carrying amount of the Parent Company’s investment in 
the subsidiary, including details of our planned substantive procedures and the extent of our 
control reliance.

–  For the carrying amount, our assessment of whether the conclusion that there is no impairment of 

the Parent Company’s investment in the subsidiary is acceptable.

Our results
We found the Group’s conclusion that there is no impairment of its investment in the subsidiary to be 
acceptable (FY22: acceptable).

Further information in the Annual Report and Accounts: See the Audit Committee Report on page 88 for 
details on how the Audit Committee considered recoverability of the Parent Company’s investment in 
the subsidiary, Reckitt Benckiser Limited as an area of significant attention, page 204 for the accounting 
policy on recoverability of the Parent Company’s investment in the subsidiary, Reckitt Benckiser Limited, 
and note 2 of Parent Company accounts for the financial disclosures.

6. Our ability to detect irregularities, and our response
Fraud – Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud
Fraud risk assessment 
To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (“fraud risks”) we assessed events or conditions 
that could indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud.

Our risk assessment procedures included:

–  Consultation with our own forensic specialists to assist us in identifying fraud risks based on their 

experience of comparable businesses, similar sector, as well as of the geographies in which the Group 
operates. The forensic specialists participated in the initial fraud risk assessment discussions and were 
consulted throughout the audit when further guidance was deemed necessary;

–  Enquiry of the Directors, operational managers, the General Counsel, the Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer and members of the internal audit function to assess whether they have knowledge of any 
actual, suspected or alleged fraud, as well as inspection of minutes of meetings of the Board, Audit 
Committee, Executive Committee, Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance 
(CRSEC) Committee, and Annual General Meeting;

–  Inspection of the Group’s policies and procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the risks of fraud, 
internal audit reports issued during the year and reports to the Group’s whistleblowing hotline and the 
responses to those reports, including those concerning investigations;

–  Consideration of the Group’s results against performance targets and the Group’s remuneration policies.

Risk communications
We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and remained alert to any indications 
of fraud throughout the audit. This included communication from the group to component audit teams of 
relevant fraud risks identified at the group level and request to all component audit teams to report to the 
group audit team any instances of fraud that could give rise to a material misstatement at the Group level.

Fraud risks
We assessed that there is an inherent risk that group and component management could make 
inappropriate accounting entries or have bias when making accounting estimates and judgements. 
We determined that these risks would most likely manifest themselves in three key areas being:

–  Trade spend and other associated accruals may be manipulated to alter the timing of recognition of 
revenue and profit particularly in light of the investigation commissioned by the Directors in two 
Middle Eastern markets that identified an understatement of trade spend accruals;

–  Management bias in the estimation of the recoverable amount of the IFCN and Biofreeze CGUs in 

response to possible pressures to realise value from significant acquisitions;

–  Management bias when applying judgement in relation to accounting treatment of the purchase of the 
non-controlling interest in RB Manon, where there may be bias in respect of the allocation of the total 
amount payable between equity and transition services to minimise future income statement impact.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION151

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

6. Our ability to detect irregularities, and our response continued
As required by auditing standards, and after considering the impact of the Group’s results against 
performance targets, we performed procedures to address the risk of management override of controls, 
the risk of fraudulent revenue recognition, and the risk of management bias associated with estimation 
of the recoverable amounts of the IFCN and Biofreeze CGUs and the accounting treatment of RB Manon 
transaction.

Link to KAMs
Further detail in respect of the fraud risks is set out in the key audit matter disclosures 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 
in section 5 of this report.

Laws and regulations – Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement relating to 
compliance with laws and regulations
Laws and regulations risk assessment
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect 
on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience. We held enquiries with 
the Directors and other management (as required by auditing standards) and inspected regulatory and 
legal correspondence received by the Group. We held enquiries with the Group’s external legal counsel 
where considered necessary, and we also inspected the policies and procedures regarding compliance 
with laws and regulations.

Procedures to address fraud risks
We also performed procedures including:

–  For all components within scope, identifying journal entries to test based on risk criteria and comparing 
the identified entries to supporting documentation. These included unusual journal entries associated 
with trade spend and other operational expenditure accruals.

–  For all components within scope, additional procedures to incorporate an element of unpredictability, 

in relation to trade spend and other associated accruals.

As a result of the investigation commissioned by the Directors in two Middle Eastern markets that 
identified an understatement of trade spend accruals (and explained by the Directors on page 93, we 
considered the implications for our audit. To address the additional specific fraud risk identified in a small 
number of components we:

–  Reduced materiality in the two impacted full scope components’ audits by 50% and performance 

materiality from 75% to 50%.

–  Performed incremental procedures over net revenue in the impacted components and three other full 

scope components across the Group, to address the possible risk of contagion.

–  Identified a further Middle Eastern component that was not previously in scope for the group audit and 

carried out specified procedures over net revenue in that component.

Actual or suspected fraud discussed with the Audit Committee
We discussed with the Audit Committee matters relating to actual or suspected fraud, which included 
the results of the investigation commissioned by the Directors in two Middle Eastern markets that 
identified an understatement of trade spend accruals (as explained by the Directors on page 93 and the 
results of our related procedures.

As the Group is regulated, our assessment of risks involved gaining an understanding of the control 
environment including the entity’s procedures for complying with regulatory requirements.

Risk communications
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any 
indications of non-compliance throughout the audit. This included communication from the group to all 
component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at the group level, and a request for 
component auditors to report to the Group audit team any instances of non-compliance with laws and 
regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement at the group level.

Direct laws context and link to audit
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably. The 
Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly impact the financial statements including financial 
reporting legislation (including related companies’ legislation), distributable profits legislation, and 
taxation legislation (direct and indirect). We assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and 
regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.

Most significant indirect law/regulation areas
The Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance 
could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through 
the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Group’s permission to operate in countries where 
the non-adherence to laws could prevent trading in such countries.

We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect:

–  Employee health and safety, reflecting the nature of the Group’s production and distribution process;

–  Anti-bribery and corruption, reflecting that the Group operates in a number of countries where there is 

an opportunity to engage in bribery given more limited regulation;

–  Interaction with healthcare professionals, reflecting the nature of the Group’s products in the Health 

and Nutrition Global Business Units;

–  Global competition laws, reflecting the nature of the Group’s business and certain market share 

positions;

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION152

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

6. Our ability to detect irregularities, and our response continued
–  Consumer product law such as product safety, quality standards and product claims, reflecting the 

nature of the Group’s diverse product base;

–  Data privacy laws, reflecting the Group’s growing amounts of personal data held;

–  Intellectual property legislation, reflecting the potential of the Group to infringe trademarks, copyright 

£140m
(FY22: £130m)
Materiality for the Group`s financial statements as a whole
What we mean
A quantitative reference for the purpose of planning and performing our audit.

and patents; and

–  Environmental regulation, reflecting the nature of the Group’s production and distribution process.

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and 
regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal 
correspondence, if any. Therefore if a breach of operational regulations is not disclosed to us or evident 
from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.

Link to KAMs
Further detail in respect of the effect of ongoing litigations relating to NEC in the United States and the 
HS Law Amendment in South Korea is set out in the key audit matter disclosures 5.4 in section 5 of this 
report.

Context
Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of law or regulation
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected 
some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and 
performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-
compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial 
statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would 
identify it. In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
controls. Our audit procedures are designed to detect material misstatement. We are not responsible for 
preventing non-compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws 
and regulations.

7. Our determination of materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set quantitative thresholds 
and overlay qualitative considerations to help us determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing 
and extent of our procedures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in the 
aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.

Basis for determining materiality and judgements applied
Materiality for the Group`s financial statements as a whole was set at £140m (FY22: £130m). This was 
determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised profit before tax from continuing operations 
(“PBTCO”). When using a benchmark of normalised profit before tax to determine overall materiality, our 
approach for listed entities considers a guideline range of 3% – 5% of the measure. In setting overall 
group materiality, we applied a percentage of 4.5% (FY22: 4.1%) to the benchmark.

Consistent with FY22, we determined that normalised PBTCO remains the most appropriate benchmark 
for the Group. Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is well established and operates in a stable environment 
across multiple geographies. Therefore, users of the financial statements will be primarily interested in 
the profitability of the Group and its ability to generate a return for shareholders, of which the most 
relevant benchmark is normalised PBTCO.

We normalised PBTCO (FY22: normalised PBTCO) by adding back adjustments that do not represent the 
normal, continuing operations of the Group. The items we adjusted for were impairment of goodwill and 
other adjusting items as disclosed on page 226 in the table reconciling the Group’s IFRS measures to its 
adjusted measures for the year ended 31 December 2023, totalling £695 million net (FY22: £90 million, 
adjustments related to the impairment of goodwill, and other adjusting items as disclosed on pages 226.

Materiality for the Parent Company`s financial statements as a whole was set at £70m (FY22: £65m), 
determined with reference to a benchmark of Parent Company total assets of which it represents 0.46% 
(FY22: 0.45%). The Parent Company’s principal activity is holding the investment in Reckitt Benckiser Limited, 
and therefore the total assets are the most relevant benchmark to the users of the financial statements.

£105m
(FY22: £85m)
Performance materiality
What we mean
Our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold, 
performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk that individually immaterial 
misstatements in individual account balances add up to a material amount across the financial 
statements as a whole.

Basis for determining performance materiality and judgements applied
We have considered performance materiality at a level of 75% (FY22: 65%) of materiality for Reckitt 
Benckiser Group`s financial statements as a whole to be appropriate.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION153

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

7. Our determination of materiality continued
The Parent Company performance materiality was set at £52m (FY22: £49m), which equates to 75% 
(FY22:75%) of materiality for the Parent Company`s financial statements as a whole.

Performance materiality was set at 75% of components` materiality for all full scope components, with 
the exception of two Middle East components where the performance materiality was set at 50% of 
materiality (as described in section 6).

We applied this percentage in our determination of performance materiality because we did not 
identify any factors indicating an elevated level of risk. In FY22, we applied a lower percentage in our 
determination of group performance materiality based on the level of identified misstatements and 
control deficiencies during the prior period.

£6m
(FY22: £5m)
Audit misstatement posting threshold
What we mean
This is the amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial from a 
quantitative point of view. We may become aware of misstatements below this threshold which could 
alter the nature, timing and scope of our audit procedures, for example if we identify smaller 
misstatements which are indicators of fraud.

This is also the amount above which all misstatements identified are communicated to Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc’s Audit Committee.

Basis for determining the audit misstatement posting threshold and judgements applied
We set our audit misstatement posting threshold at 4.3% (FY22: 3.9%) of our materiality for the Group`s 
financial statements. We also report to the Audit Committee any other identified misstatements that 
warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.

The Group has 380 (FY22: 406) reporting components. In order to determine the work performed at the 
reporting component level, we identified those components which we considered to be of individual 
financial significance and those remaining components on which we required procedures to be 
performed to provide us with the evidence we required in order to conclude on the Group`s financial 
statements as a whole.

We determined individually financially significant components as those contributing at least 10% (2022: 
10%) of revenue or total assets. We selected revenue and total assets because these are the most 
representative of the relative size of the components. We identified 1 (2022: 1) component as individually 
financially significant component and performed a full scope audit on this component.

In addition, to enable us to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the Group`s financial 
statements as a whole, we selected 51 (2022: 52) components on which to perform full scope audits.

We subjected 2 (2022: 1) components to specified audit procedures. We carried out procedures over 
expenses for one component that was not individually significant but was included in the scope of our 
work on the Group’s financial statements in order to provide further coverage over the Group’s results. 
Additionally, following the investigation in the Middle East described in section 6, we carried out specified 
procedures over net revenue and trade receivables for a component that was not previously in scope.

The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Group’s 
results, with the prior year comparatives indicated in brackets:

Number of 
components

Range of materiality

Percentage 
of the 
Group’s net 
revenue

Percentage 
of the 
Group’s 
profit 
before tax

Percentage 
of he Group’s 
total assets

52 (53) £8m to £75m (£8m to £75m)

80% (79%)

67% (68%)

86% (85%)

Scope

Full Scope

Specified procedures

2 (1)

£40m to £65m (£64m)

1% (0%)

11% (9%)

1% (0%)

The overall materiality for the Group`s financial statements of £140m (FY22: £130m) compares as follows 
to the main financial statement caption amounts:

Total

54 (54) £8m to £75m (£8m to £75m)

81% (79%)

78% (77%)

87% (85%)

Net revenue

Profit before tax

Total assets

FY23

FY22

FY23 

FY22 

FY23 

FY22

Financial statement Caption £14,607m £14,453m

£2,401m

£3,067m £27,136m £28,742m

Group Materiality as % 
of caption

1.0%

0.9%

6.2%

4.2%

0.5%

0.5%

8. The scope of our audit
Group scope
What we mean
How the group audit team determined the procedures to be performed across the Group.

The remaining 19% (2022: 21%) of net revenue, 22% (2022: 23%) of total profits and losses that made up 
profit before tax and 14% (2022: 15%) of total assets is represented by 326 (2022: 354) reporting 
components, none of which individually represented more than 2% (2022: 2%) of any of total group 
revenue, total profits and losses that made up group profit before tax or total group assets. For these 
components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.

The work on 50 of the 54 components (2022: 51 of the 54 components) was performed by component 
auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the group audit team.

The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated in section 2 – 
Group Scope.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION154

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

8. The scope of our audit continued
The group audit team has also performed audit procedures on the following areas on behalf of the components:

–  Testing of IT Systems

–  Items excluded from normalised group PBTCO; and

–  Testing of revenue recorded through a common service provider

IT systems and part of revenue are managed centrally, and items excluded from normalised group PBTCO 
are adjusted at group level. Therefore, these items were audited by the group audit team. The group 
audit team communicated the results of these procedures to the component teams where relevant.

The scope of the audit work performed was fully substantive as we did not rely upon the Group’s internal 
control over financial reporting.

Group audit team oversight
What we mean
The extent of the group audit team’s involvement in component audits.

The group audit team is required to instruct the component teams about their responsibilities in relation to 
the consolidated group audit and to understand the approach taken by component auditors to meet these 
responsibilities. The group audit team is also required to understand the conclusions reached by component 
auditors and to review and challenge the work they have performed to reach these conclusions.

The group audit team physically visited 18 countries in November and December 2023 to attend 
management balance sheet reviews ahead of the year end (2022: 19). The group team also attended four 
meetings virtually. In addition, the group audit team held an Auditor’s Global Conference in London 
attended by partners and managers for 50 in-scope components, where the use of Data and Analytics, 
updates to group level significant risks, the Group’s internal controls transformation and FY23 audit 
strategy were discussed:

We had regular contact with our component auditors throughout the year, including issuing instructions 
to components auditors on the scope of their work, risk assessment and challenge meetings at planning 
and final phases of the audit and inspection of component audit teams’ key working papers within the 
component audit files.

Additionally, in relation to the fraud identified in the Middle East the group audit team worked closely 
with and made requests of the Group’s Ethics and Compliance team and external legal counsel leading 
the investigation, supported by our own forensics specialists. We subjected the two Middle East in-scope 
components to additional procedures, which were directed and overseen by the group audit team

The group audit team, including the Group Engagement Partner, were in daily communication with the 
Middle East components throughout the investigation and a supplemental physical visit to the region was 
undertaken in March 2024 to perform further in-depth review of their audit files, along with further 
discussions with the component teams and regional management.

9. Other information in the Annual Report
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the 
financial statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, 
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.

All other information 
Our responsibility
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our 
financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our audit knowledge. 

Our reporting
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements or inconsistencies in the other 
information.

Strategic Report and Directors’ Report 
Our responsibility and reporting
Based solely on our work on the other information described above we report to you as follows:

–  we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report;

–  in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the 

financial statements; and

–  in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 

Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Our responsibility
We are required to form an opinion as to whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 

Our reporting
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

Corporate governance disclosures
Our responsibility
We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a material inconsistency between 
the financial statements and our audit knowledge, and:

–  the Directors’ statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a 
whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy;

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION155

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independent Auditor’s Report continued

9. Other information in the Annual Report continued
–  the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee, including the significant 
issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements, and how these 
issues were addressed; and

–  the section of the annual report that describes the review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 

management and internal control systems.

Our reporting
Based on those procedures, we have concluded that each of these disclosures is materially consistent 
with the financial statements and our audit knowledge.

We are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for 
our review.

We have nothing to report in this respect.

Other matters on which we are required to report by exception
Our responsibility
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

–  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our 

audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

–  the Parent Company’s financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 

audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

–  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

–  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 

Our reporting
We have nothing to report in these respects.

10. Respective responsibilities
Directors’ responsibilities
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 137, the Directors are responsible for: the 
preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such 
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the Group and Parent 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern; and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group 
or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditor’s 
report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

The Company is required to include these financial statements in an annual financial report prepared 
under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. This auditor’s report provides no 
assurance over whether the annual financial report has been prepared in accordance with those 
requirements.

11. The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the Company. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with 
the terms agreed with the company, and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Andrew Bradshaw (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTOTHER INFORMATION156

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2023

CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Net Revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Impairment of goodwill
Other operating expenses

Net operating expenses

Operating profit

Finance income
Finance expense
Impairment of equity-accounted investments
Share of loss of equity-accounted investments, net of tax

Profit before income tax

Income tax charge

Net profit from continuing operations

Net profit/(loss) from discontinued operations

Net profit

Attributable to non-controlling interests
Attributable to owners of the parent company

Net profit

Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
From continuing operations (pence)
From discontinued operations (pence)

From total operations (pence)

Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
From continuing operations (pence)
From discontinued operations (pence)

From total operations (pence)

Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Note

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

Note

2023 
£m

Net profit
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that have or may be reclassified to the Income Statement in subsequent years
Net exchange (loss)/gain on foreign currency translation, net of tax
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on 
disposal or liquidation of foreign operations, net of tax
Gains/(losses) on net investment hedges, net of tax
Fair value (losses) on cash flow hedges, net of tax
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to the income statement

7, 26
7, 26
7, 26
7, 26

7, 26

Items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement in subsequent years
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans, net of tax
Revaluation of equity instruments – FVOCI, net of tax

7
7

Other comprehensive (expense)/income, net of tax

Total comprehensive income

Attributable to non-controlling interests
Attributable to owners of the parent company

Total comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent company arising from:
Continuing operations
832
Discontinued operations
9

841

2022 
£m

2,349

1,657

(639)

1,065

(131)
42
(16)
(23)

(767)

(26)
(10)

(36)

(803)

854

13
841

854

(56)
(115)
(32)
34

896

24
(87)

(63)

833

3,182

20
3,162

3,182

3,169
(7)

3,162

2

3

2

6
6
11
11

7

32

8
8

8

8
8

8

14,607
(5,847)

8,760
(810)
(5,419)

(6,229)

2,531

210
(340)
–
–

2,401

(753)

1,648

9

1,657

14
1,643

1,657

227.9
1.3

229.2

227.4
1.3

228.7

14,453
(6,092)

8,361
(167)
(4,945)

(5,112)

3,249

130
(291)
(19)
(2)

3,067

(711)

2,356

(7)

2,349

19
2,330

2,349

326.7
(1.0)

325.7

325.7
(1.0)

324.7

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION 
EQUITY
Capital and reserves
Share capital
Share premium
Merger reserve
Other reserves
Retained earnings

Attributable to owners of the parent company
Attributable to non-controlling interests

Total equity

Note

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

24

26

74
254
(14,229)
(1,060)
23,409

8,448
21

8,469

74
254
(14,229)
(294)
23,638

9,443
40

9,483

The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements on pages 156 
to 200 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 21 March 2024 by:

Christopher Sinclair 
Director 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 

Kris Licht
Director
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

157

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group Balance Sheet 
As at 31 December 2023

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Equity instruments 
Deferred tax assets
Retirement benefit surplus
Other non-current receivables

Total non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Derivative financial instruments
Current tax recoverable
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale

Total current assets

Total assets

LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Trade and other payables
Derivative financial instruments
Share repurchase liability
Current tax liabilities
Liabilities held for sale

Total current liabilities

Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings
Deferred tax liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Derivative financial instruments
Non-current tax liabilities
Other non-current liabilities

Total non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

Note

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

9
10
11
12
23
14

13
14
15, 17

16
31

17
18
21
15, 17
24
22
31

17
12
23
18
15, 17
22
21

18,588
2,399
118
287
270
172

21,834

1,637
2,062
64
80
1,387
72

5,302

20,203
2,473
86
244
294
157

23,457

1,825
2,082
59
155
1,157
7

5,285

27,136

28,742

(1,679)
(142)
(5,506)
(78)
(296)
(620)
(17)

(1,721)
(227)
(5,547)
(55)
–
(791)
–

(8,338)

(8,341)

(6,858)
(2,899)
(233)
(57)
(187)
(28)
(67)

(7,163)
(3,037)
(240)
(59)
(249)
(54)
(116)

(10,329)

(10,918)

(18,667)

(19,259)

8,469

9,483

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION158

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Balance at 1 January 2022 

74

253

(14,229)

(1,189)

22,490

7,399

54

7,453

Share 
capital 
£m 

Share 
 premium 
£m

Merger
reserves1
£m

Other
reserves2
£m

Retained 
earnings 
£m

Note

Total 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent 
company 
£m

Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m

Total 
equity 
£m

Comprehensive income
Net income
Other comprehensive income/(expense)

Total comprehensive income

Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued
Issuance of shares to non-controlling interest
Share-based payments
Tax on share awards
Cash dividends

Total transactions with owners

Balance at 31 December 2022

Comprehensive income
Net income
Other comprehensive expense

Total comprehensive (expense)/income

Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued
Purchase of ordinary shares by employee share ownership trust
Repurchase of ordinary shares
Share-based payments
Tax on share awards
Cash dividends
Forward purchase of shares held by non-controlling interest

Total transactions with owners 

Balance at 31 December 2023

24

25
7
28

24

24
25
7
28
30

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–

–

1
–
–
–
–

1

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
895

895

–
–
–
–
–

–

2,330
(63)

2,267

53
–
78
(1)
(1,249)

2,330
832

3,162

54
–
78
(1)
(1,249)

(1,119)

(1,118)

74

254

(14,229)

(294)

23,638

9,443

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–
(766)

(766)

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

1,643
(36)

1,607

48
(2)
(503)
102
1
(1,339)
(143)

1,643
(802)

841

48
(2)
(503)
102
1
(1,339)
(143)

19
1

20

–
1
–
–
(35)

(34)

40

14
(1)

13

–
–
–
–
–
(8)
(24)

2,349
833

3,182

54
1
78
(1)
(1,284)

(1,152)

9,483

1,657
(803)

854

48
(2)
(503)
102
1
(1,347)
(167)

74

254

(14,229)

(1,060)

23,409

8,448

21

8,469

(1,836)

(1,836)

(32)

(1,868)

1.  The merger reserve relates to the 1999 combination of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N.V. and a Group reconstruction in 2007 treated as a merger under Part 27 of the Companies Act 2006
2.  Refer to Note 26 for an explanation of other reserves

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION159

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2023

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
Net finance expense
Share of loss and impairment of equity-accounted investments 

Operating profit from continuing operations
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
Share-based payments
Decrease / (increase) in inventories
Increase in trade and other receivables
Decrease in payables and provisions

Cash generated from continuing operations
Interest paid
Interest received
Tax paid
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations

Net cash generated from operating activities

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets 
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets and related businesses, 
net of cash disposed
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
Other investing activities

Net cash used in investing activities

Note

6
11

9, 10
25

32

10
9

29

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

Note

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Treasury shares reissued
Purchase of ordinary shares by employee share ownership trust
Repurchase of ordinary shares
Proceeds from borrowings
Repayment of borrowings
Dividends paid to owners of the parent company
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
Other financing activities1

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
Exchange (losses) / gains

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents2
Overdrafts

24

24
17
17
28

16
17

48
(2)
(207)
1,638
(1,855)
(1,339)
(8)
(84)

54
–
–
2,274
(3,807)
(1,249)
(35)
383

(1,809)

(2,380)

361
1,156
(137)

1,380

1,387
(7)

1,380

(122)
1,259
19

1,156

1,157
(1)

1,156

1.  Cash flows from other financing activities are principally composed of cash receipts and payments on derivative contracts 

used to hedge foreign exchange gains or losses on non-Sterling financing assets and financing liabilities between the Group’s 
treasury company and fellow Group subsidiaries

2.  Included within cash and cash equivalents is £229 million of cash (2022: £276 million) which is restricted for use by the Group 

but is available on demand and freely available for use within the relevant subsidiary (see Note 16)

2,401
130
–

2,531

(34)
1,290
102
118
(87)
(91)

3,829
(293)
30
(922)
(8)

2,636

(348)
(101)
63

1
(81)
–

(466)

3,067
161
21

3,249

(82)
607
78
(254)
(23)
(145)

3,430
(243)
34
(831)
7

2,397

(362)
(81)
84

247
(12)
(15)

(139)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION160

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements

1 Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Financial Statements are set out 
below. Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.

Basis of preparation
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the recognition, measurement and 
presentation requirements of UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS Accounting Standards) as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

These Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 
revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through 
profit or loss or other comprehensive income. A summary of the Group’s accounting policies is set out 
below. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for 
goods and services.

The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRS requires management to make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date 
and revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge at the time, actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates.

New standards, amendments and interpretations
The following amended standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group during the year 
ending 31 December 2023. These amended standards and interpretations have not had a significant 
impact on the consolidated Financial Statements.

–  Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction (Amendments to IAS 12)

–  Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2)

–  Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments to IAS 8)

–  IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts

On 23 May 2023, the International Accounting Standards Board issued International Tax Reform—Pillar 
Two Model Rules – Amendments to IAS 12. The Group has applied the mandatory temporary exception to 
the accounting for deferred taxes arising from the jurisdictional implementation of the Pillar Two rules set 
out therein.

The following new and amended standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2024. The Group has not early adopted the new or amended standards, where applicable, 
in preparing these consolidated Financial Statements. These amendments are not expected to have 
a material impact on the Group in the current or future reporting periods:

–  Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current (Amendments to IAS 1)

–  Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback (Amendments to IFRS 16)

–  Supplier financing arrangements (Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7)

–  Lack of exchangeability (Amendments to IAS 21)

–  Non-current liabilities with covenants (Amendments to IAS 1)

Going concern
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the Viability 
Statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the consolidated Financial Statements. When reaching this conclusion, the Directors took into 
account the Group’s overall financial position, exposure to principal risks and future business forecasts. 

At 31 December 2023, the Group had cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) of £1.2 billion. 
The Group also had access to committed borrowing facilities of £4.5 billion, which were undrawn at year 
end and of which £4.45 billion are not subject to renewal until 2025 onwards. Further detail is contained 
within the Viability Statement on page 61 and within the liquidity disclosures in Note 15.

Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, a company 
registered in the UK, and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date. Subsidiary 
undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. Control exists where the 
Group is exposed to, or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with, the investee and has 
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.

Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies 
have been eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent that 
they do not represent an impairment of a transferred asset. The accounting policies of subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with accounting policies adopted by the Group.

Climate Change
In preparing the Financial Statements, management have considered the impact of climate change, 
specifically with reference to the disclosures included in the Strategic Report and the Group’s 2030 
Sustainability Ambitions, in particular in relation to impairment testing of intangible assets. These factors 
have not had a significant effect on the Group’s critical accounting estimates and judgments made with 
respect to the current year.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION161

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Foreign currency translation
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the 
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The 
consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Group’s presentational currency.

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing 
at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement 
of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of foreign currency denominated monetary 
assets and liabilities are recognised in the Income Statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.

The Financial Statements of subsidiary undertakings with a non-Sterling functional currency are 
translated into Sterling on the following basis:

–  Assets and liabilities: at the rate of exchange ruling at the year end date

–  Income Statement items: at the average rate of exchange for the year

Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in subsidiary undertakings 
with a non-Sterling functional currency, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated 
as hedges of such investments, are recorded in equity on consolidation.

Business combinations
The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses. 
Identifiable net assets acquired (including intangible assets) in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.

Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is incomplete at the end 
of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values. 
Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and retrospectively applied.

The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest over the fair 
value of the identifiable assets (including intangibles), liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is 
recorded as goodwill.

The consideration transferred is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued 
(if any), and liabilities assumed or incurred at the date of acquisition.

Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.

The results of the subsidiaries and businesses acquired are included in the consolidated Financial 
Statements from the acquisition date.

Assets held for sale and disposal groups
Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held for sale and 
presented separately in the Balance Sheet when the following criteria are met: the Group is committed 
to selling the asset or disposal group; it is available for immediate sale in its current condition; an active 
plan of sale has commenced and been approved in line with Group policy; and in the judgement of Group 
management it is highly probable that the sale will be completed within 12 months.

Immediately before the initial classification of the assets and disposal groups as held for sale, the 
carrying amounts of the assets (or all the assets and liabilities in the disposal groups) are measured 
in accordance with the applicable accounting standards. Goodwill (including cost and accumulated 
impairment) is allocated to the disposal group using a relative value approach, unless a different method 
better reflects goodwill associated with the disposal.

Assets held for sale and disposal groups are subsequently measured at the lower of their carrying 
amount and fair value less costs of disposal. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale, and 
subsequent gains and losses on remeasurement to fair value less costs of disposal, are recognised in the 
Income Statement. Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
are no longer amortised or depreciated.

Disposals of intangible assets and subsidiaries
The financial performance of subsidiaries and businesses are included in the consolidated Financial 
Statements up to the point at which the Group ceases to have control over that subsidiary. Intangible 
assets not disposed of through the sale of shares in subsidiaries are treated as disposed at the point 
that the Group ceases to control the asset.

The difference between the fair value of the consideration (net of costs) and the carrying value of the 
assets and liabilities disposed is recognised as a gain or loss in the Income Statement. Any amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that subsidiary or asset, including 
exchange gains or losses on foreign currency translation, are accounted for as if the Group had directly 
disposed of related assets and liabilities. This results in a reclassification of amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income to the Income Statement and included within the loss 
on disposal of intangible assets and related businesses.

Where the assets and liabilities disposed represent a partial disposal of a cash generating unit to which 
goodwill has been allocated, goodwill is allocated using a relative value approach to the disposal group, 
unless a different method better reflects goodwill associated with the disposal.

Where the tax base will not be transferred with the disposed assets, the deferred tax balances relating 
to the intangible assets are not considered part of the assets disposed and are instead credited or 
charged to the Income Statement within income tax expense.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION162

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Liquidation of subsidiaries
The Group liquidates subsidiaries that are no longer required in order to simplify the Group structure. 
As part of this process, the Group ensures any outstanding matters relating to the subsidiary are resolved 
before liquidation. Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of 
that subsidiary, including exchange gains and losses on foreign currency translation, are reclassified 
to the Income Statement on disposal which is typically on entering liquidation. The amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are included within finance income in the Income Statement.

Non-controlling interests
On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the non-controlling interest is measured at either fair value 
or a proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets.

Purchases of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with the owners and therefore 
no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.

Revenue
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the Group Income Statement as and when 
performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the product or service to the customer.

Net Revenue is defined as the amount invoiced to external customers during the year and comprises, 
as required by IFRS 15, gross sales net of trade spend, customer allowances for credit notes, returns 
and consumer coupons. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate credit notes, returns and 
consumer coupons are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, 
historical trends, past experience and projected market conditions.

Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, placement/listing fees 
and promotional allowances, is governed by sales agreements with the Group’s trade customers 
(retailers and distributors). Trade spend also includes reimbursement arrangements under the Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC), payable to the respective 
US state WIC agencies.

Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements to reflect the expected activity level 
and the Group’s historical experience. These accruals are reported within trade and other payables.

Value-added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from Net Revenue.

Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to 
the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources 
and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group 
Executive Committee.

Research and development
Research expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is incurred.

Development expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the requirements 
of IAS 38 to be capitalised and then amortised over the useful life of the developed product.

Income tax
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in 
the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, respectively.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted in each jurisdiction at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable 
in respect of previous years.

Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial 
Statements. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction (other than a business combination) that affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profit or loss at that time. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax 
asset or liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where 
the investor is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction are offset where there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where there is an intention 
to settle these balances on a net basis.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION163

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Goodwill and other intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit (CGU), or group of CGUs (GCGU), to which it relates 
and is tested annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

(vi) Customer relationships
Customer relationships are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. Customer 
relationships acquired as part of a business combination, and that are separately identifiable, are 
recognised at fair value and amortised over their useful economic life as determined at the acquisition 
date (up to 10 years).

(ii) Brands
Separately acquired brands are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. 
Brands acquired as part of a business combination, and that are separately identifiable, are recognised 
at fair value and amortised over their useful economic life as determined at the acquisition date 
(up to 20 years), except when their life is determined as being indefinite.

Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to the stable long-term nature 
of the business and the enduring nature of the brands. A core element of the Group’s strategy is to invest 
in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and continuing marketing 
investment. Within the Group, a brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more 
innovative products. Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand. The base products establish 
the long-term positioning of the brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer 
interest and attention. Indefinite life brands are allocated to the CGUs or GCGUs to which they relate 
and are tested annually for impairment.

(vii) Acquired intellectual property
Intellectual property rights acquired as part of the business and that are separately identifiable are 
recognised at fair value and amortised over their useful economic life as determined at the acquisition 
date (up to 20 years).

Amortisation of intangible assets in (ii) to (vii) is charged to cost of goods sold or net operating expenses 
depending on the use of the asset.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, with 
the exception of freehold land, which is shown at cost less impairment. Cost includes expenditure 
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Except for freehold land and assets under 
construction, the cost of property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the expected useful life of the asset. For this purpose, expected lives are determined within 
the following limits:

The Directors also review the useful economic life of brands annually, to ensure that these lives are still 
appropriate. If a brand is considered to have a finite life, its carrying value is amortised over its remaining 
estimated useful economic life.

–  freehold buildings: not more than 50 years;

–  leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the lease; and

(iii) Software
Expenditure relating to the acquisition of computer software licences and systems are capitalised 
at cost. The assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of seven years for systems 
and five years or less for all other software licences.

(iv) Distribution rights
Payments made in respect of product registration, acquired and reacquired distribution rights are 
capitalised where the rights comply with the above requirements for recognition of acquired brands. 
If the registration or distribution rights are for a defined time period, the intangible asset is amortised 
over that period. If no time period is defined, the intangible asset is treated in the same way as 
acquired brands.

(v) Customer contracts
Acquired customer contracts are capitalised at cost. These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the period of the contract.

–  owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years (except for environmental assets and spray dryers 

which are not more than 30 years).

In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are depreciated over 10 years or less 
and motor vehicles and computer equipment over 5 years or less.

Assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if necessary, at each Balance Sheet 
date. Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be appropriate. Freehold land is reviewed for impairment on 
an annual basis.

Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the 
asset’s carrying value with any sale proceeds and are included in the Income Statement.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION164

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Leases
The Group has various lease arrangements for buildings (such as offices and warehouses), cars, 
and IT and other equipment. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis locally and subject to 
domestic rules and regulations. At the inception of a lease contract, the Group assesses whether the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a certain period in exchange 
for consideration, in which case it is identified as a lease. The Group recognises a right of use asset and 
a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements in which it is the lessee, except 
for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value 
assets. Low value leases are those with an underlying asset value of USD 5,000 or less. For these leases, 
the Group recognises the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease.

Right of use assets
At commencement date, right of use assets are measured at cost, which comprises the following:

–  the initial measurement of the lease liability;

–  prepayments before commencement date of the lease;

–  initial direct costs; and

–  costs to restore.

Subsequent to initial recognition right of use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the 
duration of the contract. Right of use assets are assessed for impairment where indicators of impairment 
are present.

Lease liabilities
At commencement date, lease liabilities are measured at the present value of lease payments not yet 
paid including:

–  fixed payments excluding lease incentive receivables;

–  future contractually agreed fixed increases; and

–  payments related to renewals or early termination, when options to renew or for early termination 

are reasonably certain to be exercised.

Subsequent to initial recognition lease liabilities are increased by the interest costs on the lease liabilities 
and decreased by lease payments made. Lease liabilities held are remeasured to account for revised 
future payments.

Impairment of assets
Assets that have indefinite lives, including goodwill and brands, are tested annually for impairment 
at the level where cash flows are considered to be largely independent. This testing is performed 
at either the CGU or GCGU level. All CGUs and GCGUs are tested for impairment if there is an event 
or circumstance that indicates that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying 
value exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU’s or GCGU’s value-in-use and its fair value less costs 
of disposal.

Value-in-use is calculated with reference to the future and terminal cash flows expected to be 
generated by each CGU or GCGU (or group of assets where cash flows are not identifiable to specific 
assets). The discount rates used in the impairment reviews are based on weighted average cost of 
capital (WACC) specific to each CGU and GCGU, with the WACC converted to the implied pre-tax rates.

Fair value less costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach prepared on a 
market participant basis, with a post-tax discount rate applied to projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash 
flows and terminal value.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises materials, direct labour 
and an appropriate portion of overhead expenses (based on normal operating capacity) required to get 
the inventory to its present location and condition. Inventory valuation is determined on a first in, first out 
(FIFO) basis. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less applicable selling expenses.

Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at the fair value of consideration less transaction 
costs and subsequently held at amortised cost, less provision for discounts and doubtful debts. 
Allowance losses are calculated by reviewing lifetime expected credit losses using historic and forward-
looking data on credit risk.

Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and 
subsequently carried at amortised cost.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and other deposits with a maturity of less than three 
months when deposited.

For the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, bank overdrafts that form an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management, and are repayable on demand, are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents. Bank overdrafts are included within short-term borrowings in the Balance Sheet.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION165

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less, where permitted by IFRS 9, any 
directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings 
are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.

Cash flows relating to interest are presented within operating cash flows. Proceeds and repayment of 
principal amounts are presented as financing cash flows and are presented gross, except for borrowings 
with maturities of less than three months (including commercial paper), which are presented net.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity
The Group may use derivatives to manage its exposures to fluctuating interest and foreign exchange rates. 
These instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on 
whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.

At the inception of designated hedge relationships, the Group documents its risk management objectives 
and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, 
both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging 
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows or fair values of hedged items.

The Group designates certain derivatives as either:

–  hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 

transaction (cash flow hedges); or

–  hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedges).

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash 
flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve. 
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.

When the hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial item 
such as inventory, the amount accumulated in the hedging reserve and the cost of hedging reserve 
is included directly in the initial cost of the non-financial item when it is recognised. For all other 
transactions, the amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are recycled to the Income Statement 
in the period (or periods) when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.

If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the hedging instrument is sold, expires, 
is terminated, or is exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The amount that has 
been accumulated in the hedging reserve remains in equity until it is either included in the cost of a 
non-financial item or recycled to the Income Statement.

Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are used to manage the currency and/or interest rate risks to which the fair value 
of certain assets and liabilities are exposed. Changes in the fair value are recognised in the Income 
Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are 
attributable to the hedged risk. If such a hedge relationship no longer meets hedge accounting criteria, 
fair value movements on the derivative continue to be taken to the Income Statement while any fair 
value adjustments made to the underlying hedged item to that date are amortised through the Income 
Statement over its remaining life using the effective interest rate method.

Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.

Net investment hedges
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign 
operations are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedging relationship 
is effective. Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are recycled 
to the Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.

Equity investments
Equity investments are investments that are neither held for trading nor classified as investments in 
subsidiaries, associates or joint arrangements. Subsequent to their initial recognition, equity investments 
are stated at their fair value. Gains and losses arising from subsequent changes in the fair value are 
recognised in the Income Statement or in other comprehensive income on a case-by-case basis. 
Accumulated gains and losses included in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the Income 
Statement. Dividends from other investments are recognised in the Income Statement.

Investment in associates
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity over 
which the Group has significant influence, being the power to participate in the investee’s financial and 
operating policy decisions without control or joint control.

Interests in associates are stated in the consolidated Balance Sheet at cost, adjusted for the movement 
in the Group’s share of their net assets and liabilities. The Group’s share of the profit or loss after tax 
of associates is included in the Group’s consolidated profit before taxation. Unrealised intragroup profits 
or losses from transactions are offset against the carrying amount of the investment on a pro-rata basis 
during consolidation, if material.

When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group does not recognise 
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.

The Financial Statements of the companies accounted for using the equity method are prepared 
in accordance with uniform accounting and measurement methods throughout the Group.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION166

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Employee share schemes
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under equity-settled share option 
and restricted share schemes, which have various combinations of market-based and non-market 
performance conditions, service conditions, and non-vesting conditions.

Post-retirement benefits other than pensions
Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their retirees. The costs of providing 
these benefits are accrued over the period of employment and the liability recognised in the Balance 
Sheet is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and 
the fair value of any related asset is deducted.

The fair value determined at the award grant date takes into account the probability of any relevant 
market-based performance conditions and non-vesting conditions being satisfied and is subsequently 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity 
instruments that will eventually vest. This estimate takes into account the expected outcome for 
relevant non-market performance conditions and service conditions but assumes satisfaction of all 
market-based performance conditions and non-vesting conditions. At each Balance Sheet date, the 
Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the 
revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Income Statement such that the cumulative 
expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.

Additional employer costs, including social security taxes, in respect of options and awards are charged 
to the Income Statement over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised.

Pension commitments
Group companies operate defined contribution and (funded and unfunded) defined benefit 
pension plans.

The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of defined contribution plans is charged 
to the Income Statement as contributions are made. The Group has no further payment obligations once 
the contributions have been paid.

The deficit or surplus recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date, less the fair value of the 
plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash flows by the yield on high-quality corporate bonds denominated 
in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have a maturity approximating to the terms of 
the pension obligations. The costs of providing these defined benefit plans are accrued over the period 
of employment. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.

Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.

The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate used to measure the defined 
benefit obligation at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability/asset.

The net pension plan interest is presented as other finance income/other finance expense.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of past events; it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that 
obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at the present value of the 
Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date. 
Where it is possible that an outflow of resources may be required to settle the obligation or it is not 
possible to make a reliable estimate of the estimated financial impact, appropriate disclosure is made 
but no provision recognised.

Repurchase and reissuance of ordinary shares
When shares recognised as equity are repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including 
directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity. Repurchased shares are classified as 
Treasury shares and are presented in retained earnings. When Treasury shares are sold or reissued 
subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and any resulting surplus 
is presented within share premium or deficit presented within retained earnings.

Dividend distribution
Dividends to owners of the parent company are recognised as a liability in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded in the period 
in which they are approved and paid.

Dividend payments are recorded at fair value. Where non-cash dividend payments are made, gains arising 
as a result of fair value remeasurements are recognised in the Income Statement in the same period.

Accounting estimates and judgements
In preparing these consolidated Financial Statements, management has made judgements and estimates 
that affect the application of the Group’s accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses. Actual amounts and results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 
that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 
and future periods.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION167

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Over the course of the year, management has made a number of critical judgements in the application 
of the Group’s accounting policies. These include the following:

–  management has made judgments relating to the allocation of consideration between the different 
elements in the forward contract to purchase the non-controlling interest in RB Manon as outlined 
in Note 30;

–  management has identified matters (including the Korea Humidifier Sanitiser, Necrotizing Enterocolitis 
and Phenylephrine issues) that may incur liabilities in the future but does not recognise these liabilities 
when it is too early to determine the likely outcome or make a reliable estimate (Note 18, Note 20);

–  the continuing enduring nature of the Group’s brands supports the indefinite life assumption for 

certain of these assets (Note 9); and

–  assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets especially as to whether there will be 

sufficient future taxable profits in the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years (Note 12).

Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Each year, management is required to make a number of assumptions regarding the future. The related 
year end accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the final actual results. The estimates 
and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.

Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets:
Under IFRS, goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets must be tested for impairment on at least 
an annual basis. As disclosed further in Note 9, this testing generally requires management to make 
multiple estimates, for example around individual market pressures and forces, future price and volume 
growth, future margins, terminal growth rates and discount rates.

The recoverability of the Group’s goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in relation to IFCN is 
sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions. Further information on key estimates and 
assumptions, including details on the sensitivities of the value-in-use estimates to reasonable changes 
in key assumptions, is included in Note 9.

Tax:
The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that differ across the 
numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Assumptions are made in applying these laws to 
the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period. Where the 
eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference is charged 
or credited to the Income Statement in the period in which it is determined (Note 7).

The Group operates in an international tax environment and is subject to tax examinations and 
uncertainties in a number of jurisdictions. The issues involved can be complex and disputes may take a 
number of years to resolve. Each uncertainty is separately assessed and management applies judgement 
in the recognition and measurement of the uncertainty based on the relevant circumstances. The 
exposure recognised is calculated based on the expected value method or the most likely outcome 
method, depending on whether there are a wide range of possible outcomes or if resolution of the 
uncertainty is concentrated on one outcome. In particular, the range of possible outcomes relating to 
transfer pricing exposures can be wide and, in these scenarios, the expected value method is employed. 
The accounting estimates and judgements considered include:

–  status of the unresolved matter;

–  clarity of relevant legislation and related guidance;

–  pre-clearances issued by taxing authorities;

–  advice from in-house specialists and opinions of professional firms;

–  resolution process and range of possible outcomes;

–  past experience and precedents set by the particular taxing authority;

–  decisions and agreements reached in other jurisdictions on comparable issues;

–  unutilised tax losses, tax credits and availability of mutual agreement procedures between tax 

authorities; and

–  statute of limitations.

Management is of the opinion that the carrying values of the liability for uncertain tax positions made in 
respect of these matters represent its best estimate once all facts and circumstances have been taken 
into account. Nevertheless, the final amounts paid to discharge the liabilities arising (either through 
negotiated settlement or litigation) may be different from the position recognised. The net liabilities 
recognised in respect of uncertain tax positions as at 31 December 2023 are £619 million 
(2022: £722 million) (Note 22).

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION168

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

1 Accounting Policies continued
Trade spend:
The Group provides for amounts payable to our trade customers for promotional activity and 
government reimbursement arrangements. Where an activity spans the year end, an accrual is reflected 
in the consolidated Financial Statements based on our estimation of customer and consumer uptake 
during the relevant period and the extent to which temporary funded activity has occurred. As there is a 
timing difference between that initial estimation and final settlement of trade spend with our customers, 
differences can result on final settlement. As at 31 December 2023, the Group recognised total accruals 
of £1,125 million (2022: £1,137 million) in respect of amounts payable to trade customers and government 
bodies for trade spend. The Group’s trade spend arrangements vary considerably by market and 
category, and the Group’s trade spend accruals are made up of many individually small accruals. 
Therefore, an aggregated disclosure of sensitivity analysis on the key inputs to trade spend accrual 
estimates would not be practicable nor meaningful. Nevertheless, a 13% (2022: 11%) difference between 
those initial estimates and final settlement would cause a material charge or credit to the Income 
Statement in the next financial year. During 2023, adjustments to trade spend accruals as at 31 December 
2022, due to changes in accounting estimates, were £132 million (2022: £110 million adjustment to trade 
spend accruals as at 31 December 2021, due to changes in accounting estimates).

Legal provisions:
The Group recognises legal provisions when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of past events; it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that 
obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. The level of provisioning in relation to civil and/or 
criminal investigations is an area where management and legal judgement are important, with individual 
provisions being based on best estimates of the possible loss, considering all available information, 
external advice and historical experience. As at 31 December 2023, the Group recognised legal 
provisions of £137 million (2022: £221 million) in relation to a number of historical regulatory and other 
matters in various jurisdictions.

2 Operating Segments
The Group’s operating segments comprise the Hygiene, Health and Nutrition business units reflecting 
the way in which information is presented to and reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (CODM) for the purposes of making strategic decisions and assessing Group-wide performance.

The CODM is the Group Executive Committee. This Committee is responsible for the implementation of 
strategy (approved by the Board), the management of risk (delegated by the Board) and the review of 
Group operational performance and ongoing business integration.

The Group Executive Committee assesses the performance of these operating segments based on 
Net Revenue from external customers and segment profit being adjusted operating profit. Intercompany 
transactions between operating segments are eliminated. Finance income and expense are not 
allocated to segments, as each is managed on a centralised basis.

The segment information for the operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2023 and 
31 December 2022 is as follows:

Year ended 31 December 2023

Net revenue
Depreciation and amortisation  
(Note 9 & 10)

Operating profit
Net finance expense

Profit before income tax
Income tax charge

Net profit from continuing operations

Year ended 31 December 2022

Net revenue
Depreciation and amortisation

Operating profit
Net finance expense
Impairment of equity-accounted 
investments
Share of loss of equity-accounted 
investments, net of tax 

Profit before income tax
Income tax charge

Net profit from continuing operations

Hygiene 
£m

6,135

Health 
£m

6,062

Nutrition 
£m

2,410

Adjusting 
items 
£m

Total 
£m

–

14,607

(155)

(193)

1,236

1,690

(96)

447

(26)

(842)

Hygiene 
£m

5,960
(135)

1,214

Health 
£m

5,992
(177)

1,648

Nutrition 
£m

2,501
(90)

577

Adjusting 
items 
£m

–
(35)

(190)

(470)

2,531
(130)

2,401
(753)

1,648

Total 
£m

14,453
(437)

3,249
(161)

(19)

(2)

3,067
(711)

2,356

Financial information for the Hygiene, Health and Nutrition operating segments is presented on an 
adjusted basis which excludes certain cash and non-cash items. These items have a pattern of recognition 
that is largely uncorrelated with the trading performance of the business. Financial information on an 
adjusted basis is consistent with how management reviews the business for the purpose of making 
operating decisions. Further detail on adjusting items, which includes in the year to 31 December 2023 
the £810 million impairment of IFCN goodwill (see Note 9) is included on pages 223-227.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION169

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

2 Operating Segments continued
The company is domiciled in the UK. The split of Net Revenue from external customers and Non-current 
assets (other than equity instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surplus assets) between 
the UK, the US (being the biggest country outside the country of domicile) and that from all other countries is:

2023

Net Revenue
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Other non-current receivables (excluding Derivative 
financial instruments)

2022 

Net Revenue
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Other non-current receivables

UK 
£m

886
1,903
290

12

UK 
£m

778
1,875
314
22

US 
£m

4,538
9,646
768

18

US 
£m

4,603
10,905
828
54

All other 
countries 
£m

9,183
7,039
1,341

Total 
£m

14,607
18,588
2,399

92

122

All other 
countries 
£m

9,072
7,423
1,331
81

Total 
£m

14,453
20,203
2,473
157

Major customers are typically large grocery chains, multiple retailers and e-commerce platforms. 
The Group’s customer base is diverse with no individual customer accounting for more than 10% 
of net revenue (2022: no individual more than 10% of revenue).

3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses

Distribution costs
Research and development costs
Other administrative expenses
Impairment of goodwill
Gain on disposal of intangible assets and related businesses
Other net operating income

Net operating expenses

2023 
£m

(3,703)
(337)
(1,382)
(810)
–
3

2022 
£m

(3,438)
(325)
(1,205)
(167)
14
9

(6,229)

(5,112)

£152 million from the impairment of goodwill related to the acquisition of Biofreeze (see Note 9). 
Biofreeze is reported in the Health operating segment.

4 Auditor Remuneration
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the 
company’s Auditor and its associates:

Audit services pursuant to legislation
  Audit of the Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements
  Audit of the Financial Statements of the Group’s subsidiaries
Audit-related assurance services

Total audit and audit-related services
Fees payable to the company’s Auditor and its associates for other services
Other assurance services

Total non-audit services

5 Employee Costs
Total employee costs, including those for Directors, were:

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Other pension costs
Share-based payments

Total staff costs

Note

23
25

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

8.9
10.5
0.9

20.3

0.4

0.4

20.7

2023 
£m

2,126
281
60
102

8.4
11.1
0.8

20.3

2.7

2.7

23.0

2022 
£m

1,988
281
61
78

2,569

2,408

Executive and Non-Executive Directors’ aggregate emoluments are disclosed on pages 100-132 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. Compensation awarded to key management (defined as the members 
of the Group Executive Committee and the Non-Executive Directors) was:

2023 
£m

31
–
22

53

2022 
£m

26
–
15

41

Other administrative expenses includes a net foreign exchange loss of £6 million (2022: loss of 
£13 million). In 2023, Other administrative expenses includes a gain of £36 million (2022: £59 million) 
relating to property disposals.

Short-term employee benefits
Post-employment and other long-term benefits
Share-based payments

Impairment of goodwill of £810 million in 2023 relates to the IFCN business, which comprises the Nutrition 
operating segment. The impairment of goodwill in 2022 of £167 million principally comprises a charge of 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION170

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

5 Employee Costs continued
Staff numbers
The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, including Directors, during the year was:

7 Income Tax Expense

North America
Europe/ANZ
Rest of world

6 Net Finance Expense

Finance income
Foreign exchange net gain on liquidation of subsidiaries
Interest income on cash and cash equivalents
Pension net finance income
Foreign exchange gains on intercompany financing, net of hedging
Finance income on tax balances
Other finance income

Total finance income

Finance expense
Interest payable on borrowings
Foreign exchange losses on intercompany financing, net of hedging
Finance expense on tax balances
Other finance expense

Total finance expense

Net finance expense

2023 
’000

5.2
14.2
20.7

40.1

2023 
£m

130
41
8
21
–
10

210

(295)
– 
(22) 
(23)

(340)

(130)

2022 
’000

5.1
14.3
20.6

40.0

2022 
£m

69
29
5
–
26
1

130

(233)
(24)
–
(34)

(291)

(161)

As a result of the simplification of the Group’s legal entity structure, a number of entities were liquidated. 
Upon liquidation, the cumulative foreign exchange reserves were recycled to the Income Statement, 
resulting in a net foreign exchange gain of £130 million (2022: a net foreign exchange gain of £69 million).

Current tax
Adjustment in respect of prior periods

Total current tax

Origination and reversal of temporary differences
Impact of changes in tax rates

Total deferred tax

Cumulative foreign exchange on deferred tax balances reclassified to the 
Income Statement

Income tax charge

2023 
£m

783
22

805

(51)
(1)

(52)

–

753

2022 
£m

766
(23)

743

(20)
(5)

(25)

(7)

711

Current tax includes tax incurred by UK entities of £108 million (2022: £177 million). This is comprised 
of UK corporation tax of £63 million (2022: £126 million) and overseas tax suffered of £45 million 
(2022: £51 million). UK current tax is calculated at 23.5% (2022: 19%) of the estimated assessable profit 
for the year, net of relief for overseas taxes where available. Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated 
at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.

Cash tax paid in the year was £922 million (2022: £831 million). The variance from the current year 
tax charge of £783 million is attributable to movements on uncertain tax positions (shown in Note 22) 
and timing differences arising between the accrual and payment of current income tax liabilities.

Origination and reversal of temporary differences includes adjustments in respect of prior periods 
of £11 million expense (2022: £19 million benefit).

Cumulative foreign exchange on deferred tax balances reclassified to the Income Statement is £nil 
(2022: £7 million). This balance relates to deferred tax on assets disposed in 2022 (see Note 29).

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION171

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

7 Income Tax Expense continued
The total tax charge on the Group’s profit for the year can be reconciled to the notional tax charge 
calculated at the UK tax rate as follows:

The effect of overseas tax rates represents the impact of profits arising outside the UK that are taxed 
at different rates to the UK rate. The UK tax rate increased from 19% to 25% on 1 April 2023. The 2023 rate 
of 23.5% represents the blended UK tax rate over the 12 month period to 31 December 2023.

Continuing operations

Profit before income tax
Tax at the notional UK corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2022: 19%)
Effect of:
Overseas tax rates
Movement in provision related to uncertain tax positions
Net impact of divestments and assets reclassified to held for sale
Unrecognised tax losses, other unrecognised tax assets and deferred tax 
liability on unremitted earnings
Cumulative foreign exchange on deferred tax balances reclassified to the 
Income Statement
Withholding and local taxes
Reassessment of prior year estimates
Impact of changes in tax rates
Non-taxable foreign exchange gain arising from legal entity simplification 
(Note 6)
Non-deductible impairment of goodwill
Other permanent differences

Income tax charge

2023 
£m

2,401
564

2022 
£m

3,067
583

43
(50)
(6)

(34)

–
30
33
(1)

(31)
190
15

753

114
(58)
(25)

71

(7)
47
(42)
(5)

(13)
28
18

711

Our effective tax rate in any given financial year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present 
in succeeding financial years and may be affected by variations in profit mix and changes in tax laws, 
regulations and related interpretations.

The Group is within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two rules which take effect on 1 January 2024. The UK 
government substantively enacted legislation on 20 June 2023 that translated the Pillar Two rules into UK 
law. The impact of the Pillar Two rules is not expected to be in excess of a 0.5% increase to the Group’s 
Effective Tax Rate. This excludes the effect of changes to tax rates introduced by countries in response 
to the Pillar Two rules.

The Group has applied the temporary mandatory exception from accounting for deferred taxes arising 
from the Pillar Two model rules as set out in ‘International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules 
(Amendments to IAS 12)’ issued by the IASB in May 2023.

Withholding and local taxes suffered in the year are adjusted for previously accrued deferred tax 
liabilities on unremitted earnings.

The reassessment of prior year estimates includes settlements reached following conclusion of tax 
authority review and differences between final tax return submissions and liabilities accrued in these 
Financial Statements.

The 2023 impact of non-deductible goodwill impairment is attributable to IFCN. The 2022 impact related 
to non-deductible goodwill impairment attributable to Biofreeze.

UK deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on the substantively enacted rate of 
25% after factoring in the expected timing of reversal of the related temporary differences (2022: 25%).

We conduct business operations in a number of countries and are therefore subject to tax and 
intercompany pricing laws in multiple jurisdictions. We have in the past faced, and may in the future 
face, audits and challenges brought by tax authorities, and we are involved in ongoing tax investigations 
in a number of countries. If material challenges were to be successful, our effective tax rate may 
increase, we may be required to modify structures at significant costs to us, we may also be subject 
to interest and penalty charges and we may incur costs in defending litigation or reaching a settlement. 
Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results 
of operations.

There have been no substantive updates to the EC State Aid matters referred to in the 2022 notes to the 
financial statements.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION172

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

7 Income Tax Expense continued
The tax (charged)/credited relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:

8 Earnings Per Share

2023

Before tax 
£m

Tax (charge)/ 
credit 
£m

After tax 
£m

Before tax 
£m

2022

Tax (charge)/ 
credit 
£m

After tax 
£m

(639)

1,065

–

1,065

Basic earnings per share
  From continuing operations
  From discontinued operations

Total basic earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share
  From continuing operations
  From discontinued operations

Total diluted earnings per share

Net exchange (losses)/gains 
on foreign currency 
translation
Reclassification of foreign 
currency translation 
reserves on disposals or 
liquidation of foreign 
operations
Gains/(losses) on cash flow 
and net investment hedges
Remeasurement of defined 
benefit pension plans 
(Note 23)
Revaluation of equity 
instruments

Other comprehensive 
(expense)/income

Current tax
Deferred tax (Note 12)

(639)

(131)

–

–

(42)

(10)

(808)

16

–

5

–
5

5

14

(11)

3

(131)

(26)

(10)

(56)

(112)

29

(109)

(803)

817

–

(1)

(5)

22

16

13
3

16

The tax charged directly to the Statement of Changes in Equity during the year is as follows:

Current tax

2023 
£m

1

1

(56)

(113)

24

(87)

833

2022 
£m

(1)

(1)

Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to owners of the parent 
company from continuing operations (2023: £1,634 million income, 2022: £2,337 million income) and 
discontinued operations (2023: £9 million income; 2022: £7 million loss) by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the year (2023: 716,700,954; 2022: 715,284,629).

Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. The company has the following 
categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: Executive Share Awards (including Executive Share 
Options and Executive Restricted Share Scheme Awards) and Employee Sharesave Scheme Options. 
The options only dilute earnings when they result in the issue of shares at a value below the market price 
of the share and when all performance criteria (if applicable) have been met as at the balance sheet 
date. As at 31 December 2023, there were 15,150,221 (2022: 14,219,133) Executive Share Awards excluded 
from the dilution because the exercise price for the options was greater than the average share price for 
the year or the performance criteria have not been met.

On a basic basis
Dilution for Executive Share Awards
Dilution for Employee Sharesave Scheme Options

On a diluted basis

2023  
average number 
of shares

2022  
average number 
of shares

716,700,954
1,368,088
214,492

715,284,629
1,858,996
350,982

718,283,534

717,494,607

2023 
pence

2022 
pence

227.9
1.3

229.2

227.4
1.3

228.7

326.7
(1.0)

325.7

325.7
(1.0)

324.7

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION173

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Software includes intangible assets under construction of £88 million (2022: £40 million).

Brands 
£m

Goodwill 
 £m

Software 
£m

Other 
£m

Total 
£m

Cost
At 1 January 2022
Additions
Arising on business combinations
Disposals
Reclassifications
Exchange adjustments

13,448
–
–
(59)
–
1,136

10,212
–
(2)
(6)
–
832

At 31 December 2022

14,525

11,036

Additions
Arising on business combinations
Disposals
Reclassification from tangible fixed 
assets
Reclassifications to held for sale
Exchange adjustments

–
–
(1)

–
(124)
(583)

–
17
–

–
–
(660)

547
77
–
(3)
16
16

653

101
–
–

4
–
(5)

266
4
7
–
(16)
17

278

–
39
–

–
–
(4)

24,473
81
5
(68)
–
2,001

26,492

101
56
(1)

4
(124)
(1,252)

At 31 December 2023

13,817

10,393

753

313

25,276

Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2022
Amortisation and impairment
Disposals
Reclassifications
Exchange adjustments

At 31 December 2022

Amortisation
Impairment
Disposals
Reclassifications to held for sale
Exchange adjustments

At 31 December 2023

Net book value
At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

342
21
–
–
16

379

20
–
(1)
(77)
(10)

311

4,884
167
–
–
376

5,427

–
810
–
–
(422)

5,815

14,146
13,506

5,609
4,578

252
68
(1)
8
8

335

79
2
–
–
(4)

412

318
341

127
19
–
(8)
10

148

8
–
–
–
(6)

5,605
275
(1)
–
410

6,289

107
812
(1)
(77)
(442)

150

6,688

130
163

20,203
18,588

The amount stated for brands represents the fair value of brands acquired since 1985 at the date of 
acquisition. Other includes product registration, distribution rights, capitalised product development 
costs and customer contracts.

The net book values of significant brand intangible assets acquired through business combinations are 
as follows:

Acquisition

Mead Johnson Nutrition Company
SSL International
Boots Healthcare International
Adams Respiratory Therapeutics
Schiff Nutrition International
L&F Household
Lanai Holdings 
American Home Products Corporation
Bristol-Myers Squibb OTC
K-Y

Acquisition 
year

2017
2010
2006
2008
2012
1994
2021
1990
2013
2014

2023 
 £m

4,480
1,847
1,405
1,210
1,032
834
644
439
362
280

2022 
£m

4,740
1,918
1,440
1,275
1,088
877
680
459
338
280

The majority of brands, all of goodwill and certain other intangible assets are considered to have 
indefinite lives (see Note 1) and therefore are subject to an annual impairment review. The MJN global 
brand and acquired customer relationships are deemed to have a finite life and are amortised 
accordingly. Amortisation is recognised in net operating expenses or cost of goods sold depending 
on the use of the asset.

The net book values of indefinite and finite life intangible assets are as follows:

Net book value

Indefinite life assets
Brands
Goodwill
Other

Total indefinite life assets

Finite life assets
Brands
Software
Other

Total finite life assets

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

13,415
4,578
107

18,100

91
341
56

488

14,034
5,609
65

19,708

112
318
65

495

Total net book value of intangible assets

18,588

20,203

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION174

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued
Cash Generating Units
Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to either individual cash 
generating units (CGUs), or groups of cash generating units (together GCGUs). The goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at the level at which identifiable cash 
inflows are largely independent. Generally, this is at a GCGU level, but for certain intangible assets this 
is at a CGU level.

After considering all the evidence available, including how brand and production assets generate cash 
inflows and how management monitors the business, the Directors have concluded that for the purpose 
of impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets, the Group’s GCGUs are Health, Hygiene 
and IFCN.

An analysis of the net book value of indefinite life assets and goodwill by GCGU/CGU is shown below:

GCGU/CGU

Health1
Hygiene 
IFCN

Indefinite 
life assets 
£m

7,258
1,844
4,420

13,522

2023

Goodwill 
£m

3,849
45
684

4,578

Total 
£m

11,107
1,889
5,104

18,100

1.  Indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill for VMS, and goodwill for Biofreeze, were transferred to the Health GCGU in 2023

GCGU/CGU

Health
Hygiene 
IFCN
VMS1
Biofreeze1

Indefinite 
life assets 
£m

5,779
1,924
4,661
1,089
646

14,099

2022

Goodwill 
£m

3,556
45
1,570
277
161

5,609

Total 
£m

9,335
1,969
6,231
1,366
807

19,708

Within the Health GCGU, the cash flows associated with Intimate Wellness and Biofreeze brands are 
separately identifiable. As a result, the carrying values of these indefinite life assets have been tested 
for impairment as separate CGUs. This is in addition to the impairment testing performed over the 
Health GCGU.

Indefinite life assets excluding goodwill 

Intimate Wellness
Biofreeze

2023 
£m

2,143
613

2022 
£m

2,213
646

Annual Impairment Review
Goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets must be tested for impairment on at least an annual 
basis. An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of a GCGU or CGU falls materially 
below its net book value at the date of testing.

The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to 
dispose, is inherently judgemental and requires management to make multiple estimates, for example 
around individual market pressures and forces, future price and volume growth, future margins, terminal 
growth rates and discount rates.

When forecasting the annual cash flows that support the recoverable amount, the Group generally uses 
its short-term budgets and medium-term strategic plans, with additional senior management and 
Board-level review. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are projected using terminal growth rates. 
These rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products and markets in which 
the GCGU or CGU operates.

The cash flows are discounted back to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate considered 
appropriate for each GCGU and CGU. These rates have been derived from management’s views 
on the relevant weighted average cost of capital, subsequently converted to the pre-tax equivalent 
discount rate.

For the Health and Hygiene GCGUs, and the Intimate Wellness and Biofreeze CGUs, as at 31 December 
2023 any reasonably possible change in the key valuation assumptions would not imply possible 
impairment. The recoverable amount for each of these GCGUs and CGU was determined utilising the 
value-in-use basis (2022: value-in-use basis) with key assumptions including a pre-tax discount rate of 
11% for Health, Hygiene and Intimate Wellness (2022: 9% for Health, Hygiene and Intimate Wellness with 
10% for VMS), 11% for Biofreeze (2022: 12%) and a terminal growth rate of either 2.5% for Health, Intimate 
Wellness and Biofreeze (2022: 2.5% for Health, Intimate Wellness, Biofreeze and VMS), or 2% for Hygiene 
(2022: 2%).

IFCN
Since the disposal of the IFCN China business in September 2021, the IFCN CGU has represented the 
Group’s remaining IFCN business principally in North America, Latin America and ASEAN. In impairment 
assessments conducted in both 2021 and 2022, management determined that the recoverable amount 
of IFCN was higher than its’ carrying value such that no impairment was required.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION175

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued
During 2023 the market environment for IFCN continued to be influenced by the infant formula supply 
shortages in the US which resulted from the temporary closure of a major factory belonging to a 
competitor. The infant formula supply shortages have resulted in an evolving regulatory environment, 
which developed over the course of 2023. Compliance with enhanced regulatory requirements 
is expected to increase the capital requirement for the IFCN business and to impact the cost of 
manufacture in future periods.

As a result of these regulatory factors which developed over the course of 2023, and to incorporate the 
effect of higher interest rates, management has increased the pre-tax discount rate used to determine 
the value-in-use of the IFCN CGU.

Net Revenue

This resulted in the IFCN net book value exceeding its recoverable amount, therefore management has 
recorded an impairment loss against IFCN goodwill of £810 million to record the IFCN CGU at its 
recoverable amount of £4,615 million.

Margins

The recoverable amount for IFCN has been calculated on a value-in-use basis (2022: value-in-use basis). 
The value-in-use of IFCN was determined utilising a discounted cash flow approach with future cash 
flows derived from a detailed five-year financial plan. Cash flows beyond the five-year plan are 
projected using a terminal growth rate. The valuation used a pre-tax discount rate of 11% (2022: 9%) 
and an IFCN specific terminal growth rate of 2.0% (2022: 2.0%). 

Discount rate

The determination of the recoverable amount for IFCN at 31 December 2023 incorporates certain 
assumptions, some of which are subject to considerable uncertainty. These assumptions include but are 
not limited to the costs of complying with the evolving regulatory landscape, the level at which US 
market shares stabilise, net revenue growth rates, the commercial success of new product launches and 
the expansion of specialty nutrition. The value in use does not include any possible net cash outflows in 
respect of current and future NEC litigation (note 20 and 33). As no headroom exists between the IFCN 
recoverable amount and net book value, any changes to these assumptions (including relating to the NEC 
litigation), or any deterioration in other macro or business-level assumptions supporting the IFCN 
recoverable amount could necessitate the recognition of impairment losses in future periods.

The key assumptions used in the estimation of value-in-use of IFCN are outlined below.

Terminal growth rate

The key estimates incorporated within the determination of the IFCN recoverable amount are 
summarised below:

Key estimates

Commentary

Market

In the US, management expects birth rates to be relatively stable. Tendering 
for WIC contracts continues to be highly competitive.

Within LATAM and ASEAN, management expects conditions to stabilise after 
recent inflationary price increases.

In the short to medium term, the valuation model assumes a five-year CAGR 
of 1.5%. This is expected to be achieved through ongoing premiumisation, 
inflationary price increases and revenues from new products/category 
launches including the expansion of speciality nutrition.

In the short to medium term, the valuation model assumes IFCN margins 
(both gross and operating) to increase over the medium term as IFCN drives 
efficiencies and improved product mix.

Management determined an IFCN-specific weighted average cost of capital 
(WACC) and the implied pre-tax discount rate with the support of a third-party 
expert. In addition, management performed benchmarking against other 
comparable companies.

Management engaged a third-party expert to help calculate an IFCN-specific 
terminal growth rate. Management is satisfied with the reasonableness of the 
terminal growth rate when compared against independent market growth 
projections and long-term country inflation rates.

The table below shows the sensitivity of the recoverable amount to reasonably possible changes in key 
assumptions. The table assumes no related response by management (for example, to drive further cost 
savings) and is hence theoretical in nature.

Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal growth rate
Net revenue compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for the period 2023-20281
Gross margin CAGR for the period 2023-2028

1.  The net revenue CAGR for the period 2024-2028 is circa 4%, following rebasing of Nutrition net revenue in 2024

Expected Net Revenue growth rates (2024 to 2028) adjusted by 100bps
Expected EBIT growth rates (2024 to 2028) adjusted by 100bps
Terminal growth rate (applied from 2029) adjusted by 50bps
Pre-tax discount rate adjusted by 50bps

2023

11%
2.0%
1.5%
2.2%

2023 
£m

+410/-400 
+/-260
+290/-250
+270/-240

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION176

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued
Biofreeze
On 12 July 2021, the Group acquired 100% of the equity interests in Lanai Holdings, owner of the Biofreeze 
and TheraPearl brands, for cash consideration of $1,060 million (£766 million). Biofreeze is a leader in 
over-the-counter topical pain relief, with a strong footprint in the North America retail and clinical 
channels and a growing international presence.

During 2022, Biofreeze performed below expectations following a short-term category slowdown, 
in part due to macroeconomic conditions. This underperformance, together with the macroeconomic 
environment, introduced additional uncertainty into future Biofreeze cash flows. To reflect this 
uncertainty, management increased the pre-tax discount rate used to determine value-in-use to 12.0%. 
This resulted in the book value of the Biofreeze CGU exceeding its recoverable amount at 31 December 
2022, therefore in 2022 management recorded a goodwill impairment of £152 million to record Biofreeze 
at its recoverable amount of £698 million ($843 million). Following this impairment, at 31 December 2022 
no headroom remained between the Biofreeze recoverable amount and net book value.

During the second half of 2023, the integration of Biofreeze into the Health business was completed. 
Following this integration, Biofreeze goodwill is monitored at the Health GCGU level and Biofreeze 
goodwill has accordingly been transferred to the Health GCGU. An impairment review of the Biofreeze 
CGU inclusive of goodwill was performed immediately prior to the transfer of the goodwill, with this 
review performed as at 30 September 2023. Biofreeze goodwill was deemed recoverable immediately 
prior to transfer to the Health GCGU.

The recoverable amount for the Biofreeze CGU has been determined on a value-in-use basis using 
a discounted cash flow approach, with future cash flows derived from a detailed five-year plan. 
Cash flows beyond the five-year plan have been projected using a terminal growth rate of 2.5%.

Margins

The determination of the recoverable amount for Biofreeze in the 2023 impairment assessment 
incorporates certain key assumptions, some of which are subject to considerable uncertainty. 
These assumptions include but are not limited to anticipated market share improvement, 
the commercial success of new product launches and international market expansion.

The key assumptions used in the estimation of value-in-use of Biofreeze at 30 September 2023 and 
31 December 2022 are outlined below:

Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal growth rate
Net revenue compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for the period 2023-2028
Gross margin CAGR for the period 2023-2028

Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal growth rate
Net revenue compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for the period 2022-2027
Gross margin CAGR for the period 2022-2027

30 September 2023

11%
2.5%
11%
12%

31 December 2022

12%
2.5%
11%
14%

They key estimates incorporated within the determination of the Biofreeze recoverable amount 
at 30 September 2023 and 31 December 2022 are summarised below:

Key estimates

Commentary

Net Revenue

In the short to medium term, the valuation model assumes a five-year CAGR 
of 11% (2022: 11%), to be delivered through category growth and market share 
growth driven by a mix of innovation arising from format expansion of existing 
products and international expansion.

In the short to medium term, the valuation model assumes Biofreeze margins 
(both gross and operating) to increase from current levels as Biofreeze 
benefits from productivity initiatives on integrating into Reckitt. In the year 
ended 31 December 2022, there were temporary factors which negatively 
impacted margins.

Discount rate

Terminal growth rate

Management determined the Biofreeze-specific weighted average cost 
of capital (WACC) and the implied pre-tax discount rate with the support 
of a third-party expert. 

Management is satisfied with the reasonableness of the terminal growth 
rate when compared against independent market growth projections and 
long-term country inflation rates.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION 
177

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued
The table below shows the percentage movement in the 2023 key assumptions that (individually) 
would be required to reach the point at which the Biofreeze value in use approximates its carrying value. 

10 Property, Plant and Equipment

Land and 
buildings 
£m

Plant and 
equipment 
£m

Right of  
use assets 
£m

Assets under 
construction 
£m

Expected Net Revenue growth rates (2024-2028) 

Expected EBIT growth rates (2024-2028)
Terminal growth rate
Pre-tax discount rate

30 September 2023

180bps decrease

290bps decrease
100bps decrease
100bps increase

Cost
At 1 January 2022
Additions
Disposals
Reclassifications (including held for sale) 
Exchange adjustments

1,220
26
(19)
91
91

2,073
80
(75)
168
122

VMS
During the year to 31 December 2023 the integration of VMS into the Health GBU was completed, 
and as a result the VMS indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill were included in the Health 
GCGU. Prior to integration an impairment review was performed. No separate impairment review for VMS 
has therefore been performed at 31 December 2023. In the year to 31 December 2022 the recoverable 
amount of the VMS CGU was determined utilising the value-in-use basis with key assumptions including 
a pre-tax discount rate of 10%, and a terminal growth rate of 2.5%.

At 31 December 2022

1,409

2,368

Additions
Disposals
Reclassifications (including held for sale)
Exchange adjustments

13
(17)
92
(34)

38
(48)
231
(59)

At 31 December 2023

1,463

2,530

Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2022
Charge for the year
Disposals
Impairment
Reclassifications (including held for sale)
Exchange adjustments

At 31 December 2022

Charge for the year
Disposals
Impairment
Reclassifications (including held for sale)
Exchange adjustments

482
62
(12)
–
(6)
30

556

68
(16)
4
(1)
(16)

1,341
184
(66)
1
(18)
69

1,511

199
(42)
4
(3)
(41)

At 31 December 2023

595

1,628

Net book value
As at 31 December 2022
As at 31 December 2023

853
868

857
902

461
137
(58)
(1)
41

580

56
(53)
11
(27)

567

156
83
(45)
–
(3)
15

206

96
(28)
–
–
(11)

263

374
304

408
256
(6)
(293)
29

394

301
(6)
(349)
(11)

329

5
–
(4)
2
–
2

5

–
–
–
–
(1)

4

389
325

Total 
£m

4,162
499
(158)
(35)
283

4,751

408
(124)
(15)
(131)

4,889

1,984
329
(127)
3
(27)
116

2,278

363
(86)
8
(4)
(69)

2,490

2,473
2,399

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION178

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

10 Property, Plant and Equipment continued
At 31 December 2023, the Group’s right of use assets included land and buildings of £276 million 
(2022: £350 million) and other assets of £28 million (2022: £24 million). The depreciation charged on 
the right of use assets comprises £82 million (2022: £70 million) on the land and buildings and £14 million 
(2022: £13 million) on the other assets.

At 31 December 2023, the Group has commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment 
of £69 million (2022: £76 million).

11 Equity Instruments

2023

2022

Fair value 
through 
profit or 
loss 
£m

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m

Equity 
method 
£m

Total 
£m

Equity 
method 
£m

Fair value 
through 
profit or 
loss 
£m

Fair value  
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m

Equity 
investments
Investments 
in associates

–

4

4

45

–

45

69

–

69

114

4

118

–

4

4

–

–

–

82

–

82

Total 
£m

82

4

86

Equity investments at 31 December 2023 and 2022 is composed of a number of listed and unlisted equity 
investments in which the Group has a minority stake. 

In 2023, equity investments includes investments of £45 million principally in equity mutual funds which 
are made in the name of the Group, but the proceeds of which are provided to employees as part of their 
compensation arrangements. In 2022 these equity investments were previously included in non-current 
receivables. The related liability is included in other non-current liabilities (Note 21).

The Group also holds a number of individually immaterial investments in associates over which it 
exercises a significant influence. In 2023, there are no impairments and gains or losses associated 
with equity accounted investments are less than £1 million. In 2022, investments accounted for using 
the equity method relate predominantly to the Group’s investment in Your.MD AS (trading as Healthily) 
which was fully impaired. In 2022, the Group’s share of the result of Healthily amounted to a loss of 
£2 million and the Group recognised an impairment charge of £19 million within the Group Income 
Statement with respect to this investment.

(10)

–

–
4

11

–

–
142

39

(11)

(1)
(19)

511

At 31 December 2023

(60)

(3,121)

12 Deferred Tax

Deferred tax

At 1 January 2023
Credited/(charged) to the 
Income Statement
Credited/(charged) to other 
comprehensive income
Arising on business 
combinations
Exchange differences

2023

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

Deferred tax

Deferred tax

At 1 January 2022
Credited/(charged) to the 
Income Statement
Credited/(charged) to other 
comprehensive income
Exchange differences

Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m

Intangible 
assets 
£m

Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m

Tax losses 
£m

Total 
£m

(54)

(3,274)

503

(14)

(2,793)

46

19

–

–
(1)

64

27

15

–
4

46

(7)

16

–
(1)

(6)

(6)

(9)

(5)
6

52

5

(1)
125

(2,612)

Total 
£m

287
(2,899)

(2,612)

Total 
£m

(2,609)

25

3
(212)

Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m

16
(76)

(60)

Intangible 
assets 
£m

(38)
(3,083)

(3,121)

Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m

Tax  
losses 
£m

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m

237
274

511

62
2

64

10
(16)

(6)

Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m

Intangible 
assets 
 £m

Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m

Tax  
losses 
£m

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m

(49)

(3,023)

442

2

–
(7)

1

–
(252)

16

8
37

At 31 December 2022

(54)

(3,274)

503

(14)

(2,793)

2022

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

Deferred tax

Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m

20
(74)

(54)

Intangible 
assets 
£m

(36)
(3,238)

(3,274)

Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m

Tax losses 
£m

221
282

503

28
18

46

11
(25)

(14)

Total 
£m

244
(3,037)

(2,793)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION179

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

12 Deferred Tax continued
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority.

14 Trade and Other Receivables

Amounts falling due within one year

Unrecognised deferred tax assets
The Group has reviewed its treatment of unrecognised corporation tax losses subject to recapture and 
will now disclose these amounts in the notes to the financial statements, resulting in the disclosure of 
incremental losses totalling £1,889 million gross at 31 December 2023. The amount of unrecognised 
corporation tax losses subject to recapture that were not included in the disclosure at 31 December 2022 
was £1,736 million gross.

Deferred tax assets on certain corporation tax losses and other short term temporary differences 
totalling £4,734 million gross (2022: £3,029 million gross) have not been recognised at 31 December 2023 
as the likelihood of future economic benefit is not sufficiently assured. These assets will be recognised if 
utilisation of the losses and other temporary differences become probable.

Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
The aggregate amount of gross temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
branches and associates and interest in joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been 
recognised at 31 December 2023 is £7,833 million (2022: £7,630 million).

Deferred tax on short-term temporary differences of £511 million (2022: £503 million) are comprised of 
accrued expenses deductible for tax on a cash basis of £404 million (2022: £418 million), other short–term 
temporary differences of £140 million (2022: £143 million) and net of deferred tax liabilities on unremitted 
earnings of £33 million (2022: £58 million).

13 Inventories

Raw materials and consumables
Work in progress
Finished goods and goods held for resale

Total inventories

2023 
£m

401
82
1,154

1,637

2022 
£m

471
88
1,266

1,825

The total cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 
£5,577 million (2022: £5,810 million). This includes inventory write-offs and losses of £111 million 
(2022: £184 million).

The Group inventory provision at 31 December 2023 was £108 million (2022: £164 million).

Trade receivables
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables

Trade receivables – net
Other receivables
Prepayments and accrued income

Trade and other receivables

Note

14b

2023 
£m

1,741
(36)

1,705
266
91

2,062

2022 
£m

1,766
(42)

1,724
264
94

2,082

2022 
£m

678
289
165
132
818

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the 
following currencies:

Currency analysis

US dollar
Euro
Sterling
Brazilian real
Other currencies

2023 
£m

575
302
173
170
842

Trade and other receivables

2,062

2,082

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable 
mentioned above.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION180

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

14 Trade and Other Receivables continued
a. Trade receivables
Trade receivables consist of amounts due from customers. The Group’s customer base is large 
and diverse and consequently there is limited concentration of credit risk. Credit risk is assessed 
at a subsidiary and Group level and takes into account the financial positions of customers, past 
experience, future expectations and other relevant factors. Individual credit limits are established 
based on those factors.

The following table provides an ageing analysis of trade receivables at year end:

Not overdue
Up to 3 months overdue
Over 3 months overdue

Trade receivables

2023 
£m

1,455
250
36

1,741

2022 
£m

1,543
157
66

1,766

At 31 December 2023, a provision of £36 million (2022: £42 million) was recorded against certain trade 
receivables based on a forward-looking assessment of the lifetime expected credit loss as required by 
IFRS 9. This assessment considered the ageing profiles of specific trade receivable balances along with 
the risk of future customer defaults.

As at 31 December 2023, trade receivables of £250 million (2022: £181 million) were past due but not 
impaired. These receivables were not impaired because having considered their nature and historical 
collection, recovery of the unprovided amounts is expected in due course.

b. Other receivables
Other receivables includes recoverable indirect tax of £187 million (2022: £191 million).

c. Other non-current receivables
Other non-current receivables consists of:

Other receivables
Equity mutual funds (Note 11)
Prepayments
Non-current tax recoverable
Derivative financial instruments

Other non-current receivables

2023 
£m

72
–
20
30
50

172

2022 
£m

73
42
25
17
–

157

In 2023, the amount in relation to Equity mutual funds was reclassed from receivables to equity 
instruments (Note 11)

d. Financial instruments (Note 15)
At 31 December 2023, £1,836 million (2022 restated1: £1,879 million) of the current and non-current 
receivables totalling £2,234 million (2022: £2,239 million) are financial assets. These mainly related to 
amounts owed from customers or government bodies and are typically non-interest bearing. Amounts 
that are not financial assets are mostly prepayments, recoverable sales tax and employee benefit assets.

1.  Restated to exclude £192 million of recoverable sales tax assets that were previously included within financial assets

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION181

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management
Financial instruments by category

Assets as per the Balance Sheet
Current and non-current trade and other receivables
Derivative financial instruments
  FX forward exchange contracts
  Cross currency interest rate swaps
Equity instruments
Cash and cash equivalents

Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet
Current and non-current trade and other payables
Share repurchase liability
Borrowings (commercial paper, loans and overdrafts and other 
non-current borrowings)1
Lease liabilities
Senior notes
Bonds
Derivative financial instruments
  FX forward exchange contracts
  Interest rate swaps
  Cross currency interest rate swaps

At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Amortised 
cost 
£m

Note

Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£m

Fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
£m

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m

14d

1,836

17
17
11
16

21
24

17
19
17
17

17
17
17

–
–
–
1,387

5,276
296

43
327
1,292
6,875

–
–
–

–

48
50
–
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

20
115
72

–

16
–
45
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

58
–
–

–

–
–
69
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
–
–

Carrying 
value total 
£m

Amortised 
cost 
£m

1,836

1,8791

64
50
114
1,387

5,276
296

43
327
1,292
6,875

78
115
72

–
–
–
1,157

5,344
–

1,252
389
1,369
5,874

–
–
–

Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£m

Fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
£m

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m

Carrying 
value total 
£m

–

34
–
–
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

22
164
84

–

25
–
–
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

34
–
–

–

–
–
82
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
–
–

1,8791

59
–
82
1,157

5,344
–

1,252
389
1,369
5,874

56
164
84

1.  Restated (see Note 14d)
The categories in this disclosure are determined by IFRS 9. Lease liabilities are outside the scope of IFRS 9, but they remain within the scope of IFRS 7, and therefore have been shown separately. In 2023 borrowings largely relate to bank loans and overdrafts 
(2022: commercial paper). As at 31 December 2022, the Group had commercial paper in issue amounting to €841 million (nominal value) at rates between 0.92% and 2.74% with maturities ranging from 6 January 2023 to 30 June 2023, and $550 million (nominal value) 
at rates between 4.55% and 4.95% with maturities ranging from 3 January 2023 to 23 March 2023.

The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined as follows:

–  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1)

–  Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) (level 2). If all significant inputs required to fair 

value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2

–  Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs) (level 3)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION182

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued
The following table categorises the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the 
valuation methodology applied in determining their fair value.

At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Level 1 
£m

Level 2 
£m

Level 3 
£m

Total 
£m

Level 1 
£m

Level 2 
£m

Level 3 
£m

Total 
£m

Assets as per the Balance Sheet
Derivative financial instruments
   FX forward exchange 
contracts
   Cross currency interest 
rate swaps 
Equity instruments

–

–
22

Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet
Derivative financial instruments
   FX forward exchange 
contracts
  Interest rate swaps
   Cross currency interest 
rate swaps

–
–

–

64

50
45

78
115

72

–

–
47

–
–

–

64

50
114

78
115

72

–

–
29

–
–

–

59

–
–

56
164

84

–

–
53

–
–

–

59

–
82

56
164

84

The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts was determined using forward exchange rates 
derived from market sourced data at the Balance Sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back 
to present value (level 2 classification). The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts and the cross 
currency interest rate swaps was calculated using discounted future cash flows at floating market rates 
(level 2 classification).

The fair value of equity instruments at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 was determined using 
quoted share price information (level 1 classification), other observable market data (level 2 classification) 
and other non-market information (level 3 classification).

Except for the bonds and senior notes, the carrying values of other financial assets and liabilities held 
at amortised cost approximate their fair values. The fair value of the bonds as at 31 December 2023 is 
a liability of £6,788 million (2022: £5,612 million) and the fair value of the senior notes as at 31 December 
2023 is a liability of £1,203 million (2022: £1,250 million). The fair value of the bonds and senior notes was 
derived using quoted market rates in an active market (level 1 classification).

Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The majority of the Group’s derivative agreements are entered into under International Swaps and 
Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements. In certain circumstances – for example, 
when a credit event such as a default occurs – all outstanding transactions under the agreement are 
terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement 
of all transactions.

The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position. This is 
because the Group does not currently have any legally enforceable right to offset recognised amounts, 
because the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as a default event.

The following table sets out the carrying amounts of recognised financial instruments that are subject to 
the above agreements.

At 31 December 2023

Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments

At 31 December 2022

Financial assets 
Derivative financial instruments

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments

Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets/liabilities in the 
Balance Sheet 
£m

Related financial 
instruments that  
are not offset 
£m

114

(265)

(39)

39

Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets/liabilities in the 
Balance Sheet 
£m

Related financial 
instruments that  
are not offset 
£m

59

(304)

(36)

36

Net amount 
£m

75

(226)

Net amount 
£m

23

(268)

Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of 
changes in foreign currency exchange rates (foreign exchange risk), market prices, interest rates, credit 
risks and liquidity. The Group has in place a risk management programme that uses foreign currency 
financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the 
financial performance of the Group.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION183

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued
The Group’s financing and financial risk management activities are centralised into Group Treasury (GT) 
to achieve benefits of scale and control. GT manages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a 
manner consistent with underlying business risks. GT manages only those risks and flows generated 
by the underlying commercial operations; speculative transactions are not undertaken.

The Group’s strategy is to minimise Income Statement volatility by monitoring foreign currency balances, 
external financing, and external hedging arrangements. The Group’s hedging profile is regularly reviewed 
to ensure it is appropriate and to mitigate these risks as far as possible.

The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 
2023 was £8,426 million receivable (2022: £5,395 million) and £8,440 million payable (2022: £5,376 million).

The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of 
Treasury activity and individually approves significant activities. The GT function is subject to periodic 
independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.

1. Market risk
(a) Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and enters into transactions in many currencies and as such is 
exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk 
arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments 
in foreign operations.

The Group’s policy is to align interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide 
some protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax. The Group may 
undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its 
assets are located.

It is the Group’s policy to monitor and, where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency transaction 
exposure. These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for 
goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans. Where the Group 
enters into hedges and applies hedge accounting, hedges are documented and tested for effectiveness 
on an ongoing basis with any ineffectiveness recorded in the Income Statement.

The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with GT to manage these 
exposures where practical and allowed by local regulations. GT matches the Group exposures, and 
hedges the position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.

The Group held forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges primarily in Euro, 
Sterling, US dollar, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso and Turkish lira. The notional value of 
the payable leg resulting from these financial instruments was as follows:

Cash flow hedge profile

Euro
Sterling
US dollar
Canadian dollar
Australian dollar
Mexican peso
Turkish lira
Other

2023 
 £m

434
258
227
110
92
78
58
392

2022 
 £m

343
247
218
96
92
74
73
394

1,649

1,537

These forward foreign exchange contracts are mainly expected to mature over the period January 2024 to 
December 2024 (2022: January 2023 to December 2023). Of the total amount, £12 million (2022: £20 million) 
is due between January 2025 and January 2026 (2022: January 2024 and January 2026).

Cash flow hedging is applied with the economic relationship and expected effectiveness being assessed 
at inception, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the Income Statement. The ineffective portion 
recognised in the Income Statement arising from cash flow hedges is immaterial (2022: immaterial).

Gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income and the hedging reserve on forward exchange 
contracts in 2023 of £39 million loss, net of tax (2022: £2 million gain, net of tax) are recognised in the Income 
Statement in the periods in which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Income Statement.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION184

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued
At 31 December 2023, the Group had forward contracts used for cash flow hedging with total fair value 
of £1 million liability (2022: £12 million asset). These contracts are denominated in a diverse range of 
currency pairings, where a fluctuation of 5% in any one of the contract pairings, with all others remaining 
constant, would have a maximum effect of £4 million (2022: £7 million) on shareholder equity, until the 
point at which the contracts mature and the forecast transaction occurs. The four largest contract 
pairings in order of nominal value were Euro/Polish zloty, US Dollar/Thai Baht, Euro/Australian Dollar 
and Euro/Canadian Dollar.

Where the Group is exposed to currency risk on its borrowings, the Group seeks to minimise the impact 
of foreign exchange on the Income Statement through placing debt within a net investment hedge 
or using financial instruments.

During the year, the US dollar bond totalling $500 million (2022: $500 million) which was used as the 
hedging instrument in a net investment hedge matured and was replaced by forward currency swap 
contracts totalling $500 million as the hedging instruments in a net investment hedge.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had designated a 2030 Euro bond totalling €850 million (2022: Euro bond 
totalling €850 million) and forward currency swap contracts totalling €1,479 million (2022: commercial 
paper totalling €750 million) as the hedging instruments in a net investment hedge relationship. During 
the year commercial paper of €750 million (2022: forward currency swap contracts of €750 million) were 
also in a hedge relationship. During 2023, the commercial paper contracts matured and were replaced 
with the forward currency swap contracts. Possible sources of ineffectiveness include any impairments 
to the Group’s net investments in Euros. The hedges are documented and are assessed for effectiveness 
on an ongoing basis.

The net gain or loss under these arrangements is recognised in other comprehensive income. The net 
effect on other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2023 was a £42 million gain 
(2022: £115 million loss). If Sterling weakens by 5% against the US dollar and Euro, the maximum impact 
on shareholders’ equity due to the net investment hedging on US dollar forward currency swap contracts 
and Euro bond/forward currency swaps would be £20 million loss and £101 million loss respectively 
(2022: £22 million loss and £75 million loss respectively).

In 2020, the Group issued a €850 million bond due in 2026. Concurrent with the issue of the bond, the 
Group entered into a €850 million cross currency interest rate swap on similar terms to the 2026 bond 
to mitigate foreign exchange currency risk, for which hedge accounting has been applied. Sources 
of ineffectiveness on this hedge relationship will come from a difference in credit ratings between 
the counterparties.

In 2023, the Group issued a €650 million bond due in 2028 and a €750 million bond due in 2033. 
Concurrent with the issue of these bonds, the Group also entered into a cross currency interest rate 
swap on similar terms to the 2028 bond and the 2033 bond, to mitigate foreign exchange currency risk, 
for which hedge accounting has been applied. Sources of ineffectiveness on these hedge relationships 
will come from a difference in credit ratings between the counterparties and modifications to the terms 
of either hedged item or instrument. At 31 December 2023 no material ineffectiveness (2022: no material 
ineffectiveness) has been recognised in the Income Statement. The interest rate element of the swap is 
discussed in interest rate risk below.

The remaining major monetary financial instruments (liquid assets, receivables, interest and non-interest 
bearing liabilities) are either denominated in the functional currency of the Group or the functional 
currency of the local entity.

The gains and losses from fair value movements on derivatives held at fair value through profit or loss, 
recognised in the Income Statement in 2023, was a £109 million loss (2022: £443 million gain). These 
derivatives are used to hedge foreign exchange gains and losses on non-Sterling financing assets and 
financing liabilities between the Group’s treasury company and fellow Group subsidiaries.

(b) Cost inflation risk
Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity, freight and other inflation 
risks. Short-term volatility in pricing of these products is mitigated through medium-term contracts, 
inventories of key materials and financial hedging. Over the medium and long term, the Group mitigates 
the impact of inflation through: implementing pricing and revenue growth management; identifying 
productivity and efficiencies; and improving sales mix.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION185

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued
(c) Interest rate risk
The Group has both interest-bearing and non-interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group monitors 
its interest income and expense rate exposure on a regular basis. The Group sets its desired level of fixed 
and floating rate exposure as part of its interest risk management strategy. The mix of fixed and floating 
exposure on interest-bearing assets or liabilities is managed by using a mixture of fixed and floating rate 
deposits, borrowings and interest rate derivatives.

In 2020 the Group issued two €850 million bonds due in 2026 and 2030. In order to maintain a level 
of floating rate debt in line with the Group’s interest management strategy the Group entered into 
a €850 million cross currency interest rate swap on similar terms to the 2026 bond and an interest rate 
swap on the coupon payments due on the 2030 bond. The accounting for the foreign exchange element 
of the cross currency swap is described above. The interest rate element swaps the fixed coupon 
payments on the bond for floating rate (the cross currency interest rate swap with reference to adjusted 
reference rates following GBP LIBOR cessation, and the interest rate swap with reference to EURIBOR). 
The interest rate swaps have been placed into a fair value hedge relationship with the related bonds. 

During 2023, the Group entered into a £747 million nominal value floating-to-fixed interest rate swap 
due in 2026 to reduce the level of exposure to floating interest rates. This interest rate swap has been 
designated as a cash flow hedge against the payments made on the floating leg of the Group’s existing 
cross-currency interest rate swap. Sources of ineffectiveness on this hedge relationship may come from 
a difference in credit ratings between the counterparties and modifications to the terms of either the 
hedged item or the hedging instrument. At 31 December 2023 no material ineffectiveness has been 
included in the Income Statement.

In 2023 the Group issued a €650 million bond due in 2028 and a €750 million bond due in 2033. In order to 
maintain a level of fixed or floating rate debt in line with the Group’s interest management strategy the 
Group entered into €650 million of cross currency interest rate swaps on similar terms to the 2028 bond 
and €750 million cross currency interest rate swaps on similar terms to the 2033 bond. The accounting for 
the foreign exchange and interest rate element of the cross currency swaps have been described above.

On the €650 million bond due in 2028, the cross currency interest rate swaps the fixed Euro coupon 
payments on the bond for fixed GBP payments. On the €750 million bond due in 2033, the cross currency 
interest rate swap swaps the fixed coupon payments on the bond for a GBP floating rate (with reference 
to SONIA) payments. The €650 million cross-currency interest rate swap has been placed into a cash flow 
hedge relationship with the bond due in 2028, and the €750 million has been placed into a fair value 
hedge relationship with the bond due in 2033.

Sources of ineffectiveness on these hedge relationships will come from a difference in credit ratings 
between the counterparties and modifications to the terms of either the hedged item or the hedging 
instrument. At 31 December 2023 no material ineffectiveness (2022: no material ineffectiveness) 
has been recognised in the Income Statement.

Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions, 
alternative financing and hedging. Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the 
Income Statement of a defined interest rate shift. For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used 
for all currencies, calculated on a full-year and pre-tax basis.

The scenarios are only run for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions. Based on the 
simulations performed, the impact on the Income Statement of a 50 basis-point shift in interest rates 
would be a maximum increase of £11 million (2022: £13 million) or decrease of £11 million (2022: £13 million), 
respectively for the liabilities covered. The simulation is done on a periodic basis to verify that the 
maximum loss simulated is within the limit given by management. There is also an impact on the Income 
Statement of a 50 basis-point shift of £4 million (2022: £nil) on an asset that is inherently linked to a liability 
included above, resulting in a net impact of £7 million.

2. Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash 
equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as 
credit exposures to customers. The assessment of lifetime expected credit losses relating to trade and 
other receivables is detailed in Note 14. Financial institution counterparties are subject to approval under 
the Group’s counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a BBB rating 
or above. The Group uses BBB and higher rated counterparties to manage risk and only uses sub-BBB 
rated counterparties by exception. The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to 
a limit defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board of Directors. 
Derivative financial instruments are only traded with counterparties approved in accordance with the 
approved policy. Derivative risk is measured using a risk weighting method.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION186

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued
The Group has counterparty risk from asset positions held with financial institutions. This is comprised 
of short-term investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivative positions. For risk management 
purposes the Group assesses the exposure to major financial institutions by looking at the deposits, 
cash and cash equivalents and a percentage of the nominal amount of derivative contracts taking into 
account the time to maturity and the nature of the product. The following table summarises the Group’s 
assessment of its exposure. The financial institutions listed in the tables are not comparable year on year.

2023

Credit rating

Limit 
£m

Exposure 
£m

Counterparty

Financial institution A
Financial institution B
Financial institution C
Financial institution D
Financial institution E
Financial institution F
Financial institution G
Financial institution H
Financial institution I
Financial institution J

Counterparty

Financial institution A
Financial institution B
Financial institution C
Financial institution D
Financial institution E
Financial institution F
Financial institution G
Financial institution H
Financial institution I
Financial institution J

3. Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot repay financial liabilities as and when they fall due. 
The Group’s liquidity risk is concentrated towards bond and senior note principal repayments due 
between 2024 and 2044.

At the end of 2023, the Group had long-term debt excluding lease liabilities of £6,609 million 
(2022: £6,852 million), of which £6,010 million (2022: £5,196 million) is repayable in more than two years. 
In addition, the Group has committed borrowing facilities totalling £4,500 million (2022: £4,500 million), 
of which £4,450 million (2022: £4,450 million) expires after more than two years. These facilities are 
provided by high-quality international banks, are undrawn at year end and contain a financial covenant 
which is not expected to restrict the Group’s future operations. The committed borrowing facilities, 
together with central cash and investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Group’s projected 
cash requirements.

All borrowing facilities are at floating rates of interest.

The facilities have been arranged to cover general corporate purposes, including support for commercial 
paper issuance. All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.

The Group’s borrowing limit at 31 December 2023 calculated in accordance with the Articles of 
Association was £25,344 million (2022: £28,329 million).

151
149
149
143
128
108
106
106
100
99

Exposure 
£m

The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and derivatives into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The 
amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated 
using spot rates and interest rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date, including interest to be paid.

 187 
 179 
 162 
 145 
 108 
 100 
 87 
 83 
63
59

At 31 December 2023

Bonds
Senior notes
Trade and other payables
Share repurchase liability

At 31 December 2022

Commercial paper
Bonds
Senior notes
Trade and other payables

Total 
£m

(7,983)
(1,858)
(5,276)
(296)

Total 
£m

(1,200)
(6,650)
(2,017)
(5,344)

Less than 
1 year 
£m

Between 
1 and 2 years 
£m

Between 
 2 and 5 years 
£m

(1,731)
(56)
(5,208)
(296)

(138)
(645)
(68)
–

(3,586)
(96)
–
–

Less than 
1 year 
£m

Between 
1 and 2 years 
£m

Between 
 2 and 5 years 
£m

(1,200)
(554)
(59)
(5,270)

–
(1,757)
(59)
(74)

–
(3,026)
(747)
–

Over 
5 years 
£m

(2,528)
(1,061)
–
–

Over 
5 years 
£m

–
(1,313)
(1,152)
–

A+
A
A+
A+
A+
A+
A
A+
AAAm
A

Credit rating

 A+ 
 A+ 
 A+ 
 A+ 
A
 A 
 A+ 
BBB+
AA-
A

250
200
250
250
250
250
200
250
200
200

2022

Limit 
£m

 250 
 250 
 250 
 250 
 200 
 200 
250
125
275
200

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION187

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

15 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross 
basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period between the Balance Sheet date 
and the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted 
cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date.

At 31 December 2023

FX forward exchange contracts
  Outflow
  Inflow
Cross currency interest rate swaps
  Outflow
  Inflow
Interest rate swaps
  Outflow
  Inflow

At 31 December 2022

FX forward exchange contracts
  Outflow
  Inflow
Cross currency interest rate swaps
  Outflow
  Inflow
Interest rate swaps
  Outflow
  Inflow

(8,428)
8,414

(116)
48

(67)
44

(6)
6

(116)
48

(67)
44

(6)
6

(1,534)
1,440

(126)
35

Less than 
1 year 
£m

Between 
1 and 2 years 
£m

Between 
 2 and 5 years 
£m

(5,356)
5,376

(25)
3

(21)
6

(7)
7

(25)
3

(21)
6

(13)
12

(785)
758

(63)
17

(824)
776

(55)
11

Over 
5 years 
£m

–
–

–
–

(53)
17

Cash flow forecasting is performed by the local business units and on an aggregated basis by GT. GT 
monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet 
operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities. 
Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the local businesses are 
generally remitted to GT. The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in 
the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or above.

4. Capital management
The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity. Net debt is calculated as total financing 
liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits. Total equity includes share capital, 
reserves and retained earnings as shown in the Group Balance Sheet.

Less than 
1 year 
£m

Between 
1 and 2 years 
£m

Between 
 2 and 5 years 
£m

Over 
5 years 
£m

Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts
Financing liabilities

Net debt 
Total equity

–
–

Note

17

2023 
£m

1,380
(8,670)

7,290
8,469

2022 
£m

1,156
(9,140)

7,984
9,483

15,759

17,467

The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an 
efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.

In 2023, the Group provided returns to shareholders in the form of dividends and through buying back 
shares. Refer to Note 24 for further details.

The Group monitors net debt which at year end was £7,290 million (2022: £7,984 million). In 2023 the 
Group began a share buyback programme funded by surplus free cash flow (see Note 24) in line with 
the Group’s capital allocation policy of returning surplus cash to shareholders.

Supply chain finance
The Group participates in a supply chain finance programme (SCF) under which certain suppliers to 
the Group are able to access an SCF arrangement that enables them to fund their working capital. The 
principal purpose of this programme is to facilitate efficient payment processing and enable the willing 
suppliers to sell their receivables due from the Group to a bank before their due date. The Group does 
not incur any additional interest towards the bank on the amounts due to the suppliers. As part of this 
facility the Group has confirmed to certain financial institutions that it will make payments of £358 million 
(2022: £330 million) to these suppliers as they fall due. These amounts are recorded within trade payables 
on the Balance Sheet and all cash flows associated with the programme are included within operating 
cash flows as they continue to be part of the normal operating cycle of the Group and their principal 
nature remains operating, being payments for the purchase of goods and services.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION188

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

16 Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash at bank and in hand
Short-term bank deposits

Cash and cash equivalents

2023 
£m

647
740

1,387

2022 
£m

662
495

1,157

The Group operates in a number of territories where there are either foreign currency exchange 
restrictions, or where it is difficult for the Group to extract cash readily and easily in the short-term. 
As a result, £229 million (2022: £276 million) of cash included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted 
for use by the Group, yet available for use in the relevant subsidiary’s day-to-day operations.

The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain elements of interest rate and exchange 
risk on its financing liabilities. The split between these items and other derivatives on the Balance Sheet 
is shown below:

2023 (£m)

Current

Non-current1

Current

Non-current

Derivative financial instruments (financing liabilities)
Derivative financial instruments  
(non-financing liabilities)

At 31 December 2023

45

19

64

50

–

50

(58)

(177)

(20)

(78)

(10)

(187)

Assets

Liabilities

1.  Included within other non-current receivables on the balance sheet

17 Financial Liabilities – Borrowings

Current
Bank loans and overdrafts1
Commercial paper
Bonds
Lease liabilities

Total short-term borrowings

Non-current
Bonds
Senior notes
Other non-current borrowings 
Lease liabilities

Total long-term borrowings

Total borrowings

Derivative financial instruments – as shown below
Less overdrafts presented in cash and cash equivalents in the 
Cash Flow Statement

Note

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

2022 (£m)

Assets

Liabilities

Current

Non-current

Current

Non-current

19

19

30
–
1,571
78

1,679

5,304
1,292
13
249

6,858

8,537

140

40
1,190
413
78

1,721

5,461
1,369
22
311

7,163

8,884

257

Derivative financial instruments (financing liabilities)
Derivative financial instruments  
(non-financing liabilities)

At 31 December 2022

25

34

59

–

–

–

Reconciliation of movement in financing liabilities to the Cash Flow Statement

At 1 January
Proceeds from borrowings
Repayment of borrowings 
Other financing cash flows

Total financing cash flows

New lease liabilities
Exchange, fair value and other movements

Total non-cash financing items

(34)

(21)

(55)

2023 
£m 

9,140
1,638
(1,855)
(84)

(301)

44
(213)

(169)

(248)

(1)

(249)

2022 
£m

9,637
2,274
(3,807)
383

(1,150)

134
519

653

(7)

(1)

At 31 December 

8,670

9,140

Total financing liabilities

8,670

9,140

1.  Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies: all are unsecured and bear interest based on market short-term 

interest rates

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION189

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

17 Financial Liabilities – Borrowings continued

Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:

Maturity of borrowings (excluding lease liabilities)

Bank loans and overdrafts repayable:
Within one year or on demand

Other borrowings repayable:
Within one year:
Commercial paper
Bonds
After one year and in less than five years:
Bonds
Senior notes
After five years or longer:
Bonds
Senior notes
Other non-current borrowings

Gross borrowings (unsecured)

18 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges

At 1 January 2022
Charged to the Income Statement
Utilised during the year
Released to the Income Statement
Reclassifications
Exchange adjustments

At 31 December 2022
Charged to the Income Statement
Utilised during the year
Released to the Income Statement
Reclassification
Exchange adjustments

At 31 December 2023

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

30

40

Current
Non-current

2023 
£m

142
57

199

2022 
£m

227
59

286

–
1,571

3,205
599

2,099
693
13

8,180

8,210

1,190
413

4,381
636

1,080
733
22

8,455

8,495

Legal 
provisions 
£m

Other 
provisions 
£m

Total 
provisions 
£m

180
62
(8)
(17)
(3)
7

221
7
(63)
(17)
1
(12)

137

 55
15
(3)
(12)
5
5

 65
14
(1)
(11)
(2)
(3)

62

 235
77
(11)
(29)
2
12

 286
21
(64)
(28)
(1)
(15)

199

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past 
events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, 
and the amount can be reliably estimated. As at 31 December 2023, the Group recognised legal 
provisions of £137 million (2022: £221 million) in relation to a number of historical regulatory and other 
matters in various jurisdictions.

These provisions relate to matters where the Group is currently involved with, or potentially will be 
involved in, litigation. The provision represents the Group’s best estimate of the likely settlement. Due 
to the uncertain nature of the resolution of the majority of these matters, £109 million (2022: £184 million) 
is recorded as a current provision as it is possible the matters could be settled in the next 12 months; 
however, it is possible that they may not be.

Other provisions include environmental obligations throughout the Group, the majority of which are 
expected to be utilised within five years.

19 Lease Liabilities

Maturity analysis – contractual undiscounted cash flows

Within one year
Later than one and less than five years
After five years

Total undiscounted lease liabilities at 31 December

Lease liabilities included in the statement of financial position at 31 December

Current
Non-current

Interest charged on lease liabilities amounted to £14 million (2022: £16 million).

2023 
£m

81
199
103

383

327

78
249

2022 
£m

80
253
135

468

389

78
311

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION 
 
 
190

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

20 Contingent Liabilities and Assets
Humidifier Sanitiser issue
The Humidifier Sanitiser (HS) issue in South Korea was a tragic event. The Group continues to make both 
public and personal apologies to the victims who have suffered lung injury as a result of the Oxy HS 
product and the role that the Oxy HS product played in the issue.

As previously reported, over the last several years the South Korean government has designated a 
number of diseases as HS injuries, in addition to the HS lung injury for which Reckitt Korea’s compensation 
plan was established. These include asthma, toxic hepatitis, child interstitial lung disease (ILD), bronchitis, 
upper airway disease, pneumonia, skin disease (accompanied by respiratory injuries) and depression 
(accompanied by respiratory injuries).

The Korean National Assembly passed a bill on 6 March 2020 to amend the HS law with the main changes 
in the amendment relating to: (i) the definition of HS injury; (ii) the legal presumption of causation 
(shifting the burden of proof for causation to the defendant if the plaintiff demonstrates ‘epidemiological 
correlation’ between HS exposure and their injury), and (iii) amendments to the fund set up by the 
government and funded by the government and HS companies (the Special Relief Fund (SRF), now called 
the Injury Relief Fund (IRF)) to provide expanded support payments to HS victims which would cover 
all elements of court awarded damages except mental distress, aside from KRW 100 million consolation 
payments for death cases, and partial lost income.

The Group currently has a provision of £27 million (2022: £77 million) in relation to the HS issue in 
South Korea. In addition, there are further potential costs that are not considered probable and cannot 
be reliably estimated at the current time. The impact of the HS law amendments will require further 
monitoring and analysis, in particular those which will be subject to court interpretation, such as the new 
epidemiological correlation standard, any limitation applied by courts to damage awards, the interest 
rate applied by individual courts to damage awards and external factors such as the rate of future IRF 
applications/recognitions. Accordingly, it is not possible to make any reliable estimate of liability for 
individuals recognised by the government as having HS injuries.

Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC)
Product liability actions relating to NEC have been filed against certain Group subsidiary companies, or 
against Group subsidiary companies and Abbott Laboratories, in state and federal courts in the United 
States. The actions allege injuries relating to NEC in preterm infants. Plaintiffs contend that human milk 
fortifiers (HMF) and preterm formulas containing bovine-derived ingredients cause NEC, and that 
preterm infants should receive a diet exclusively of breast milk. The Company has denied the material 
allegations of the claims. It contends that its products provide critical tools to expert neonatologists for 
the nutritional management of preterm infants for whom human milk, by itself, is not available or 
nutritionally sufficient. The products are used under the supervision of medical doctors. Any potential 
costs relating to these actions are not considered probable. Given the uncertainty on the number of 
cases, their validity and range of possible outcomes on each valid case, the possible economic outflow 
cannot be reliably estimated, but may be significant (see note 33).

Phenylephrine
Starting in September 2023, putative class action lawsuits have been filed against the Group and 
competitor companies in various United States jurisdictions that generally allege that the defendants 
made misrepresentations about the effectiveness of products containing phenylephrine. In December 
2023, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (JPML) transferred all currently pending federal court 
cases and any similar, subsequently filed cases to a coordinated multi-district litigation (MDL) in the 
Eastern District of New York for pre-trial purposes. The Group is defending these cases, which all remain 
in preliminary stages. Potential costs relating to these actions are not considered probable and cannot 
be reliably estimated at the current time.

Other
From time to time, the Group is involved in discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number 
of jurisdictions around the world. Where appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their 
assessment of each case (see Note 7).

21 Trade and Other Payables

Trade payables
Other payables
Forward share purchase liability1
Other tax and social security payable
Interest accrued on tax balances
Indemnity provisions for disposed businesses
Accruals 

Trade and other payables

2023 
£m

2,194
118
158
163
122
48
2,703

5,506

2022 
£m

2,366
123
–
172
105
–
2,781

5,547

1.  During the year, the £167 million (Note 30) recognised through equity has been re-estimated to £158 million at 31 December 

2023, resulting in a £9 million credit to other finance income

Included within accruals is £1,125 million (2022: £1,137 million) in respect of amounts payable to trade 
customers and government bodies for trade spend.

Other non-current liabilities

US employee-related payables
Indemnity provisions for disposed businesses
Other

Other non-current liabilities

2023 
£m

45
–
22

67

2022 
£m

42
51
23

116

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION191

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

21 Trade and Other Payables continued
Financial instruments (Note 15)
At 31 December 2023, £5,276 million (2022: £5,344 million) of the current and non-current trade and 
other payables totalling £5,573 million (2022: £5,663 million) are financial liabilities. These mainly relate 
to amounts owed to suppliers in respect of goods or services and are typically non-interest bearing. 
Amounts that are not financial instruments comprise employee-related liabilities, social security liabilities 
and accrued interest.

22 Current and Non-current Tax Liabilities

Current tax liabilities
Non-current tax liabilities

Total current and non-current tax liabilities

2023 
£m

620
28

648

2022 
£m

791
54

845

Certain tax positions taken by us are based on industry practice, tax advice and drawing similarities 
from our facts and circumstances to those in case law. In particular, international transfer pricing is an 
area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves 
a significant degree of judgement.

Tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to do so. Included within 
current tax liabilities is an amount of £619 million (2022: £722 million) relating to uncertain tax positions 
primarily in respect of transfer pricing. Within this, £187 million (2022: £194 million) relates to amounts 
recognised using the most likely outcome method, where the resolution of the uncertainty is concentrated 
on one binary outcome. There is no individual tax uncertainty calculated with this method that is material 
to the Financial Statements.

Also within uncertain tax positions is an amount of £432 million (2022: £528 million) recognised using 
the expected value method. The liabilities calculated using this method are not material in isolation, 
are individually assessed and cover multiple jurisdictions and issues. Therefore, it is not meaningful to 
provide aggregated sensitivity estimates. The sources of estimation uncertainty underlying this amount 
are shown in Note 1.

The recognition of uncertain tax positions is reviewed regularly for changes in circumstances and 
estimates are updated as potential resolutions for the tax uncertainties are encountered through specific 
audits or wider case law. As a result, given the size, possible range of outcomes and timing of resolution, 
there is a significant risk of material adjustment to the aggregate carrying amount of these liabilities 
within the next financial year.

The disputes underlying the liability recognised in respect of uncertain tax positions may take 
several years to resolve (see Note 1). Notwithstanding this, the carrying amount of £619 million 
(2022: £722 million) has been presented as a current liability. The associated interest accrued on 
uncertain tax positions of £122 million (2022: £105 million) also is presented as a current liability.

23 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments
Plan details
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans around the 
world covering many of its employees, which are principally funded. The Group’s most significant pension 
plan (UK) is set up under Trust and is a separate entity from the Group. It has two sections, a defined 
contribution section which remains open and a defined benefits section, which closed to accrual from 
31 December 2017. Members have a normal retirement age of 65. Trustees of the plan are appointed by 
the Group, active members and pensioner membership, and are responsible for the governance of the 
plan, including paying all administrative costs of the defined benefit section and compliance with 
regulations. The defined benefit section of the plan is funded by the payment of contributions as 
required, following each Triennial Valuation.

For the principal UK plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on a triennial basis. 
The most recent valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2022 and as the plan was in surplus on its 
technical provisions funding basis, no contributions are required to be paid by the Group in 2024 
(2023: £nil). Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis.

The Group continues to monitor the impact of UK High Court rulings clarifying the requirements to 
equalise the Guaranteed Minimum Pension element of benefits for men and women within the UK 
Pension schemes from Guaranteed Minimum Pension accrued from post 17 May 1990 pensionable 
service. A method has been agreed with the pension trustees from all defined benefit schemes 
in the UK and no benefit changes or back payments have yet been made to members.

The Group also operates a number of other post-retirement plans in certain countries. The two 
major plans are the US Retiree Health Care Plan and the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Medical Plan 
(together, the US (Medical) plans). In the US Retiree Health Care Plan, salaried participants become 
eligible for retiree healthcare benefits after they reach a combined ‘age and years of service rendered’ 
figure of 70, although the age must be a minimum of 55. This plan closed to new members in 2009. In the 
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Medical Plan, acquired as part of the acquisition of MJN on 15 June 2017, 
participants become eligible for retiree healthcare benefits if they leave employment after the age of 65, 
leave after the age of 55 and have completed 10 years of service, or have their employment involuntarily 
terminated after the age of 55. A Benefits Committee is appointed by the Group for both of these plans, 
responsible for the governance of the US plans, including paying all administrative costs and compliance 
with regulations. Both of these plans are unfunded.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION192

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

23 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued
For the US (Medical) plans, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on an annual basis. 
The most recent valuation was carried out on 1 January 2024. For both of these plans, funding levels 
are monitored on an annual basis with contributions made equal to the claims made each year. 
It is expected that the combined contributions in 2024 will be £8 million (2023: £7 million).

For the purpose of IAS 19, the projected unit valuation method was used for the UK and US plans, 
as per the principal UK plan triennial valuation results (at 5 April 2022) and the US (Medical) plan annual 
valuations to 31 December 2023. The UK plans have a weighted average duration of the deferred benefit 
obligation of 12.4 years (2022: 13.5 years). This decrease is predominantly driven by significant rises 
in bond yields over the year to 31 December 2023.

Significant actuarial assumptions
The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the Group’s net liability for the UK and US 
(Medical) plans as at 31 December were:

For the principal UK plan, the mortality assumptions were based on the standard SAPS mortality table 
3NMA for males (scaled by 98%) and table 3NFA for females (scaled by 117%). Allowance for future 
changes is made by adopting the 2022 edition of the CMI series with a long-term improvement trend of 
1.5% per annum from 2013 onwards. Allowance is made for future improvements in mortality by adopting 
the CMI’s published 2022 improvement tables with a long-term improvement trend of 1.5% per annum 
from 2013 onwards, an initial addition to mortality improvements of 0.25% pa, the core period smoothing 
parameter of 7.0 and a default weighting of 0% / 0% / 25% applied to 2020 / 2021 / 2022 calendar year 
data. For the US plan the mortality assumptions were determined using the Pri-2012 Total Dataset and 
projected with Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2021.

While COVID-19 has had an impact on mortality in the year ended 31 December 2022 and 2023, the 
long-term impact on future mortality trends is currently unknown and consequently no adjustment 
has been made to mortality assumptions in this regard, beyond adjusting the weighting in the mortality 
tables described above.

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase in deferred pensions during 
deferment
Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rate
Inflation assumption – RPI
Annual medical cost inflation

2023

2022

UK  
%

US (Medical)  
%

UK  
%

US (Medical) 
%

N/A

2.8
3.05
4.7
3.2
–

–

–
–
4.9
–
5.0-8.0

N/A

3.4
3.25
5.0
3.4
–

–

–
–
5.2
–
5.0-8.0

Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and 
experience in each territory. The expected lifetime of a participant aged 60 and the expected lifetime 
of a participant who will be aged 60 in 15 years (20 years in the US) are detailed below:

Number of years a current pensioner  
is expected to live beyond 60:
  Male
  Female
Number of years a future pensioner 
is expected to live beyond 60:
  Male
  Female

2023

2022

UK years

US years

UK years

US years

27.2
28.8

28.4
30.0

25.3
27.4

27.0
28.9

27.5
29.0

28.8
30.4

25.2
27.3

26.9
28.9

Amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet
The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are as follows:

Balance Sheet liability for:
  US (Medical)
  Other

Liability on Balance Sheet

Balance Sheet assets for:
  UK
  Other

Asset on Balance Sheet

Net pension asset

2023 
£m

(73)
(160)

(233)

206
64

270

37

2022 
£m

(81)
(159)

(240)

241
53

294

54

The UK surplus of £206 million (2022: £241 million) relates mainly to the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund. 
This surplus has been recognised as the Group has concluded it has an unconditional right to a refund of 
any surplus once all member benefits have been paid. The Group’s judgement is based on legal advice 
that the Trustees would be unable to unconditionally wind up the plan or enhance members’ benefits 
without the Group’s consent.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION193

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

23 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued
The funded and unfunded amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are determined as follows:

2023

US 
(Medical) 
£m

UK 
£m

Other 
£m

Total 
£m

2022

US 
(Medical) 
£m

UK 
£m

Other 
£m

Total 
£m

(969)
1,178

209

–
–

–

(400)
443

(1,369)
1,621

(941)
1,186

43

252

245

–
–

–

(373)
426

(1,314)
1,612

53

298

–
(3)

(73)
–

(139)
–

(212)
(3)

–
(4)

(81)
–

(159)
–

(240)
(4)

In 2021 and 2020, the Trustees of three of the UK pension plans entered into annuity buy-in agreements 
which cover, in aggregate, £273 million of pension liabilities valued under IAS 19 at 31 December 2023 
(£272 million of pension liabilities valued under IAS 19 at 31 December 2022). The agreements involved 
the purchase of bulk annuity policies under which the insurer will pay the UK pension funds amounts 
equivalent to the benefits payable to members. These purchases were conducted by the trustees to 
ensure the pension fund had an asset that would match its obligation to members. The policies are 
valued in accordance with IAS 19 by the plans’ actuary such that the fair value on the annuity policies is 
deemed to be the present value of the related obligation measured using the assumptions underpinning 
the valuation of the defined benefit obligation. The pension liabilities remain with, and the matching 
annuity policies are held within, the UK pension funds. As this was an investment decision by the trustees, 
the immaterial reduction in the valuation of plan assets (due to the difference between the purchase 
price of the annuity policy and the accounting value of the buy-in asset) arising on each buy-in was 
recorded within other comprehensive income. The Trustees have not entered any such buy-in 
agreements in 2022 or 2023.

206

(73)

(96)

37

241

(81)

(106)

54

At 31 December 2023 the Group has not committed to any buy-out arrangements in respect of any 
of the UK pension schemes.

Present value of funded 
obligations
Fair value of plan assets

Surplus of funded plans
Present value of unfunded 
obligations
Irrecoverable surplus

Net pension surplus/
(liability)

Group plan assets are comprised as follows:

2023

2022

US 
(Medical) 
£m

UK 
£m

Other 
£m

US 
(Medical) 
£m

UK 
£m

Other 
£m

Equities
Government bonds
Corporate bonds
Real estate/property – 
unquoted
Insurance contracts 
Other assets – unquoted

60
136
290

28
273
391

Fair value of plan assets

1,178

–
–
–

–
–
–

–

99
108
150

11
–
75

Total 
£m

159
244
440

39
273
466

134
167
265

82
272
266

443

1,621

1,186

Total 
£m

226
324
400

101
272
289

92
157
135

19
–
23

–
–
–

–
–
–

–

Included in other assets are £319 million (2022: £235 million) relating to liability driven investment funds. 
This is a bespoke pooled investment vehicle with underlying listed bonds, equities and structured notes. 
The fair value of the vehicle is provided by the fund manager based on the underlying value of the 
securities held within the vehicle. The trustees purchased these investments in 2021 to lower risk within 
the portfolio without reducing potential returns. These investments have a low leverage percentage and 
sufficient capital collateral in place. The remaining other assets are cash.

The present value of obligations for the combined UK plans and the US (Medical) plans at last valuation 
date is attributable to participants as follows:

426

1,612

Active participants
Participants with deferred benefits
Participants receiving benefits

Present value of obligation

2023

2022

UK 
 £m

US (Medical) 
£m

UK 
 £m

US (Medical) 
 £m

(1)
(334)
(634)

(969)

(19)
(1)
(53)

(73)

(1)
(307)
(633)

(941)

(34)
(1)
(46)

(81)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION194

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

23 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued
The movement in the Group’s net surplus/(deficit) is as follows:

At 1 January 2022
Current service cost
Administrative costs
Interest expense/(income)

Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income
(Gains) from changes in demographic assumptions
(Gains) from change in financial assumptions
Experience (gains)/losses

Exchange differences
Contributions – employers
Benefit payments

As at 31 December 2022

Current service cost
Administrative costs
Interest expense/(income)

Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income
(Gains) from changes in demographic assumptions
Losses from change in financial assumptions
Experience (gains)/losses

Exchange differences
Contributions – employers
Benefit payments
Scheme assets and obligations previously presented net1

As at 31 December 2023

Present value of obligation

Fair value of plan assets

UK 
£m

US (Medical) 
£m

UK 
 £m

US (Medical) 
£m

Other 
 £m

1,486
–
3
27

30

–
(2)
(518)
16

(504)

–
–
(71)

941

–
3
47

50

–
(16)
34
21

39

–
–
(61)
–

107
1
–
4

5

–
(11)
(22)
(3)

(36)

12
–
(7)

81

–
–
4

4

–
–
2
(5)

(3)

(4)
–
(5)
–

650
8
–
12

20

–
–
(151)
3

(148)

54
–
(44)

532

10
3
12

25

–
(1)
(15)
7

(9)

(20)
–
(26)
37

Total 
 £m

2,243
9
3
43

55

–
(13)
(691)
16

(688)

66
–
(122)

(1,788)
–
–
(34)

(34)

565
–
–
–

565

–
–
71

1,554

(1,186)

10
6
63

79

–
(17)
21
23

27

(24)
–
(92)
37

–
–
(58)

(58)

5
–
–
–

5

–
–
61
–

969

73

539

1,581

(1,178)

Other 
£m

(496)
–
–
(14)

(14)

96
–
(2)
–

94

(41)
(13)
44

Total 
£m

(2,284)
–
–
(48)

(48)

661
–
(2)
–

659

(41)
(20)
122

(426)

(1,612)

–
–
(13)

(13)

10
–
–
–

10

20
(23)
26
(37)

–
–
(71)

(71)

15
–
–
–

15

20
(28)
92
(37)

(443)

(1,621)

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
(7)
7

–

–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
(5)
5
–

–

1.  During the year, the Group identified one country where the pension assets and obligation was presented net, the presentation has been corrected to show gross presentation

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION195

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

23 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
The charge for the year ended 31 December is shown below:

Defined contribution plans
Defined benefit plans (net charge excluding interest)
  UK
  US (Medical)
  Other

Total pension costs included in operating profit (Note 5)1
Pension net finance income included in net finance expense (Note 6)

Income Statement charge included in profit before income tax

Remeasurement gains/(losses) for2:

  UK
  US (Medical)
  Other

2023 
 £m

44

3
–
13

60
(8)

52

(44)
3
(1)

(42)

2022 
 £m

49

3
1
8

61
(5)

56

(61)
36
54

29

1.  The Income Statement charge recognised in operating profit includes current service cost, past service cost and 

administrative costs

2.  Remeasurement gains excludes £1 million (2022: £nil) recognised in OCI for irrecoverable surplus

Sensitivity of significant actuarial assumptions
The sensitivity of the UK defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is shown below:

2023

Discount rate
Discount rate
RPI increase
RPI increase
Life expectancy

2022

Discount rate
Discount rate
RPI increase
RPI increase
Life expectancy

Change in assumption

Increase 0.1%
Increase 1.0%
Increase 0.1%
Increase 1.0%
Members live 1 year longer

Change in assumption

Increase 0.1%
Increase 1.0%
Increase 0.1% 
Increase 1.0%
Members live 1 year longer

Change in defined  
benefit obligation

Decrease by 1.2%
Decrease by 10.7%
Decrease by 1.0%
Increase by 8.9%
Increase by 3.3%

Change in defined  
benefit obligation

Decrease by 1.3%
Decrease by 11.5%
Increase by 0.7%
Increase by 9.2%
Increase by 3.2%

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other 
assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions 
may be correlated.

Impact of medical cost trend rates
A 1% change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have an immaterial impact on the service 
cost, interest cost and post-retirement benefit obligation.

Risk and risk management
Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the Group is exposed 
to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed as follows:

Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate 
bond yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit/reduce the surplus. The US 
plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in 
the long term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term. However, the Group believes that 
due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of 
continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Group’s long-term strategy to manage 
the plans efficiently.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION196

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

23 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued
Changes in bond yields: An increase in government and corporate bond yields will decrease plan 
liabilities, although this will be partially offset by a decrease in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. 
For example, following the increase in market bond yields in the year ended 31 December 2022, the UK 
plans’ liabilities reduced by £545 million, offset by a reduction in the plans’ bond holdings by £602 million, 
resulting in a £57 million net decrease to the plans’ surplus.

24 Share Capital

Issued and fully paid

At 31 December 2022

At 31 December 2023

Equity ordinary 
shares number

736,535,179

736,535,179

Nominal 
value 
£m

74

74

Inflation risk: Some of the Group’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will 
lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place 
to protect the plan against extreme inflation). In order to manage inflationary risks, the Trustees’ 
investment strategy within the UK plan provides a high level of protection against higher expected 
long-term inflation through investments in index-linked gilts, liability driven investments and insurance 
contracts. In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.

Life expectancy: The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member. 
Whilst the plans allow for an increase in life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an 
increase in the plans’ liabilities. This is particularly significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases 
to benefits result in higher sensitivity to improvements in life expectancy. In 2020 the principal UK 
scheme reduced its exposure by purchasing an insurance product that will pay the pensions of some 
of the plan’s pensioners. In 2021 two other UK pension schemes purchased a similar insurance policy 
covering 100% of their members’ benefits.

Change in regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact 
the funding basis of the various plans in the future. The Group’s pensions department monitors the 
changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur.

Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material 
impact on the overall level of assets. A portion of assets consists of unit linked insurance policies with 
underlying investments in quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the Group also invests in property 
and cash. The Group believes that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long term with an 
acceptable level of risk. The Trustees of all the UK funds have moved the majority of their assets to 
low-cost investment funds in consultation with the Group whilst maintaining prudent diversification and 
appropriate interest and inflation hedging. The Trustees and the Group have aligned goals in respect of 
climate risk which includes a 50% reduction in carbon footprint ambition by 2030.

The holders of ordinary shares (par value 10 pence) are entitled to receive dividends (Note 28) as 
declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the parent company.

Repurchase of ordinary shares
In October 2023, the Group announced a share buyback programme of an initial amount of £1 billion to be 
effected over 12 months. During 2023, as part of this share buyback programme, the Group entered into 
commitments to purchase £500 million of ordinary shares.

A share repurchase liability of £296 million has been recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2023 
(2022: £nil), reflecting contractual obligations to purchase ordinary shares (including associated costs).

During the year to 31 December 2023, 3,782,835 shares have been purchased at a total cost of 
£207 million. Repurchased ordinary shares have been included in the treasury shares (see below).

Allotment of ordinary shares and release of treasury shares
During the year nil ordinary shares (2022: nil ordinary shares) were allotted, 2,047,518 ordinary shares 
were released from Treasury (2022: 1,351,767) and 3,782,835 ordinary shares (2022: nil ordinary shares) 
were bought back, to satisfy vesting/exercises under the Group’s various share schemes as follows:

Ordinary shares of 10p

Released from Treasury
Executive Share Options – exercises
Restricted Shares Awards – vesting

Total under Executive Share Option 
and Conditional Award Schemes
Savings-related Share Option Schemes 
– exercises

Total released from Treasury

Bought into Treasury
Repurchase of shares

Total

2023

2022

Number of 
shares

Consideration  
£m

Number of 
shares

380,348
1,037,960

19
–

372,711
313,293

1,418,308

19

686,004

629,210

2,047,518

29

48

665,763

1,351,767

(3,782,835)

(207)

–

(1,735,317)

(159)

1,351,767

Consideration  

£m

18
–

18

36

54

–

54

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION197

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

24 Share Capital continued
In 2023, 2,047,518 Treasury shares were released (2022: 1,351,767) and 3,782,835 ordinary shares 
(2022: nil ordinary shares) were bought back, leaving a balance held at 31 December 2023 of 22,506,530 
(2022: 20,771,213). Proceeds received from the reissuance of Treasury shares to exercise share options 
were £48 million (2022: £54 million).

Other share awards
Other share awards include savings-related share options (offered to all staff within the relevant 
geographic area) and a number of Senior Executive Share Ownership Policy Plan (SOPP) awards. 
Other share awards have contractual lives of between three and eight years and are generally not 
subject to any vesting conditions other than the employee’s continued employment.

25 Share-Based Payments
The Group operates a number of incentive schemes, including a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), and 
various other share schemes. All schemes are equity-settled. The total charge for share-based payments 
for the year was £102 million (2022: £78 million).

Executive share awards
Executive share awards granted to the senior management team under the LTIP consist of Performance 
Share Options, Performance Shares, and Time-Vested Shares. For Performance Share Options and 
Performance Shares, vesting is conditional on achievement of specified performance targets over 
a three-year period as well as continued employment. For Time-Vested Shares, vesting is conditional 
only on three years of continued employment. For Performance Share Options, the exercise price is 
determined on the grant date and becomes payable on exercise, which may be up to seven years after 
the options have vested. Performance Shares and Time-Vested Shares entitle the recipient to receive 
shares at no cost following satisfaction of the vesting conditions.

The performance metrics and associated weightings for the 2022 and 2023 LTIP awards are as follows:

Individual tranches of these other share awards are not material for detailed disclosure and therefore 
information about these awards is presented only on an aggregated basis.

Valuation of share awards
The fair value of share options granted is calculated using a Black-Scholes model. Performance Share 
Options and Performance Shares which include the market-based TSR performance target are valued 
by a third-party expert using a Monte Carlo model. For Performance Shares with non-market-based 
performance conditions and for Time-Vested Shares, the fair value is the share price on the date of 
grant. From 2022 onwards, no adjustment to the market price at grant is required because all new 
Performance Shares and Time-Vested Shares accrue dividend equivalents. Performance Options do 
not accrue dividend equivalents.

The weighted average fair value of the LTIP Performance Share Options granted in the year and the key 
assumptions made in arriving at that fair value were as follows:

LTIP performance metrics – 2022 and 2023 awards

Like-for-like Net Revenue growth

Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)

Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR)

ESG

Weighting

40%

25%

25%

10%

Exercise price
Performance period
Share price on grant date
Volatility
Dividend yield
Expected life
Risk-free interest rate

LTIP awards with a market-based TSR performance condition were first granted in 2022. For LTIP awards 
granted before 2022, LTIP awards included only non-market-based performance conditions.

Weighted average fair value per award

For the Executive Committee and members of the Group Leadership Team, vesting conditions must be 
met over the three-year performance period and are not retested. For awards granted to other members 
of the senior management team before 2021, the targets can be retested in years four or five of the 
scheme. If any target has not been met, any remaining shares or options which have not vested will 
lapse. For awards granted in May 2021 and thereafter, vesting conditions must be met over the three-
year period and are not retested.

An estimate of future volatility is made with reference to historical volatility over a similar time period to 
the performance period of the option. Historical volatility is calculated based on the annualised standard 
deviation of the Group’s daily share price movement, which approximates the continuously compounded 
rate of return on the share.

The weighted average fair value of the LTIP Performance Shares granted in the year was £51.38 per 
award (2022: £57.73 per award).

Performance Share Options

2023

2022

£58.28
2023-25
£59.18
22.6%
3.1%
6.6 years
3.2%

£63.32
2022-24
£62.42
22.5%
2.2%
4 years
1.3%

£10.49

£8.32

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION198

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

25 Share-Based Payments continued
Movements in the year
The following table shows movements in the total number of outstanding awards across all award types:

26 Other Reserves

Outstanding at 1 January
Granted
Exercised
Lapsed

Year ended 
31 December 2023

Year ended 
31 December 2022

Attributable to owners of the parent

Number of 
awards

18,707,602
4,806,191
(2,084,209)
(2,866,834)

Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price

Number of 
awards

£44.99
£36.92
£23.51
£45.48

17,985,398
5,717,048
(1,388,034)
(3,606,810)

Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price

£45.14
£41.77
£38.56
£43.09

Balance at 1 January 2022
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Fair value gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to the income statement
Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax
Losses on net investment hedges, net of tax
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on 
disposal or liquidation of foreign operations, net of tax

Outstanding at 31 December

18,562,750

£45.24

18,707,602

£44.99

Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Exercisable at 31 December

3,009,018

£61.36

1,631,807

£57.54

Balance at 31 December 2022

The weighted average share price for the year was £58.38 (2022: £61.09).

Summary of outstanding awards
For awards outstanding at the year end the weighted average remaining contractual life is 5.3 years 
(2022: 4.6 years) and the range of exercise prices is as follows:

LTIP – performance share options
LTIP – performance shares
LTIP – time-vested shares
SOPP
Savings-related share options

Total

Price to be paid 
£

Number of awards 
outstanding

From

38.06
–
–
–
44.56

at 31 December 
2023

at 31 December 
2022

To

78.00
–
–
–
62.44

11,522,463
3,584,219
861,596
150,200
2,444,272

10,545,453
3,815,827
655,717
177,400
3,513,205

18,562,750

18,707,602

For LTIP awards with non-market performance conditions, assumptions regarding the number of awards 
that will eventually vest are based on the Directors’ expectations in light of the Group’s business model 
and relevant published targets.

Under the terms of the schemes, early exercise may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and 
therefore the effect of early exercise is not incorporated into the calculation of the charge.

No material modifications have occurred requiring revision to the share-based payment charge for the 
outstanding awards.

Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to the income statement
Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax
Gains on net investment hedges, net of tax
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on 
disposal or liquidation of foreign operations, net of tax

Total other comprehensive expense for the year

Balance at 31 December 2023

The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash 
flow hedging instruments related to hedge transactions that are extant at year end.

The foreign currency translation reserve contains the accumulated foreign exchange differences from 
the translation of the Financial Statements of the Group’s foreign operations arising when the Group’s 
entities are consolidated. The reserve also contains the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s 
net exposure in a foreign currency.

During the year ended 31 December 2023, a net gain of £131 million (2022: £56 million net gain) was 
reclassified to the Income Statement from foreign currency reserves following the disposal or liquidation 
of foreign operations, of which a net gain of £130 million (2022: £69 million net gain) related to the 
liquidation of subsidiaries (see Note 6 for further details) and a gain of £1 million (2022: £13 million loss) 
comprised of £1 million (2022: £20 million) arising from the disposal of certain businesses (see Note 29), 
less related tax credits of £nil (2022: £7 million) (see Note 7).

Foreign  
currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m

Hedging  
reserve 
£m

Total  
other 
reserves 
£m

11

(1,200)

(1,189)

(32)
34
–
–

–

2

13

(16)
(23)
–
–

–

(39)

(26)

–
–
1,064
(115)

(56)

893

(307)

–
–
(638)
42

(131)

(727)

(32)
34
1,064
(115)

(56)

895

(294)

(16)
(23)
(638)
42

(131)

(766)

(1,034)

(1,060)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION199

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

27 Related Party Transactions
The Group has related party relationships with its Directors and key management personnel (Note 5).

28 Dividends

Cash dividends on equity ordinary shares:
2022 Final paid: 110.3p (2021: Final paid 101.6p) per share
2023 Interim paid: 76.6p (2022: Interim paid: 73p) per share

Total dividends for the year

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

790
549

1,339

726
523

1,249

The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 
of 115.9 pence per share which will absorb an estimated £828 million of shareholders’ funds. If approved 
by shareholders it will be paid on 24 May 2024 to shareholders who are on the register on 12 April 2024, 
with an ex-dividend date of 11 April 2024.

29 Acquisitions and Disposals
Acquisitions
On 25 September 2023, the Group acquired a business distributing Reckitt products in the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia. This has been accounted for as a business combination with the purchase consideration 
£79 million, of which a preliminary fair value of £56 million has been allocated to goodwill and intangible 
assets, and a preliminary fair value of £23 million to inventories acquired.

During 2022, the Group did not complete any acquisitions.

Disposals
During 2022, the Group completed the disposals of Dermicool and E45 on 25 March 2022 and 1 April 2022, 
respectively, with combined net cash proceeds of £243 million. The net assets disposed primarily 
comprised goodwill and other intangible assets at a book value of £204 million. In addition, cumulative 
foreign exchange losses of £10 million have been reclassified to the Income Statement.

The Group recognised a net pre-tax gain of £14 million upon disposal of these brands, recorded within 
net operating expenses in the Income Statement. Both Dermicool and E45 formed part of the Health 
operating segment.

There were no disposals during 2023.

30 Forward Purchase of Shares Held by Non-Controlling Interest
On 25 May 2023 the Group entered into an agreement pursuant to which it will proceed to acquire the 
remaining interests associated with the Company’s majority owned activities in mainland China and Hong 
Kong (“RB Manon”) from its existing minority shareholders. The aggregate percentage interest of the 
minority shareholders in each of the three relevant Reckitt subsidiaries is currently between 20% and 
24.95%. RB Manon undertakes non-exclusive distribution of certain Reckitt brands in mainland China, 
Hong Kong and other Asian Pacific countries. The transaction will be implemented through the purchase 
of the non-controlling shareholdings in three subsidiaries of Reckitt held by the minority shareholders. 
This will occur in multiple stages, which are expected to take place through to 31 December 2038, 
although the agreement contains provisions for the purchase of shares to be made sooner.

The amounts payable to the minority shareholders take the form of consideration for the shares and 
dividends that may be paid on the shares prior to their acquisition. Amounts payable to the minority 
shareholders are dependent on the business performance of RB Manon. As at 25 May 2023, the estimated 
present value of the total amounts payable under the agreement was £298 million based on projections 
of future revenues and profitability of the RB Manon business, using a discount rate of 5.5% based on the 
Group’s borrowing costs in China.

The agreement has different elements which are accounted for separately. As there are no specific 
accounting standards prescribing the allocation of value in this arrangement, judgment is required to 
allocate the total amount payable. The main elements relate (1) to a forward contract for the purchase 
of a non-controlling interest in RB Manon and (2) services provided by the minority shareholders in 
relation to the transition of leadership and shares in RB Manon. The amount allocated to the forward 
purchase of shares has been based on its estimated value, with the residual amount allocated to the 
services to transition the leadership and shares as the value of these services are not estimable on 
a standalone basis.

An amount of £167 million has been allocated to the forward purchase of shares, which represents the 
minimum exit value under the agreement that minority shareholders could realise for their shares absent 
any transitional arrangements. This amount has been recorded as a liability with £143 million charged 
to retained earnings and the remaining £24 million to extinguish the existing non-controlling interest. 
Any future changes to the present value of this liability will be recorded to the Income Statement. 
The Group considers that any reasonable possible change in key assumptions would not lead to a 
material adjustment to this estimated present value in the next year. The remaining £131 million has 
been allocated to the transitional services element, which will be recognised as a liability and charged 
to the Income Statement over the performance period for these services.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION200

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Financial Statements continued

31 Assets Held For Sale
Assets and liabilities held for sale of £55 million, principally intangible assets, relate to the anticipated 
disposal of certain brands within the Health Operating Segment for which the relevant sale progress 
is ongoing. The relevant disposal is expected to complete in the first half of 2024 and contribute c.0.5% 
revenue into the Group’s 2023 Net Revenue.

32 Discontinued Operations
The income from discontinued operations of £9 million (2022: £7 million loss) relates to the Group’s 
disposal of the RB Pharmaceuticals business (now Indivior plc).

33 Post Balance Sheet Events
On 13 March 2024, a state court jury in Belleville, Illinois awarded $60 million to a mother of a child who 
was born prematurely and died 25 days later from Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC). Reckitt believe the 
allegations from the plaintiff’s lawyers in this case were not supported by the science or the experts in 
the medical community. Reckitt are actively considering all options, and at this time an economic outflow 
is not considered probable. There is a possible outcome that may be unfavourable, however, the Group 
may benefit from relevant product liability insurance subject to limits and deductibles that the Group 
considers to be reasonable. All policies contain exclusion and limitations and there can be no assurance 
that insurance will be available or adequate to cover this case. More details on NEC claims generally can 
be found in Note 20.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION201

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Five Year Summary (Unaudited)

The five-year summary below is presented on an IFRS basis. The years ending 31 December 2019, 31 December 2020, 31 December 2021, 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2023 show the results for 
continuing operations.

Income Statement

Net Revenue
Operating profit/(loss)
Net finance (expense)/income
Share of loss and impairment of equity-accounted investees, net of tax
Profit/(loss) before income tax
Income tax (charge)/credit
Attributable to non-controlling interests
Net profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent company from continuing operations

Balance Sheet
Net assets
Key Statistics – IFRS basis
Operating margin
Diluted earnings per share, continuing
Declared total dividends per ordinary share

2023 
£m

14,607
2,531
(130)
–
2,401
(753)
(14)
1,634

2022 
£m

14,453
3,249
(161)
(21)
3,067
(711)
(19)
2,337

2021 
£m

13,234
(804)
547
(3)
(260)
208
(11)
(63)

2020 
£m

13,993 
2,160 
(286)
(1)
1,873 
(720)
(16)
1,137 

2019 
 £m

12,846 
(1,954)
(153)
–
 (2,107)
(665)
(13)
(2,785)

8,469

9,483

7,453

9,159 

9,407 

17.3%
227.4p
192.5p

22.5%
325.7p
183.3p

(6.1%)
(8.8p)
174.6p

15.4%
 159.3p 
 174.6p 

(15.2%)
 (393.0p) 
 174.6p 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION 
 
202

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2023

Fixed assets
Investments
Current assets
Debtors due within one year
Debtors due after more than one year

Current liabilities
Creditors due within one year
Share repurchase liability

Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

Provisions for liabilities and charges

Net assets

EQUITY
Share capital
Share premium
Retained earnings

Total equity

Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has made a profit of £4,135 million (2022: £4,276 million) for the financial year.

The Financial Statements on pages 202-217 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its 
behalf on 21 March 2024 by:

Christopher Sinclair 
Director 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 

Company Number: 06270876

Kris Licht
Director
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Note

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

2

15,174

15,078

3, 6
4, 6

5, 6
8

7

8

185
14

199

40
21

61

(5,361)
(296)

(7,846)
– 

(5,458)

(7,785)

Balance at 1 January 2022
Comprehensive income
Profit for the financial year

Total comprehensive income

Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued
Share-based payments
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments
Cash dividends

9,716

7,293

Total transactions with owners

(26)

(44)

Balance at 31 December 2022

9,690

7,249

Comprehensive income
Profit for the financial year

74
254
9,362

9,690

74
254
6,921

7,249

Total comprehensive income

Transactions with owners
Treasury shares reissued
Purchase of ordinary shares by employee share 
ownership trust 
Repurchase of shares
Share-based payments
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments
Cash dividends

Total transactions with owners

Balance at 31 December 2023

Share 
capital 
 £m

Share  
premium 
£m

Retained 
earnings 
£m

Total 
equity 
 £m

74

253

3,763

4,090

–

–

– 

– 
– 

–

–

–

1

– 
– 

1

4,276

4,276

53
1
77
(1,249)

4,276

4,276

54
1
77
(1,249)

(1,118)

(1,117)

74

254

6,921

7,249

–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

4,135

4,135

4,135

4,135

48

48

(2)
(503)
6
96
(1,339)

(2)
(503)
6
96
(1,339)

(1,694)

(1,694)

74

254

9,362

9,690

Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has £8,521 million (2022: £6,182 million) of its retained earnings available for 
distribution. Details of Treasury shares and other equity transactions are included in Note 24 of the Group 
Financial Statements.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION203

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements

1 Parent Company Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently 
throughout the year and the preceding year.

Financial Reporting Standard 102 – Reduced Disclosure Exemptions
FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions, subject to certain conditions, which have 
been complied with.

General information and basis of accounting
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom, registered in England and 
Wales under the Companies Act 2006, and is a public limited company. The address of the registered 
office is given on page 230.

The Company is the parent of the Reckitt Benckiser Group and its principal activity is to act as a holding 
company for the Group. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 2 to 61.

New standards, amendments and interpretations
The following amended standards and interpretations were adopted by the Company during the year 
ending 31 December 2023. This amended standard has not had a significant impact on the Company 
Financial Statements.

–  Amendments to FRS 102 – International tax reform – Pillar Two model rules

Statement of compliance
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in compliance 
with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, The Financial 
Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) and the 
Companies Act 2006.

The functional currency of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is considered to be Pounds Sterling because that 
is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.

As permitted by s408 of the Companies Act 2006, a Statement of Comprehensive Income is not 
presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.

The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions:

(i)  from preparing a Statement of Cash Flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Group 

Cash Flow Statement, included in these Financial Statements, includes the Company’s cash flows; and

(ii)  from disclosing the Company key management personnel compensation, as required by FRS 102 

paragraph 33.7.

The Company’s results are included in the publicly available consolidated Financial Statements of 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and these Financial Statements may be obtained from 103-105 Bath Road, 
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH or at www.reckitt.com.

Foreign currency translation
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign 
currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Taxation
The tax charge/credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due 
to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that 
they are considered recoverable.

A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there 
will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the 
future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.

Going concern
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the Group’s Viability 
Statement as set out on page 61 of the Group Annual Report, the Directors considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Company Financial Statements. 
When reaching this conclusion, the Directors took into account the Company’s overall financial position 
and exposure to principal risks.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at 
the Balance Sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the 
future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.

Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the 
timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.

The Company has applied the temporary mandatory exception from accounting for deferred taxes 
arising from the Pillar Two model rules as set out in ‘International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules 
(Amendments to FRS102)’ issued by the FRC in July 2023.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION204

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

1 Parent Company Accounting Policies continued
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at the lower of cost or their recoverable amount, which is determined 
as the higher of net realisable value and value-in-use. A review of the potential impairment of an 
investment is carried out by the Directors if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable. Such impairment reviews are performed 
in accordance with FRS 102 Section 27 ‘Impairment of assets’.

the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset’s original 
effective interest rate. The impairment loss is recognised in comprehensive income or expense.

Financial assets are derecognised when (a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire 
or are settled, or (b) substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred 
to another party, or (c) control of the asset has been transferred to another party who has the practical 
ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions.

Employee share schemes
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under equity-settled share option and 
restricted share schemes, which have various combinations of market-based and non-market 
performance conditions, service conditions, and non-vesting conditions.

The fair value determined at the award grant date takes into account the probability of any relevant 
market-based performance conditions and non-vesting conditions being satisfied and is subsequently 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity 
instruments that will eventually vest. This estimate takes into account the expected outcome for relevant 
non-market performance conditions and service conditions but assumes satisfaction of all market-based 
performance conditions and non-vesting conditions. At each Balance Sheet date, the Company revises its 
estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original 
estimates, if any, is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income such that the cumulative 
expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.

Additional employer costs, including social security taxes, in respect of options and awards are charged to 
the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised.

The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary 
undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services 
received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an 
increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company 
Financial Statements.

Financial instruments
The Company recognises financial instruments when it becomes a party to the contractual obligations 
of the instrument.

(i) Financial assets
Basic financial assets are initially recognised at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes 
a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the future receipts. 
Such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost.

At the end of each reporting period financial assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for 
objective evidence of impairment. If an asset is impaired the impairment loss is the difference between 

(ii) Financial liabilities
Basic financial liabilities, including loans from fellow Group companies, are initially recognised at 
transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument 
is measured at the present value of future payments. Debt instruments are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost.

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when the contractual 
obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.

(iii) Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivatives, including forward foreign exchange contracts, are not basic financial instruments. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value.

The Company designates certain derivative financial instruments as fair value hedges against certain 
debtors in USD. Gains or losses arising from changes in the foreign exchange retranslation of the hedged 
item and instrument are netted in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events; it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that 
obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at the present value of the 
Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date. 
Where it is possible that a settlement may be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate 
of the estimated financial impact, appropriate disclosure is made but no provision recognised.

Where a company enters into a financial guarantee contract to guarantee the indebtedness of other 
companies within its Group, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until 
such a time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under 
the guarantee.

Share capital transactions
When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including 
directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity. Purchased shares are either held in 
Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent 
amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from retained earnings.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION205

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

1 Parent Company Accounting Policies continued
Repurchase and reissuance of ordinary shares
When shares recognised as equity are repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including 
directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity. Repurchased shares are classified as 
Treasury shares and are presented in retained earnings. When Treasury shares are sold or reissued 
subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus 
is presented within share premium.

Dividend distribution
Dividends to owners of the parent company are recognised as a liability in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded in the period 
in which they are approved and paid.

Accounting estimates and judgements
In preparing these Financial Statements, management has made judgements and estimates that affect 
the application of the Company’s accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual amounts and results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 
that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 
and future periods.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Each year, management is required to make a number of assumptions regarding the future. The related 
year end accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the final actual results. The estimates 
and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.

Tax provisions
Current tax liabilities include an amount of £156 million (2022: £132 million) relating to uncertain tax 
positions in respect of tax deductibility of management expenses. The exposure recognised is 
calculated based on the expected value method and the most likely amount method. The accounting 
estimates and judgements considered include:

–  status of the unresolved matter;

–  clarity of relevant legislation and related guidance;

–  advice from related party specialists and unrelated third parties;

–  range of possible outcomes; and

–  statute of limitations.

The recognition of uncertain tax positions is reviewed regularly for changes in circumstances and 
estimates are updated as potential resolutions for the tax uncertainties are encountered through specific 
audits or wider case law. As a result, given the size, possible range of outcomes and timing of resolution, 
there is a significant risk of material adjustment to the aggregate carrying amount of these liabilities 
within the next financial year. 

Legal provisions
The Company recognises legal provisions in line with the Company’s provisions policy. The level of 
provisioning in relation to civil and/or criminal investigations is an area where management and legal 
judgment is important, with individual provisions being based on best estimates of the probable loss, 
considering all available information, external advice and historical experience. As at 31 December 2023, 
the Company recognised legal provisions of £26 million (2022: £44 million) in relation to a number of 
historical regulatory matters. Refer to Note 7 of the Company Financial Statements for further information.

The Company’s Directors are of the opinion that there are no other judgements and no further key 
sources of estimation uncertainty in applying the Company’s accounting policies.

2 Investments

Cost
At 1 January 2022
Additions during the year

At 31 December 2022
Additions during the year

At 31 December 2023

Provision for impairment
At 1 January 2022

At 31 December 2023

Net book value
At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m

15,001
77

15,078
96

15,174

–

–

15,078
15,174

The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying 
net assets.

The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2023, all of which are included in the Group Financial 
Statements, are shown in Note 12 of the Company Financial Statements.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION206

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

2 Investments continued
With the exception of Reckitt Benckiser Limited, none of the subsidiaries are directly held by Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc. All subsidiaries have a financial year ending 31 December with the exception of: 
Reckitt Benckiser (India) Private Limited, Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India Private Limited, Mead 
Johnson Nutrition (India) Private Limited, RB Hygiene Home India Private Limited, Reckitt Piramal Private 
Limited and Scholl Latin America Limited which have a year ending 31 March; Reckitt Benckiser Health 
Kenya Limited which has a year ending 30 April; Reckitt Benckiser (Czech Republic) spol. s r.o which has 
a year ending 31 May; Lloyds Pharmaceuticals which has a year ending 24 August; RBHCR Health Reckitt 
Costa Rica Sociedad Anónima which has a year ending 30 September and Pt Reckitt Benckiser Indonesia 
which has a year ending 29 October.

Additions during the year, and in 2022, relate to the grant by the Company of options over its equity 
instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group.

3 Debtors Due Within One Year

Amounts owed by Group undertakings
Other debtors

2023 
£m

178
7

185

Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand 
(2022: same).

4 Debtors Due After More Than One Year

Deferred tax assets
Other receivables

Deferred tax assets consist of short-term timing differences.

2023 
£m

1
13

14

2022 
£m

30
10

40

2022 
£m

1
20

21

5 Creditors Due Within One Year

Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Taxation and social security
Derivative liabilities
Other creditors

2023 
£m

5,196
157
1
7

5,361

2022 
£m

7,707
133
2
4

7,846

Included in the amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount of £5,123 million (2022: £7,609 million) 
which is unsecured, carries interest at the official ISDA fallback rate and is repayable on demand 
(2022: same). All other amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, non-interest bearing 
and are repayable on demand (2022: same).

Included within taxation and social security creditors is an amount recognised in respect of uncertain 
tax positions may take several years to resolve (Note 1). Notwithstanding this, the presentation of 
corporation tax liabilities has been assessed to reflect that there is not an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of these liabilities and the carrying amount of £156 million (2022: £132 million) has been 
presented as a current liability.

6 Financial instruments

Financial assets measured at amortised cost
Amounts owed by Group undertakings

Other receivables – current and non-current

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative liabilities
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Share repurchase liability
Other payables

2023 
£m

178

20

198

2022 
£m

30

30

60

(1)

(2)

(5,196)
(296)
(7)

(7,707)
–
(4)

(5,500)

(7,713)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION207

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges

At 1 January 2022

Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Utilised during the year
Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income

At 31 December 2022

Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Utilised during the year
Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income

At 31 December 2023

Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:

Current
Non-current

Provisions relate to legal provisions in relation to a number of historical matters.

Legal 
provisions 
£m

Total 
provisions 
£m

41

14
(7)
(4)

44

1
(18)
(1)

26

2023 
£m

26
–

26

41

14
(7)
(4)

44

1
(18)
(1)

26

2022 
£m

43
1

44

8 Share Capital

Issued and fully paid

At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

Equity  
ordinary  
shares

Nominal  
value  
£m

736,535,179
736,535,179

74
74

9 Related Party Transactions
There were no transactions with related parties other than wholly owned companies within the Group

10 Contingent Liabilities
The Company has issued a guarantee to the trustees of the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund covering the 
obligations of certain UK subsidiaries of the Group who are the sponsoring employers of the UK defined 
benefit pension fund. The guarantee covers any amounts due to the pension fund from these subsidiaries 
if they fail to meet their pension obligations.

The Company issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in relation to the 
issuance of a $4,500 million bond (2022: $5,000 million bond), made up of one tranche of $2,500 million 
and one tranche of $2,000 million (2022: one tranche of $2,500 million, one tranche of $2,000 million and 
one tranche of $500 million). The Company has issued a further guarantee in relation to the issuance of 
a £500 million bond (2022: £500 million). Details are included in Note 15 of the Group Financial Statements.

During the year, the Company issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in 
relation to the issuance of a €1,400 million bond, made up of one tranche of €750 million and one tranche 
of €650 million. The Company has issued a further guarantee in relation to the issuance of a £300 million 
bond. Details are included in Note 15 of the Group Financial Statements.

The Company issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in relation to 
committed borrowing facilities totalling £4,500 million (2022: £4,500 million). Details of the facilities 
are included in Note 15 of the Group Financial Statements.

The Company issued a guarantee on behalf of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company in relation to 
outstanding senior notes of $1,550 million (2022: $1,550 million) issued by Mead Johnson Nutrition 
Company prior to acquisition. The senior notes consist of one tranche of $750 million, one tranche 
of $500 million and one tranche of $300 million (2022: same).

The Company has also issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services (Nederland) 
BV in relation to the issuance of two €850 million bonds (2022: two €850 million bonds). Details are 
included in Note 15 of the Group Financial Statements.

The holders of ordinary shares (par value 10 pence) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from 
time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company. Dividends 
proposed and paid are disclosed in Note 28 of the Group Financial Statements.

The Company has provided a guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings to exempt them from audit 
under Section 479a of the Companies Act 2006. The companies to which a guarantee has been issued 
for this purpose are highlighted in Note 12.

The allotment of ordinary shares and release of Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 24 of the Group 
Financial Statements.

In addition, the Company announced a share buyback programme also disclosed in Note 24 of the Group 
Financial Statements.

Other contingent liabilities are disclosed in Note 20 of the Group Financial Statements.

11 Post Balance Sheet Events
There are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date that require disclosure.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION208

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 
(the ‘CA 2006’) and Schedule 4 of The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, 
a full list of related undertakings as at 31 December 2023 is disclosed 
below. All undertakings are indirectly owned by Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc, unless otherwise stated. All shares detailed below are 
100% owned, unless specified otherwise. The percentage held by 
the Group reflects both the proportion of nominal capital and voting 
rights unless stated otherwise. 

From time to time, management reviews the Group structure 
and seeks to remove redundant, dormant or non-trading entities. 
During the year ended 31 December 2023, five legal entities were 
dissolved, liquidated or otherwise disposed of (2022: 17 legal entities). 
The removal of legal entities ultimately allows management to focus 
on the core business, reduces compliance obligations and cost, 
and improves transparency of the Group to external parties. 

All subsidiary undertakings of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc are 
included in the consolidated Financial Statements of the Group. 
The subsidiary undertakings marked with * are exempt from the 
requirements under section 479A of the CA 2006 relating to the 
audit of their individual accounts, as Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
has guaranteed them under Section 479C of the CA 2006.

Entity name

Argentina

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

RB (Hygiene Home) Australia Pty 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (Australia) Pty 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
Australia Pty Limited

SSL Australia Pty Ltd

Austria

Guglgasse 15, 1110, Vienna, Austria

RB Hygiene Home Austria GmbH

Reckitt Benckiser Austria GmbH

Bahamas

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Ordinary

Brazil

Ordinary, 
Preference

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Av Guarapari, S/N, Galpao1 – Modulos 05 Ao 14cond Log Vianaii Bus/Park, Viana, 
Es, 29.136-344, Brazil

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Comercial 
de Produtos de Hygiene, Limpeza e 
Cosméticos Ltda. – Branch Viana

#

–

Av. Portugal, nº 1.100, Setor Rua 6 Parte A12, Bairro Itaqui, Itapevi, São Paulo, 
06696-060, Brazil

Reckitt Benckiser Health Comercial 
Ltda

#

–

Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, n° 1909, 24° andar, Parte B, Torre Norte, 
Condomínio São Paulo Corporate Towers, Vila Nova Conceição, Sao Paulo – SP, 
CEP 04.543-907, Brazil

c/o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH, United Kingdom

Scholl Latin America Limited 

+

–

Ordinary

Bahrain

Building 330, Road 1506, Block 115, Bahrain International Investment ParK, Hidd. 
Kingdom of Bahrain, Bahrain

Reckitt Benckiser Bahrain W.L.L

Ordinary

Bangladesh

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Comercial 
de Produtos de Hygiene, Limpeza e 
Cosméticos Ltda.

Mead Johnson do Brasil Comércio e 
Importação de Produtos de 
Nutrição Ltda.

Reckitt Benckiser Health Comercial 
Ltda

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Est Dona Maria Jose Ferraz Prado, 1481, Cond Dist. Park Embu, Brazil

58-59 Nasirabad Industrial Area, Chittagong 4209, Bangladesh

Reckitt Benckiser (Bangladesh) PLC

82.9612

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Comercial 
de Produtos de Hygiene, Limpeza e 
Cosméticos Ltda. – Branch Embu

#

–

Bucarelli 2608 PB “A”, Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina

Reckitt Benckiser BY LLC

Reckitt Benckiser Argentina S.A.

Reckitt Benckiser Health Argentina 
S.A.

Australia

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Australia) 
Pty Ltd

King & Wood Mallesons, ‘Governor Phillip Tower’ Level 61, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney 
NSW 2000, Australia

Ordinary

Bermuda

Belarus

of. 166, 66, K Liebknekhta st., Minsk, 220036, Belarus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Belgium

20 Allée de la Recherche, 1070 Anderlecht, Belgium

RB Hygiene Home Belgium SA/NA

Reckitt Benckiser (Belgium) SA/NV

Charter 
Capital

Ordinary

Ordinary

Estm Maria Margarida Pinto Dona Belinha, 742, GalpaO3, Bloco I/A, Brazil

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Comercial 
de Produtos de Hygiene, Limpeza e 
Cosméticos Ltda. – Branch Extrema

#

–

Estrada Fukutaro Yida, n. 930, Bairro Cooperativa, Sao Bernardo Do Campo, Sao 
Paulo, 09852-060, Brazil

Apenas Boa Nutrição Indústria de 
Alimentos Ltda.

Ordinary

Rod Dom Gabriel Paulino Bueno Couto, 1606, Brazil

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Ltda 
– Branch Itupeva

#

–

Level 47, 680 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia

Suffolk Insurance Limited

Common

Clarendon House, Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda

Rod Governador Mario Cova, 7270, KM 264 Parte RB, Brazil

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION209

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Comercial 
de Produtos de Hygiene, Limpeza e 
Cosméticos Ltda. – Branch Serra

#

–

Entity name

China

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

16/F, Xu Jia Hui International Plaza, No.1033 Zhao Jia Bang Road, Shanghai, China

Qingdao New Bridge Corporate 
Management Consulting Company 
Limited

Ordinary

Rodovia Antonio Heil, SC 486, km 4, Bairro Itaipava, “Armazém 1B”, Itajaí, São 
Paulo, CEP 88316-003, Brazil

RB & Manon Hygiene Home 
(Shanghai) Limited

+

80.0000

Ordinary

Room 1605, No.660 Shangcheng Road, Pudong District, Shanghai City, China

Mead Johnson Do Brasil Comércio E 
Importação De Produtos De 
Nutrição Ltda.

#

–

Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015 km 18, Jardim Arpoador, Sao Paolo, CEP 05577-900, 
Brazil

Fenla Indústria, Comércio e 
Administração Ltda

Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Ltda

Bulgaria

Ordinary

Ordinary

22 Zlaten rog Street, Floor 3, Office 4, District of Lozenets, City of Sofia, Bulgaria

Reckitt Benckiser Romania, 
representative office

# 

–

Canada

Suite 600, 1741 Lower Water Street, Halifax NS B3J 0J2, Canada

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Canada) 
Co.

Suite 2300, 550 Burard Street, Vancouver BC V6C 2B5, Canada

RB Health (Canada) Inc.

1680 Tech Avenue, Unit 2, Mississauga ON L4W 5S9, Canada

Reckitt Benckiser (Canada) Inc.

Cayman Islands

Common

Common

Common

PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands

B01, Suite 401, Unit 2, No. 9 Dongdaqiao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 
China

SSL Healthcare (Shanghai) Limited

Ordinary

Room 1701, No. 1033, Zhao Jia Bang Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China

RB (China) Holding Co. Limited

Capital 
Contribution

RB & Manon Business Co. Limited

75.0000

Capital 
Contribution

C6-8 Site 6F, No.333 Futexi Road, Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Shanghai City, 
China

Room 2109, Floor 2, No.10 Chaoyangmenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing City, 
China

Ordinary

Tai He Tai Lai Culture 
Communication Co Limited

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Home Chemical 
Products Trading (Shanghai) Co. 
Limited

Dangtu Economic Development District, Maanshan City, Anhui Province, China

Guilong Health Technology (Anhui) 
Co., Limited

Anhui Guilong Pharmaceutical 
Trading Company Limited

Guilong Pharmaceutical (Anhui) 
Company Limited

Capital 
Contribution

Capital 
Contribution

Capital 
Contribution

Ketian Aquatic Science and Technology Industrial Park, No. 3949 Kunlunshan 
Avenue, Lanzhou New Area, Lanzhou City, Gansu Province, China

Lanzhou Keshi Xixili Healthcare 
Technologies Co. Ltd

80.0000

Ordinary

No. 3, Canglian 1 road, ETDZ, Guangzhou, China

Reckitt & Colman (Guangzhou) 
Limited

No. 34 East Beijing Road, Jingzhou, Hubei, 434001, China

Ordinary

Capital 
Contribution

Capital 
Contribution

Unit 02, 11/F, Tower A Hedonic Center, 6 Songyue Road, Siming District, Xiamen, 
China

Guilong Pharmaceutical (Anhui) Co. 
Ltd – Xiamen branch

#

–

Colombia

Calle 76 No 11-17, Edificio Torre, Los Nogales Piso 2, Bogota, CO, Colombia

Mead Johnson Nutrition Colombia 
Ltda

RB (Health) Colombia S.A.S.

Carrera 6 #45-105, Cali, Colombia

Reckitt Benckiser Colombia S.A

Costa Rica

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

San Jose-Escazu En Escazu Corporate Center, Setimo Piso, Costado Sur De 
Multiplaza Escazu, Costa Rica

RBHCR Health Reckitt Costa Rica 
Sociedad Anónima

Reckitt Benckiser (Centroamérica) 
S.A.

Croatia

Common

Ordinary

Ulica Grada Vukovara 269d, 10 000 Zagreb, Hrvatska, Croatia

Reckitt Benckiser d.o.o.

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser (Cayman Islands) 
Limited

Chile

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Household 
Products (China) Company Limited

No. 99, Changjiang Da Road, Fuqiao Town, Taicang City, China

RB (Suzhou) Co. Ltd

Avenida Presidente Kennedy Lateral 5454, Oficina 1602, Vitacura, Región 
Metropolitana, Chile

Reckitt Benckiser Chile S.A.

Ordinary

No.1-13 Shangma, Aodong Road, High-tech Industrial Development Zone, Qingdao 
City, Shandong Province, China

Qingdao London Durex Co., Limited

Ordinary

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION210

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Entity name

Cyprus

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Estonia

1 Lampousas Street, P.C. 1095, Nicosia, Cyprus

Harju maakond, Rae vald, Rae küla, Raeküla tee 5, 75310, Estonia

Gainbridge Investments (Cyprus) 
Limited

Czech Republic

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser (Latvia) SIA Eesti 
filiaal

# 

–

Finland

Vinohradská 2828/151, 130 00 Praha 3-Žižkov, Czech Republic

Itsehallintokuja 6, 02600 Espoo, Finland, Finland

RB (Hygiene Home) Czech Republic, 
spol. s.r.o.

Reckitt Benckiser (Czech Republic) 
spol s.r.o.

Denmark

Ordinary

RB Health Nordic A/S sivuliike 
Suomessa

Partnership 
Interest

RB Hygiene Home Nordic A/S, 
sivuliike Suomessa

# 

# 

–

–

France

Vandtårnsvej 83 A, 2860, Søborg, Denmark

38 rue Victor Basch- 91300 Massy, France

RB Health Nordic A/S

RB Hygiene Home Nordic A/S

Dominican Republic

Ordinary

Ordinary

Av. Winston Churchill No. 1099 Torre Acrópolis, Piso 12, Santo Domingo, República 
Dominicana

Mead Johnson Nutrition 
(Dominicana), S.A.

# 

–

Ecuador

Airwick Industrie SAS

RB Holding Europe Du Sud SAS

RB Hygiene Home France SAS

Reckitt Benckiser Chartres SAS

Reckitt Benckiser France SAS

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
France SAS

Germany

Av CoruñaN27-88 y Orellana, Edificio Coruña Plaza 7mo Piso, Quito, 170150, 
Ecuador

Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115, Heidelberg, Germany

RB Health Ecuador Cía. Ltda

Ordinary

Oficina 4C, Av. 12 de Octubre, #26-48 y Orellana, Edificio Mirage, Piso 4, Quito, 
170525, Ecuador

Reckitt Benckiser Ecuador S.A.

Ordinary

Egypt

Polyom Building, 22 Off Road 90, Fifth District, Fifth Settlement, New Cairo, Cairo, 
Egypt

Reckitt Benckiser Egypt Limited

Ordinary

Building A1, Second Floor, Plot #A14b01, Cairo Festival City, First District, Fifth 
Settlement, New Cairo, Cairo, Egypt

RB Hygiene Home Deutschland 
GmbH

Reckitt & Colman Sagrotan 
Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH

Reckitt Benckiser Detergents 
GmbH

Reckitt Benckiser Deutschland 
GmbH

Reckitt Benckiser Holding GmbH & 
Co KG

Heinestrasse 9, 69469, Weinheim, Germany

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Capital 
Contribution

Common

Ordinary

Common

Capital 
Contribution

Common

Propack Produkte fur Haushalt und 
Korperpflege GmbH

Reckitt Benckiser Global R&D 
GmbH

Greece

7 Taki Kavalieratou Street, Kifissia, 145 64, Greece

Reckitt Benckiser Hellas Healthcare 
S.A.

Reckitt Benckiser Hellas Hygiene 
Home S.A.

Guernsey

Ordinary

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, GY1 1EW, 
Guernsey

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings 
(Channel Islands) Limited

Hong Kong

Bonus, 
Ordinary

Room 2001, 20/F, Greenfield Tower, Concordia Plaza, No.1 Science Museum Road, 
Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong

RB & Manon Hygiene Home Limited

80.0000

Ordinary

Rooms 2206-11, 22 Floor, Chubb Tower, Windsor House, 311 Gloucester Road, 
Causeway Bay, Hong Kong

London International Trading (Asia) 
Limited

Oriental Medicine Company Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong 
Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Unit 2001, 20/F, Greenfield Tower Concordia Plaza, No. 1 Science Museum Road, 
Kowloon, Hong Kong

RB & Manon Business Limited

75.0000

Ordinary

Hungary

Bocskai út 134-146, Budapest, H-1113, Hungary

RB (Hygiene Home) Hungary Kft

Reckitt Benckiser Kereskedelmi Kft

Ordinary

Partnership 
Interest

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Hygiene Home 
Egypt Limited

+

Ordinary

Kukident GmbH

Robert-Koch-Straße 1, 69115, Heidelberg, Germany

Reckitt Benckiser Tatabánya Kft

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION211

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Redeemable 
Preference 
– Class A/C/D

Charter 
Capital

Entity name

India

DLF Cyber Park, 6th & 7th Floor (Tower C), 405 B, Udyog Vihar Phase III, Sector 20, 
Gurugram, Haryana, 122016, India

Reckitt Benckiser Ireland Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Management 
Services Unlimited Company

RB Hygiene Home India Private 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (India) Private 
limited

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India 
Private Limited

Ordinary

Equity

6th Floor, 2 Grand Canal Square, Dublin 2, Ireland

RB Ireland Hygiene Home 
Commercial Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary-A, 
B, C, D, E, F, G, 
H, I, J K

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.3) 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.5) 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.7) 
Limited

99.9999

Ordinary

Israel

Kazakhstan

Unit No. 54, 5th Floor, Kalpataru Square, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400059, India

Mead Johnson Nutrition (India) 
Private Limited

Ordinary

Italy

6A Hangar Street, PO Box 6440, I.Z., Neve Nee’man B, Hod Hasharon, 457703, Israel

Bld. 15/A, Koktem-1, Almaty, 050040, Kazakhstan

Reckitt Benckiser (Near East) 
Limited

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Health 
Kazakhstan LLP

Office 302, Building 15a, Koktem-1, Micro District, Almaty City, Kazakhstan

Reckitt Piramal Private Limited

99.9999

Ordinary

Via Spadolini 7, 20141, Milano, Italy

Reckitt Benckiser Kazakhstan LLP

Ordinary

Indonesia

Jl. Raya Narogong, Chamber A.I, Kel. Pasirangin, Kec Cileungsi, Kab. Bogor. 
Provinsi. Jawa Barat, 16820, Indonesia

PT Reckitt Benckiser Trading 
Indonesia

Ordinary

Treasury Tower 58th Floor, District 8, SCBD, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53, 
Jakarta, 12190, Indonesia

PT Mead Johnson Indonesia

90.1000

PT Reckitt Benckiser Indonesia

Pt. Reckitt Benckiser Hygiene 
Home Indonesia

Pt. Reckitt Benckiser Hygiene 
Home Trading Indonesia

Iran, Islamic Republic of

+

+

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Commercial 
(Italia) Srl

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (Italia) 
S.p.A.

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (Italia) 
Srl

Reckitt Benckiser Italia SpA

Japan

Quota

Kenya

Ordinary

Quota

Ordinary

3-20-14 Higashi Gotanda, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, 141-0022, Japan

Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific 
Limited

# 

–

Sumitomo Fudosan Takanawa Park Tower 14F, 3-20-14 Higashi-Gotanda, 
Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, 141-0022, Japan

Reckitt Benckiser Japan Ltd

Ordinary

1st Floor, unit 11, No.88 Baran Building, Sayed Road, Opposite Mellat Park, 
Vali-e-Asr Avenue, Tehran, Iran, Islamic Republic of

Jersey

44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey

Reckitt Benckiser Pars PJSC

Ireland

Ordinary

SSL Capital Limited

c/o TMF Group, Ground Floor, Two Dockland Central, Guild Street, North Dock, 
Dublin 1, D01 K2C5, Ireland

Dorincourt Holdings (Ireland) 
Limited

Ordinary

IFC 5, St. Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey

Reckitt & Colman (Jersey) Limited

Reckitt & Colman Capital Finance 
Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

14 Riverside Drive, Arlington Building, 3rd Floor, Nairobi, 209/19, Kenya

Reckitt Benckiser Health Kenya 
Limited

Ordinary

LR.NO.1870/1/569, 2nd Floor, Apollo Centre, Ring Road Westlands, Kenya

Reckitt Benckiser Services (Kenya) 
Limited

Plot 209/2462, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya

Reckitt Benckiser East Africa 
Limited

Korea, Republic of

Ordinary

99.9899

Ordinary

24th Floor, Two IFC, 10 Gukjegeumyung-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07326, Korea, 
Republic of

Oxy Reckitt Benckiser LLC

Latvia

Strēlnieku iela 1A – 2, Rīga, LV-1010, Latvia

Capital 
Contribution

Reckitt Benckiser (Latvia) SIA

Ordinary

Lithuania

Vilniaus m. sav. Vilniaus m. Olimpiečių g. 1A, Lithuania

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION212

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Reckitt Benckiser (Latvia) SIA LT 
filialas

# 

–

Luxembourg

1 Rue de la Poudrerie, Leudelange, L-3364, Luxembourg

Canterbury Square Holdings S.à.r.l

RB Holdings (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l

RB Holdings Luxembourg (2018) 
S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 
1) S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 
2) S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 
4) S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 
5) S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 
7) S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser Investments (No. 
8) S.à.r.l

Reckitt Benckiser S.à.r.l.

Reigate Square Holdings S.à.r.l.

Reckitt Benckiser N.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (USA) 
Limited

Malaysia

# 

# 

–

–

Ordinary-A

Ordinary-A

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary-A

Ordinary

Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 
Damansara Heights 50490, Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Manufactura MJN, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Ordinary

Av. Ejército Nacional No.769, Corporativo Miyana Torre B, Piso 6, Alcaldía Miguel 
Hidalgo, Colonia Granada, CP 11520, Mexico

Beleggingsmaatschappij Lemore 
B.V.

Central Square Holding B.V.

Mead Johnson Nutricionales de 
México, S. de R.L. de C.V.

RB Health México, S.A. de C.V.

RB Health Services, S.A. de C.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Mexico, S.A. de 
C.V.

Servicios Nutricionales Mead 
Johnson S.de R.L. de C.V.

Ordinary

Grosvenor Square Holding B.V.

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

Ordinary

Ordinary

Hamol NL B.V.

Maddison Square Holding B.V.

MJN Global Holdings B.V.

MJN Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.

MJN Innovation Services B.V.

Ordinary

New Bridge Holdings B.V.

RB Hygiene Home Netherlands BV

Calzada de Tlalpan No. 2996, Col. Ex Hacienda Coapa, Del. Coyoacán, Cd. de 
México, C.P. 04980, Mexico

RB NL Brands B.V.

RB Salute Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Ordinary

Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7, No. 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, Atizapan de 
Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico

Reckitt Benckiser Services S.A. de 
C.V.

Morocco

Ordinary

59 Boulevard Zerktouni, Residence Les Fleurs 6eme étage, Casablanca, Morocco

Reckitt Benckiser (South America) 
Holding B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser (Spain) B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Brands 
Investments B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Calgon BV

Reckitt Benckiser Fabric Treatment 
B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Morocco SARL/
AU

Netherlands

225 North Canal Street, Floor 25, Chicago IL IL 60606, United States

Mead Johnson One C.V.

Mead Johnson Two C.V.

◊

◊

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Finish B.V.

Membership 
Interest

Membership 
interest

Ordinary

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser FSIA B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Laundry 
Detergents (No. 1) B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Laundry 
Detergents (No. 2) B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Lime-A-Way B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Marc B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser N.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Oven Cleaners 
BV

Reckitt Benckiser Power Cleaners 
B.V.

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Malaysia) 
Sdn Bhd

RB (Health) Malaysia Sdn Bhd

Reckitt Benckiser (Malaysia) Sdn 
Bhd

Mexico

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Schiphol Boulevard 267, 1118 BH, Schiphol, Netherlands

Reckitt Benckiser (ENA) B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services 
(Nederland) B.V.

Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT, Hoofddorp, The Netherlands

Av de las Granjas 972, Col. Santa Barbara, Azcapotzalco, CDMX, 02230, Mexico

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION213

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Calle Dean Valdivia No. 148, Torre 1, Ofic. 501, Urb. Jardín, San Isidro, Lima, Peru

Entity name

Puerto Rico

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Reckitt Benckiser Tiret B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Vanish B.V.

RB LATAM Holding B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser Hygiene Home 
Brands B.V.

New Zealand

2 Fred Thomas Drive, Takapuna, Auckland, 0622, New Zealand

RB (Hygiene Home) New Zealand 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (New Zealand) 
Limited

SSL New Zealand Limited

Nigeria

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Capital 
contribution

RB Health Peru S.R.L

Philippines

Ordinary

Los Frailes Industrial Park, Ave. Esmeralda, Calle C # 475, Guaynabo, 00969, 
Puerto Rico

2309 Don Chino Roces Avenue Extension, Makati City, PH 1321, Philippines

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Puerto 
Rico) Inc.

# 

–

2309 Realty Corporation

44.6606

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

Romania

Mead Johnson Nutrition 
(Philippines), Inc.

99.9996

Ordinary

Iancu de Hunedoara Boulevard, Nr. 48, 11th Floor, Crystal Tower Building, 1st 
District, Bucharest, 011745, Romania

Sphinx Holdings Company, Inc.

32.8125

Common, 
Preference

Reckitt Benckiser (Romania) S.R.L

Partnership 
Interest

3rd Floor Mead Johnson Nutrition Philippines Inc., 2309 Don Chino Roces Extension, 
Makati City, 1231, Philippines

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
(Philippines), Inc.

99.9978

Common, 
Preference

Str. Grigore Alexandrescu 89-97, Aripa Vest, Et. 5, Finish room, Sect. 1, Bucuresti, 
010624, Romania

RB (Hygiene Home) Romania S.R.L.

Ordinary

12, 11th Floor Heritage Place, 21 Lugard Avenue Ikoyi, Ikoyi, Lagos State, Nigeria

Poland

Russian Federation

Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria Limited

Ordinary

Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki, Ul. Okunin 1, 05-100, Poland

Norway

Henrik Ibsens gate 60A, 0255 Oslo, Norway

RB Health Nordic, NUF

RB Hygiene Home Nordic NUF

# 

# 

–

–

Pakistan

Tenancy 04 & 05, 3rd Floor, Corporate Office Block, Dolmen City, HC, Block 4, 
Scheme 5, Clifton, Karachi, 75600, Pakistan

Reckitt Benckiser Pakistan Limited

98.6846

Ordinary

Panama

Apartment 6G, 6th Floor, Edificio Bladex, Calle Avenida La Rotonda. Business Park, 
Corregimiento de Juan Diaz, Urbanización Costa Del Este, Provincia De Panamá, 
Distrito de Panama, Panama

RB (Hygiene Home) Poland Sp. 
Z.o.o.

Ul. Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwor Mazowiecki, Poland

Reckitt Benckiser (Poland) S.A.

Reckitt Benckiser Production 
(Poland) SP Z.o.o.

Ul. Wołoska 22, 02-675, Warsaw, Poland

Reckitt Business Services Sp. z.o.o.

Mead Johnson Nutrition Trading 
Poland S.p z.o.o.

Portugal

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Partnership 
Interest

Membership 
Interest

Estrada Malhada dos Carrascos, 12, Porto Alto, 2135-061, Samora Correia, Portugal

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Panama), 
S.de R.L.

Peru

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Porto Alto Lda

Rua D. Cristóvão da Gama, n.º 1, 1º, C/D, 1400-116, Lisboa, Portugal

Av. Republica de Panama # 2577, Urb. Santa Catalina, La Victoria, Lima, Peru

Reckitt Benckiser Peru S.A.

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser (Portugal), S.A.

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare, Lda

Quota

Ordinary

Quota

3rd Floor, 4 Shluzovaya emb., Zamoskvorechye Municipal district, Moscow, 115114, 
Russia

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare LLC

Reckitt Benckiser IP LLC

Charter 
Capital

Charter 
Capital

4 Shluzovaya emb., Zamoskvorechye Municipal district, Moscow, 115114, Russia

Reckitt Benckiser LLC

Charter 
Capital

Klin City, Tereshkovoy Street, 1, 14160052 /1, Moscow Region, Russian Federation

Branch of Reckitt Benckiser LLC in 
city Klin, Moscow region, Russia

#

–

Saudi Arabia

Office number 51, Fifth floor, Mukmal Plaza Center, Al Hamra District Palestine 
Street, Jeddah City, Saudi Arabia

Reckitt Sanabil for Trading Co LLC

51.0000

Ordinary

Singapore

12 Marina Boulevard, #19-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, 018982, Singapore

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Asia 
Pacific) Pte. Ltd.

Ordinary

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION214

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Entity name

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Singapore) 
Pte. Ltd.

Mead Johnson Nutrition Holdings 
(Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Reckitt Benckiser (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited

Slovakia

Drieňová 3, 821 08 Bratislava, 
Slovakia

RB (Hygiene Home) Slovakia spol. 
s.r.o

Reckitt Benckiser (Slovak Republic), 
spol s.r.o.

South Africa

Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals 
(Proprietary) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser South Africa 
Health Holdings (Pty) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser South Africa 
Proprietary Limited

Spain

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Ordinary

Ordinary

Entity name

Sri Lanka

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

No. 388 Exchange Tower, 14th Floor, Sukhumvit Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, TH 10110, 
Thailand

No.25, Shrubbery Garden, COLOMBO-04, Sri Lanka

Reckitt Benckiser (Lanka) Limited

99.9991

Ordinary

Ordinary

Sweden

Box 190, 101 23 Stockholm, Sweden

SSL Healthcare Sverige AB

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser (Thailand) 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Holding 
(Thailand) Limited

RB Hygiene Home (Thailand) 
Limited

c/o Reckitt Benckiser Nordic A/S, Danmark Filial, Regeringsqatan 29, 111 53, 
Stockholm, Sweden

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Thailand) 
Ltd

44.9999

Ordinary

45.0000

99.5749

Common, 
Preference

Common

Common/
Equity

Ordinary

Partnership 
Interest

RB Health Nordic A/S, filial

# 

–

Vretenvägen 2, 4th Floor, 171 54 SOLNA, Sweden

RB Hygiene Home Nordic A/S, filial

# 

–

Switzerland

Ordinary

RB Hygiene Home Switzerland AG

Reckitt Benckiser (Switzerland) AG

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser AG

Ordinary

Taiwan

6F, No. 136, Sec. 3, Ren-Ai Rd., Da-An Dist., Taipei City 10, 10657, Taiwan

Reckitt Benckiser HK Limited 
Taiwan branch

# 

–

Turkey

Esentepe Mah., Büyükdere Cad., Tekfen Blok No:209/2, Şişli, İstanbul, Turkey

Reckitt Benckiser Ev ve Hijyen 
Ürünleri Levent Şubesi

#

–

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Esentepe Mahallesi Büyükdere Caddesi Tekfen, Tower No: 209 A Blok D:2 34394 4., 
Levent, Şişli, İstanbul, Turkey

Reckitt Benckiser Temizlik 
Malzemesi Sanayive Ticaret A.S.

Capital 
Contribution

Orta Mahallesi Demokrasi, Caddesi Benckiser Sitesi No.92, Tuzla, Istanbul, Turkey

Reckitt Benckiser Ev ve Hjyen 
Ürünleri A.Ş.

Ukraine

Capital 
contribution

28A Stepana Bandery Prospect, Bld.G, Office 80., Kiev, 04073, Ukraine

Ground Floor, North Wing, Allandale Building, 39 Magwa Crescent, Waterfall City, 
Midrand, Gauteng, 2090, South Africa

Richtistrasse 5, 8304 Wallisellen, Switzerland

Carrer de Mataró, 28, 08403, Granollers, Barcelona, Spain

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare S.A.U.

Norwich Square Holdings S.L.U.

RB Square Holdings (Spain) S.L.

Reckitt Benckiser (España), S.L.U

Reckitt Benckiser (Granollers) SL

Fray Carbo, 24, 08400, Granollers, Spain

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

Ordinary

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

Ordinary

Ordinary

Relcamp Aie

+

Ordinary

No. 151, Avda. Can Fatjó, Rubi, Barcelona, Spain

SSL Healthcare Manufacturing S.A.U

+

Ordinary

8 of 6F, No. 205, Section 1, Dunhua South Road, Da’an District, Taipei, Taiwan 
(Province of China)

Reckitt Benckiser Household and 
Health Care Ukraine LLC

RB & Manon Business Limited 
Taiwan Branch

#

–

Thailand

Reckitt Benckiser Hygiene Home 
Ukraine LLC

40-Richchia Zhovtnia avenue, 120, 1 Block, Kyiv, 03127, Ukraine

100 Moo 5, Bangsamak Sub-District, Bangpakong District, Chachoengsao Province 
24180, Thailand

Medcom Marketing and Prodazha 
Ukraine LLC

Charter 
Capital

Charter 
Capital

Charter 
Capital

SSL Manufacturing (Thailand) 
Limited

44.9999

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

United Arab Emirates

309, Floor 3, Dubai Science Park Labrotory Complex, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

65 Moo 12 Lardkrabang-Bangplee Road, Bangplee Yai District, Bangplee, 
Samutprakarn, 10540, Thailand

Reckitt Benckiser Arabia

#

–

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited

45.0000

Ordinary, 
Preference

Al Seer Corporate Office, Behind Al Tayer Motors, Sheikh Zayed Road, Al Quoz 
Industrial Area 3, Dubai, 31587, United Arab Emirates

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION215

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Entity name

Reckitt Benckiser Arabia Trading 
LLC

48.6897

Ordinary

Hamol Limited

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Level 27, Tower B, JAFZA One,Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, PO Box 16834, United 
Arab Emirates

Helpcentral Limited

RB Hygiene Home Arabia FZE

Reckitt Benckiser Arabia FZE

51.2555

Ordinary

Ordinary

Howard Lloyd & Company,Limited
(Company number: 00124747)

*

Office 1801, 1803, 1804, Emaar Real Estate Burj Khalifa, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates

Reckitt Benckiser (RUMEA) Limited 
– Dubai Branch

# 

–

Unit 05, Level 3, Gate Village Building 04, Dubai Investment Financial Centre, PO 
BOX 677, United Arab Emirates

RB Investment Company Limited

0.5000

Ordinary-A, 
Ordinary-B

United Kingdom

LI Pensions Trust Limited

Linden Germany A Limited

Linden Germany B Limited

Lloyds Pharmaceuticals

London International Group Limited
(Company number: 00488344)

*

LRC Products Limited

LRC Secretarial Services Limited

103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom

MJ UK Holdings Limited

103-105 Bath Road Limited
(Company number: 07415344)

*

Access VC Limited

70.5900

Benckiser

Crookes Healthcare Limited

Cupal, Limited

Dakin Brothers Limited

Durex Limited

eRB Trading Limited

FF Homecare & Hygiene Limited

70.5882

Glasgow Square Limited

Green,Young & Company Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Preference

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Preference

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

MJN International Holdings (UK), 
Ltd.
(Company number: 10773207)

Nurofen Limited

Optrex Limited
(Company number: 00301618)

Pharmalab Limited

R&C Nominees Limited
(Company number: 03646801)

R&C Nominees One Limited

R&C Nominees Two Limited

RB (China Trading) Limited

RB Asia Holding Limited

RB Holdings (Nottingham) Limited
(Company number: 04367123)

RB Luxembourg (2016) Limited
(Company number: 10490698)

RB Luxembourg Holdings (TFFC) 
Limited

*

*

*

*

*

80.0000

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary B 

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

RB Mexico Investments Limited
(Company number: 10141275)

RB Reigate (2019) Ltd.

RB Reigate (UK) Limited

RB UK Commercial Limited

RB UK Hygiene Home Commercial 
Limited

RB USA (2019) Ltd.

Reckitt & Colman (Overseas) Health 
Limited

Reckitt & Colman (Overseas) 
Hygiene Home Limited

Reckitt & Colman (Overseas) 
Limited
(Company number: 00593047)

Reckitt & Colman (UK) Limited
(Company number: 00341605)

Reckitt & Colman Holdings Limited

Reckitt & Colman Pension Trustee 
Limited

Reckitt & Sons Limited
(Company number: 00561576)

Reckitt Benckiser (Brands) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (Grosvenor) 
Holdings Limited
(Company number: 05698731)

Reckitt Benckiser (Health) Holdings 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (Hygiene Home) 
Holdings Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (RUMEA) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser (UK) Limited

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser (USA) Limited

Key

*

*

*

*

*

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Irredeemable 
Cumulative 
Preference

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION216

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Entity name

Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Corporate 
Services Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Expatriate 
Services Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Finance (2005) 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Finance (2007)

Reckitt Benckiser Finance (2010) 
Limited
(Company number: 07415340)

Reckitt Benckiser Finance Company 
Limited
(Company number: 04749202)

Reckitt Benckiser Health Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
(Central & Eastern Europe) Limited
(Company number: 03368448)

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (CIS) 
Limited
(Company number: 03376759)

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
(MEMA) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare (UK) 
Limited

*

*

*

*

Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare 
International Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings 
(Channel Islands) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings 
(Luxembourg) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings 
(Overseas) Limited
(Company number: 04617051)

# 

–

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (USA) 
Limited
(Company number: 04906543)

Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.3) 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Jersey (No.5) 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Investments 
Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 
(2010) Limited
(Company number: 07323959)

Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 
(No. 1) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 
(No.2) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 
(No.3) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 
(No.4) Limited

Reckitt Benckiser Service Bureau 
Limited
(Company number: 03605068)

Reckitt Benckiser Treasury (2007) 
Limited
(Company number: 06365837)

Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services 
plc

Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services 
(Nederland) B.V.

Reckitt Benckiser USA (2010) LLC

Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance 
(No.1) Limited
(Company number: 04902703)

Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance 
(No.2) Limited
(Company number: 04902747)

Key

*

# 

# 

*

*

*

# 

# 

# 

*

*

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

–

–

–

–

–

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance 
(No.3) Limited
(Company number: 04902776)

Reckitt Colman Chiswick (OTC) 
Limited
(Company number: 00593046)

Reckitt Seton Limited
(Company number: 01914860)

Reckitt Sonet (UK) Limited
(Company number: 02285039)

Scholl Consumer Products Limited

Sonet Dormant Company No.1 
Limited
(Company number: 00220272)

Sonet Investments Limited

Sonet Overseas Investments 
Limited

Sonet Prebbles Limited
(Company number: 00710779)

Sonet Products Limited

Sonet Seton UK Limited

Ordinary-B

SSL (MG) Polymers Limited

SSL (RB) Products Limited

Ordinary

SSL International plc

SSL Products Limited
(Company number: 01026788)

Tubifoam Limited

W.Woodward, Limited

Ordinary

United States

2400 W. Lloyd Expressway, Evansville IN 47721, United States

Ordinary

Mead Johnson & Company, LLC

Mead Johnson Nutrition Company

399 Interpace Parkway, Parsipanny NJ 07054, United States

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Convertible, 
Cumulative 
Preference

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary, 
Deferred

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Bonus

Ordinary, 
Bonus

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

*

Ordinary

Reckitt Benckiser USA (2013) LLC

Reckitt Benckiser Holdings (TFFC) 
Limited

Ordinary, 
Bonus

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION217

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Key

+ 

In liquidation

*  Audit exemption

#  Branch

◊  Registered office different to country of registration

12 Subsidiary Undertakings continued

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Entity name

Overall % owned by 
Group, if not 100%

Share class 
name(s)

Key

Membership 
Interest

Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

Entity name

Biofreeze IP Holdings, LLC

Blisa, LLC

Exponential Health LLC

Lanai Holdings 1.5, Inc.

Mead Johnson Nutrition 
(Dominicana) S.A.

Mead Johnson Nutrition 
(Puerto Rico) Inc.

Mead Johnson Nutrition 
(Venezuela) LLC

Mead Johnson Nutrition Nominees 
LLC

MJ USA Holdings LLC

MJN Asia Pacific Holdings LLC

MJN U.S. Holdings LLC

RB Health (US) LLC

RB Health Manufacturing (US) LLC

Reckitt Health Pain (US) LLC

TheraPearl LLC

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Membership 
Interest

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, United States

Mead Johnson Nutrition Venezuela 
SCA

#  ◊

–

Avenida Mara con Calle San José, Centro Comercial Macaracuay Plaza, Nivel C3, 
Locales 5 y 12. Urb. Colinas de la California., Caracas, Venezuela, Bolivarian 
Republic of

Reckitt Benckiser Venezuela S.A.

Ordinary

Urb. Las Mercedes, Av. Orinoco cruce con Mucuchies Torre Nordic, Piso 1, Oficina 1 y 
2, Municipio Baruta Caracas, Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

Mead Johnson Nutrition Venezuela, 
S.C.A.

Partnership 
Interest

Vietnam

Suite 402, 4th Floor, No. 235 Dong Khoi Street, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam

The Representative Office of 
Reckitt Benckiser (Thailand) Ltd in 
Ho Chi Minh City

# 

–

Unit 401, 4th Floor, Metropolitan Building, No. 235 Dong Khoi Street, Ben Nghe 
Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Mead Johnson Nutrition (Vietnam) 
Company Limited

Capital 
Contribution

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, New Castle 
County DE 19808, United States

LRC North America Inc.

RB Manufacturing LLC

RB USA Holdings LLC

Reckitt Benckiser LLC

Reckitt Benckiser USA (2010) LLC

Reckitt Benckiser USA (2012) LLC

Reckitt Benckiser USA (2013) LLC

SSL Holdings (USA) Inc.

Common/
Equity, 
Preference

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Membership 
Shares

Ordinary

Ordinary

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEOTHER INFORMATION218

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Climate-Related Financial Disclosures

In addition to these Climate-related Financial Disclosures, we provide further information on our 
environmental performance and greenhouse gas emissions on page 48. We consider the potential 
financial impacts of climate change in the scenario modelling within our Viability Statement on page 61 
and impairment/intangibles note on page 173-177. Comprehensive detail on our scenario modelling can 
be found in our Basis of Reporting Criteria available at www.reckitt.com/reporting-hub. 

Governance
Board oversight
The Board, supported by the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance (CRSEC) 
Committee, oversees sustainability, including climate-related risks and opportunities. The Board 
receives quarterly updates on sustainability matters from the CRSEC Committee, including progress and 
performance against Reckitt’s climate targets. Sustainability, including climate risk, is considered as part 
of the Board’s annual review of our principal and emerging risks alongside at least an annual review of our 
Sustainability Ambitions. In November, the Board also held a listening session on the impacts of climate 
change on global health. 

See pages 71-82

See pages 96-99

for more detail on our governance framework and mechanisms, remuneration policy and the CRSEC Committee’s activities during the year.

Management’s role
Our CEO is accountable for sustainability matters, including climate-related risks and opportunities. 
The Group Risk, Sustainability and Compliance Committee (RSCC) is chaired by the CEO and supported 
by business unit-level committees who meet and report quarterly. 

Our sustainability ambitions are delivered through the Group Executive Committee (GEC) and 
management team who are responsible for ensuring adequate action plans and investment are in place. 
The Corporate Affairs and Sustainability function leads sustainability-related strategy development and 
compliance. Programmes to meet our operational and product footprint targets are implemented by our 
Brands, Supply Chain, R&D, and Safety, Quality and Regulatory Compliance teams. Following Kris Licht’s 
appointment as CEO on 1 October, the GEC conducted a deep dive on Reckitt’s carbon footprint to build 
awareness and understanding across the Group and agree the key steps needed to deliver on Reckitt’s 
Sustainability Ambitions, specifically on Scope 3 emissions. We identified three cross-functional priorities 
across IT and Data, Procurement and R&D/Innovation to help accelerate progress. These include the 
enhanced capture and visibility of supplier and materials carbon data, conducting feasibility studies 
on the use of alternative and new materials, and further developing our carbon reduction roadmaps. 

We conduct monthly environmental reporting at site, regional and functional level. Progress against our 
targets is reviewed monthly at supply chain leadership forums and quarterly through business unit and global 
business risk reviews, enabling us to manage activity and deal with emerging issues on an ongoing basis. 

Supporting these formal management structures are cross-functional steering committees who provide 
governance and oversight across key transition risks and sustainable product activities.

Risk management
Reckitt operates an integrated company-wide risk management process for financial and non-financial 
risks performed at the functional, business unit and corporate levels. Sustainability, including the risk 
of climate-related impacts, was first identified as a principal risk in 2019 and is considered in our annual 
Group risk assessment within ‘ESG transition risk’, which includes the identification and monitoring 
of potential impacts, mapping current controls and developing action plans. 

The Group principal and emerging risk assessment is part of our integrated risk management 
framework, identifying the principal and emerging risks with the greatest potential to have a substantive 
or strategic impact on the Group. The assessment is completed annually in advance of the business 
unit and corporate strategic planning process, taking into consideration the outcomes of detailed risk 
assessments conducted in specific areas throughout the year, for example, climate-related physical and 
transition risk scenario analysis. Additionally, through our ESG issues materiality assessment, sustainability 
risks are reviewed every two to three years. Operational risks are assessed across sites through annual 
global asset and environmental risk reviews. Our progressive work on decarbonisation, product 
innovation and supply chain resilience help mitigate these risks. Within specific climate-related financial 
risks we undertake a range of analysis, evaluation and mitigation activities summarised in this report. 

See pages 55-56

for more detail on the group’s risk management approach and updates during the year.

Since 2018, we have conducted scenario analyses to consider the longer-term impacts of climate change 
on our business and support our modelling of climate risks in greater detail (see below). We consider 
physical and transition risks from climate change over the short term (up to three years) in line with our 
Group risk assessment, over the medium term (three to five years) in line with our strategic planning 
cycle, and over the longer term (10 years+) in line with the useful life of the brand intangible assets, 
through our work with Risilience and Cambridge Centre for Risk Studies. The Risilience climate and 
enterprise analytics technology provides quantitative analytics that inform risk management and 
decision-making across our brands and wider organisation. This has helped extend existing corporate 
risk management activity on business continuity, which might be created in terms of extreme weather 
events and which are also considered in our climate risk activity.

The Risilience analysis provides quantitative earnings value at risk estimations across risk categories 
over a five- and 10-year timeframe which supports financial and operational planning. We focus 
activity through routine business and financial planning within our brands and supply chain, in annual 
and three-year cycles, in order to manage risks and deliver against our Sustainability Ambitions. 

Monitoring emerging policy and regulatory frameworks, together with financial tracking of fiscal 
policy requirements on taxation, informs our planning activity and response to address transition 
risks from climate-related policy. We continue to track litigation, functionally and within our 
business units and markets, and are monitoring emerging regulations on climate-related reporting 
and disclosure requirements. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT219

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Climate-Related Financial Disclosures continued

During the year, we continued to enhance and refine our climate risk analysis by increasing the breadth 
and depth of data in the digital twin of our business, specifically in relation to our product categories 
and raw materials footprint, while also further embedding the management of climate-related risks 
and opportunities into our enterprise risk management processes. We have reviewed the Group’s 
physical and transition risks and opportunities, and quantified the financial values at risk.

Strategy
We remain committed to delivering our science-based targets and working towards becoming net zero 
by 2040. Our Sustainability Ambitions are embedded into our business strategy for growth, and support 
both resilience and opportunity for our operations and brands.

Climate scenario analysis
Our approach to understanding climate-related risks and opportunities is underpinned by our scenario 
analysis. In partnership with Risilience, we continued to develop our internal data-driven model of the 
business (or ‘digital twin’) which captures Reckitt’s commercial and physical footprint and allows us to 
assess the impact of the five climate scenarios specified by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change’s (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report for both physical and transition risks (SSP1–SSP 8.5). SSP1-1.9 
(1.5°C) represents the most rapid transition pathway as extreme actions are taken to reduce emissions 
globally with widespread policy changes to achieve net zero by 2050. SSP3-7.0 (3°C) is defined by 
the climate-related policies in place today i.e. if no further policy action is taken. These two pathways 
highlight the variation in risks and opportunities in meeting our science-based targets by 2030 and 
net zero ambition by 2040.

See our Basis of Reporting Criteria

for detail on the modelled pathways used at reckitt.com/reporting-hub.

We modelled the potential impact of five transition risks derived from policy development, consumer 
preference change, investor sentiment, asset liabilities, climate activism and litigation, together with 
acute and chronic physical risks to the value chain, including disruption to our direct and upstream 
operations and the supply of natural raw materials. Specifically, we model the potential financial impacts 
of climate change by region, product, facility and hazard i.e. drought, flooding, heatwave. The output 
provides a five-year, quantitative earnings value at risk estimation across risk categories and a long-term 
qualitative risk outlook up to 20 years. For the purposes of our disclosure, we aggregate and present 
consolidated results for the Group global business. The potential material earnings value at risk is quoted 
as a range reflecting the uncertainty and assumptions associated with climate-related modelling.

Climate-related risks and opportunities over the short, medium and long term
We assume that all aspects of our value chain will be susceptible to climate-related transition and 
physical risks to varying degrees. This is accounted for within our potential earnings value at risk 
estimations which represent gross risk for the Group as a whole. 

Short to medium term
From our analysis over the past three years, two of the modelled transition risk categories (consumer 
market and policy risk) consistently emerge as having the greatest potential impact in the short to 
medium term, specifically from changing consumer preference in favour of low impact products and 
policy-driven carbon price increases, both of which are greatest in a 1.5°C scenario. Potential risks and 
opportunities identified include energy and commodity cost rises across our operations, upstream and 
downstream value chain. A more likely phased policy approach and changes in consumer preference, 
alongside our ongoing mitigation activity to reduce emissions across our supply networks and innovation 
in more sustainable products, would not be material for Reckitt. Physical risk represents a significantly 
smaller proportion of total earnings value than transition risk. 

Long term
In the longer term, we expect increases in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events, water 
stress and higher ambient temperatures to impact our global sites, supply networks and consumer value 
chains. Changes to regional climates may lead to a reduction in the availability of natural raw materials 
and associated costs and the nature of products that are most viable in certain regions may change. 
The aggregate impact of all modelled physical risks is currently not material. 

The tables on page 220 summarise the potential earnings value at risk associated with our modelled risks 
over the short to medium term (up to five years) and a qualitative assessment of how these risks could 
evolve over the longer term (10 to 20 years). The modelled impacts are based on a 1.5°C pathway aligned 
to the Paris Ambition and a 3°C pathway aligned to current policy which are considered to represent 
a best and worst case scenario. 

Consumer market risk
This risk models the impact of changing consumer preferences and sustainable purchasing trends. 
It considers the potential uptake rates of consumers transitioning from conventional to less emissions-
intensive products and services, including single use vs reusable packaging, organic vs chemical 
cleaners, concentrates, and dairy vs alternative proteins. The 1.5°C pathway assumes a fast adoption of 
sustainable alternatives and a significant reduction in consumer demand for less sustainable and more 
carbon intensive products, whereas the 3°C pathway assumes a limited reduction in current demand. 

There is potential for Reckitt brands to be variably exposed to demand loss, depending on the 
environmental impact of products (including raw material composition, manufacturing and consumer 
use). While we continue to see increased consumer interest in more sustainable products, there remains 
a ‘say-do’ gap for the vast majority, with consumers remaining focused primarily on value and efficacy. 
This exposure therefore has negligible current impact. Nonetheless, our sustainable product innovation 
programme continues to inform our product development pipeline and supports our ambition for 50% 
of net revenue to be derived from more sustainable products by 2030. Using our Sustainable Innovation 
Calculator to inform new and existing product development helps us design for lower carbon and water 
footprints in use, which mitigates physical risks in the marketplace and helps us to meet emerging 
consumer preferences. Further details on our approach to innovation can be found on pages 22-24.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT220

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Climate-Related Financial Disclosures continued

The risk values below represent gross risk to the Group and assume none of the mitigating actions 
outlined above are in place.

Unmitigated  
potential  
annual impact 
5-year horizon

Pathway

3°C

Not material

1.5°C

£0–£130m

5–10-year modelled scenario impacts 
and assumptions

10–20-year modelled scenario impacts 
and assumptions

–  Conventional shopping preferences continue, with existing levels of 
uptake for sustainable options continuing, resulting in only minimal 
decline in demand for conventional products

Pathway

3°C

–  Consumers increasingly switch 
from non-sustainable products 
to more sustainable options

–  Market demand for sustainable 

products and services 
becomes mainstream 

–  Low-carbon alternative 

–  As we move towards 2050, 

products progressively increase 
market share, supported by 
policy frameworks including 
carbon labelling 

consumer habits have to shift 
more dramatically to meet global 
emissions reduction targets

Other transition and physical risks 
Other modelled risk categories include:

–  Policy risk – an increase in future carbon pricing where carbon pricing policies (either emissions 

trading systems or carbon taxes) are implemented variably in all jurisdictions

Individually, these modelled risk categories are not material to our business under the five 
scenarios assessed. The aggregate potential impact of these risks manifesting in a 1.5°C pathway 
(which represents a worst-case-scenario) is outlined below. The risk values below represent gross 
risk to the group and assume no mitigating actions are in place.

Unmitigated 
potential  
annual impact 
5-year horizon 5–10-year modelled scenario impacts and assumptions

10–20-year modelled scenario 
impacts and assumptions

Not 
material

–  Carbon prices remain between $5-8 ($/tCO2e) up to 2050, with inconsistent 
global implementation. Sectors covered by policies today remain static and 
are not expanded

–  Inaction by governments and corporates results in an acceleration of climate 
change, increasing public and consumer activism is used as a mechanism for 
corporate accountability

–  Exposure to climate-related litigation varies depending on historical emissions 
responsibility and the extent of current commitment and action on addressing 
future emissions

–  The ‘consumer staples’ sector experiences relatively low exposure to risk 

capital flight during economic transition 

–  Local distribution of goods from warehouse to point of sale is disrupted and/or 
consumer demand fluctuates as a result of climate-related weather events 

–  Increase in the severity of climate hazards and extreme weather events 

–  Technology risk – the risk of asset impairment under different climate-related economic transitions

including heatwaves, freezes, droughts, flooding and windstorms

–  Investor sentiment – the risks and effects stemming from changes to the discount rate, relative 

–  Raw materials production fluctuates as a result of climate variability 

to the economic sector, transition pathway, debt and equity structure 

and long-term climate change 

–  Litigation/Reputation – the potential for litigation or civil/criminal penalties for a company’s 

climate-related activities, including greenwashing and pollution, and the risk of consumer boycotts 

–  Market disruption – the disruption to sales due to customer demand fluctuations induced by 

regional-scale climate threats including heatwaves, droughts and freezes

–  Facility disruption risk – the risk of physical damage to assets from extreme weather events, financial 
losses from stock, contents and buildings damage, and operational disruption due to the reduction 
in capacity 

–  Raw materials supply risk – changes in the supply of raw materials under the influence of a changing 

climate and the potential impact of decreases in yield 

1.5°C £0–£130m –  Carbon prices increase to $83 ($/tCO2e) over the 
next five years, radical action by governments to 
reduce emissions, driven by carbon price mechanisms 

–  Assets intrinsically linked to the use of fossil fuels 
become impaired in direct proportion to the rate 
at which fossil fuels are phased out

–  Public sentiment towards climate change remains 

strong and persistent and decarbonsation pathways 
are met or exceeded without major disruption to 
economic activity. ‘Consumer staples’ sector 
experiences relatively low exposure to risk capital 
flight during economic transition

–  Radical action by 
governments to 
reduce emissions, 
driven by carbon 
price mechanisms. 
Carbon prices 
increase significantly, 
with rapid adoption 
across developed 
economies

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT221

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Climate-Related Financial Disclosures continued

Impact on business, strategy and financial planning
The rate of global decarbonisation and implementation of associated policy frameworks are critical 
determinants of the magnitude of climate-related impacts on Reckitt. 

We are actively working to reduce our GHG emissions in line with our 2030 reduction targets for 
Scopes 1 and 2 and our total product carbon footprint, and our commitment to achieving net zero by 
2040. Our net zero roadmap identifies where we are targeting decarbonisation opportunities in our 
operations, products and value chain. Raw materials and packaging account for around 60% of Reckitt’s 
carbon footprint. Downstream logistics in our control account for 12% and retail (including customer 
operations, customer travel and e-commerce) accounts for 17%. The complexity of our global value 
chain requires multiple interventions with our suppliers and customers to decarbonise. Specifically, 
we are focusing on several initiatives to reduce CO2e in materials by:

Potential damage to assets and the frequency of such events arising from extreme weather and other 
potential climate-related events (including associated remediation costs) are reviewed through our risk 
management and business continuity programmes, and connect into our financial programmes on 
insurance. Site location planning and building design considers temperature, adverse weather and water 
stress risks. Additionally, water stress risks are mitigated by our water efficiency and catchment area 
management activity, which aims for all sites in water-stressed locations to be water positive by 2030. 
Further details on our wider environmental targets and performance can be found on pages 48-50. 

2. Product innovation
Meeting emerging consumer demand for more sustainable products, developing products that are 
well placed for a low-carbon, low-water policy and physical environment, alongside increased use 
of recycled and recyclable materials

–  targeting suppliers to use renewable energy in their operations; 

–  using less ingredients while maintaining the efficacy of products;

–  using alternative ingredients with a lower CO2e footprint. Such substitution may take longer if different 

ingredients require qualification, particularly in regulated products; 

–  reducing the water in our products by developing concentrates which reduces the transport footprint 

and packaging use; and

–  using recycled materials – our targeted switch to 25% PCR and using less virgin plastic will deliver CO2e 

savings that we will model across the value chain. 

This activity contributes to reducing our exposure to increases in carbon pricing and other transition 
related risks. We have assumed that together with shifts in consumer behaviour and general market 
pricing we are able to mitigate the risks identified above. 

Our strategy concentrates on three key areas:

1. Our operations
Optimising our processes to reduce carbon emissions through continued and increasing support for 
renewable electricity and low-carbon energy 

For Scopes 1 and 2, we are targeting progressive improvements in carbon reduction. Switching from gas 
in low-mid thermal energy needs is a near-term focus alongside the continued sourcing of renewable 
electricity. Energy efficiency is now considered a business-as-usual focus more than a driver of carbon 
reduction. Capital allocation for environmental improvements on carbon are built into current planning 
and progress is reviewed monthly. 

A range of tools assesses climate-related factors across the product lifecycle from material sourcing to 
consumer use, as part of our innovation process. These provide insights into the climate-related risks and 
opportunities associated with our products via our Sustainable Innovation Calculator, which help steer 
our R&D teams during development of new, more sustainable products. The calculator considers water 
and carbon footprint, plastics and packaging, and ingredients metrics. Such product innovation provides 
opportunity for growth, by meeting emerging consumer demands and expectations and developing 
products that are well placed for emerging fiscal policy and physical environments.

3. Supply chain resilience
Building more resilient supply chains at site level and for key natural raw materials, and engaging 
our suppliers to help measure, track and reduce supplier-related carbon emissions

Our procurement teams continually review supply chains to mitigate the impact of commodity cost rises. 
In the longer term, this may also involve the use of alternative ingredients and materials with evaluation 
and development through our R&D function. We are also working directly with copackers through our 
partnership with Manufacture 2030 to help them measure and progressively reduce their emissions 
which will build resilience to physical and transition risks from climate change both within our supply 
chain, and for our suppliers. Further details on how we’re building supply chain resilience can be found 
on pages 25-27.

Our overall carbon footprint has reduced year-on-year reflecting changes in volume and product mix, 
alongside a review of the modelled footprint in our retail channels. Overall, our principle remains to abate 
first, and offset last, meaning that we remain focused on reducing the footprint of our operations and 
products in the first instance. We are however, considering appropriate carbon market management 
approaches for the longer term. Our existing Trees for Change programme was our first step in this 
programme, securing four million tonnes of carbon via afforestation projects. We will evaluate similar 
opportunities during 2024. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT222

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Climate-Related Financial Disclosures continued

Resilience of strategy to different climate scenarios (including 2°C or lower)
Collective climate change impacts may present risks to Reckitt’s activity, however our strategy, targets, 
activity and progress help mitigate these risks, build resilience and create opportunities. Our targets 
for 50% of net revenue to be derived from more sustainable products, 50% product footprint reduction, 
and 65% reduction in operational carbon emissions, all by 2030, collectively enable Reckitt’s brand 
portfolio and supply chain to become more resilient.

We have assessed that the modelled scenarios and associated climate-related risks outlined above are 
not material to ongoing business operations, and that our business has an increasingly strong resilience 
across a spectrum of scenarios, including one where warming is limited to 1.5°C. This assessment is 
based on a number of factors, which include:

–  the strength of our market-leading portfolio of health, hygiene and nutrition products and core 

capabilities in adapting and innovating our existing ranges while launching new products to meet 
emerging consumer demands;

–  an active programme to improve the carbon, water, plastic, chemical and packaging footprint of our 

products (more sustainable products) which accounts for 29.6% of net revenue and which we continue 
to grow; and

Climate-related physical and transition risks and opportunities
Please refer to pages 219-220. 

Capital deployment and internal carbon pricing 
We are currently considering an internal carbon pricing approach, which will allow us to strengthen the 
assessment of climate impact in future investment decisions.

Remuneration 
Since 2022, our Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) has included net revenue from more sustainable products 
(which includes our product carbon footprint and reduction in GHG emissions from our operations, 
see page 125). The CEO and CFO’s bonus opportunities are based on the delivery of Reckitt’s strategy, 
including progress against our 2030 Sustainability Ambitions as a whole, see pages 112-114. For more 
information on remuneration measures see page 104.

Other metrics
–  We track stakeholder sentiment through routine dialogue and engagement with our key 

stakeholders including investors, customers and NGOs. See more in the stakeholder section on 
pages 37-40. We strive to maintain and improve our performance in external benchmarks and ratings, 
including MSCI, Sustainalytics and CDP Climate

–  an extensive global and geographically diverse sourcing base characterised by strong and established 

strategic relationships with suppliers, which gives us a natural hedge against weather extremities.

–  We track consumer spending patterns through sales data and broader consumer insight and research 

at brand and sector level, which informs our product innovation programme and R&D pipeline

Metrics and targets
We have considered all cross-industry climate-related metrics set out in the TCFD All Sector guidance. 
The metrics set out below are those considered to be material. 

GHG emissions
Reckitt has established sustainability metrics and targets to drive performance on climate change in 
areas both directly controlled and across our value chain, including two science-based targets (SBT): 

1.  reduce our product carbon footprint by 50% by 2030 versus 2015

2. reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 65% by 2030 versus 2015

Supporting these goals is our commitment to RE100 and increasing the use of renewable electricity 
to 100% by 2030, improving energy efficiency for gas use across our operations.

See pages 48-50

for more information on our net zero, emissions, energy, water, waste and packaging performance, and our GHG emissions data, 
including Scopes 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 disclosures.

Next steps
Our priorities in 2024 will include further in-depth analysis of consumer market risk across our product 
categories and markets, increasing the breadth and depth of data-driven analysis across the supply chain 
to better identify and mitigate emissions-intensive activities, and continued development of internal 
capabilities. Our product innovation programme has a heightened focus on product carbon emissions 
reduction and we are using the Transition Plan Taskforce framework, Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) and Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) guidance to guide our actions. 

Listing Rule 9.8.6R Compliance Statement
Reckitt plc has complied with the requirements of LR 9.8.6R by including applicable and material 
climate-related financial disclosures in this section (and by reference as indicated), consistent 
with the TCFD recommendations. We consider our disclosure to be consistent with all the TCFD 
Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures including section C of the 2021-TCFD Annex entitled 
‘Guidance for all Sectors’ and section E of the TCFD Annex entitled ‘Supplemental Guidance for Non-
Financial Groups’.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT223

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Alternative Performance Measures

The Annual Report and Accounts include financial information prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS Accounting Standards) as well as information presented on an 
adjusted (non-IFRS) basis.

Financial information presented on an adjusted basis excludes certain cash and non-cash items. These 
items have a pattern of recognition that is largely uncorrelated with the trading performance of the 
business. Management reviews the business on this basis for the purpose of making operating decisions 
and showing these adjusted measures in addition to the IFRS measures provides useful additional 
information on trading performance to the users of the Financial Statements. These adjusted measures 
should not be considered in isolation from, as substitutes for, or superior to the financial measures 
prepared in accordance with IFRS.

The following items (adjusting items) are excluded from IFRS earnings in calculating adjusted earnings.

–  Impact of business combinations, and similar purchases of equity, where IFRS accounting results 

in the recognition of certain costs that are not comparable with those for internally generated assets, 
(although the net revenues and other costs of these business combinations are not adjusted for):

•  amortisation of (a) acquired brands, trademarks and similar assets and (b) certain other intangible 

assets recorded as the result of a business combination;

•  inventory fair value adjustments;

•  professional and advisor costs recorded as the result of a business combination;

•  changes in the amount of consideration paid or expected to be paid (including changes in fair value) 

and associated tax impacts; and

•  changes to deferred tax liabilities relating to (a) acquired brands, trademarks and similar assets and 

(b) certain other intangible assets recorded as the result of a business combination as the 
amortisation or profit on disposal of these brands would be treated as an adjusting item

–  Profits or losses relating to the sale of brands and related intangible assets as the continued active 
management of our portfolio results in the recognition of profits or losses relating to disposals of 
brands and related intangible assets which are largely uncorrelated with the trading performance 
of the business

–  Re-cycled foreign exchange translation reserves upon the sale, liquidation, repayment of share 

capital or abandonment of a subsidiary previously controlled by the Group, as the gain or loss relates 
to mainly exchange movements in previous periods rather than the current period

–  The reclassification of finance income/(expenses) on tax balances into income tax expense, to align 
with the Group’s tax guidance. As a result, the income/(expenses) are presented as part of income tax 
expense on an adjusted basis

–  Other individually material items of expense or income. Some of these items are resolved over 

a period of time such that the impact may affect more than one reporting period

Adjusted measures
–  Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Operating Profit margin: Adjusted operating profit reflects 
the IFRS operating profit excluding items in line with the Group’s adjusted items policy. See page 226 
for details on the adjusting items and a reconciliation between IFRS operating profit and adjusted 
operating profit. The adjusted operating profit margin is the adjusted operating profit expressed 
as a percentage of net revenue

–  Adjusted tax rate: The adjusted tax rate is defined as the adjusted continuing income tax expense 

as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax

–  Adjusted diluted EPS: Adjusted diluted EPS is the IFRS diluted EPS excluding items in line with the 
Group’s adjusted items policy. See page 226 for details on the adjusting items and a reconciliation 
between IFRS net income and adjusted net income. The weighted average number of shares for 
the period is the same for both IFRS diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS

–  Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation): Adjusted operating 

profit less depreciation and amortisation (excluding adjusting items)

Other non-GAAP measures
–  Like-for-like (LFL): Net revenue growth or decline at constant exchange rates (see below) excluding the 
impact of acquisitions, disposals and discontinued operations. Completed disposals are excluded from 
LFL revenue growth for the entirety of the current and prior years. Acquisitions as at the balance sheet 
date are included in LFL revenue growth twelve months after the completion of the relevant acquisition. 
LFL growth also excludes countries with annual inflation greater than 100% (Venezuela and Argentina). 
LFL policy will be updated in 2024 to exclude low margin manufacturing revenues agreed at the time of 
sale of a brand or business. In 2023, net revenue included £10 million of such low margin revenues

–  Constant exchange rate (CER): Net revenue and profit growth or decline adjusting the actual consolidated 

results such that the foreign currency conversion uses the same exchange rates as were applied in the 
prior year, and excludes the effect of applying hyperinflation accounting in the relevant subsidiaries

–  Brand Equity Investment (BEI): BEI is the marketing support designed to capture the voice, mind and 

heart of our consumers

–  Net working capital (NWC): NWC is the total of inventory, trade and other receivables and trade and 
other payables less interest accrued on tax balances, indemnity provisions for disposed businesses 
and forward purchase liabilities. NWC is calculated as a % of last twelve months net revenue to 
compare changes in NWC to the growth of the business

–  Net Debt: The Group’s principal measure of net borrowings being the total of cash and cash equivalents, 

short-term and long-term borrowings, lease liabilities and derivative financial instruments on debt

–  Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Conversion: The Group’s principal measure of cash flow defined as 
net cash generated from continuing operating activities less net capital expenditure. A reconciliation of 
cash generated from operations to Free Cash Flow is shown on page 225. The Group tracks Free Cash 
Flow as a % of adjusted net income to understand the conversion of adjusted profit into cash

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE224

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Alternative Performance Measures continued

Other definitions and terms
–  Category Market Unit (CMU): Reckitt analyses its market share by CMUs, which represent country 

and either brand or category, e.g., US Lysol. This allows us to analyse the components of market share 
growth taking into account both geography and brand/category. Management has identified those 
Core CMUs that are the most strategically important. The list of Core CMUs is kept under continual 
review and will change over time based on strategic decisions. Currently, Core CMUs cover c.65% 
of Group net revenue and between c.55% to c.80% of each Global Business Unit’s (GBU) net revenue. 
As a measure of competitiveness, management tracks the percentage of Core CMUs holding or 
gaining market share, weighted by net revenue

–  E-commerce: E-commerce channel net revenue is direct sales from Reckitt to online platforms or 

directly to consumers. Estimates of total E-commerce sales as a percentage of Group net revenues are 
calculated by adding E-commerce channel net revenue to an estimate of E-commerce sales achieved 
by our brands through omnichannel distributors and retailer websites

–  Discontinued operations: Includes credits or charges related to the previously demerged RB 

Pharmaceuticals business that became Indivior plc. Net profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 
is presented as a single line item in the Group Income Statement

–  Return on Capital Employed (ROCE): Defined as adjusted operating profit after tax divided by 

monthly average capital employed. Capital employed comprises total assets less current liabilities 
other than borrowings-related liabilities. Total assets exclude cash, retirement benefit surplus, current 
tax and a technical gross-up to goodwill that arises because of deferred tax liabilities recorded against 
identified assets acquired in business combinations. Total assets have been adjusted to add back 
impairments of Goodwill except where the impaired asset has been disposed or partially disposed. 
Current liabilities exclude the share repurchase liability, legal provisions recorded as a result of 
adjusting items and current tax

–  Net revenue attributable to ‘more sustainable’ products: A product is defined as ‘more sustainable’ 
when it scores a total of 10 or more points across five parameters (carbon, water, plastics, packaging 
and ingredients) at time of launch using our Sustainable Innovation Calculator (a streamlined Lifecycle 
Assessment tool that models the environmental impacts of products). The net revenue from ‘more 
sustainable’ products is expressed as a percentage of total net revenue. The calculation is done on 
the basis of a 12 month period ending September (to allow for the assembling of the related data)

Reconciliation of IFRS to Like-for-Like Net Revenue (by GBU)

Net revenue

2022 IFRS
M&A
Exchange and hyperinflation

2022 Like-for-like

2023 IFRS
M&A
Exchange and hyperinflation

2023 Like-for-like

Like-for-like growth

Like-for-Like Net Revenue Growth

%

2020
2021
2022
2023

4 year Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)

For the year ended 31 December

Hygiene 
£m

5,960
–
(37)

Health 
£m

5,992
(40)
(7)

Nutrition 
£m

2,501
(12)
1

Group 
£m

14,453
(52)
(43)

5,923

5,945

2,490

14,358

6,135
–
93

6,228

5.1%

6,062
(8)
190

6,244

5.0%

2,410
(7)
(13)

14,607
(15)
270

2,390

14,862

(4.0%)

3.5%

Hygiene

Health

Nutrition

19.5%
7.5%
(3.1%)
5.1%

6.9%

13.9%
(0.8%)
14.7%
5.0%

8.0%

0.1%
2.7%
22.9%
(4.0%)

4.9%

Group

13.9%
3.5%
7.6%
3.5%

7.0%

This shows net revenue growth since Reckitt set out our strategy for rejuvenating sustainable growth 
in February 2020 to rebuild like for like revenue growth to the mid-single digit range.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE225

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Alternative Performance Measures continued

Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow

Net Working Capital

31 Dec 2023
£m

31 Dec 2022
£m

Cash generated from continuing operations
Less: net interest paid
Less: tax paid
Less: purchase of property, plant & equipment
Less: purchase of intangible assets
Plus: proceeds from the sale of property, plant & equipment

Free cash flow 

Free cash flow conversion 

3,829
(263)
(922)
(348)
(101)
63

2,258

97%

3,430
(209)
(831)
(362)
(81)
84

Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other payables
Less: Forward purchase liability
Less: Interest accrued on tax balances
Less: Indemnity provisions for disposed businesses

2,031

Net working capital

83%

Net working capital as percentage of 12-month net revenue

12 months Adjusted EBITDA to Net Debt

ROCE Calculation

Adjusted EBITDA

Operating profit
Excluding: adjusting items

Adjusted operating profit
Excluding: adjusted depreciation and amortisation 

Adjusted EBITDA 

Net debt

Cash and cash equivalents (inc. overdrafts) 
Financing liabilities 

Net debt 

Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA (times)

Dividend Cover

Interim dividend paid in year
Final dividend proposed

Total dividends

Adjusted net income

Dividend cover (times)

31 Dec 2023
£m

31 Dec 2022
£m

2,531
842

3,373
444

3,817

3,249
190

3,439
402

3,841

Adjusted operating profit
Less: taxation on adjusted operating profit

Adjusted net operating profit after tax

IFRS total assets
IFRS total current liabilities

31 Dec 2023
£m

31 Dec 2022
£m

1,380
(8,670)

(7,290)

1.9

1,156
(9,140)

(7,984)

2.1

31 Dec 2023
£m

31 Dec 2022
£m

549
828

1,377

2,323

1.7

523
789

1,312

2,452

1.9

IFRS total assets less current liabilities
Excluding IFRS items not included in capital employed:
  Short-term borrowings
  Current tax liabilities
  Legal provisions
  Interest accrued on tax balances
  Share repurchase liability
  Cash and cash equivalents
  Current tax recoverable
  Retirement benefit surplus

IFRS balances included in capital employed 
Add back: impact of unrealised impairments 
Less: goodwill due to deferred tax on intangibles 
Impact of average in year vs closing balance 

Average capital employed

Return on capital employed

31 Dec 2023
£m

31 Dec 2022
£m

1,637
2,062
(5,506)
158
122
48

(1,479)

(10%)

1,825
2,082
(5,547)
–
105
–

(1,535)

(11%)

31 Dec 2023
£m

31 Dec 2022
£m

3,373
(850)

2,523

27,136
(8,338)

18,798

1,679
620
30
122
296
(1,387)
(80)
(270)

19,808
4,078
(4,265)
531

20,152

12.5%

3,439
(753)

2,686

28,742
(8,341)

20,401

1,721
791
90
105
–
(1,157)
(155)
(294)

21,502
3,490
(4,385)
(289)

20,318

13.2%

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE226

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Alternative Performance Measures continued

The table below reconciles the Group’s IFRS measures to its adjusted measures for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Impact of business combinations comprises:

Adjusting items

Reclassified 
foreign 
exchange 
translation on 
liquidation of 
subsidiaries
£m

Other 
individually 
material items 
of income and 
expense
£m

Finance 
income  
reclass
£m

Impact of 
business 
combinations
£m

Gain on 
disposal of 
brands
£m

Net revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Net operating expenses

Operating profit
Net finance expense

Profit before income tax
Income tax charge

Net income from continuing operations
Less: Attributable to non-controlling interests

Net income from continuing operations 
attributable to owners of the parent company
Net profit from discontinued operations

Total net income attributable to owners of the 
parent company

Earnings per share (EPS)

Continuing operations1
Basic
Diluted
Discontinued operations1
Basic
Diluted
Total operations1
Basic
Diluted

IFRS
£m

14,607
(5,847)

8,760
(6,229)

2,531
(130)

2,401
(753)

1,648
(14)

1,634
9

1,643

227.9
227.4

1.3
1.3

229.2
228.7

–
–

–
28

28
(9)

19
(4)

15
–

15
–

15

2.1
2.1

–
–

2.1
2.1

–
–

–
1

1
–

1
(9)

(8)
–

(8)
–

(8)

(1.1)
(1.1)

–
–

(1.1)
(1.1)

–
–

–
–

–
(130)

(130)
–

(130)
–

(130)
–

(130)

(18.1)
(18.1)

–
–

(18.1)
(18.1)

–
–

–
–

–
22

22
(22)

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–
–

–  £27 million relates principally to amortisation of certain 
intangible assets recognised as a result of historical 
business combinations and a related £4 million tax 
credit; and 

–  £9 million finance credit relating to reduction in the liability 

under the agreement to purchase the non-controlling 
interest in RB Manon (note 30), and £1 million of related 
professional fees. 

Net gain on disposal of brands includes charge of £2 million 
relating to remeasurement on held for sale of certain small 
developing market brands (note 31), a related £9 million tax 
credit and £1 million of residual income relating to previous 
brand sales. 

Reclassified foreign exchange translation on liquidation 
of subsidiaries of £130 million relates to a gain following 
the liquidation of legal entities as part of simplification 
of the Group’s legal entity structure.

Reclassification of finance income of £22 million relates 
to the reclassification of net interest expense on income 
tax balances from net finance expense to income tax.

Adjusted
£m

14,607
(5,847)

8,760
(5,387)

3,373
(247)

3,126
(789)

2,337
(14)

2,323
–

–
–

–
813

813
–

813
(1)

812
–

812
(9)

803

2,323

Other individually material items of income and 
expense comprise:

–  £810 million impairment of goodwill in IFCN (note 9);

–  £3 million expense relating to costs incurred in relation 

to the Korean HS issue; and

–  £9 million income from discontinued operations which 

relates to the DoJ settlement in 2019.

113.3
113.1

(1.3)
(1.3)

112.0
111.8

324.1
323.4

–
–

324.1
323.4

1  EPS is calculated using 716.7 million shares (basic) and 718.3 million shares (diluted)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE227

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Alternative Performance Measures continued

The table below reconciles the Group’s IFRS measures to its adjusted measures for the year ended 31 December 2022.

Net revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Net operating expenses

Operating profit
Net finance expense
Share of loss and impairment of 
equity-accounted investments

Profit before income tax
Income tax charge

Net income from continuing operations
Less: Attributable to non-controlling interests

Net income from continuing operations 
attributable to owners of the parent company
Net loss from discontinued operations

Total net income attributable to owners of the 
parent company

Earnings per share (EPS)

Continuing operations1
Basic
Diluted
Discontinued operations1
Basic
Diluted
Total operations1
Basic
Diluted

IFRS
£m

14,453
(6,092)

8,361
(5,112)

3,249
(161)

(21)

3,067
(711)

2,356
(19)

2,337
(7)

2,330

326.7
325.7

(1.0)
(1.0)

325.7
324.7

Adjusting items

Reclassified 
foreign 
exchange 
translation on 
liquidation of 
subsidiaries
£m

Other 
individually 
material items 
of income and 
expense
£m

Finance 
income  
reclass
£m

Impact of 
business 
combinations
£m

Gain on 
disposal of 
brands
£m

–
–

–
33

33
–

–

33
(11)

22
–

22
–

22

3.1
3.1

–
–

3.1
3.1

–
–

–
(14)

(14)
–

–

(14)
(7)

(21)
–

(21)
–

(21)

(2.9)
(2.9)

–
–

(2.9)
(2.9)

–
–

–
–

–
(69)

–

(69)
–

(69)
–

(69)
–

(69)

(9.6)
(9.6)

–
–

(9.6)
(9.6)

–
–

–
–

–
(26)

–

(26)
26

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–
–

–
–

–
171

171
–

–

171
12

183
–

183
7

190

25.5
25.4

1.0
1.0

26.5
26.4

Impact of business combinations of £33 million relates 
principally to amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
recognised through historical business combinations. 
Income tax relates to an £11 million tax credit in relation 
to this amortisation.

Gain on disposal of brands and related intangible assets 
of £14 million relates to the disposal of Dermicool (£49 million 
loss) and E45 and related brands (£63 million gain). Included 
within income tax expense is a deferred tax credit of 
£28 million arising on the derecognition of deferred tax 
liabilities, offset by a £21 million tax charge incurred in 
relation to the disposals.

Reclassified foreign exchange translation on liquidation 
of subsidiaries of £69 million is the gain following the 
liquidation of legal entities as part of simplification of 
the Group’s legal entity structure.

Reclassification of finance income of £26 million relates 
to the reclassification of net interest income on income 
tax balances from net finance expense to income tax.

Other individually material items of income and expense 
of £171 million is composed of:

–  £152 million expense relating to the impairment 

of Biofreeze goodwill;

–  £14 million expense relating to the reorganisation 

of the Nutrition business subsequent to the disposal 
of IFCN China in 2021; and 

–  £5 million expense relating to costs incurred in relation 

to the Korean HS issue.

Adjusted
£m

14,453
(6,092)

8,361
(4,922)

3,439
(256)

(21)

3,162
(691)

2,471
(19)

2,452
–

2,452

342.8
341.7

–
–

Included within income tax expense is a £12 million net tax 
charge in relation to the IFCN China strategic review.

342.8
341.7

1  EPS is calculated using 715.3 million shares (basic) and 717.5 million shares (diluted)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE228

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shareholder Information

Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on Thursday 2 May 2024 at 14:00 at the London Heathrow 
Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN.

The Notice convening the AGM meeting, together with the business to be considered at the meeting, 
is contained in a separate document for shareholders and is available on our website at 
www.reckitt.com/investors/annual-general-meetings.

2024 financial calendar and key dates

Announcement of Quarter 1 trading statement

Annual General Meeting

Record date for 2023 final dividend

Payment of 2023 final ordinary dividend

Announcement of 2024 interim results

Record date for 2024 interim dividend

Payment of 2024 interim ordinary dividend

Announcement of Quarter 3 trading statement

24 April 2024

2 May 2024

12 April 2024

24 May 2024

24 July 2024

2 August 2024

13 September 2024

23 October 2024

Dividend
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 115.9 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 
2023. Subject to shareholder approval at the 2024 AGM, payment of the final dividend will be made on 
24 May 2024 to all shareholders on the register as at 12 April 2024. The latest date for receipt of new 
applications to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) in respect of the 2023 final dividend 
is 2 May 2024. Details on how to join the DRIP can be found below.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Shareholders participating in the DRIP receive additional shares purchased in the market instead of 
receiving a cash dividend. You can elect to join the DRIP by registering on the Computershare Investor 
Centre at www.investorcentre.co.uk. Alternatively, you can request a DRIP mandate form and terms and 
conditions by contacting Computershare on +44 370 703 0118.

Mandatory direct credit
We no longer pay dividends by cheque. Instead, cash dividends are now paid directly to shareholders’ 
bank accounts. This is known as ‘mandatory direct credit’. Receiving dividends this way means that 
shareholders receive dividend funds quicker. It also means the Company reduces its environmental 
impact, incurs lower administration costs and reduces the risk of cheque fraud.

To have your dividends paid directly into your bank account, please provide your bank details to our Registrar, 
Computershare, either by accessing Computershare’s Investor Centre at www.investorcentre.co.uk or by 
telephone on +44 370 703 0118. We will hold your dividends for you until you provide valid bank details and 
charges may be applied to reissue any outstanding dividend payments.

If you are based overseas, Computershare can offer an international payment option to have your 
dividends paid into your local account in a preferred currency. Please register online by visiting 
www.investorcentre.co.uk, where you can review the full details and associated fees.

Share dealing facility
The Company’s shares can be traded through most banks, building societies, stockbrokers or ‘share 
shops’. In addition, UK-based shareholders can buy or sell the Company’s shares using a share dealing 
facility made available by Computershare, which includes internet and postal share dealing.

Internet share dealing
Internet share dealing is available to shareholders residing in the UK. This service offers shareholders a 
straightforward way to buy or sell the Company’s shares on the London Stock Exchange. The commission 
is 1.4%, subject to a minimum charge of £40. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on 
purchases. Real-time dealing is available during UK market hours (08:00 to 16:30). In addition, you can 
place a sale instruction outside of market hours.

To access the service, log on to www.computershare.com/dealing/uk. Shareholders must have their 
Shareholder Reference Number (SRN) available. The SRN appears on share certificates. Internet share 
dealing is only available to residents in either the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man.

Postal share dealing service
The postal share dealing service offers a way to sell or purchase shares (subject to availability). To use 
the service you must be a resident of the UK or one of the permitted jurisdictions. A full list of permitted 
jurisdictions can be found at www.computershare.com/dealing/uk. If you wish to use the service, you can 
download a postal share dealing form and the terms and conditions at www.computershare.com/dealing/uk. 
The fee for this service is 1.4% of the value of each sale or purchase and is subject to a minimum charge of 
£40. Stamp duty of 0.5% may be payable on purchases.

Detailed terms and conditions for both internet and postal dealing are available upon request by calling 
+44 370 702 0000.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE229

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shareholder Information continued

Electronic shareholder communications
We encourage all shareholders to receive an email notification when shareholder documents become 
available online, to reduce our impact on the environment. An election to receive electronic shareholder 
communications will:

–  result in cost savings to the Company since less paper documentation will need to be produced 

and posted;

–  allow for quicker and more effective communications with shareholders; and

–  support Reckitt’s corporate responsibility profile.

Shareholders can register for electronic communications by registering at www.investorcentre.co.uk.

Shareholders who have elected for electronic communications will receive an email whenever 
shareholder documents are available on the Company’s website. Shareholders who have elected by 
deemed consent, in accordance with the CA 2006, will receive a hard copy notice of availability of a 
document on the Company’s website and are entitled to request a hard copy of any such document, 
at any time, free of charge from Computershare. Shareholders can revoke their consent to receive 
electronic communications at any time by contacting Computershare.

The Company’s 2023 Annual Report and Notice of the 2024 AGM are available to view at www.reckitt.com. 
The Investor section of the website also contains up-to-date information for shareholders to view 
throughout the year, including:

–  detailed share price information;

–  financial results;

–  regulatory announcements;

–  dividend history, payment dates and amounts;

–  access to shareholder documents including the Annual Report and Notice of AGM; and

–  share capital information.

Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2023

Distribution of shares by type of shareholder

No. of holdings

Shares

Nominees and institutional investors
Individuals

Total

Size of shareholding

1–500
501–1,000
1,001–5,000
5,001–10,000
10,001–50,000
50,001–100,000
100,001–1,000,000
1,000,001 and above

Total

2,948
9,948

728,445,231
8,089,948

12,896

736,535,179

No. of holdings

Shares

7,324
2,032
2,006
310
541
202
371
108

1,391,393
1,473,968
4,167,361
2,226,412
13,290,266
14,190,441
123,087,357
576,707,981

12,896

736,535,179

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
ADRs are dollar-denominated securities that represent the ownership of ordinary shares in a non-US 
company, quoted and traded in US dollars in the US securities market. ADRs facilitate the purchase, 
holding and sale of non-US shares by US investors. Dividends are paid to investors in US dollars.

Reckitt Benckiser Group plc ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol 
RBGLY. Five ADRs represent one ordinary Reckitt share. J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. is the Depositary. 
The table below provides details of the identification of Reckitt securities on the US market place and 
the London Stock Exchange.

Symbol

RBGLY

RKT.L.

Security

Listing/Trading

CUSIP/ISIN

US security (ADR)

OTC Pink

756255204

Ordinary share

London Stock Exchange GB00B24CGK77

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE230

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shareholder Information continued

ADR Depositary Bank
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. sponsors and administers the Reckitt ADR facility. 
J.P. Morgan ADR shareholder services can be contacted as follows:

J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. 
383 Madison Avenue, Floor 11, New York, NY 10179

Telephone number for general queries: +1 800 990 1135 
Telephone number from outside the US: +1 651 453 2128 

Website: www.shareowneronline.com

Company Secretary
Catheryn O’Rourke

Registered office
103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 1753 217800
Registered in England and Wales, No. 6270876

Company status
Public Limited Company

Auditor
KPMG LLP

Solicitors
Slaughter and May

Registrar
The company’s Registrar, Computershare, is responsible for maintaining and updating the shareholder 
register and making dividend payments to shareholders. If you have any queries relating to your 
shareholding, please contact Computershare.

Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ 

Shareholder helpline 
Telephone: +44 370 703 0118  
Website: www.computershare.com/uk

Charity donation
ShareGift is a UK registered charity (No.1052686) which specialises in realising the value locked up in 
small shareholdings for charitable purposes. The resulting proceeds are donated to a wide range of 
charities, reflecting suggestions received from donors. If you have only a small number of Reckitt 

shares which are uneconomic to continue holding, you may wish to consider donating them to ShareGift. 
Please visit www.sharegift.org/donate-shares or telephone +44 207 930 3737 for more information.

Unsolicited mail
We are legally obliged to make our register of shareholders available to the public, subject to a proper 
purpose test. As a result, some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail. Shareholders wishing to limit 
the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, MPS FREEPOST 29 LON20771, 
London W1E 0ZT or register online at www.mpsonline.org.uk.

Share fraud and ‘boiler room’ scams
Share fraud is a deceptive practice that induces investors to make sales and purchases based on 
inaccurate information and in violation of security laws. In boiler room scams, fraudsters will entice 
investors into scams through increased persuasion and high-pressure tactics through cold calling or 
random contact.

Reckitt is aware of these deceptions and urges shareholders who are offered unsolicited investment 
advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares, or free company or research reports to investigate 
thoroughly before making any decision.

If you receive any form of unsolicited investment advice, please take the following steps:

–  Confirm the name of the person and/or organisation

–  Check the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Financial Services Register at www.register.fca.org.uk/ 

to ensure they are authorised

–  Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm

–  Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on +44 800 111 6768 (freephone) or 0300 500 8082 (from the UK), 

if there are no contact details on the Register or if they are out of date

–  Search the FCA’s list of unauthorised firms and individuals at  

www.fca.org.uk/consumers/unauthorised-firms-individuals to avoid doing business with 
reported offenders

–  If you are approached by fraudsters please contact the FCA using its helpline, or share fraud 

reporting form

–  Consider getting independent financial advice

Using an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments will prohibit access to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) should the 
investment be unsuccessful. Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. If you 
think you have been a victim of these scams, the matter should be reported to the Police 
and to Action Fraud. For more information, please visit the Serious Fraud Office website at  
www.sfo.gov.uk/contact-us/reporting-serious-fraud-bribery-corruption.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE231

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shareholder Information continued

Cautionary note concerning forward-looking statements
This Annual Report and Financial Statements contains statements with respect to the financial condition, 
results of operations and business of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and the Reckitt group of companies 
(the Group) and certain of the plans and objectives of the Group that are forward-looking statements. 
Words such as ‘intends’, ‘targets’, or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future 
performance or results, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. 
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future 
matters, including targets for net revenue, operating margin and cost efficiency, are forward-looking 
statements. Such statements are not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.

By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events 
and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could 
cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements, including many factors outside the Group’s control. Among other risks and 
uncertainties, the material or principal factors which could cause actual results to differ materially are: 
the general economic, business, political, geopolitical and social conditions in the key markets in which 
the Group operates; the Group’s ability to innovate and remain competitive; the Group’s investment 
choices in its portfolio management; the ability of the Group to address existing and emerging 
environmental and social risks and opportunities; the ability of the Group to manage regulatory, tax and 
legal matters, including changes thereto; the reliability of the Group’s technological infrastructure or that 
of third parties on which the Group relies including the risk of cyber-attack; interruptions in the Group’s 
supply chain and disruptions to its production facilities; economic volatility including increases in the 
cost of labour, raw materials and commodities; the execution of acquisitions, divestitures and business 
transformation projects; product safety and quality, and the reputation of the Group’s global brands; 
and the recruitment and retention of key management.

These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, Reckitt expressly disclaims any 
obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements 
contained herein to reflect any change in the Group’s expectations with regard thereto or any change 
in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

Any information contained in the 2023 Annual Report and Financial Statements on the price at which 
shares or other securities in Reckitt Benckiser Group plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the 
yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE232

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCE233

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Printed by a carbon neutral company to the EMAS 
standard and Environmental Management System 
certified to ISO 14001. This document is printed on 
paper made of material from well-managed, FSC®-
certified forests and other controlled sources. 

This publication has been manufactured 
using 100% offshore wind electricity 
sourced from UK wind. 

100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further 
use and, on average 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled and the 
remaining 1% used to generate energy. 

This is a certified climate neutral print product 
for which carbon emissions have been calculated 
and offset by supporting recognised carbon 
offset projects. The carbon offset projects are 
audited and certified according to international 
standards and demonstrably reduce emissions. 
The climate neutral label includes a unique ID 
number specific to this product which can be 
tracked at www.climatepartner.com, giving 
details of the carbon offsetting process including 
information on the emissions volume and the 
carbon offset project being supported.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONSTRATEGIC REPORTGOVERNANCEReckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Reckitt Benckiser Group
Registered office 
103-105 Bath Road 
Slough, Berkshire 
SL1 3UH, UK

Registered in England and Wales 
No 6270876

reckitt.com

