60

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Risk Management continued

Key

Risk

What is the risk?

Examples of how we are managing the risk

Mitigation progress this year

   Sustainable mid-single- 
digit growth

   High gross  
margin business

   Brand  
Investments

   Adjusted operating profit growth  
ahead of net revenue growth

   Strong cash flow and  
healthy balance sheet

   Capital Allocation  
Framework

8 

Innovation

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

9  Reliance on Key 

Manufacturing Sites

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

10  Economic Volatility

Link to strategy:

Risk trend: 
No change

Oversight Committee: 
Main Board

Our continued growth and success 
depends on the relevance of our brands 
to consumers and our ability to innovate. 
Failure to effectively innovate, launch 
and market new products could lead to 
adverse financial performance and loss 
of market share.

–  Consumer trends, behaviour and needs are analysed through 
our Demand Centered Growth process based on targeted 
consumer segments

–  Innovation projects follow a standardised operating model, 
which includes defined stage gates and cross-functional 
approvals, with oversight from our Category and R&D teams

–  Enhanced reporting provides greater visibility over our 

innovation pipeline

–  To ensure we are identifying and responding to changing 
consumer needs, we continued to make investments in 
our science platforms to create superior, longer-term and 
differentiated products, strengthen our claims and lead 
with consumer-relevant solutions

–  We have enhanced our external partnership capability to 
drive co-creation of innovation through greater external 
orientation in key areas like sustainability

We are heavily reliant on a few key 
manufacturing sites to produce our 
products. An unexpected shutdown 
at one of these sites or a sustained 
increase in demand could lead to a 
significant interruption to the production 
of a specific component or product.

–  Each of our manufacturing sites is classified through 
a three-tier system based on revenue dependency 
or criticality to market. This drives our site inspection 
programme with Tier 1 sites being subject to more 
regular inspections

–  We operate a Global asset protection programme through 
our insurers, which includes a rotational review of sites

–  Our Global Health and Safety and Corporate Security teams 
maintain a framework of standards and complete a global 
audit compliance programme

Adverse economic conditions, together 
with high levels of volatility and 
unpredictability in the macroeconomic 
environment, could impact our ability to 
deliver consistent and predictable growth. 

–  Price volatility is managed through our CRM process, 
which determines the optimal price management 
strategies for energy and other key commodities

–  Our Treasury function oversees the Group’s risks relating to 

foreign exchange and interest rate risk management through 
several controls, including policies, oversight of market and 
GBU activities, monitoring and reporting 

–  Short- and medium-term strategies are being implemented 

to build redundancy into our manufacturing network. 
These include investment in line capacity, refocusing 
of manufacturing operations and dual sourcing for 
critical brands

–  We have deployed the Reckitt Production System 

across all our manufacturing sites to drive sustainable 
manufacturing performance

–  We continue to closely monitor the external environment 
and develop business continuity plans to minimise the 
impact of any disruption

–  We launched our Planning and Forecasting programme 
as part of our Finance for the Future Transformation 
programme. The programme aims to mitigate against 
unpredictability in the external environment and improve 
the accuracy of planning and forecasting activities. 
The programme will continue into 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE61

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our Viability Statement 

THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS 
AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS

The Board’s Viability Review is based 
on the Group’s strategy, its long-term 
financial plan and its principal risks.

A financial forecast covering a five-year period 
was prepared (the base case). This period was 
selected as it is the period covered in the Group’s 
long-term forecasting process, based on the 
budget and projections for the following years and 
covers the introduction to market of the current 
new product pipeline. The period also covers the 
majority of Reckitt’s debt repayment profile. 

The financial forecast is based on a number of 
key assumptions aligned to the Group’s growth 
strategy, planned capital spending and capital 
allocation policy. The assessment of viability takes 
into account the Group’s cash flow, its currently 
available banking facilities and interest cover 
ratios in relevant financial covenants, and does 
not assume the raising of additional new debt 
or equity finance. If Reckitt performs in line with 
the base case forecasts, it will have sufficient 
funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall 
due, remain compliant with financial covenants 
and remain viable. Moreover, the Group has 
access to external debt markets on account of 
its credit rating together with a well-diversified 
supplier network, customer base and product 
range, and geographical activities with a strong 
innovation pipeline and dividend cover. 

Assessment of principal risks and viability 
To further test the robustness of the base case 
forecast, further analyses were prepared to 
consider the viability of the business in the 
event of adverse unexpected circumstances. 
Such adverse circumstances were modelled 
primarily upon the crystallisation of the Group’s 
principal risks (see pages 57-60, including how 
we are managing the risk). Principal risks have 
the potential to create adverse circumstances 
for the Group and can occur individually or in 
combination with each other. The assessment 
of viability considered the implications of 
crystallisation of each principal risk and 
estimating the impact on interest cover ratios 
and headroom over available borrowing facilities.

These principal risks were aggregated to create 
two scenarios which model plausible downside 
scenarios of increasing severity based on: 
(i) crystallisation of principal risks deemed to 
have the most relevant potential impact on 
viability; and (ii) crystallisation of all principal risks 
and the impact of adverse movements in foreign 
exchange and interest rates. The principal risks 
that were evaluated also include the failure to 
address existing and emerging environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) and sustainability 
risks and the changing societal and stakeholder 
expectations of businesses in addressing these. 

Viability Statement 
The Board believes that the Group is well-
positioned to manage its principal risks 
successfully. The Board’s belief is based on 
consideration of the historic resilience of 
Reckitt and has taken account of its current 
position and prospects, the actions taken to 
manage the Group’s debt profile, risk appetite 
and the principal risks facing the business 
in unexpected and adverse circumstances. 
Mitigating actions, should they be required, 
are all within management’s control and 
could include reduced capital expenditure or 
temporary suspension of dividend payments.

Conclusion 
As a result of the Viability Review, the Board 
has a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year 
period covered in the Viability Review.

The Board has also considered the potential 
impact of changes to environmental factors which 
may affect the business model and performance in 
the future, as set out in the Taskforce on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) statement on 
page 218. The analysis indicated that even with 
unexpected events occurring immediately and 
in combination, Reckitt would still have sufficient 
funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due 
and remain compliant with financial covenants.

The Board has further considered the occurrence 
of a Black Swan event: an event of greater 
adversity than those modelled above, with 
sufficient potential impact to risk the future of 
Reckitt as a strong and independent business 
operating in its chosen markets. The occurrence 
of a major issue could result in significant 
reputational impact, a substantial share price 
fall, significant loss of consumer confidence 
and the inability to retain and recruit quality 
people. Such an event could have an impact 
on the viability of the business. On the basis 
of a comprehensive set of mitigating controls 
in place across the business, considering the 
unknown nature of a Black Swan event and that 
its occurrence is considered highly unlikely, it has 
not been included in the Viability Review.

The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 
to 61, has been approved by the Board.

Catheryn O’Rourke
Company Secretary
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCE62

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Governance Report

AT A GLANCE

DIVERSE LEADERSHIP

Tenure1,3

Gender1

4

5

  Under 3 years

  3-6 years

  6-9 years

  9+ years

40%

6

Board members skills overview2

  Core skill 

  Male

  Female 

60%

Nationality1

1

1

1

1

1

1

3

Financial Expertise

Strategy & Transformation

Consumer Goods & Retail

Healthcare & Pharmaceuticals

Leadership

Digital & Marketing

UK Corporate Governance Code: 2018 Statement of Compliance
For the year ended 31 December 2023, the Company complied 
with all the provisions of the Code and the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules requirements to provide a corporate 
governance statement.

How we comply with the Code

1. Board leadership and company purpose

Page

  British

  American

  French

Our Board of Directors

Group Executive Committee

6

  British/Dutch

Reckitt’s approach to governance

  American/British

  Danish

  Italian/British

  Italian/Brazilian

Board activities during 2023

Market Context, Our Strategy and  
Our Business Model

CRSEC Committee Report

2. Division of responsibilities

How we are governed

65-68

69-70

71-73

74-75

07-12

96-99

80-81

3. Composition, succession and evaluation

Board performance review and effectiveness

82

Nomination Committee Report

4. Audit, risk and internal control

Audit Committee Report

5. Remuneration

83-87

88-95

Remuneration Committee Report

100-132

See pages 65-68

for details of Board members who served during the year 
and as at the date of this Report.

1.  As at close of business on 31 December 2023
2.  Board skills as at 15 March 2024
3.  Board members who have served over nine years as 
at the date of this Report will retire at the 2024 AGM, 
with the exception of Mary Harris, who will remain 
on the Board for a fixed term until the 2025 AGM to 
support a smooth Remuneration Committee Chair 
succession (see page 64)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT63

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Governance Report continued

CHAIR’S 
INTRODUCTION 
TO GOVERNANCE

Our Board is committed to 
upholding the highest standards 
of governance in the long term 
interests of our shareholders 
and stakeholders.”

Chris Sinclair
Chair

Dear shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
Reckitt’s Corporate Governance Report for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2023. 
The Board is responsible for the effective 
leadership of the Group and for promoting 
its long-term sustainable success.

The Board provides leadership by setting 
the Company’s Purpose, strategy and values, 
overseeing implementation of the strategy by 
management and monitoring culture to ensure 
its alignment with our Purpose and values. 
The Board ensures there are appropriate 
processes in place to manage risk and monitors 
the Company’s financial and operational 
performance against objectives.

Evolution of the Board and Executive Team
Since I have now completed nine years on the 
Board, a process was undertaken during the year 
to identify my successor as Chair. This exercise 
was undertaken by the Nomination Committee 
(excluding me) and led by Andrew Bonfield. 
Further information on the process is described 
on page 86. It was successful, and I am delighted 
to be succeeded by Sir Jeremy Darroch who will 
take over as Chair of the Board with effect from 
the conclusion of the AGM. 

Sir Jeremy joined the Board as Senior Independent 
Director in November 2022. He is an outstanding 
leader with considerable expertise, a proven track 
record of performance and a unique insight into 
what motivates consumers as well as a passion 
for responsible and sustainable business.

Our evolution as a Company has also been 
accompanied by a transition in our executive 
leadership team. On behalf of the Board, I’d like to 
thank Nicandro Durante for the exceptional job he 
has done as CEO, helping to oversee the selection 
of a permanent CEO and a new CFO, and for 
working with Kris Licht to ensure a seamless 
transition for all our stakeholders. The Board came 
into this process knowing we had a strong bench 
of leadership talent and Kris Licht was identified 
as the outstanding candidate to be CEO. Kris has 
been instrumental in Reckitt’s transformation 
through his role as Chief Transformation Officer 
and his strong operational leadership of our Health 
GBU. He has a deep understanding of Reckitt’s 
business, customers, brands and culture. 

During the year, Jeff Carr, our Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) notified the Board of his 
intention to retire in March 2024. Following 
a thorough search, Shannon Eisenhardt was 
appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 
and will succeed Jeff as CFO in March 2024. 

Shannon brings extensive experience across 
the consumer goods and retail sectors, having 
worked with some of the most globally 
recognised brands. Shannon is a proven 
strategic and operational leader with a track 
record of building highly successful teams and 
delivering strong and consistent performance. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT64

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Governance Report continued

Following Kris’s appointment as CEO Designate 
in May, there were also changes to our Group 
Executive Committee (GEC) membership. 
Pat Sly was appointed as President Health 
having previously led Reckitt’s Global Nutrition 
business since 2021. Pat was succeeded as 
President Nutrition by Susan Sholtis, who 
rejoined Reckitt on 1 July 2023. Susan has 
a deep knowledge of the Nutrition business, 
having previously worked for more than 11 years 
at both Mead Johnson and Reckitt in general 
management and global marketing roles.

On 12 January 2024, we announced the 
appointment of Marybeth Hays as a Non-Executive 
Director, with effect from 1 February 2024. 
Marybeth has over 25 years of experience in the 
retail, healthcare and consumer goods sectors 
and we are delighted Marybeth has agreed 
to join the Board. More details on Marybeth’s 
appointment can be found on page 84.

In February 2024, we were also delighted to 
confirm the appointment of Fiona Dawson 
as a Non-Executive Director and as Chair 
Designate of the Remuneration Committee 
from 1 June. Fiona brings extensive consumer 
goods experience and is passionate about 
sustainability, health and wellbeing – particularly 
women’s entrepreneurship and human rights.

On the same day, we announced that Alan 
Stewart, currently Non-Executive Director and 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee, had 
notified the Board of his intention to retire 
from the Board following the AGM in May. 

To ensure continuity in relation to the 
Remuneration Committee, Mary Harris, former 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the 
current Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Engagement with the Company’s Workforce, 
will be reappointed as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee upon conclusion of this year’s AGM, 
for a fixed term until our next AGM in May 2025. 

Although Mary has now served nine years as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Company, 
the Board unanimously agreed that Mary is 
uniquely positioned to undertake the role of 
Remuneration Committee Chair during this 
interim period due to her extensive knowledge 
of the business, her in-depth understanding of 
investor and other stakeholder expectations 
and previous Remuneration Committee Chair 
experience. Mary is considered to continue to 
retain an independence of mind and to be an 
effective and valued contributor to the Board.

Elane Stock will take on the role of Designated 
Non-Executive Director for Engagement with 
the Company’s Workforce from Mary Harris, with 
effect from the conclusion of this year’s AGM.

At the conclusion of the 2025 AGM, Fiona will take 
on the role of Remuneration Committee Chair.

Board performance review
The Board undertakes an annual review of its 
own and its Committees’ performance and 
effectiveness. The Board performance review 
was facilitated by Lintstock Ltd (Lintstock), 
as part of its ongoing Board Development 
Programme. Details of this year’s Board 
performance review, together with our progress 
against the outcomes from our 2022 Board 
performance, can be found on page 82.

Our people and culture
Our culture and values define the way that Reckitt 
does business and this starts with our employees. 
We aim to create the space and opportunities 
to help our employees make a difference and 
do the right thing, always. It is our collective 
responsibility to build inclusion into everything 
we do, whilst ensuring we represent the people 
we are and the global community we serve. 
Our Code of Conduct reinforces our principles 
of business conduct and is communicated to all 
employees each year with mandatory training. 
Our values underpin our Code of Conduct and 
are enhanced by our Purpose and Compass. 

We are evolving a vibrant, inclusive and 
collaborative culture to deliver on our Purpose. 
In embedding inclusivity, all colleagues should 
feel free to participate fully, bring their authentic 
self to work and realise their full potential. 
Internally, we are strengthening our inclusive 
culture by focusing on leadership, people 
and policy. Externally, our inclusive approach 
to procurement, brands and partnerships 
aligns what we do with who we are.

Further details on our people, culture and inclusion 
can be found on pages 19 to 21 and page 51.

Engaging with our stakeholders
Effective engagement with our shareholders, 
our employees and wider stakeholders is key to 
Reckitt’s sustainable success. We, as directors, 
must act in a way that we consider, in good faith, 
would be likely to promote the success of the 
Company for the benefit of its shareholders 
as a whole. In our decision-making, the Board 
also considers wider stakeholder interests. 

Our key stakeholders include our employees, 
shareholders, customers, consumers, partners, 
and the communities in which we operate and 
the environment. Our Section 172 Statement, 
which explains how the Directors have discharged 
their responsibilities during the year under 
review, can be found on pages 76 to 77.

For further information on our Sustainability 
Ambitions, please see pages 14 and 47 to 54. 
Our Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
can be found on pages 218 to 222.

I am extremely proud of the Board and all 
our Reckitt employees for their continued 
commitment to our Purpose, Compass 
and the stewardship of our business, 
on behalf of all our stakeholders.

Chris Sinclair 
Chair
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT65

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose

OUR BOARD

The Board of Reckitt: experienced, 
diverse and balanced

Biographical details of the Directors 
as at 31 December 2023.

Chris Sinclair (73)
Chair of the Board

N

R

C

Kris Licht (47)
Chief Executive Officer

C

Sir Jeremy Darroch (61)
Senior Independent Director

N

R

Nationality American

Nationality Danish

Nationality British 

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2015 and as Chair of the Board and Nomination 
Committee in May 2018. Chris will retire as Chair 
and from the Board following the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Chris brings strong leadership skills and 
valuable strategic insight to the Board, 
through his experience as CEO and Chair of 
other large companies. He also has a strong 
understanding of international consumer-
focused businesses. He is the former Chair and 
CEO of Mattel, Inc. and previously served as 
CEO for various companies including Caribiner 
International, Quality Food Centers, Pepsi-Cola 
Co. and PepsiCo Foods and Beverages.

Detailed Board members biographies

can be found at reckitt.com/our-company/our-leadership/.

Committee Key

Chair

R

Remuneration

Current external appointments
None

N

Nomination

A

Audit

C

Corporate Responsibility,  
Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance

Appointment
Appointed as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
Designate on 1 May 2023, an Executive Director on 
1 June 2023 and became CEO on 1 October 2023. 

Skills and competencies
Kris has strong leadership and transformation 
experience with a proven track record in delivering 
growth and driving performance. He has in-depth 
knowledge of the consumer goods sector. 
Kris joined Reckitt in November 2019 as Chief 
Transformation Officer and in July 2020 became 
President Health & Chief Customer Officer. 
Prior to Reckitt, he has held a number of senior 
strategic and operational positions at PepsiCo 
and was a Partner at McKinsey & Company working 
in the consumer, health and retail practices.

Appointment
Appointed as Senior Independent Director and 
a member of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees in November 2022. Sir Jeremy 
will become Chair of the Board following the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Jeremy is an outstanding leader with considerable 
expertise in the consumer retail environment. 
He has a proven track record of driving business 
performance and a unique insight into what 
motivates consumers. He is the former Executive 
Chairman and Group CEO of Sky and prior to that 
was Group Finance Director of DSG International 
plc. He has also held board positions with Burberry 
Group plc and Marks and Spencer Group plc.

Current external appointments
Board member of the Consumer Brands Association

Current external appointments
Director of The Walt Disney Company

Chair, National Oceanography Centre

WWF Ambassador

Non-Executive Director of Ahren Acquisition Corp

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT66

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Jeff Carr (62)
Chief Financial Officer

Shannon Eisenhardt (49)
Chief Financial Officer Designate

Andrew Bonfield (61)
Non-Executive Director

A N

Pam Kirby (70)
Non-Executive Director

C

N A

Nationality British 

Nationality American 

Nationality British 

Nationality British 

Appointment
Appointed as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
in April 2020. Jeff will step down as CFO in 
March 2024 and will retire as an Executive Director 
on 31 March 2024.

Skills and competencies
Jeff brings extensive experience across 
consumer and retail companies. He has a record 
of transformational, strategic and operational 
leadership, consistent performance delivery 
and strong capital allocation discipline. Prior 
to Reckitt, he was the CFO and Management 
Board member at Ahold Delhaize, CFO of First 
Group plc and easyJet plc and held senior 
finance roles at Associated British Foods plc.

Appointment
Appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 2023 
and will become CFO in March 2024.

Skills and competencies
Shannon brings extensive experience across the 
consumer and retail sectors, having worked with 
some of the most globally recognised brands. 
Shannon held multiple senior management roles 
at NIKE, Inc., including as CFO of the NIKE Consumer, 
Marketplace and Brand segment. Prior to that, 
Shannon had spent almost two decades at Procter 
& Gamble in a range of finance roles. Shannon 
is a proven strategic and operational leader with 
a track record of building highly successful teams 
and delivering strong and consistent performance.

Current external appointments
Chair of the Audit Committee and Non-Executive 
Director of Kingfisher plc

Current external appointments
None

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2018 
and as Chair of the Audit Committee in January 
2019. Andrew will become Senior Independent 
Director following the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Andrew brings more than three decades of 
financial expertise to the Board. He is a strong 
leader, with experience gained in large, complex 
organisations and has a history of driving strong 
financial performance in the UK and globally. 
These skills are valuable to the Board and to his 
role as Chair of the Audit Committee. He is CFO 
of Caterpillar Inc., was Group CFO of National 
Grid plc, CFO of Cadbury plc and Executive 
Vice President and CFO at Bristol Myers Squibb.

Current external appointments
Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc.

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2015 and as Chair of the CRSEC Committee in 
July 2016. Pam will retire from the Board following 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Pam brings to the Board extensive knowledge of 
the healthcare sector and a wealth of international 
business and pharmaceutical experience. 
These skills are highly valuable to her role as 
Chair of the CRSEC Committee. She has served 
as Chair of SCYNEXIS, Inc., CEO of Quintiles 
Transnational Corporation and held senior 
positions in the international healthcare industry 
at AstraZeneca plc and Hoffman-LaRoche.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc

Member of the Supervisory Board of AkzoNobel N.V.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT67

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Alan Stewart (63)
Non-Executive Director

R

N

Olivier Bohuon (65)
Non-Executive Director

R

C

Margherita Della Valle (58)
Non-Executive Director 

A

Mary Harris (57)
Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Engagement with Company’s Workforce

R

Nationality British 

Nationality French 

Nationality Italian/British

Nationality British/Dutch 

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2022 and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
in May 2022. Alan will retire from the Board following 
the Company’s AGM in May 2024.

Skills and competencies
Alan brings to the Board significant corporate 
finance and accounting experience from a variety 
of industries, including retail, banking and travel, 
as well as executive leadership experience 
within a listed company environment. He was 
CFO of Tesco PLC where he played a key role in 
the turnaround of Tesco. Prior to this he was also 
CFO of Marks and Spencer Group plc, CFO of 
AWAS, Group Finance Director of WH Smith PLC 
and CEO and CFO of Thomas Cook Holdings.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc

Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in January 2021.

Skills and competencies
Olivier is a successful leader, with many years’ 
experience as CEO of a large, global company. 
Olivier has a wealth of experience in healthcare 
products and markets and brings great insight 
to the Board. He was the CEO of Smith & 
Nephew plc and of healthcare, cosmetology 
and pharmaceutical company Laboratoires 
Pierre Fabre, and Corporate Executive Vice 
President of Abbott Laboratories and President 
of their pharmaceutical products division.

Current external appointments
Chairman of Majorelle

External Director of Takeda Pharmaceutical 
Company Limited

Co-Founder and Board member 
of AlgoTherapeutix SAS

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2020.

Skills and competencies
Margherita has extensive experience of financial 
markets and digital technologies. She is an 
experienced leader in business in both developed 
and developing markets. Margherita is Chief 
Executive Officer of Vodafone Group plc and 
prior to that held numerous senior finance roles 
within the business including as Chief Financial 
Officer. These skills, together with her strong 
leadership background, are valuable to the Board 
and her membership of the Audit Committee.

Current external appointments
Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Group Plc

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 
February 2015. Mary was Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee from November 2017 to May 2022, and 
will resume that role following the Company’s AGM 
in May 2024. Mary has been the Designated NED for 
Engagement with the Company’s Workforce since 
July 2019.

Skills and competencies
Mary has substantial experience in consumer 
and retail businesses across China, Southeast 
Asia and Europe. She brings to the Board a top-
level strategic outlook, with an international and 
consumer focus. Her previous experience in other 
Non-Executive Director roles, and as Chair of 
other Remuneration Committees, is invaluable 
to the Board and the Remuneration Committee.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Coca-Cola Europacific 
Partners plc

Supervisory Director of HAL Holding N.V.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT68

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Tamara Ingram, OBE (61)
Non-Executive Director

A

Mehmood Khan (65)
Non-Executive Director

C

Elane Stock (59)
Non-Executive Director

A

Marybeth Hays (55)
Non-Executive Director

Nationality British 

Nationality American/British 

Nationality American

Nationality American

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in February 2023.

Skills and competencies
Tamara has had an extensive career in advertising, 
marketing and digital communications and has a 
deep understanding of consumer brands and digital 
strategy. She was Global Chair of Wunderman 
Thompson and also held various leadership roles 
at WPP plc. She also served as CEO of McCann 
Worldgroup and Saatchi & Saatchi in London.

Current external appointments
Non-Executive Director of Marks and Spencer 
Group plc 

Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group plc

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2018.

Skills and competencies
Mehmood is a highly skilled medical practitioner 
and researcher. Mehmood has been Chief 
Executive Officer of Hevolution Foundation since 
October 2020. He was previously CEO of Life 
Biosciences Inc., and before that served as Vice 
Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer, Global 
Research and Development at PepsiCo Inc. He 
has extensive experience in both developing 
and developed markets, adding value to the 
CRSEC Committee through his knowledge 
of creating sustainable initiatives and past 
experiences of leading research and development 
efforts to create breakthrough innovations.

Non-Executive Director of Marsh & McLennan 
Companies, Inc.

Current external appointments
Chief Executive Officer of Hevolution Foundation 

Executive Chairman of Life Biosciences Inc.

Chairman of VCAT, US National Institute 
of Standards and Technology

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in September 2018.

Appointment
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in February 2024.

Skills and competencies
Elane has held various senior leadership positions 
including Chief Executive Officer of ServiceMaster 
Brands, Group President at Kimberly-Clark 
International and Kimberly-Clark Professional and 
as a director and member of the Audit Committee 
of Yum Brands! and Equifax. Elane brings great 
sector-relevant experience and insight of consumer 
goods products to the Board, particularly in 
personal care and wellness. She also brings key 
knowledge of emerging markets and the changing 
channels of trade and consumer preferences.

Current external appointments
None

Skills and competencies
Marybeth has over 25 years of experience in the 
retail, healthcare and consumer goods sectors. She 
has held various senior roles at Walmart, including 
as Executive Vice President of Consumables and 
Health & Wellness for Walmart U.S. and as Chief 
Merchandising, Marketing and Supply Chain Officer 
for Walmart China. Marybeth was previously Vice 
President of Marketing at HanesBrands, Inc.

Current external appointments
Director and member of Audit Committee of 
JOANN Stores, Inc. 

Board member of Decowraps

Other Directors who served during the year
Nicandro Durante, Non-Executive Director from 
December 2013, was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer from October 2022 until October 2023 and 
stayed on as Executive Director until his departure 
in December 2023.

Fiona Dawson CBE will join the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and as Chair Designate 
to the Remuneration Committee effective 
1 June 2024. Fiona’s full biography will be available 
on our website upon her appointment.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT69

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

GROUP EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE

21 

24

27

210

22

25

28

211

23 

26

29

212

Kris Licht (47)
Chief Executive Officer

21 

Jeff Carr (62)
Chief Financial Officer

22

Nationality Danish

Nationality British

Key skills and experience
Kris has strong leadership and transformation 
experience with a proven track record in delivering 
growth and driving performance. He has in-depth 
knowledge of the consumer goods sector. 
Kris joined Reckitt in November 2019 as Chief 
Transformation Officer, and in July 2020 became 
President Health & Chief Customer Officer. 
Prior to Reckitt, he has held a number of senior 
strategic and operational positions at PepsiCo, 
and was a Partner at McKinsey & Company working 
in the consumer, health and retail practices.

Key skills and experience
Jeff joined Reckitt as Chief Financial Officer in April 
2020. Prior to that, he was CFO and Management 
Board member at Ahold Delhaize, and held 
the role of CFO at First Group plc and easyJet 
plc. Jeff brings extensive experience across 
consumer and retail companies. He has a record 
of transformational strategic and operational 
leadership, consistent performance delivery 
and strong capital allocation discipline. Jeff will 
step down as CFO in March 2024 and will retire 
as an Executive Director on 31 March 2024.

Shannon Eisenhardt (49)
Chief Financial Officer Designate

23

Volker Kuhn (56)
President Hygiene

24

Nationality American

Nationality German/Swiss 

Key skills and experience
Shannon joined Reckitt as CFO Designate in 
October 2023 and will become CFO in March 2024. 
Shannon brings extensive experience across the 
consumer and retail sectors, having worked with 
some of the most globally recognised brands. 
Shannon held multiple senior management roles at 
NIKE, Inc., including as CFO of the NIKE Consumer, 
Marketplace and Brand segment. Prior to that, 
Shannon had spent almost two decades at Procter 
& Gamble in a range of finance roles. Shannon is 
a proven strategic and operational leader with a 
track record of building highly successful teams 
and delivering strong and consistent performance.

Key skills and experience
Volker joined Reckitt in August 2020 as Chief 
Transformation Officer, and in May 2021 became 
President Hygiene. As well as leading the Hygiene 
BU’s global team, he has additional responsibility 
for New Growth Platforms, a cross-BU initiative. 
Prior to joining Reckitt, Volker spent 26 years with 
Procter & Gamble in a range of international finance, 
marketing, and senior general management roles. 

Detailed Executive Committee members biographies

can be found at reckitt.com/our-company/our-leadership/.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT70

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Pat Sly (47)
President Health

25

Susan Sholtis (57)
President Nutrition

26

Ranjay Radhakrishnan (53)
Chief Human Resources Officer

27

Fabrice Beaulieu (50)
Chief Marketing, Sustainability and 
Corporate Affairs Officer

28

Nationality American

Nationality American

Nationality British

Nationality French 

Key skills and experience
Pat joined Reckitt in 2017 as part of the Mead 
Johnson Nutrition acquisition. He was appointed 
as Chief Operating Officer, Nutrition in July 
2021, as President Nutrition in February 2022 
and as President Health in July 2023. Pat has 
more than 20 years of experience in senior 
leadership roles in general management, 
marketing and sales across North America, 
Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.

Key skills and experience
Susan joined Reckitt as President Nutrition in July 
2023. Susan brings to Reckitt a deep knowledge 
of the Nutrition business, having previously 
worked for over 11 years at Mead Johnson 
Nutrition and Reckitt in a number of senior 
leadership roles in the US and Europe, including 
general management, marketing and sales.

Key skills and experience
Ranjay joined Reckitt as Chief Human Resources 
Officer in March 2020. Ranjay has over 30 years’ 
experience in the human resources function 
across different geographies and industries. 
Prior to joining Reckitt, Ranjay was the Chief 
Human Resources Officer at InterContinental 
Hotels Group plc and spent over two decades 
at Unilever in senior leadership roles.

Key skills and experience
Fabrice joined Reckitt in 1999 and the GEC in April 
2022. Since joining the Company he has worked 
internationally in senior leadership roles across 
marketing and general management. He oversees 
the Marketing Centres of Excellence and the 
Sustainability and Corporate Affairs functions. 
He is responsible, amongst others, for reimagining 
and scaling Reckitt’s playbook for digitally led, 
sustainable and profitable growth. Fabrice is 
a graduate of EM Lyon Business School, France.

Sami Naffakh (53)
Chief Supply Officer

29

Angela Naef, PhD (48)
Chief R&D Officer

210

Filippo Catalano (51) 
Chief Information & Digitisation Officer

211

Catheryn O’Rourke (51)
General Counsel & Company Secretary

212

Nationality French 

Nationality American 

Nationality Italian

Nationality American

Key skills and experience
Sami joined Reckitt as Chief Supply Officer 
in July 2020. He is responsible for global 
supply chain operations, including planning, 
procurement, manufacturing and logistics. 
Sami will be leaving Reckitt in July, to be 
succeeded by Harald Emberger, previously 
Chief Supply Chain Officer at Beiersdorf AG.

Key skills and experience
Angela joined Reckitt as Chief R&D Officer in 
September 2020 and is responsible for elevating 
Reckitt’s science capability and platforms as well 
as for driving external partnerships. She is focused 
on enabling the R&D organisation to deliver 
meaningful solutions addressing the mega 
trends and sustainability to deliver growth.

Key skills and experience
Filippo joined Reckitt as Chief Information 
& Digitisation Officer in April 2021. Filippo is 
responsible for building and maintaining Reckitt’s 
IT, Data and Digital capabilities. Filippo brings 
to Reckitt extensive leadership experience in 
defining and shaping IT, digital portfolios and 
technology-enabled new business models 
across leading consumer goods organisations.

Key skills and experience
Catheryn joined Reckitt in February 2022 and 
is responsible for legal and compliance matters 
across the Group. She brings to Reckitt more 
than 20 years of professional expertise in 
running global legal and compliance teams, 
managing litigation and corporate transactions, 
advising on financial reporting and disclosure 
as well as supporting Board governance.

Other Group Executive Committee members who served in the year
Nicandro Durante, Non-Executive Director from December 2013, was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer from October 2022 until October 2023 and stayed on as Executive Director until his departure 
in December 2023.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT71

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

RECKITT’S APPROACH 
TO GOVERNANCE

The Board is responsible for the effective 
leadership of the Group and for promoting 
its long-term sustainable success, generating 
value for shareholders and contributing to wider 
society, whilst focusing on governance with the 
highest regard to the principles of the Code. 
The Board provides leadership by setting our 
Purpose, strategy and values, monitoring our 
culture and ensuring alignment with our Purpose 
and Compass, and overseeing implementation by 
management. All Directors must act with integrity, 
lead by example and promote the Company’s 
culture and values. The Board also ensures there 
are appropriate processes in place to manage 
risk, including the Company’s risk appetite and 
monitors financial and operational performance 
against objectives. The Board consists of a 
balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
who together have collective accountability to 
Reckitt’s shareholders as well as responsibility 
for the overriding strategic, financial and 
operational objectives and direction of Reckitt.

The Board manages the overall leadership of the 
Group with reference to its formal Schedule of 
Matters Reserved for the Board. This schedule is 
reviewed annually, with the last review undertaken 
in November 2023, and broadly covers:

–  Matters which are legally required to be 

considered or decided by the Board, such 
as approval of Reckitt’s Annual Report and 
Financial Statements, declaration of dividends 
and appointment of new Directors

–  Matters recommended by the Code to be 
considered by the Board, such as terms of 
reference for the Board and its Committees, 
review of internal controls and risk management

–  Compliance with regulations governing 

UK publicly listed companies, such as the UK
Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules and the Prospectus 
Regulation Rules

–  Matters relating to developments in, or changes 
to, the Group’s strategic direction, or material 
corporate or financial transactions

The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board

is available on the Reckitt website at 
reckitt.com/investors/corporate-governance.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT72

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Governance structure 
The Company has a clear and effective 
governance structure, which allows the Board, 
its Committees and the Executive team to make 
decisions effectively. The Board has established 
four Committees to assist in the execution of its 
responsibilities. Each Committee operates under 
terms of reference approved by the Board. The 
terms of reference are reviewed regularly, with 
the last review taking place in November 2023. 
There are also three supporting Management 
Committees: the Disclosure Committee, the 
Group Executive Committee (GEC), and the Risk, 
Sustainability & Compliance Committee (RSCC).

Shareholders
Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the Company and play an important role in the governance structure. Further information on our engagement with 
shareholders can be found on page 39.

Our Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the overall leadership of the Group and for promoting its long-term sustainable success whilst focusing on its strategic 
direction, Purpose, values and governance with the highest regard to the principles of the Code. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board, 
its Committees and Management Committees.

Nomination Committee
Chaired by Chris Sinclair

Audit Committee
Chaired by Andrew Bonfield

Remuneration Committee
Chaired by Alan Stewart

CRSEC Committee
Chaired by Pam Kirby

Responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on 
suitable candidates for appointment 
to the Board, its Committees and 
senior management and to regularly 
review and refresh their composition 
to ensure that they comprise a 
diverse group of individuals with 
the necessary skills, knowledge and 
experience to effectively discharge 
their responsibilities, whilst keeping 
in mind the importance of diversity.

Responsible for monitoring the 
integrity of Reckitt’s Financial 
Statements and for ensuring 
effective functioning of internal 
audit, internal controls and risk 
management. It is also responsible 
for managing the Company’s 
relationship with its External Auditor.

Responsible for assisting the Board 
in fulfilling its oversight responsibility 
by ensuring that the Remuneration 
Policy and practices reward fairly and 
responsibly, are linked to corporate 
and individual performance and take 
account of the generally accepted 
principles of good governance. 
The Committee is responsible for 
determining the remuneration for 
the Chair, Executive Directors and 
senior management.

Responsible for supporting the 
Board in reviewing, monitoring and 
assessing the Company’s approach 
to responsible, sustainable, ethical 
and compliant corporate conduct 
and to assist the Board in upholding 
its Compass.

See pages 83-87

for more details in the  
Nomination Committee Report.

See pages 88-95

for more details in the  
Audit Committee Report.

See pages 100-132

for more details in the  
Remuneration Committee Report.

See pages 96-99

for more details in the  
CRSEC Committee Report.

Disclosure Committee
Chaired by CFO

Group Executive Committee 
Chaired by CEO 

Responsible for 
ensuring accuracy and 
timeliness of disclosure 
of financial and other 
public announcements.

Responsible for overseeing Reckitt’s management and ensuring 
collaboration between GBUs, functions and in-market operations. 
It recommends and implements the strategy and related budget 
as approved by the Board. The GEC drives business and cultural 
transformation, reviews business performance and approves business 
development plans and major investments. It plays a critical role in 
talent management and development and oversees the integration 
of sustainability within business operations.

Risk, Sustainability &  
Compliance Committee 
Chaired by CEO

Provides oversight of risk across the organisation and 
makes recommendations to the CRSEC Committee 
for actions to be taken in respect of the Group’s legal 
compliance and ethics, sustainability, external affairs, 
employee health and safety, quality, consumer safety 
and regulatory matters, including compliance strategies, 
policies, programmes and key activities.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT73

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

How we manage conflicts of interest
Directors have a duty to avoid interests, direct or 
indirect, which might conflict with the interests 
of the Group. Under the terms of our Articles, 
such conflicts can be authorised by the Board. 
Procedures are in place to manage and, where 
appropriate, approve such conflicts. Any 
authorisations granted by the Board are recorded 
by the General Counsel & Company Secretary 
in a Register of Conflicts, together with the 
date on which the conflict was authorised. Any 
conflicts authorised during the year are reviewed 
annually by the Nomination Committee and the 
Board. In addition, each Director certifies on 
an annual basis that the information contained 
in the Register of Conflicts is correct.

The Company indemnifies the Directors and 
Officers of the Company and any Group subsidiary 
to the extent permitted by law in respect of the 
legal defence costs for claims against them and 
third-party liabilities. The indemnity would not 
provide cover for a Director or Officer if that 
individual was found to have acted fraudulently 
or dishonestly. Additionally, Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance cover was maintained 
throughout the year at the Company’s expense.

How Board meetings are structured
Board meetings are conducted in an open 
atmosphere conducive to challenge and debate. 
Agendas are tailored to the requirements 
of the business and agreed in advance by 
the Chair and CEO with the support of the 
General Counsel & Company Secretary.

The Board receives operating and financial reports 
from the CEO and CFO on strategic and business 
developments, as well as financial performance 
and forecasts at each meeting. Specific 
presentations are also made by non-Board 

members on material matters to the Group. 
In addition, the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, 
CRSEC and Nomination Committees update the 
Board on the proceedings of those meetings, 
including key topics and areas of concern.

At the conclusion of every scheduled Board 
meeting, the Chair holds a session with the 
other Non-Executive Directors, without 
the Executive Directors present, providing 
further opportunity for the Non-Executive 
Directors to assess the performance of 
management and individual Executive Directors 
and help drive future agenda items.

The Board uses its meetings as a way of 
discharging its responsibilities, including 
as set out in section 172 of CA 2006 to 
promote the success of the Company for 
the benefit of its members as a whole.

Board and Committee meeting attendance
In 2023, there were five scheduled Board 
meetings. The October Board meeting was a 
strategy session held in person in New Jersey, 
USA to allow the Board to immerse itself in 
the Group’s operations, to visit local sites and 
meet the local workforce. During the three-day 
meeting, the Board received presentations on 
the Company’s strategy, including deep dives 
into each GBU, innovation, supply and IT & 
Digital strategy. The Board also met informally 
with senior leadership from the US team and 
hosted employee engagement sessions.

The table opposite sets out the attendance by 
Directors at scheduled Board and Committee 
meetings that each Director was eligible to 
attend. Directors who were not members 
of individual Board Committees were also 
invited to attend one or more meetings 
of those Committees during the year.

Where a Director is unavoidably absent from a Board or Committee meeting, they still receive and 
review the papers for the meeting and may provide verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, 
usually through the Chair of the Board or the Chair of the relevant Committee, so that their views 
are considered at the meeting.

Board

5 

Audit  
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

CRSEC 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

4 

3 

4 

2 

meetings

meetings

meetings

meetings

meetings

Andrew Bonfield

Olivier Bohuon

Jeff Carr

Jeremy Darroch

Margherita Della Valle

Nicandro Durante1

Shannon Eisenhardt2

Mary Harris

Tamara Ingram

Kris Licht3

Mehmood Khan

Pam Kirby

Chris Sinclair

Alan Stewart

Elane Stock

5 of 5

4 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

4 of 5

4 of 5

1 of 1

5 of 5

5 of 5

3 of 3

5 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

5 of 5

4 of 4

4 of 4

3 of 4

4 of 4

4 of 4

4 of 4

1.  Nicandro Durante resigned from the Board on 31 December 2023
2.  Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed to the Board on 17 October 2023
3.  Kris Licht was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2023

2 of 3

3 of 4

2 of 2

3 of 3

2 of 2

3 of 3

3 of 3

3 of 3

4 of 4

4 of 4

4 of 4

2 of 2

2 of 2

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT74

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Stakeholders

  Customers

  People

  Partners

  Communities

Government and  
industry associations

  Consumers

  Shareholders

2023 BOARD ACTIVITIES

Mergers and acquisitions
–  Oversight of potential merger and 
acquisitions (M&A) activities and 
portfolio strategy

Business updates
–  Review of GBU business performance

–  Deep dives on functions such as Finance, 

HR, Supply, IT & Digital and Cyber

Strategy

Group plans and budgets
–  Reviewed the Group’s financial plan 

for 2024 and individually for the GBUs

–  Reviewed forecasts and business 

performance 

Strategy
–  Board members met in person for a 

three-day meeting in October 2023 to 
discuss strategy and the innovation pipeline

–  Reviewed strategy for each GBU, supply 

chain and IT & Digital function

–  Received updates on competitive 

environment and broader 
market developments

Our activities during the year

Governance and Oversight

Board and Committee performance review
–  Conducted the annual Board performance 
review and had oversight of Committee 
performance reviews. Identified areas for 
improvement and recommended actions

–  Considered and proactively addressed 

actions from the 2022 Board 
performance review

Talent, succession and board composition
–  Oversight of Group talent planning and 

succession, including senior management 
succession and retention

–  Considered and approved Board changes, 
including the appointment of Chair, CEO, 
CFO, SID and new Non-Executive Directors 
as detailed on pages 83 to 87

Shareholders and stakeholders
–  Held the 2023 AGM as a physical meeting. 

Shareholders had the opportunity to 

pre-submit questions as well as ask them 
during the meeting

–  Held Board and employee engagement 

meetings, to understand employee views, 
as part of October strategy meetings

Compliance
–  Reviewed and approved governance 

matters, such as the Schedule of Matters 
Reserved for the Board, Committee terms of 
reference, Directors’ conflicts of interest and 
compliance with the Code and best practice

–  Kept abreast of upcoming changes in the 
UK corporate governance and regulatory 
framework

–  Approved Reckitt’s 2022 Modern Slavery 
and Human Trafficking Statement, as 
recommended by the CRSEC Committee

FEBRUARY MEETING

MAY MEETING

AGM

–  Approval and publication of Full Year Results

–  Review of Sustainability Strategy

–  In person engagements 

–  Approval and publication of Annual 

–  Approval of Modern Slavery 

Report 2022

Act Statement

–  Consideration of Full year dividend proposal

with shareholders and Q&A 

–  AGM resolutions proposed 

to shareholders

JULY MEETING

–  Approval and publication 

of Half Year Results

–  Consideration of Interim 

dividend proposal

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT   
75

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

Stakeholders

  Customers

  People

  Partners

  Communities

Government and  
industry associations

  Consumers

  Shareholders

ESG

Financial

–  Reviewed the Group’s sustainability strategy 
and approach, including progress against 
the delivery of our Sustainability Ambitions

–  Received updates on sustainability activities 

and initiatives

Risk Management and Internal Controls

Principal and Emerging Risks
–  Conducted an annual review of Reckitt’s 

principal and emerging risks and 
consideration of risk management approach

–  Reviewing the appropriateness and 

effectiveness of the system of internal 
control and risk management

Reporting
–  Reviewed and approved Reckitt’s Annual 
Report and Financial Statements including 
compliance with reporting requirements

Financial resources
–  Reviewed the Company’s financial 
position, Group debt and funding 
arrangements and capital allocation

–  Reviewed and approved Reckitt’s full-year, 

–  Approved bond issuance

half-year and quarterly results

–  Approved initiation of share 

–  Provided results presentations to investors 

buyback programme

and employees during the year

–  Interim and final dividend payments

Going concern
–  Reviewed long term going concern and 

–  Approved the final 2022 and 

interim 2023 dividend payments

liquidity considerations

–  Considered and approved the 2023 

Annual Report Viability Statement upon 
recommendation of the Audit Committee

Treasury policies
–  Reviewed and approved the Group’s 

Treasury policies

Our activities during the year

OCTOBER MEETING

SITE VISIT

NOVEMBER MEETING

–  Board three-day strategy sessions

–  Board visit to R&D facility and review of 

–  2024 Plan agreed

–  Board and employee engagement sessions

R&D functional strategy

–  Board performance review

LISTENING SESSIONS 

–  Conducted listening session on the 

intersectionality of Health and Climate

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT   
76

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

SECTION 172 
STATEMENT

This statement shows how our 
Directors have acted in a way 
that they consider, in good faith, 
would be most likely to promote 
the success of the Company for 
the benefit of its members as a 
whole during 2023, having regard 
to stakeholders, including matters 
under Section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the 
Companies Act 2006.

Understanding the needs and expectations 
of our stakeholders is fundamental to our 
Purpose: to protect, heal and nurture in the 
relentless pursuit of a cleaner and healthier 
world. In making decisions, the Directors 
consider what is most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for its shareholders 
in the long term, as well as the interests 
of the Group’s other stakeholders.

Our stakeholders

CASE STUDY

Consumers

CEO appointment

Governments, 
NGOs, Industry 
& Academia

Customers

Communities

People

Investors

Suppliers & 
partners

We recognise that our business can only 
grow and prosper by acting in the long-term 
interests of our key stakeholders, namely 
our people, our consumers and customers, 
our shareholders, investors and partners, the 
communities in which we operate and the 
environment. Further information on our key 
stakeholders can be found on pages 37 to 40.

The Board considers our key stakeholders and 
the matters set out under Section 172 of the 
CA 2006 in its discussions and decision-making. 
The following table sets out examples of how 
the Board has considered matters under section 
172 during the year in performing its duties.

In appointing Kris Licht as CEO, following 
an extensive search which considered both 
internal and external candidates, the Board 
took account of the need to build on the strong 
momentum in the business over the past three 
years, Kris’ strong strategic and operational 
leadership experience, as well as his in-depth 
knowledge of Reckitt’s business, culture, 
customers and other stakeholders, as well 
as of the consumer goods sector generally.

How the Board engaged 
with stakeholders:

Page

CASE STUDY

Consumers

Customers

People

Suppliers & partners

Investors

Communities

Governments, NGOs, 
Industry & Academia

37

38

38

39

39

40

40

Shareholder returns

The Board recognises the importance of 
shareholder returns and, during the year, 
increased both the 2022 final dividend 
and the 2023 interim dividend by 5%. 
In October, the Board also announced 
a £1 billion share buyback programme. 
In announcing this enhanced shareholder 
returns programme, the Board took account 
of the Group’s strong free cash flow 
generation, the views of shareholders, 
and that capacity existed to return excess 
capital to shareholders without impacting 
the successful delivery of the business plan 
or the Group’s capital allocation priorities.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT77

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

(a) Considering long-term consequences
The Board strives to act in the long-term 
interests of its key stakeholders, and this 
frames its oversight of corporate strategy, 
which is founded on creating long-term 
shareholder value. Our Sustainability 
Ambitions frame decision-making, and 
provide important interim milestones 
to 2030. These parameters, set by the 
Board, are reflected within strategy 
work and objectives, which extends 
to: capital investment; Group budgets; 
dividend plans; and future resourcing 
requirements. Reckitt’s risk management 
framework, including the Group’s Principal 
Risks, further underpin the Board’s 
long-term approach. The Board and its 
Committees are responsible for risk 
governance, and oversight is achieved 
through several mechanisms including 
strategy reviews, Committee meetings 
and deep dives into selected risk areas.

(b, c) Fostering stakeholder relationships
Constructive two-way dialogue with 
Reckitt’s key stakeholders, including 
employees, customers and consumers, 
investors, suppliers and partners, 
governments and regulators, tracks 
priorities and helps identify issues as 
they arise. Strategic engagement with 
stakeholders reflects the structure of 
our business as one Group with three 
autonomous business units with decision-
making authority. The Board creates the 
right conditions for this approach by 
setting Reckitt’s long-term direction, 
overarching decision-making framework 
and culture. This is in-line with the Board’s 
own experience and understanding of 
stakeholder needs, Reckitt’s Sustainability 
Ambitions and engagement on the future 
of the retail and consumer goods industry.

(d) Protecting communities and 
the environment
We understand as a business the effects 
our operations have on the environment and 
the need to embed sustainability to create 
positive impacts both for communities and 
the wider society in which we operate, as 
well as for our business. Our Sustainability 
Ambitions to 2030 focus on our impact 
through our purpose-led brands and 
innovative products; sustaining a healthier 
planet through our work on climate change, 
natural resources and biodiversity; and 
enabling a fairer society through our activity 
in our own business and across our value 
chain. The Board oversees and reviews 
performance against Reckitt’s Sustainability 
Ambitions and delegates regular oversight 
of sustainability to the CRSEC Committee.

(e, f) Setting culture and conduct
The Board is responsible for monitoring 
Reckitt’s culture and values, and the delivery 
of our strategy can only be achieved with 
the highest standards of business conduct. 
All Directors must act with integrity, lead 
by example, and promote the Company’s 
culture and values. We aim to create 
the space and opportunities to help our 
employees make a difference and do the 
right thing, always. The CRSEC Committee 
reports to the Board after each of its 
meetings, to provide an update on Reckitt’s 
ethics and compliance priorities, including 
the Group’s Speak Up programme.

Relevant s172(a) disclosures

Relevant s172(b, c) disclosures

Relevant s172(d) disclosures

Our Strategy

Board activities 
and governance

08-11

71-75

Focus on risk management

78

Reckitt’s decision-making 
framework

Stakeholder engagement 
and actions

72

37-40

Sustainability Ambitions 
Progress Overview and 
Performance Review

Audit Committee report

14

47-54

88-95

CRSEC Committee report

96-99

Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures

218-222

Relevant s172(e, f) disclosures

Board oversight/focus on 
culture and ethical conduct

Reckitt’s approach to DE&I, 
health, safety and wellbeing

96-99

19-21

112-114

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT78

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

FOCUS ON RISK 
MANAGEMENT

Risk Appetite
The Board is responsible for compliance with 
the Code and the Financial Reporting Council’s 
(FRC) Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting. The sectors and environment within 
which Reckitt operates are dynamic and fast-
moving, and in some areas, highly regulated, and 
so controls are kept under review. The system 
is designed to assess and manage, rather than 
eliminate, risks to our business objectives. The 
Board relies on these controls insofar as they are 
able to provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group’s principal and emerging risks and 
mitigating actions are detailed on pages 55 to 60.

As part of our risk management process, 
we regularly evaluate risks to achieving objectives, 
and the likelihood of such risks materialising and 
impacting the ability of the Group to cope with 
the circumstances should they occur. In doing so, 
we are inherently considering our risk appetite 
through the actions taken, controls implemented 
and processes followed to reduce the likelihood 
of risk events taking place, mitigating the 
potential impact and ensuring that the cost 
of doing so is proportionate to the benefit gain.

Principal risks
Reckitt is committed to maintaining strong 
internal controls and further enhancing 
these. Further information on internal control 
activities during the year can be found on 
page 94 of the Audit Committee Report.

Functional and operational management meet 
to discuss performance measured against 
strategic aims and goals, with risks and risk 
controls incorporated into the discussions. 
During the year, the Directors undertook a robust 
assessment of the principal and emerging risks 
facing the Group, including those that could 
threaten our business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity. Each principal and emerging 
risk is overseen by the Board, or a designated 
Committee of the Board, and is subject to formal 
deep-dive reviews as appropriate at Board, GEC 
and GBU meetings. More details on the Group’s 
principal strategic risks and uncertainties can be 
found in the Strategic Report on pages 55 to 60.

Risk management and internal controls
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, 
oversees the Group’s overall Risk Management 
Framework, the effectiveness of internal controls 
and monitors Reckitt’s compliance with the 
requirements of the Code in respect of risk 
management and internal controls. The Audit 
Committee monitored the key elements of the 
Group’s internal controls framework throughout 
the year and conducted an annual review of 
the effectiveness of Reckitt’s system of risk 
management and internal control in respect of 
2023, which covered all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
Audit Committee’s annual review was supported by 
a report prepared by the Internal Audit function on 
the Group’s risk management and internal controls.

On an ongoing basis, the Board reviews the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control system, including through 
monitoring reports from management on their 
assessment of risks and internal control systems, 
assurance received from management regarding 
compliance with relevant policies, and assurance 
received on the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal control environment. In addition, the Board 
reviews reports from the Audit Committee, the 
Internal Audit function and the External Auditor, 
the Company’s response to incidents and threats, 
including those relating to cybersecurity and 
safety. The Board reviewed information gathered 
from the Company’s formal Speak Up programme 
including the results of an investigation conducted 
in two Middle Eastern markets (see page 93). It 
also considers the External Auditor’s observations 
on the financial control environment.

In particular, the Audit Committee monitored 
progress against Reckitt’s ongoing controls 
transformation programme to strengthen internal 
control over financial reporting. The Group’s 
financial controls transformation programme is 
intended to increase the overall level of control 
environment maturity and improve consistency 
across the Group. During 2023, it reviewed the 
results of testing performed by the internal 
controls and Internal Audit teams to confirm 
the effective operation of key financial controls 
across the Group, in particularly following the 
launch of the Group’s revised financial control 
framework during the year. More details on the 
financial control framework can be found in the 
Audit Committee Report on page 94. The Audit 
Committee also continues to monitor progress 
in relation to IT General Controls and technology 
security and control initiatives, with regular 

updates from the Chief Information and Digitisation 
Officer and on the related assurance programmes.

Where areas for improvement are identified, the 
Audit Committee is updated regularly with respect 
to progress on those remediation activities as 
well as reviewing ongoing control improvements 
identified. It is recognised that improvements 
will be ongoing through 2024 and the Audit 
Committee will continue to support management 
and review the remediation activities to monitor 
that management have the appropriate resources 
and an appropriate remediation timeline is in place.

Climate-related risk and environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) matters
The Board oversees, considers and reviews 
the Group’s ESG strategy and has oversight 
of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
As part of the Board’s annual review of our 
principal and emerging risks, sustainability was 
considered. The Board’s focus included, both ESG 
performance and reporting. More information 
on our Sustainability Ambitions can be found on 
pages 47 to 54. Our Climate Related Financial 
Disclosures can be found on pages 218–222.

The CRSEC Committee supports the Board in 
reviewing, monitoring, and assessing our approach 
to sustainability, which includes climate change. 
The CRSEC Committee reports to the Board 
regularly at Board meetings, providing an update 
on sustainability objectives and progress against 
our targets. Further details on the activities of the 
CRSEC Committee can be found on pages 96 to 99.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT79

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board Leadership and Company Purpose continued

How we monitor culture

Board interactions and engagement to monitor culture throughout the year

Connecting directly 
with employees

Monitoring employee 
perceptions

Board members meet with employees regularly. As part of this year’s October Board meeting schedule, Board members met 
informally with senior leadership from the US and hosted employee engagement sessions. The Board reviewed feedback 
from the round-table discussions. In her role as Designated NED for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce, Mary Harris 
attended meetings where employees were able to speak directly with Mary. The Board received feedback from Mary on 
these discussions. Further information on Mary’s role as Designed NED for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce can 
be found on pages 38 and 80.

Regular global all-employee surveys include questions to gauge employees’ perceptions and understanding of leadership, 
inclusion and wellbeing at Reckitt, and identify areas which require greater attention. This year’s survey highlighted that 
employees would recommend Reckitt as a place to work; believe in and are inspired by our Purpose to protect, heal and 
nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner, healthier world; are proud to work for Reckitt; and agreed that we are achievers. 
Similar to last year, responses from the survey also identified areas that need further improvement, such as: removing barriers 
that slow down work; transparency on equal opportunities and career progression; and investing in and developing people. 
The Board will continue to monitor progress against these areas.

Creating a forum for 
employees to be heard

Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are employee networks that aim to raise the visibility of underrepresented communities. 
They provide a space for colleagues to connect and support each other and are also represented on the Global Inclusion 
Board. In addition, throughout the year, Mary Harris, the Designated NED for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce, 
has maintained regular engagement with various employee groups, including the ERGs.

Ensuring employees 
are informed 

Quarterly all-employee global live-streaming results broadcasts were held by the CEO, CFO and GBU leaders to present 
our results and employees are invited to ask questions and interact directly with presenters.

Staying informed of legal 
and compliance matters 

At each Board meeting, the CRSEC Committee reports to the Board on legal compliance and ethics matters, including the 
Group’s Speak Up programme, which provides safe communication channels for employees wishing to raise concerns on 
potential violations of regulations, internal policies or any misconduct observed at Reckitt.

Maintaining open 
communications 

Following the Q3 2023 results announcement, a CEO chat was broadcast to update Reckitt employees on the continued 
strategic direction beyond Q3 and provided employees with an opportunity to ask questions.

FOCUS ON 
CULTURE

Reckitt is rooted in a culture that is purpose driven, 
innovative and entrepreneurial. Our leadership 
behaviours unite us through a shared ambition 
to Own, to Create, to Deliver and, above all, 
to Care about the outcomes we deliver. Doing 
the right thing, always, is at the centre of our 
Compass, which guides our business and the 
leadership behaviours that drive our success. 
Our people are what makes Reckitt unique. 
They believe in and are inspired by our Purpose. 
During the last four years, we have established 
deep cultural foundations that empower our 
people as the key value drivers of our business. 
We redefined our leadership behaviours to place 
a greater emphasis on care as we serve the 
needs of all our stakeholders. We elevated the 
importance of teamwork in delivering outcomes 
and protecting against the pursuit of results at 
any cost. More information on our culture can be 
found on pages 19 to 21 of the Strategic Report.

How the Board monitors culture
A key focus of the Board is to monitor culture 
and ensure alignment between our Purpose, 
values, and behaviours. Our culture and 
values at Reckitt are defined by the Board 
and the GEC. Regular interactions with 
employees help the Board monitor culture 
and are detailed in the table opposite.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT80

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Division of Responsibilities

HOW WE ARE 
GOVERNED

Board roles and responsibilities
To ensure the Board performs effectively, there is 
a clear division of responsibilities, set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board, between the leadership 
of the Board and the executive leadership of the 
business. The key roles are defined in greater 
detail on the following pages.

A full description of the roles and responsibilities 
of the Chair, CEO and Senior Independent Director 
can be found on our website: www.reckitt.com.

Managing time commitment and ‘overboarding’
On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are 
made aware of the need to, and are required to 
confirm that they will, allocate sufficient time 
to their role to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. They are also required to seek 
agreement from the Chair before taking on 
additional commitments, and to declare any actual 
or potential conflicts of interest. Non-Executive 
Directors are engaged under the terms of a letter 
of appointment. Initial terms of appointment are 
for three years with three months’ notice, with all 
Directors standing for election or re-election at 
every AGM. The Board has reviewed the length of 
service of each Director and considers that each 
Non-Executive Director standing for re-election 
or election at this year’s AGM is independent. 
In particular, in relation to the reappointment 
of Mary Harris as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee for a fixed term between the 

Non-Executive

The Chair
–  Leading the Board and taking responsibility 

for the Board’s overall effectiveness 
in directing the Company

–  Upholding the highest standards of integrity 
and ethical leadership, leading by example 
and promoting a culture of openness and 
debate, based on mutual respect, both in 
and outside the boardroom and in line with 
our Purpose, values, strategy and culture

–  Chairing Board, Nomination Committee 
and shareholder meetings and setting 
Board agendas

The Senior Independent Director
–  Acting as a sounding board for the Chair 

–  Encouraging constructive challenge and 

–  Promoting the highest standards 

facilitating effective communication between 
the Board, management, shareholders and 
wider stakeholders, while promoting a culture 
of openness and constructive debate

–  Ensuring an appropriate balance is maintained 
between the interests of shareholders and 
other stakeholders

–  Leading the annual performance review 

process for the Board and its Committees 
and addressing any subsequent actions

of corporate governance

–  Building a well-balanced, diverse 

and highly effective Board

–  Ensuring Directors receive accurate, 

timely and clear information

–  Ensuring there are appropriate induction 
and development programmes for all 
Board members

–  Ensuring the long-term sustainability 

of the Company

–  Evaluating the Chair’s performance 

–  Being available to shareholders and 

on Board-related matters

on an annual basis

–  Acting as an intermediary for other Directors 

–  Chairing Board and Nomination Committee 

as necessary

meetings in the absence of the Chair

Non-Executive Directors
–  Providing independent input into Board decisions 

through constructive challenge and debate, 
strategic guidance and specialist advice

objectives set, ensuring that management 
is held to account

–  Reviewing financial information and ensuring 

–  Setting and approving the Company’s long-term 

it is complete, accurate and transparent

strategic, financial and operational goals

–  Examining the day-to-day management of the 
business against the performance targets and  

–  Ensuring there are effective systems of internal 
control and risk management and that these are 
continually monitored and reviewed

Designated Non-Executive Director for Engagement with the Company’s Workforce
–  Overseeing the Board’s engagement with 
the Company’s workforce together with 
management, to understand more about 
engagement and the culture of the Company

engagement initiatives

–  Developing and implementing employee 

stakeholders to address any concerns that 
they have been unable to resolve through 
normal channels

–  Leading the search and appointment process 

for a new Chair, when necessary

–  Setting appropriate levels of remuneration 

for Executive Directors and ensuring 
performance targets are closely aligned 
with shareholder interests

–  Development of succession planning and the 

appointment and removal of senior management

–  Taking into account and responding 

to shareholders’ views

–  Providing an employee voice in the boardroom 
and reporting on matters relating to Company 
culture, purpose and improvements

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT 
81

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Division of Responsibilities continued

Company’s 2024 and 2025 AGMs, see page 64. 
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors 
who served during the year to be independent. 
Whilst both Chris Sinclair and Pam Kirby will have 
served nine years in February 2024, the 2024 AGM 
represents a natural point for them to stand down, 
and enables smooth succession of their roles. The 
period from February to the AGM is considered 
sufficiently short not to impair their independence.

The Board and Directors are confident that each 
Director individually has the expertise and relevant 
experience required to perform the role of a 
Director of a listed company and to contribute 
effectively to the Board and Committees to which 
they are appointed. The Company recognises 
the developmental advantages of an external 
non-executive role on a non-competitor board 
and Executive Directors are permitted to seek 
such a role, provided that they do not take on 
more than one non-executive directorship in, 
nor become the Chair of, a FTSE 100 company.

Nicandro Durante, who was an Executive 
Director until the end of the year, was Chair 
of TIM Participações S.A. and Jeff Carr is 
currently a Non-Executive Director of Kingfisher 
plc and Chair of its Audit Committee.

Board support
The General Counsel & Company Secretary 
is responsible for organising Board meetings, 
as well as collating any papers for the Board 
to review and consider. Board and Committee 
papers are accessible to all Directors through 
a secure and confidential electronic document 
storage facility. This facility is maintained by 
Reckitt’s Secretariat function and additionally 
holds other information which the Chair, the CEO 
or the General Counsel & Company Secretary 

Executive

The Chief Executive Officer
–  Principally responsible for the day-to-day 
management of Reckitt, in line with the 
strategic, financial and operational objectives 
set by the Board

–  Effective development and implementation of 
strategy and commercial objectives as agreed 
by the Board

–  Maintaining relationships with investors and 

–  Chair of the GEC, consisting of the CEO, 

advising the Board accordingly

are regularly updated on key matters, including 
progress on delivering strategic objectives

–  Regularly reviewing the organisation structure, 

developing a Group Executive team and 
planning for succession

the CFO and senior management executives, 
who together are responsible for execution 
of the Company’s strategy and achieving 
its commercial aims

–  Managing Reckitt’s risk profile and establishing 

effective internal controls

–  Ensuring there are effective communication 

–  Providing clear leadership to promote the 
desired culture, values and behaviours to 
inspire and support the Company’s workforce

flows to the Board and the Chair, and that they  

–  Ensuring the long-term sustainability of 

the business

–  Responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal controls over financial 
reporting and for the preparation and integrity 
of financial reporting

–  Ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely 

and clear information in respect of the Group’s 
financial performance and position

–  Developing and recommending the long-term 

strategic and financial plan

–  Ensuring the Board receives high quality, 
timely information in advance of Board 
meetings to ensure effective discussion

–  Ensuring there are policies and processes 

in place to help the Board function efficiently 
and effectively

–  Facilitating an induction programme for 

–  Keeping abreast of shareholders’ views

all Board members

The Chief Financial Officer
–  Supporting the CEO in developing and 
implementing the Company’s strategy

–  Leading the global finance function, 

and developing key talent and planning 
for succession

The Company Secretary
–  Providing advice and support to the Chair 

and all Directors

–  Advising and keeping the Board up to date 

on all relevant legal and governance 
requirements and ensuring the Company 
is compliant

may deem useful to the Directors, such as press 
releases and pertinent company information.

All Directors have individual access to advice 
from the General Counsel & Company Secretary 
and a procedure exists for Directors to take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT 
82

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Composition, Succession and Evaluation

BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
AND EFFECTIVENESS

2022 recommendations

Action taken during 2023

Board succession
Whilst Board composition was rated highly, 
it was noted that ensuring appropriate 
geographical representation, gender diversity 
and recruiting Non-Executive Directors 
with IT & Digital and marketing experience 
would be beneficial to the Board.

Through the Nomination Committee, the Board 
maintained a strong focus on Board renewal 
during 2023. The appointment of Tamara Ingram 
in February 2023, Marybeth Hays in February 
2024 and Fiona Dawson in June 2024, brings 
material leadership and marketing, retail and 
omni-channel experience to the Board.

Talent and succession planning
Chair and CEO succession were 
identified as key priorities for 2023.

Execution and delivery 
To ensure appropriate oversight of execution 
and delivery, risk management, investment 
in the capabilities and systems to deliver 
the strategy, with a particular focus on 
Supply, IT & Digital and Cyber Security.

As detailed in the Nomination Committee Report, 
successful exercises have been undertaken 
during 2023 resulting in the appointment 
of Sir Jeremy Darroch as Chair, Kris Licht 
as CEO and Shannon Eisenhardt as CFO.

The Board has during the year maintained 
a specific focus on these areas, receiving 
detailed briefing on Supply, IT & Digital and 
Cyber Security as part of its Board, Audit 
Committee and CRSEC Committee agendas.

Board Performance review process 2023 
The Board undertakes an annual review of 
its own and its Committees’ performance 
and effectiveness, with a formal externally 
facilitated performance review of the Board 
conducted at least every three years. In 2020, 
we engaged Lintstock to facilitate a three-year 
Board Development Programme, which was 
extended for an extra year in 2023. In this final 
year, the review consisted of both an online 
questionnaire and interviews with the Directors. 

The 2023 Board performance review considered 
the effectiveness of the Board, as well as that 
of each Board Committee and the individual 
Directors. The areas of focus included Board 
composition and succession planning, quality of 
information received, Board dynamics and support, 
management and focus of meetings, Board 
Committees, strategic oversight, risk management 
and mitigation, internal control, advancement of 
diversity and inclusion, oversight of sustainability 
disclosures and board relations. A report, with 
action points and recommendations for the 
Board to consider, was distributed to Directors 
and the results of the review were subsequently 
discussed by the Board at its November meeting.

Key themes identified through the performance 
review included the need to focus in 2024 
on Board succession, risk management and 
providing the Board with more opportunities 
to engage with the business (for example, 
by holding meetings in proximity to key sites).

In addition, the Chair’s performance was 
considered by the Senior Independent Director 
with input from his fellow Non-Executive 
Directors and discussed following the November 
Board meeting without the Chair present. The 
discussion concluded that the Chair continued 
to devote sufficient time to his role and 
continued to lead the Board constructively, 
demonstrating objective judgement and 
encouraging a culture of openness and debate.

Lintstock is independent of and has no other 
links with the Company or its Directors in 
connection with the performance review. 

Actions taken to address the findings of the 2022 
review are also outlined in the table opposite.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT83

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT

Member

Scheduled  
meetings attended

Chris Sinclair (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Andrew Bonfield
Member for the whole year

Alan Stewart
Member for the whole year

Pam Kirby
Member for the whole year

Sir Jeremy Darroch
Member for the whole year

52/2

52/2

52/2

52/2

52/2

This year the Committee’s focus was 
on succession planning, ensuring that 
the right people are in place to enable 
Reckitt to execute its strategic aims.”

Chris Sinclair
Chair of the Nomination Committee

Committee priorities in 2023
–  The selection and appointment of our new 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Kris Licht, 
who was appointed as CEO Designate in 
May and formally became CEO on 1 October

–  The selection and appointment of our new 

Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Shannon 
Eisenhardt, who was appointed as CFO 
Designate on 17 October, and will succeed 
Jeff Carr in March 2024

–  Chair succession planning. In November, 
we announced that Sir Jeremy Darroch, 
currently the Senior Independent Director 
(SID), would succeed Chris Sinclair as Chair 
of the Board, from the conclusion of the 2024 
Annual General Meeting (AGM), and that 
Andrew Bonfield will take on the role of 
SID from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM

Key objectives for 2024
–  Support a smooth Chair transition for 

Sir Jeremy Darroch

–  Support the smooth transition of the Executive 

Directors, onboarding of the new Non-Executive 
Directors and transition of Remuneration 
Committee Chair

–  Continue succession planning for the Board 
and senior management roles and to keep 
Committee memberships under review

Committee membership
Members of the Committee are appointed by 
the Board. Membership currently comprises the 
Chair, the SID and the Chairs of each of the Board’s 
Committees. In accordance with the principles 
of the Code, the Committee is made up of a 
majority of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The General Counsel & Company Secretary acted 
as Secretary to the Committee during the year.

The membership of the Committee is reviewed 
annually by the Chair as part of the annual 
performance review of the Committee. 
All Directors are required to seek election or 
re-election each year at the AGM. Biographical 
details of the Directors, including their skills and 
experience, can be found on pages 65 to 68.

Role and responsibilities
The role of the Committee, as set out in 
the Committee’s terms of reference, is to 
ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new Directors to the Board and to lead 
the process for Board appointments. 
The Nomination Committee has principal 
responsibility for making recommendations 
to the Board on new appointments and on the 
composition of the Board and its Committees. 
The Committee also assists the Board in 
succession planning for senior management. 

The role of the Committee includes, but is 
not limited to, the following matters:

–  Reviewing the composition (including skills, 
experience, independence, knowledge 
and diversity) of the Board and making 
recommendations to the Board with regards 
to any changes deemed necessary, taking 
into account the length of service of the 
Board as a whole and the need to regularly 
refresh membership

–  Reviewing the composition of each of the Board 
Committees and evaluating the performance 
and effectiveness of each Director

–  Keeping under review the leadership 
capabilities of the Company, covering 
both executive, non-executive and senior 
management positions, ensuring plans are 
in place for orderly succession, with a view 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT84

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

to ensuring the continued ability of the 
Company to compete effectively in the markets 
in which it operates. Management succession 
planning is considered to be so important that 
it is also reviewed by the full Board

–  Ensuring that all newly appointed Directors 

undertake an appropriate induction programme 
to ensure that they are fully informed about the 
strategic and commercial issues affecting the 
Company and the markets in which it operates, 
as well as their duties and responsibilities as a 
Director of the Board and member of one or 
more Board Committees

–  Keeping under annual review and monitoring 

potential conflicts of interest, and, if appropriate, 
authorising situational conflicts of interest, 
whilst ensuring the risk of unacceptable 
influence resulting from any conflict of interest 
is minimised

Further details on the Committee’s role and 
responsibilities can be found in its terms of 
reference, available at www.reckitt.com.

Board composition
The Committee regularly reviews the 
composition of the Board and its Committees, 
considering the balance of skills and experience, 
diversity and how effectively Directors work 
together to achieve Reckitt’s objectives. 

Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed 
for a three-year term and generally continue to 
serve one or more further terms. All Directors are 
nominated for appointment by the Committee, 
which is subsequently approved by the Board.

In January 2024, we announced the appointment 
of Marybeth Hays as a new Non-Executive Director, 
effective from 1 February 2024. Marybeth brings 
over 25 years of experience in retail, healthcare 
and consumer goods and we are delighted 
she has joined the Board. Biographical details 
for Marybeth can be found on page 68.

In February 2024, we announced the appointment 
of Fiona Dawson CBE as a Non-Executive Director 
and as Chair Designate of the Remuneration 
Committee. Fiona will join the Board on 1 June.

In accordance with the Code, all existing 
Directors will stand for election or re-election 
at the AGM, with the exception of Chris Sinclair, 
Pam Kirby and Alan Stewart who have each 
already notified their intention not to stand for 
re-election at the AGM, Chris and Pam having 
reached the end of their nine-year term.

The Committee recommends that all existing 
Board members have their appointments renewed. 
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed to 
shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.

Details of the specific contributions each Director 
makes to Reckitt’s long-term success are set out in 
the Notice of AGM, available at www.reckitt.com/
investors/annual-general-meetings.

Key activities during 2023
Meetings of the Committee are held as needed but are required to take place at least once a year. 
In 2023, the Committee held two scheduled meetings and three additional meetings. Meetings 
take place ahead of Board meetings and the Chair of the Committee reports formally to the Board 
on its proceedings.

FEBRUARY

Succession planning
CEO succession and senior management succession planning

APRIL

JULY

Succession planning
The Committee met to review the CEO succession and then approved 
its recommendation to the Board to appoint Kris Licht as CEO

Succession planning
The Committee considered senior management succession planning, 
including for the role of CFO. The Committee also conducted a review 
of the current composition of the Board Committees and succession 
planning for Committee Chair roles

AUGUST

Succession planning
CFO succession planning and recommendation of appointment of CFO

NOVEMBER Succession planning

Update on succession planning generally

Recommendation of appointment of Chair and Senior Independent 
Director positions

Governance matters
Annual review of Committee terms of reference

Annual review of potential conflicts of interest

Committee performance review

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT85

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

Succession planning
The Committee regularly reviews and monitors the 
Board’s structure, size and composition, including 
the balance of skills, experience, independence, 
knowledge and diversity required and makes 
recommendations to the Board of any changes 
deemed necessary. Consideration is given to the 
length of service of the Board as a whole and 
Directors individually. In addition, the Committee 
keeps the leadership needs of the Company under 
review, including senior management positions, 
ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession 
and so that the Company can continue to compete 
effectively in the markets in which it operates.

The Committee considers Board renewal on 
an ongoing basis, and makes recommendations 
to the Board regarding proposed appointments. 
The Committee is also responsible for making 
recommendations from the Non-Executive 
Directors for the role of SID and proposes 
the membership and the role of Chair for 
each of the Board Committees.

Induction programmes
New Directors receive a tailored induction 
programme on appointment to the Board. The 
induction programme generally includes meetings 
with the other Directors, the General Counsel & 
Company Secretary and GEC members on a 1:1 
basis, relevant Committee Chairs (depending 
on proposed Committee memberships), the 
Presidents of the GBUs and senior representatives 
from our advisors such as our lawyers and 
External Auditor. The meetings are usually 
held in person, virtually or a mix of both. 

New Directors may also carry out market 
visits and attend key Reckitt sites.

Chief Executive Officer search, selection and induction process
In September 2022, we announced that Nicandro Durante, who was at the time the SID, would undertake 
the role of CEO while the Committee identified the best long-term candidate to take Reckitt on the next 
phase of its journey. 

Following an extensive search, which considered both internal and external candidates, we were pleased 
to announce in April that Kris Licht had been selected to become Reckitt’s new CEO.

Further details on the stakeholder considerations the Board had in mind whilst selecting the new CEO 
can be found in our Section 172 Statement, on page 76.

STEP 1

STEP 3

The Committee considered and identified 
the skills, experience and expertise required 
for the role of CEO, taking into account the 
long-term strategic priorities of the business.

The Committee evaluated the potential 
candidates and identified a shortlist of 
candidates who were invited for meetings 
and interviews.

STEP 2

STEP 4

The Committee outlined a role specification 
and engaged Egon Zehnder, an independent 
search agency, to conduct a search for 
potential candidates, while also considering 
potential internal candidates with relevant 
skills, experience and expertise. Egon 
Zehnder’s search focused on ‘best in class’ 
CEOs with consumer goods experience. 
Following conclusion of their search, Egon 
Zehnder drew up a long list of candidates 
for the Committee to review. Potential 
internal candidates were also reviewed.

Following the conclusion of the interviews, 
the Committee met to review and provide 
feedback on both potential external and 
internal candidates. This resulted in the 
Committee’s recommendation to the Board 
to appoint Kris Licht as Reckitt’s new CEO.

STEP 5

After the Board approved the Committee’s 
recommendation, the appointment 
was announced and a formal induction 
process commenced, including a handover 
from Nicandro Durante.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTAs part of the Board’s annual performance 
review, the Committee reviews the Board’s 
composition, diversity and how effectively 
members work together to achieve objectives. 
Directors are evaluated both collectively and 
individually, to demonstrate whether each 
Director continues to contribute effectively. 
Following conclusion of the performance review, 
the Committee reports to the Board on the 
outcomes of the review that have or will influence 
its composition and whether each Director is 
committing sufficient time to fulfil their duties.

The Board, having had sight of the results of the 
Committee’s performance review, considers the 
Committee to continue to operate effectively.

Diversity and inclusion
The Board and Committee fully recognise the 
importance of diversity, including gender and 
ethnicity, at Board and senior management levels 
in compliance with the Code. Inclusion is core 

to Reckitt’s Purpose to ‘protect, heal and 
nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner 
and healthier world’. We recognise that it 
is critical for us to have a diverse employee 
population and a Board and senior management 
team that is reflective of the markets we 
operate in and the consumers we serve.

We are committed to equality of opportunity in 
all areas of employment and business, regardless 
of personal characteristics. We always recruit 
the best and most suitable candidates for 
any role, and we strive for a well-balanced 
representation of backgrounds, nationalities, 
cultures, skills and experiences at all levels 
across the Group. Ultimate responsibility for 
and sponsorship of this policy rests with the 
GEC. Senior management is accountable and all 
Reckitt employees are responsible for ensuring 
that our diversity policies and programmes 
are actively implemented and followed.

86

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

Chief Financial Officer search,  
selection and induction
During the year, a search commenced for a 
successor for the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
position. MWM Consulting Limited (MWM), an 
external search firm, were instructed to conduct 
a search for external candidates who met the 
required criteria. From the individuals identified, 
interviews were held with the CEO and CEO 
Designate, Chair and the SID. Feedback was 
provided to the Committee at its meeting in July. 
Following conclusion of the interview process, 
the Committee made a recommendation to 
the Board to appoint Shannon Eisenhardt.

Chair succession
During the year a process was undertaken to 
identify my successor as Chair. This exercise 
was undertaken by the Nomination Committee 
(excluding me and Jeremy Darroch) and led by 
Andrew Bonfield. Based on discussions with 
Board members and a thorough market review, 
Jeremy Darroch was identified as the best 
successor to me as Chair, and his appointment 
was recommended by the Nomination 
Committee and approved by the Board.

Board Directors ongoing training and development
The Chair has overall responsibility for ensuring 
that all the Directors receive suitable training to 
enable them to carry out their duties. As part of 
their role, Directors are also expected to personally 
identify any additional training requirements 
they feel would benefit them in performing their 
duties. We arrange ongoing training including 
on legal and financial regulatory developments 
relevant to the Company and the Directors.

Training is also provided by way of briefing 
papers or presentations at scheduled Board 
meetings, as well as meetings with senior 
executives or external sources. The Directors may, 
at the Company’s expense, take independent 
professional advice and are encouraged to 
continually update their professional skills and 
knowledge of the business and wider industry. 

During the year, training materials have been made 
available for Board members to view, on ongoing 
UK corporate governance reforms. We also aim 
to have one Board strategy meeting held at an 
off-site business location each year. This gives 
new Directors an opportunity to engage directly 
with employees and key personnel in other 
jurisdictions and be immersed in our business.

Group Executive Committee (GEC) changes
The GEC changes during the year reflect the 
Committee’s focus on succession planning and the 
alignment of our functional leaders with Reckitt’s 
strategic priorities and growth opportunities. 

In July, Susan Sholtis joined the GEC on her 
appointment as President of the Nutrition GBU. 
Shannon Eisenhardt became a GEC member on 
her appointment as CFO Designate in October.

Nicandro Durante, who was CEO up until October 
and then remained an Executive Director, resigned 
from the Board and as a GEC member at the end 
of 2023.

Biographical details of GEC members can be found 
on pages 69 to 70.

Committee performance review
A performance review of the Committee 
was conducted as part of the broader Board 
performance review (see page 82). All areas 
received positive ratings overall, with succession 
planning for the Chair scoring the highest.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT87

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Nomination Committee Report continued

Although we do not have a written Board diversity policy, the Committee and the Board are committed 
to recruit members of the Board on the strict criteria of merit, skill, experience and cultural fit of any 
potential candidates, and to seek diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and 
personal strengths. This commitment is demonstrated through our Board composition which comprises 
eight nationalities and seven women as at the date of this Report. Our Board consists of one member 
from an ethnic minority, in line with the Parker Review recommendation and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Policy on Diversity and Inclusion on Company Boards and Executive Management.

Our GEC, comprising the most senior management level in the business, represents seven different 
nationalities from across the globe, embodying our truly multinational focus. The Company’s wider global 
leadership community holds over 49 nationalities between them, representing a broad background of 
collective skills, cultures and experience. This widens our understanding of our consumers, who themselves 
come from the broadest possible backgrounds allowing us to be best placed in serving their needs.

Number of  
board members

Percentage  
of the board

Number of  
senior positions 
on the board 
(CEO, CFO, SID 
and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

White British or other 
White (including 
minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic 
Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/
Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, 
including Arab

Not specified/ 
prefer not to say

12

80%

100%

–

1

–

–

2

–

7%

–

–

13%

–

–

–

–

–

9

1

1

–

1

–

76%

8%

8%

–

8%

–

Representation of women at Board and senior management levels
As at 31 December 2023, 40% of our Board members are women and we have achieved the 40% target 
as outlined in the FTSE Women Leaders Review (formerly the Hampton-Alexander Review). In addition, 
we will comply with the FCA’s Policy on Diversity and Inclusion on Company Boards and Executive 
Management, which requires that at least one of the senior Board roles should be held by a woman, 
with the appointment of Shannon Eisenhardt as CFO in March 2024.

As at 31 December 2023, representation of women within the GEC was 33%, and within the GEC and 
their direct reports was 29%. We are cognisant of the gap in performance towards the 40% for women 
in leadership within the GEC as detailed in the FTSE Women Leaders Review (and in Provision 23 of 
the Code). 

We recognise that representation of women at our most senior levels needs improvement, and the 
Committee continues to make a commitment to increase women’s representation at this level.

As at 31 December 2023, women employees accounted for 45% of our global workforce and make up 
51% of our manager population.

Number of  
board members

Percentage  
of the board

9

6

–

60%

40%

–

Number of  
senior positions 
on the board 
(CEO, CFO, SID 
and Chair)

100%

–1

–

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

8

4

–

67%

33%

–

Men

Women

Not specified/ 
prefer not to say

1.  Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 2023 and will take on the role of CFO in March 2024

We continue to put diversity and inclusion at the centre of everything we do. Further details can be 
found at pages 19 to 21 and in our Fairer Society section on page 51.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT88

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

AUDIT 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT

Member

Andrew Bonfield (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Pam Kirby
Member for the whole year

Margherita Della Valle
Member for the whole year

Elane Stock
Member for the whole year

Tamara Ingram
Member from February 2023

Meetings 
attended

54/4

54/4

53/4

54/4

54/4

The focus this year remained on 
oversight of Reckitt’s internal controls 
and risk management framework in 
the context of the upcoming revisions 
to the Corporate Governance Code.”

Andrew Bonfield
Chair of the Audit Committee

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2023.

This report details how the Committee has discharged its role, duties and performance during the year 
under review in relation to internal control, financial and other reporting, risk management, the internal 
audit function and our relationship and interaction with the External Auditor.

Committee priorities in 2024
–  Maintaining oversight and providing assurance to the Board on Reckitt’s risk management and internal 

control procedures, including monitoring key areas in the context of risk and control

–  Sustaining a strong culture of risk management and embedding and strengthening internal controls 

across the Group

–  Monitoring potential legislative and regulatory changes which may affect the work of the Committee

–  Reviewing cyber security risks and controls

Committee membership and experience

Name

Recent and relevant financial experience

Andrew Bonfield (Chair) – Financial expert

Sectoral experience relevant 
to Reckitt’s operations

– Consumer goods 

– Chartered Accountant

– Pharmaceuticals/healthcare

– Currently CFO of a global US Fortune 

100 company

– Multiple CFO roles at other large companies, 

including in the consumer goods sector

Pam Kirby

– Sits on another FTSE 100 company’s 

– Pharmaceuticals/healthcare

Audit Committee

Margherita Della Valle 

– Financial expert

– Technology

– Consumer goods

– Holds a Master’s degree in Economics

– Technology

– Previously held Group CFO and senior 

finance roles

Elane Stock

– Holds Master’s degrees in Finance

– Consumer goods

– Previously member of the audit committee 

– Emerging markets

of two US listed entities

Tamara Ingram

– Member of the Audit Committee of 

– Consumer goods

a US-listed company

– Digital strategy

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT89

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

All Committee members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors who have financial, 
economics and/or business management 
expertise in large companies.

The Board is satisfied that, in compliance with 
the Code, Committee members as a whole have 
competence relevant to the Company’s sector 
(consumer goods).

As Chair of the CRSEC Committee, Pam Kirby’s 
membership of the Audit Committee ensures that 
relevant issues, such as risk, whistle-blowing and 
compliance, are shared and coordinated between 
the two Committees.

Committee members are expected in particular 
to have an understanding of:

–  The Group’s operations, policies and internal 

control environment

–  The principles of, and recent developments in, 

financial reporting

–  Relevant legislation, regulatory requirements 

and ethical codes of practice

–  The role of internal and external audit and 

risk management

Committee appointments are generally 
made for a three-year period. Members of the 
Committee are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 

On joining the Committee and during their tenure, 
members receive additional training tailored 
to their individual requirements. Committee 
members also meet with management covering 
internal audit, risk management, legal, tax, treasury 
and financial matters, as well as meetings with the 
External Auditor.

During the year, members of the Committee 
received regular briefings from management 
on matters covering governance and legislative 
developments, accounting policies and practices, 
and tax and treasury. 

During the year, the Head of Secretariat acted 
as Secretary to the Committee.

Committee performance review
A performance review of the Committee 
was conducted as part of the Board’s external 
performance review, conducted by Lintstock.

The performance review of the Committee 
utilised a bespoke questionnaire sent 
to Committee members followed by an 
interview. Matters evaluated by Committee 
members included meeting management and 
composition, Committee support, Committee 
relationships, quality of information and the 
work of the Committee and its review of 
controls and reporting. All areas received 
positive ratings overall, with management 
of Committee meetings scoring the highest.

The Board, having had sight of the results of 
the Committee’s performance review, considers 
the Committee to be operating effectively.

Meetings
During 2023, the Committee held four scheduled 
meetings at times aligned to the Company’s 
reporting cycle. In addition, one non-scheduled 
meeting was held via videoconference, as 
permitted by the Company’s articles of association 
and the Committee’s terms of reference. 

Committee meetings usually take place ahead of 
Board meetings and the Committee Chair provides 
an update to the Board on the key issues discussed 
at each meeting. Committee papers are provided 
to all Directors in advance of each meeting, 
including a copy of the Committee minutes.

Meetings are attended by senior representatives 
of the External Auditor and by the Group Head 
of Audit, CFO, CFO Designate and SVP Corporate 
Controller. The Chair of the Board and the CEO are 
also invited to attend. Other management attend 
when deemed appropriate by the Committee.

Time is allocated at the end of each meeting 
for private discussion with internal audit and 
the External Auditors, without other invitees 
being present, as well as a private session 
of the Committee members. 

Committee members’ meeting attendance 
during the year is set out on the first page 
of this Audit Committee Report.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORTThe Committee and the Board received 
confirmation from management that the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
had been prepared in accordance with the 
assurance framework and that appropriate 
verification had been undertaken.

In addition, the Committee also reviewed 
KPMG’s audit findings report, draft audit opinion 
and draft management representation letter.

Following the Committee’s review, the 
Committee was satisfied that the 2023 
Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, met its objectives and 
accordingly recommended to the Board 
that the 2023 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements be approved and that the 
Board make its statement on page 137.

90

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

Fair, balanced and understandable 
The Committee reviewed the 2023 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements to confirm 
that it is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides sufficient information to 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position, 
performance, business model and strategy. 

The Committee relies upon the following 
assurance framework in making its assessment 
of fair, balanced and understandable:

–  All sections of the 2023 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements were prepared in 
accordance with the Standard Operating 
Procedures (SOPs) as approved by the 
Disclosure Committee

–  A detailed review of the 2023 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements was undertaken 
by senior management and the Disclosure 
Committee to ensure consistency in 
messaging and appropriate balance

–  A comprehensive review by the Directors 

and the senior management team of 
the form, content and consistency of 
narrative, the disclosures contained in the 
Financial Statements and the underlying 
processes and controls supporting the 
preparation of the 2023 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements

–  The comprehensive verification process, 

supporting any facts, figures and statements 
included in the 2023 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements

Role and responsibilities
The Committee is part of the Group’s 
governance framework and supports the 
Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in ensuring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting, internal controls and overall 
risk management process, and relationship 
with the Company’s External Auditor.

Financial reporting
–  Monitor the integrity of the financial 

statements of the Company including 
interim and annual financial statements

–  Review the appropriateness of significant 

accounting policies and practices

–  Review significant financial judgements and 
estimates, taking into account the External 
Auditor’s view on the financial judgements 
and estimates

–  Advise the Board on whether, taken as a 

whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy

Risk management systems and internal controls
–  Review and monitor the effectiveness of 

the management of risk and overall system 
of Internal Control

–  Review the framework and analysis to 
support both the Going Concern and 
the long-term Viability Statement

Whistle-blowing, fraud and compliance 
–  In conjunction with the CRSEC Committee, 
review the Company’s arrangements for its 
workforce to raise concerns about possible 

wrongdoings in financial reporting and other 
matters; review the Company’s procedures 
for detecting fraud; and its systems and 
controls for ethical behaviours and the 
prevention of bribery

External audit
–  Make recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment, removal, remuneration and 
terms of engagement of the External Auditor

–  Review and assess the External Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity taking into 
account relevant UK law, professional and 
regulatory requirements

–  Develop, recommend and implement the 
Group’s policy in relation to the provision 
of non-audit services

–  Review and approve the annual audit 
plan and assess the effectiveness of 
the audit process

Internal audit
–  Review and approve the annual internal 

audit plan and monitor and review 
its effectiveness

–  Review and monitor the effectiveness of 
the internal audit function, ensuring the 
necessary resources are in place for it 
to perform effectively

There were no significant changes to the 
Committee’s role and responsibilities during 
the year.

The Committee’s role and responsibilities 
are set out in its terms of reference, 
which are available at www.reckitt.com.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT91

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

Key activities during the year

FEBRUARY

MAY

JULY

NOVEMBER

–  Review of the 2022 preliminary results 
announcement, including the Financial 
Statements and recommend for 
approval by the Board

–  Review of the 2022 Annual Report 

and Financial Statements, the going 
concern basis of preparation and 
Viability Statement, including whether 
the Committee could recommend that 
the Board approve the 2022 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements

–  KPMG’s 2022 audit findings report, 
observations on Reckitt’s internal 
controls for the 2022 financial year, 
management representation letter 
and report on the 2022 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements

–  KPMG’s final non-audit fees for 2022

–  Annual review of risk management 

and internal controls including 
review of risks across Group 
functions and of the integrated 
risk management framework

–  Approval of KPMG’s 2023 audit fees 

and terms of engagement

–  Conduct assessment of External 
Auditor independence and ethics

–  KPMG’s strategy for the 2023 audit

–  Conclude on audit quality delivery and 
assess External Auditor effectiveness

–  Work undertaken in respect of the 

2023 internal audit plan and monitoring 
the 2023 internal audit plan

–  Review of whistle-blowing procedures

–  Consider legal matters, including 
provisioning and compliance risk 
and compliance controls

–  Consider tax and treasury matters, 
including provisioning for uncertain 
tax positions and compliance with 
statutory reporting obligations

–  Review of risk management and 

business continuity

–  Review of the Company’s IT controls, 

with a focus on cyber risk

–  Review of the 2023 half-year results 
announcement, including the going 
concern basis of preparation and 
recommendation for approval 
by the Board

–  KPMG’s half-year review report 
findings to 30 June 2023 and 
management representation letter

–  KPMG’s assessment of its objectivity 

and independence

–  Review internal audit findings and 
responsiveness of management

–  Review of the Committee’s 

2024 standing agenda and terms 
of reference

–  Results of the performance review 

of the Committee

–  Monitor legislative and governance 
changes regarding proposed audit 
reform and changes to the Code

–  Review of the Company’s IT controls 

with a focus on cyber risk

–  KPMG’s interim IT control findings 
relating to the 2023 audit cycle

–  Annual review and approval of 

Group Treasury policies

–  Review KPMG’s non-audit fees for 
2023 and review of independence

–  Review of internal controls 

and the Company’s controls 
transformation programme

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT92

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

Significant and key financial reporting matters
The key matters reviewed and evaluated by the 
Committee during the year were as follows.

The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
and approving the appropriateness of the interim 
and annual Financial Statements and related 
announcements, including:

–  Recommending that, in the Committee’s view, 
the Financial Statements are fair, balanced 
and understandable. In addition to the 
detailed preparation and verification 
procedures in place for the 2023 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, management 
continued its focus on narrative reporting 
with clear written and visual messaging 
to communicate the Group’s strategy

–  Reviewing the appropriateness of the 

accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
used as set out from pages 160 to 200 and 
concluding that the judgements and 
assumptions used are reasonable

–  Reviewing the Group’s policy relating to, 

and disclosure of, alternative performance 
measures (APMs)

Areas of significant financial judgement
The areas of significant financial judgement in 
relation to the 2023 Group Financial Statements 
considered by the Committee, together with a 
summary of the actions taken, were as follows.

Recoverability of goodwill 
and other intangible assets
Under International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS), goodwill and indefinite-life assets must be 
tested for impairment on at least an annual basis. 
Impairment testing is inherently judgemental and 
requires management to make multiple estimates, 
on future performance, for example around future 

price and volume growth, future margins, terminal 
growth rates and discount rates. The Group’s 
impairment testing utilised cash flow projections 
included within one-year budgets and five-year 
strategic plans. Cash flows beyond the five-year 
period were projected using terminal growth rates.

As a result of impairment testing performed 
in 2023, management determined that an 
impairment charge of £810 million relating to its 
IFCN cash-generating unit (CGU) was required 
at 31 December 2023 (2022: impairment charge 
of £152 million relating to the Biofreeze CGU 
and £15 million relating to other CGUs). 

In November 2023, the Committee reviewed 
the detailed results of the impairment testing 
for the Group’s CGUs, with a particular focus 
on the Biofreeze CGU, as no headroom existed 
between the Biofreeze recoverable amount and 
carrying value following impairment in 2022. The 
Committee challenged the key assumptions 
which underpinned the Biofreeze recoverable 
amount, including anticipated category growth, 
market share improvement, the commercial 
success of new product launches and international 
market expansion. The Committee confirmed 
the key judgements and estimates made by 
management including market expansion and 
discount rate, and reviewed the sensitivity of 
the Biofreeze impairment model to changes in 
key assumptions. Subsequent to the impairment 
review the Committee reviewed the transfer of 
Biofreeze goodwill (£160 million) to the Health 
CGU, the transfer occurring due to the completion 
of the integration of Biofreeze into Health in 
2023, and considered it to be appropriate.

In February 2024, following management’s 
considerations of the external auditor’s 
observations, the Committee reviewed the detailed 

results of the impairment testing in relation to the 
IFCN CGU and challenged the key assumptions 
which underpinned the IFCN recoverable amount 
at 31 December 2023. This included the effect 
of changes to the regulatory environment, the 
level at which US market share stabilises, net 
revenue growth rates, the commercial success 
of new product launches and the expansion 
of speciality nutrition. The evolving regulatory 
environment has increased the judgemental 
nature of estimating the future cash flows, thereby 
resulting in increased scrutiny and focus by the 
Committee and challenge to management. 
This challenge resulted in refinement of the 
assumptions underpinning management’s estimate 
of the recoverable amount of the IFCN CGU. 

The Committee also reviewed the discount rate 
used by management to calculate the value in use 
of IFCN, in particular the increase in the discount 
rate in 2023 due to a higher risk free-rate. 

The Committee confirmed the key judgements 
and estimates made by management and 
reviewed the sensitivities of the impairment 
model to reasonable changes in key assumptions. 

The Committee reviewed management’s 
disclosures in relation to goodwill, other intangible 
assets and related impairment reviews included 
within Note 9 and considered them appropriate.

Forward purchase of shares held 
by non-controlling interests
On 25 May the Group entered into an agreement 
pursuant to which it will proceed to acquire 
the remaining interests associated with the 
Company’s majority owned activities in mainland 
China and Hong Kong (RB Manon) from its 
existing minority shareholders. The transaction 
will be implemented through the purchase, 

in multiple stages, of the non-controlling 
shareholdings held by the minority shareholders.

Amounts payable under the agreement are 
dependent on the revenue and profits of RB 
Manon in future periods. Management’s estimate 
of the present value of amounts payable at the 
date of the agreement is £298 million. The key 
assumptions underpinning this estimate relate 
to future revenue and profit growth of Reckitt’s 
business in China, and the discount rate used to 
determine the present value of future cash flows. 
The Committee reviewed these assumptions 
and considered them to be reasonable. 

As the agreement to acquire the non-controlling 
interest has multiple elements, judgement is 
required to allocate the total amount payable 
under the agreement to each element. 
Management determined that the main elements 
in the agreement related to (1) a forward contract 
for the purchase of a non-controlling interest 
in RB Manon, with £167 million allocated to this 
element charged to shareholders equity, and 
(2) services provided by the minority shareholders 
in relation to the transition of leadership and 
shares in RB Manon, with the residual amount 
of £131 million allocated to this element, which 
will be charged to the income statement over 
the performance period for these services. 

The Committee reviewed the identification and 
allocation of consideration to each element in 
the agreement, and the disclosures included 
in Note 30, and considers them appropriate. 

Tax provisioning
From time to time, the Group may be involved in 
disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a 
number of jurisdictions around the world where 
the approach of the local authorities is particularly 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT93

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

difficult to predict. The amount of uncertain tax 
position liabilities recorded in relation to these 
investigations is an area where management and 
tax judgement are important. The Committee 
reviewed the key judgements made with 
management, including relevant professional 
advice that may have been received in each 
case, and considered the level of recognised 
uncertain tax position liabilities to be appropriate.

As required under IFRS, management has included 
disclosure in the Financial Statements outlining 
the amount of uncertain tax position liabilities, the 
methodology by which they have been recognised 
and the sources of estimation uncertainty in 
relation to these uncertain tax position liabilities 
or the rationale for why sensitivity disclosure is 
not meaningful and has not been provided in 
the Financial Statements. The Committee has 
reviewed these disclosures, included within 
Notes 1 and 22, and considers them appropriate.

Legal liability provisioning
At 31 December 2023 a provision of £137 million 
(2022: £221 million) was held on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet in relation to regulatory, 
civil and criminal investigations as well 
as litigation proceedings. 

The Committee has reviewed the status of 
potential legal and constructive liabilities 
during the year, and at the year end, including 
the South Korea Humidifier Sanitiser (HS) issue, 
Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC), Phenylephrine (PE) 
and other significant matters. The Committee 
challenged management on the judgements 
made in determining the level of provisions 
recognised and was satisfied with the level of 
provisioning and associated disclosure for the 
HS issue, NEC, PE and other significant matters 
(see note 20). The Committee was also briefed 

on the implications of the recent NEC state 
court jury award in Belleville, Illinois (see note 33) 
and challenged management on their exercise 
of judgements described in the disclosure.

Other key financial reporting matters
Other key matters reviewed and evaluated in 
relation to the 2023 Group Financial Statements 
considered by the Committee, together with a 
summary of the actions taken, are set out below.

Investigation in the Middle East
As part of the Group’s ongoing compliance 
procedures, an investigation was conducted in 
two Middle Eastern markets in late 2023 and early 
2024. The investigation was led by the Group’s 
Ethics and Compliance function, supported 
by external legal counsel, internal audit and 
corporate controllership. The Committee was 
kept updated as the investigation progressed 
and discussed the findings of the investigation 
ahead of the release of the 2023 preliminary 
results announcement and finalisation of the 
2023 Annual Report. An understatement of 
trade spend, which related to the fourth quarter 
and prior quarters of 2023, was identified and 
incorporated into the 2023 financial statements. 
The Committee reviewed the investigation 
reports and related accounting adjustments. 
The Committee will continue to monitor the 
actions and internal control enhancements taken 
by management in response through 2024. 

Going concern and Viability Statement
A Viability Review was undertaken by 
management, encompassing its going concern 
review. The Committee reviewed and challenged 
the key assumptions used by management in its 
Viability Review and going concern assessment, as 
well as the scenarios applied and risks considered. 

Based on its review, the Committee considers 
that the application of the going concern basis 
for the preparation of the Financial Statements 
was appropriate and confirmed the suitability 
of the Viability Statement covering a five-year 
period, as set out on page 61. The use of a 
five-year period for the Viability Review is the 
period of the Group’s long-term forecasting 
process and covers the various business cycles.

Internal audit
Role of internal auditor
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and 
monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function. The Group Head of Audit is accountable 
to the Chair of the Committee, although for 
administrative matters reports to the CFO. The 
function operates independently of the business, 
with no responsibility for operational management. 
The independence of the Group Head of Audit 
and the internal audit function is considered as 
part of the annual internal audit effectiveness 
review. Further details can be found on page 94.

The function is responsible for providing 
independent and objective assurance on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of Reckitt’s risk 
management and internal control systems. 
Its mandate is set out in a written charter, approved 
by the Committee, and it uses a formal internal audit 
methodology consistent with the Institute of Internal 
Auditors internationally recognised standards.

The risk-based audit plan focuses on areas 
deemed critical to achieving our business 
objectives and covers Reckitt’s commercial 
businesses, manufacturing facilities, information 
systems, programmes and higher risk areas 
and processes. Following each audit, control 
weaknesses are reported to senior management, 
together with recommendations and updates. 
Resulting management actions are tracked 
until they are satisfactorily closed. Audits that 
identified significant weaknesses in the control 
environment normally receive a follow-up 
audit within 12 to 18 months as appropriate. 

At each Committee meeting the Group Head 
of Audit presents an update which includes an 
assessment of the control environment together 
with any material issues, the performance 
of the internal audit function, and any other 
topics as required. A private session with the 
Committee is also held at every meeting. 

Risk management
The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities in ensuring the integrity 
of the Group’s financial reporting (including 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements), 
system of risk management and internal control, 
and the relationship with the External Auditor. 
The Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board in relation to approval of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements.

Prior to the start of each financial year the 
Committee reviews and approves the annual audit 
plan and assesses the adequacy of the function’s 
budget and resources. The function brings in 
specialist skills from external service providers, 
as necessary. The strengthening of the finance 
second line will allow the function in future periods 
to transition away from an agreed rotation and 
scope policy to a more risk-based approach. 

The Committee regularly monitors our system 
of risk management and internal control 
(including internal financial controls). The finance 
function, headed by the CFO, has implemented 
policies, processes, and controls to enable the 
Company to review and comply with changes 
in accounting standards and relevant financial 
regulations. These policies, processes and 
controls are kept under review on an ongoing 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT94

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

basis to ensure both internal and external 
developments are reviewed and acted upon. 

achieving targeted goals is detailed in the Strategic 
Report, which can be found on pages 55 to 60.

In monitoring the integrity of financial reporting 
and any other risks falling within its remit, 
the Committee receives regular reports from the 
SVP Corporate Controller, Group Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer, Group Head of Tax and Group 
Head of Treasury on material developments in 
the legislative, regulatory, and fiscal landscape in 
which the Group operates. It also receives reports 
on IT and cybersecurity risks and controls, and 
on the Group’s whistle-blowing arrangements.

The Committee reported to the Board in February 
2024 that it considers the internal control 
framework to be functioning appropriately, 
to enable the Board to meet its obligations 
under section 4 of the Code, to maintain 
sound risk management and internal control 
systems, and to report to shareholders on 
these in the Annual Report (see page 137). 

Reckitt’s ongoing controls transformation 
programme in preparation for internal 
controls changes arising from the revisions 
to the Code has identified certain control 
improvement opportunities that management 
is currently undertaking. 

The basis for the preparation of the Group 
Financial Statements is set out on page 160 
under Accounting Policies.

The External Auditor’s report, setting out its 
work and reporting responsibilities, can be 
found on pages 138 to 155. The terms, areas of 
responsibility and scope of the External Auditor’s 
work are agreed by the Committee and set out 
in the External Auditor’s engagement letter.

More information on the Group’s principal and 
emerging risks and strategy for growth and 

The Viability Statement can be found on page 61.

The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on 
page 137 details the Directors’ responsibility 
for the Financial Statements, for disclosing 
relevant audit information to the External 
Auditor and for ensuring that the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable.

Internal controls framework
Internal control processes are implemented through 
clearly defined roles and responsibilities, supported 
by clear policies and procedures, delegated to the 
GEC and senior management. Reckitt operates 
a ‘three lines of defence’ model in monitoring 
internal control systems and managing risk.

1.  Management in the first line ensures that 

controls, policies and procedures are followed 
in dealing with risks in day-to-day activities. 
Such risks are mitigated at source with controls 
embedded into relevant systems and 
processes. Supervisory controls, either at 
management level or through delegation, 
ensure appropriate checks and verifications 
take place, with any failures dealt with promptly. 
Throughout Reckitt, a key responsibility for any 
line manager is to ensure the achievement of 
business objectives with appropriate risk 
management and internal control systems.

2. Each function and GBU has its own 

management which acts as a second line 
of oversight. This second line sets the local 
level policies and procedures, specific to its 
own business environment, subject to Group 
policy and authorisation. The second line 
further acts in an oversight capacity over 
the implementation of controls in the first line. 

The financial performance of each function 
and GBU is monitored against pre-approved 
budgets and forecasts ultimately overseen 
by the executive management and the Board. 
As part of the second line, the corporate control 
team identifies financial risks and mitigates 
these with appropriate internal controls, 
set out through minimum expected financial 
control requirements. The effectiveness 
of the global financial control framework 
is reviewed annually. Further, the Group’s 
compliance controls include the operation 
of an independent and anonymous ‘Speak Up’ 
whistle-blowing hotline, annual management 
reviews and the provision of training specific 
to individual needs within the business.

3. The third line of defence is provided by 

the internal audit function which provides 
independent and objective assurance 
to management and the Committee on 
the adequacy and effectiveness of risk 
management systems and internal controls 
operated by the first and second lines 
of defence. Internal audit also facilitates 
the risk management process.

Reckitt’s internal control framework provides 
assurance that business objectives are 
achieved, that business is conducted in an 
orderly manner and in compliance with local 
laws, that records are accurate, reliable 
and free from material misstatement, and 
that risks are understood and managed.

The corporate control team is accountable 
for managing global financial control policies and 
frameworks and for monitoring the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal financial control 
environment. Corporate control is responsible for 
reporting and monitoring controls at local, GBU 

and global levels, working with markets to improve 
risk and controls capability and to support the 
development of remediation plans and corrective 
actions for financial control weaknesses.

To improve the maturity of the control 
environment and meet upcoming changes 
to the Code, the Company has established a 
multi-year controls transformation programme. 
In 2023, the controls transformation programme 
launched an updated, standardised and risk-
focused controls framework for financial and 
IT general controls, including new evidence 
standards to enable consistent documentation 
of the operating effectiveness of financial 
and IT general controls. Following launch, the 
second line of defence team, supported by 
external advisors, conducted a comprehensive 
fit-gap assessment to determine the required 
uplift to comply with the new framework and 
evidence standards. As anticipated, gaps 
versus the framework and standard have 
been identified in relation to the retention of 
evidence and the formality and consistency of 
control operation. Where required, plans have 
been developed and remediation activity is 
underway in markets, IT and group. In 2023, the 
effectiveness of the global financial control 
framework has been assessed through analysis 
of the results from the fit-gap assessment and 
subsequent remediation, alongside consideration 
of findings on the internal control environment 
from internal audits conducted in 2023. 

At each meeting, the Committee reviews 
a report outlining the status of the controls 
transformation programme, the results of the 
fit-gap assessment and remediation progress, 
and other notable controls activity since the 
previous meeting. In 2024, assurance over 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT95

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Audit Committee Report continued

the operating effectiveness of controls in the 
revised framework will be provided by testing 
conducted by the second line of defence team.

Internal auditor effectiveness review
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of 
the internal audit function throughout the year 
through the Group Head of Audit’s attendance at 
Committee meetings, review of work presented 
throughout the course of the year and the 
annual internal audit effectiveness review. 
The annual review involves the solicitation of 
feedback through a survey circulated to internal 
stakeholders including Committee members, GEC, 
GBU, functional and operational leadership teams.

The survey assessed the skills and experience, 
audit quality, audit scope, audit cost, audit 
communication, independence, and change catalyst 
of the internal audit function. The survey reported 
strong, positive feedback with management 
viewing the function as comprised of high quality 
and skilled individuals who demonstrate a high 
level of integrity, independence, and objectivity. 

The Committee has considered the conclusions of 
the effectiveness review and the work performed 
by the function during the year and remains 
satisfied that the resourcing, quality, experience 
and expertise of the function is appropriate 
for the Company and that the function was 
objective and performed its role effectively.

External Auditor
The Committee is responsible for maintaining the 
relationship with the External Auditor on behalf 
of the Board. The Company’s External Auditor is 
KPMG LLP (KPMG). Following a competitive tender 
undertaken in 2017, KPMG was formally appointed 
as the Group’s External Auditor by shareholders 
in 2018. The Company will be required to conduct 
its next external audit tender no later than 2027. 

For the year ended 31 December 2023, the 
Company has complied with the Competition 
and Markets Authority Order: The Statutory 
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.

such as the monitoring of its progress against 
the agreed audit plan and scope. KPMG reports 
to the Committee annually with an audit 
quality scorecard, providing a holistic view of, 
and their investment in, audit quality and how 
they measure their audit quality progress.

The Committee considers and makes a 
recommendation to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
External Auditor, taking into account independence, 
effectiveness, lead audit partner rotation and 
any other relevant factors, and oversees the 
tendering of the external audit contract. 

The Committee approves the External Auditor’s 
terms of engagement and remuneration and 
reviews the strategy and scope of the audit 
and the work plan. 

The Committee also monitors the rotation 
of the lead audit partner every five years in 
accordance with the FRC’s Ethical Standard. The 
current lead audit partner, Andrew Bradshaw, has 
completed his second year as lead audit partner.

External auditor effectiveness review
The annual evaluation of the External Auditor 
was carried out in early 2023 and the results 
reported to the Committee in May. The 
assessment of the External Auditor was 
conducted using a survey circulated to the 
Board, GEC, GBU, finance and other functional 
leadership and local finance management. 
The survey covered the four competency 
areas in the FRC’s Guidance on Audit Quality: 
practice aid for Audit Committees (published 
in December 2019): Judgement; Quality Control; 
Skills and Knowledge; and Mindset and Culture.

Besides the annual evaluation of the External 
Auditor, the Committee continually reviews the 
External Auditor’s effectiveness through means 

External Audit fees and non-audit services
The Committee reviews the nature and level 
of non-audit services undertaken by the 
External Auditor during the year to satisfy itself 
that there is no impact on its independence. 
The Committee is required to approve all 
non-audit services. The Board recognises 
that in certain circumstances the nature of 
the service required may make it timelier and 
more cost-effective to appoint an auditor that 
already has a good understanding of Reckitt. 

The total fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 
31 December 2023 were £20.7 million, of which 
£1.3 million related to non-audit and audit-related 
work (to which KPMG was appointed principally for 
the above reasons). The Group’s internal policy on 
non-audit fees (effective 1 January 2017) states 
that, on an annual basis, non-audit fees should not 
exceed 50% of the Group’s external audit and audit-
related fees for the year. The Board confirms that, 
for the year ended 31 December 2023, non-audit 
and audit-related fees were 6.7% of the audit fees. 

Details of services provided by the External 
Auditor are set out in Note 4 on page 169.

Independence and reappointment
Reckitt has a formal policy in place to safeguard 
the External Auditor’s independence. In addition, 
as part of its audit strategy presentation to the 
Committee in May, KPMG identified its own 
safeguards in place to protect its independence 
and confirmed its independence in February 
to the Committee. 

The Group has a policy that restricts the 
recruitment or secondment of individuals 
employed by the External Auditor into positions 
that provide financial reporting oversight where 
they could exercise influence over the financial 
or regulatory statements of the Group or the 
level of audit and non-audit fees. Other than the 
provision of advisory services to a Director in 
their personal capacity, KPMG had no connection 
with the Directors during the financial year.

The External Auditor is a key stakeholder in 
helping the Committee fulfil its oversight role 
for the Board. The Committee remains satisfied 
with the External Auditor’s independence 
and effectiveness and believes KPMG is best 
placed to conduct the Company’s audit for 
the 2024 financial year. KPMG has expressed 
a willingness to continue as External Auditor 
of the Company. Following a recommendation 
by the Committee, the Board concluded, on the 
Committee’s recommendation, that it was in the 
best interests of shareholders to appoint KPMG 
as the Company’s External Auditor for the financial 
year ending 31 December 2024. The Committee 
and Board’s recommendation was free from third 
party influence and there was no contractual 
term of the kind mentioned under Regulation 
(EU) No 537/2014 imposed on the Company. 

In accordance with Section 489 of CA 2006, 
resolutions to propose the reappointment of KPMG 
as the Company’s External Auditor and to authorise 
the Committee to fix its remuneration will be 
put to shareholders at the AGM on 2 May 2024.

Andrew Bonfield
Chair of the Audit Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT96

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, 
SUSTAINABILITY, ETHICS 
AND COMPLIANCE 
COMMITTEE REPORT

Member

Pam Kirby (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Mehmood Khan
Member for the whole year

Chris Sinclair
Member for the whole year

Olivier Bohuon
Member for the whole year

Kris Licht
Member from 1 June 2023

Meetings 
attended

54/4

54/4

54/4

53/4

52/2

The Committee receives regular briefings 
from key functional teams to enable it 
to discharge its oversight responsibilities 
and works with the Audit Committee 
on areas of crossover, as needed.”

Pam Kirby
Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, 
Ethics and Compliance Committee

Committee  
areas of focus

Legal  
compliance  
and ethics

CRSEC

External  
affairs

Sustainability

R&D and  
regulatory 
compliance

Product  
safety and  
quality

Area of focus

Further detail

Pages

Legal compliance and ethics

Risk Management

Section 172 Statement

Audit Committee Report

Sustainability

Sustainability Performance Dashboard

Sustainability Performance Review

Product safety and quality

Our Supply Chain

Our Stakeholders

Sustainability Performance Review

R&D and regulatory compliance

Scientific Innovation

Nutrition – Market Opportunities

External affairs

Our Stakeholders

Section 172 Statement

55-60

76-77

88 -95

14

47-54

25-27

37-40

47-54

22-24

34-36

37-40

76-77

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT97

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics 
and Compliance (CRSEC) Committee Report for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

This report details how the Committee has 
discharged its role and responsibilities during 
the year in relation to monitoring and assessing 
our approach to responsible, sustainable, 
ethical and compliant corporate conduct in 
accordance with our Purpose and Compass, 
and our broader societal responsibility.

Committee membership
Members of the Committee are appointed by the 
Board on the recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee, which reviews membership in terms 
of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience. 

On joining the Committee and during their tenure, 
members receive additional briefings and training 
tailored to their individual requirements. This 
includes meetings with internal management 
covering CRSEC matters. All members of the 
Committee receive regular briefings from senior 
executives on matters covering governance, 
regulatory and legislative developments, 
product safety and corporate responsibility, 
sustainability and ethics-related matters, and 
Reckitt’s practices and policies in these areas. 

During the year, the Deputy Company Secretary 
acted as Secretary to the Committee.

Meetings
In 2023, the Committee held four meetings. 
Meetings usually take place ahead of Board meetings 
and the Chair of the Committee reports formally 
to the Board on the Committee’s proceedings. The 
CEO, CFO, Chief R&D Officer, Group Head of Audit, 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, Chief Supply 
Officer, Group Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, 
Chief Marketing, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs 
Officer, Global Head of External Communications 
& Affairs, Group Head of Sustainability, Chief 
Safety Officer, SVP Head of Global Quality and 
the Global Director of Health & Safety, Quality and 
Compliance and Corporate Security regularly attend 
meetings. Other Directors are invited to attend 
all meetings. Other senior management attend 
when deemed appropriate by the Committee.

Time is allocated at each meeting for private 
discussion with the Chief R&D Officer, Group 
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, Chief 
Supply Officer, Chief Marketing, Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs Officer, Global Head of 
External Communications & Affairs, Group Head 
of Sustainability and Group Head of Audit without 
other invitees being present, as necessary, 
as well as a private meeting of the Committee 
members. All Board members are provided 
with copies of Committee papers and minutes.

In addition to reviewing matters at Committee 
meetings, the Committee Chair held regular 
meetings with our CEO, Chief R&D Officer, Chief 
Supply Officer, Chief Marketing, Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs Officer, Global Head of 
External Communications & Affairs, Group Head 
of Sustainability and Group Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer, to review progress against 
the strategy and to represent the Board in 
supporting the efforts in these critical areas.

Committee performance review
This year, a performance review of the 
Committee was conducted as part of 
the Board’s external performance review 
(see page 82). All areas received positive 
ratings overall, with Committee oversight of 
legal compliance and ethics scoring the highest. 
The Board, having had sight of the results of 
the Committee’s performance review, considers 
the Committee to be operating effectively.

Role and responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee is part of the Group’s 
governance framework and supports the 
Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in ensuring the integrity of the Group’s 
corporate responsibility and sustainability, 
ethics and compliance policies, programmes 
and activities. Its role and responsibilities are 
set out in its terms of reference, which can 
be found at www.reckitt.com. We review our 
terms of reference annually. During the year, 
the Committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed and considered to be appropriate.

The Audit Committee has a monitoring function 
in respect of risk management and internal 
control systems, which also includes the assurance 
framework established by management to 
identify and monitor risks identified by the 
CRSEC Committee. The Committee liaises with 
the Audit Committee and the Chair of the CRSEC 
Committee is a member of the Audit Committee.

Standing agenda items reviewed by 
the Committee throughout the year
The Committee has several standing agenda items 
which it considers in-line with its terms of reference 
and in the context of the Group’s Principal Risks:

–  Assessment and recommendations on policies, 

processes and procedures for corporate 
responsibility, sustainability, compliance 
and ethical conduct

–  Overseeing the Group’s conduct with regard 
to its corporate and societal obligations as 
a responsible global citizen on behalf of all 
its stakeholders

–  Reviewing and monitoring implementation and 

compliance with our Speak Up Policy and review 
of insights and trends from reports

–  In conjunction with the Audit Committee, 

reviewing the Company’s whistle-blowing, 
fraud and compliance arrangements, including 
the adequacy and security for the workforce to 
raise concerns, and the systems and controls for 
the prevention of bribery and modern slavery

–  Monitoring and reviewing processes for risk 
assessment for corporate responsibility, 
sustainability, and compliance and 
ethical conduct

–  Monitoring targets for corporate responsibility, 

sustainability and compliance and ethical 
conduct. Reviewing internal and external 
reports on progress towards those targets 
and KPIs

–  Receiving reports from management 
committees in respect of corporate 
responsibility, sustainability, ethics, and 
compliance and investigating and taking 
action in relation to issues raised or reported 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT98

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued

Key activities during 2023

FEBRUARY

MAY

JULY

NOVEMBER

Legal compliance & ethics
– Report on data privacy controls 

and maturity assessment

ESG Transition
– Monitoring sustainability targets

Legal compliance & ethics
– Third party due diligence

ESG Transition
– Sustainability matters and 

target tracking

– Deep dive on post-consumer recycled 

– Modern Slavery and Human 

plastics (PCR)

Trafficking Statement

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

Changes to Product Regulations
– Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)

Changes to Product Regulations
– REACH regulations

– Report on developments 
in regulatory environment

Product Safety & Supply
– Product safety performance

Employee Health & Safety
– Performance monitoring

External affairs
– Humanitarian responses

– Social impact and gender 

pay gap reporting

– Partnerships and thought leadership, 

including WiNFund

– Review of ongoing regulatory matters

Product Safety & Supply
– Ingredient Steering Group

Employee Health & Safety
– Deep dive on corporate security

External affairs
– Humanitarian responses

– UN Water Conference

– IFCN and marketing practices

Legal compliance & ethics
– Third party due diligence reviews

– Annual compliance training and Code 

of Conduct

ESG Transition
– Sustainability matters and 

target tracking

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

– Deep dive on consumer safety 

evolution and maturity

Changes to Product Regulations
– PLM

– Report on developments 
in regulatory environment

Product Safety & Supply
– Market access and maintenance 

of products, including raw 
material sourcing

Employee Health & Safety 
– Performance monitoring

External Affairs
– External affairs activity, including 

public policy and advocacy

– COP28

Legal compliance & ethics
– Deep dive on legal and compliance 

programme and risks

ESG Transition
– Review of performance against 

sustainability targets

Quality
– Monitoring quality performance 

and ongoing activities

Changes to Product Regulations
– Report on developments 
in regulatory environment

Product Safety & Supply
– PLM

Employee Health & Safety
– Employee health and safety 

performance and risks

External Affairs
– COP28

– Board Listening Session and 

intersectionality between Climate 
and Health

Governance
– Review of Committee terms 

of reference

– Committee performance review

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT99

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued

Spotlight on: Legal Compliance & 
Ethics function – Risks and Mitigations
In November, the Committee 
received an update on the Legal 
Compliance & Ethics function’s 
ongoing programme and activities.

An annual Ethics & Compliance plan is 
developed around key themes, including 
enabling responsible business, sustaining 
ethical and compliant business as usual 
processes, monitoring and training 
programmes, data protection governance 
and the updating and rollout of policies.

A number of activities were detailed 
and their status discussed, including 
updates to various global policies and 
processes, a revised Code of Conduct, 
updates to the annual compliance training 
programmes and the launch of a new 
Speak Up whistleblowing campaign.

Recent work in collaborating with IT & 
Digital on the creation of an Artificial 
Intelligence Tools Policy and on 
enhancing Reckitt’s responsible data 
programme were also considered.

Committee priorities for 2024
–  Review the remit and activities of the 
Committee within the broader Reckitt 
governance framework

–  Monitor and prepare for future developments 
in corporate governance and non-financial 
reporting requirements and review internal 
processes, policies and procedures, 
to ensure compliance

–  Continually review and update the 

Board on Reckitt’s quality, safety and 
regulatory responsibilities

–  Assist the Board to review our sustainability 
objectives and chart progress against our 
targets, including overseeing the Group’s 
conduct with regard to its corporate and 
societal obligations as a responsible global 
citizen on behalf of all stakeholders

–  Monitor and review the processes for risk 

assessment of key Principal Risks including 
in relation to ESG Transition, Quality, Legal 
and Compliance, and Product Regulation

–  Maintain responsiveness to global events 
impacting consumers, where Reckitt can 
provide support and assistance

–  Keep abreast of market access conditions and 
maintenance of products, given the current 
UK political and wider economic landscapes

Pam Kirby
Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, 
Ethics and Compliance Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT100

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT

Member

Alan Stewart (Chair)
Chair and member for the whole year

Olivier Bohuon
Member for the whole year

Jeremy Darroch
Member for the whole year

Mary Harris
Member for the whole year

Chris Sinclair
Member for the whole year

Meetings 
attended

55/5

54/5

55/5

55/5

55/5

Central to our remuneration 
philosophy are the principles of pay 
for performance and shareholder, 
as well as strategic, alignment.”

Alan Stewart
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Contents of Directors’ Remuneration Report

100 

Letter from the Chair

102  Reckitt’s remuneration at a glance

106  Remuneration Committee governance

108  Annual Report on Remuneration

126  Additional remuneration disclosures

LETTER FROM THE CHAIR

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2023.

I would like to thank shareholders for their support 
of our 2022 Annual Report on Remuneration at our 
AGM on 3 May 2023, which received a strong vote 
in favour of 93%.

Changes to the Board
During 2023, we announced several changes 
to the Board. 

Kris Licht was appointed CEO to succeed Nicandro 
Durante. Kris was appointed CEO Designate 
on 1 May 2023 and to the Board as Executive 
Director effective 1 June 2023, before assuming 
the role of CEO on 1 October 2023. Nicandro 
Durante remained an employee of the Company 
and on the Board until 31 December 2023 to 
ensure a smooth transition. Kris was appointed 
CEO Designate on a salary of £900,000, which 
increased to £1,100,000 upon taking the role of 
CEO, in line with the salary paid to Nicandro.

Shannon Eisenhardt was appointed CFO 
Designate on 17 October 2023 and will succeed 
Jeff Carr as CFO by 31 March 2024. Shannon was 
appointed to the Board as Executive Director 
upon joining the Company. Shannon previously 
served as CFO of Nike Consumer, Brand and 
Marketplace. Shannon was appointed on a salary 
of £760,000 in line with the salary paid to Jeff.

Ongoing incentive opportunities and LTIP award 
levels for Kris and Shannon are in line with the 
outgoing individuals. Both Kris and Shannon did 
not receive a salary increase on 1 January 2024.

In addition, Sir Jeremy Darroch, currently Senior 
Independent Director, will succeed Chris Sinclair 
as Chair of the Group Board of Directors in 
May following the 2024 AGM. Chris will retire 
as Chair and step down from the Board at the 
same time. Sir Jeremy will be appointed on the 
same terms and fees as Chris. Andrew Bonfield 
will succeed Sir Jeremy as Senior Independent 
Director upon Sir Jeremy’s appointment as 
Chair with effect from the 2024 AGM. I would 
like to extend the Board’s and my thanks to 
Chris for his membership of the Remuneration 
Committee and his time as Board Chair.

As previously announced, I will retire from the 
Board at the 2024 AGM. Fiona Dawson CBE will 
be appointed to the Board as Non-Executive 
Director and Chair Designate to the Remuneration 
Committee effective 1 June 2024. In order to 
ensure continuity and effective succession, 
Mary Harris, former Chair of the Company’s 
Remuneration Committee, will be reappointed as 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee from the 
conclusion of the 2024 AGM until the conclusion 
of the Company’s 2025 AGM, upon which Fiona 
Dawson will take over. On behalf of the Committee, 
I would like to thank Mary and welcome Fiona. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT101

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

The remuneration arrangements for both the 
outgoing and incoming Directors are in line 
with the Remuneration Policy approved by 
shareholders with details for Kris and Shannon also 
published on announcement. Further details are 
set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.

Performance for the year under review
2023 was a challenging year for many companies 
including Reckitt, with continued economic 
shocks and geopolitical uncertainties across the 
world. Despite these, Reckitt continued to make 
progress in 2023, with like-for-like net revenue 
(LFL NR) growth of +3.5%, led by growth across 
the Hygiene and Health businesses, while Nutrition 
began rebasing and held market leadership in the 
US. We delivered growth through premiumisation, 
household penetration and category creation. 
Gross margins returned to historic strength 
with adjusted operating profit margin at 23.1% 
and adjusted EPS at 323.4p. We also increased 
investment in brands and innovation, and launched 
a fixed cost optimisation programme. In 2023 we 
generated strong free cash flow and significantly 
increased cash returns to shareholders, enhanced 
by our new, sustainable share buyback programme 
announced in October 2023. We have also 
proposed a 5% increase in our annual dividend, 
for the second year in a row, in line with our 
policy to deliver sustainable dividend growth. 

During the year, we have built strong winning 
teams and strengthened our culture, to 
harness the things that are special about 
Reckitt: our entrepreneurial spirit, passion for 
performance, and action orientation. We have 
gained real credibility on sustainability and 
become a significantly more inclusive and 
diverse company, which sets us up well as we 
continue to drive these through the business.

Performance outcomes for 2023
The Committee carried out a thorough evaluation 
of the performance of both the Group and the 
Executive Directors in the round, having regard 
to broader circumstances to assess whether 
the formulaic incentive outturns are appropriate 
and justified. Based on the assessment, the 
Committee determined that the level of annual 
bonus payout and the total vesting level of the 
LTIP set out below are appropriate and justified 
in this context and that no discretion would be 
applied. The framework and the assessment 
against performance which the Committee 
used are set out in detail on page 110.

Annual bonus
Reckitt operates an annual bonus plan that is 
strongly aligned to performance, measured 
against targets of NR and adjusted profit before 
income tax, with a downward modifier based 
on net working capital (NWC) added from 2023.

NR growth of 3.5% exceeded the initial guidance 
and market expectations at the beginning of 2023. 
The Health and Hygiene GBUs both delivered LFL 
NR growth at the upper end of the medium-term 
goal of mid-single-digit growth. The Nutrition GBU 
declined in the year as our US business lapped 
high and unsustainable comparatives due to a 
competitor supply issue from the prior year, but still 
performed above initial expectations. This Group 
performance resulted in a multiplier towards the 
upper end of the NR growth target range. Profit 
has exceeded the target range, driven by our NR 
performance and strong gross margin expansion. 
However, NWC at -7.7% in the year whilst being 
industry leading was below targets set and resulted 
in a downward modifier of 0.89x being applied to 
the outcome. This resulted in an overall payout of 
82% of the maximum. This is in line with all other 
employees on the same Group-wide measures.

The bonus for Kris and Shannon in respect of 
Executive Director services is pro-rated for 
the period as an Executive Director. One-third 
of bonus payments to Executive Directors 
are deferred into Reckitt shares for three 
years in line with the Policy. More details are 
set out on page 115 of the Annual Report.

2021–2023 LTIP
The Reckitt LTIP is designed to align participants 
with shareholders through making awards 
with stretching performance conditions 
denominated in both performance share options 
and performance share awards. Vesting of 
awards under the 2021 LTIP was dependent on 
LFL NR growth, EPS and ROCE targets. As set 
out in the 2021 Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
targets were adjusted for the disposal of 
IFCN China, given the size of that transaction, 
to ensure that the new targets were no harder 
or easier to achieve than the original targets.

As a result of good performance over the three 
years, NR growth was at 4.8% p.a.. This was close 
to maximum of the target range and resulted in a 
vesting of 98% of this element. EPS performance 
based on both actual and constant FX was 
between threshold and maximum, resulting in 
vesting of 59% and 46% of maximum for each 
element respectively. ROCE performance was 
also between threshold and maximum, resulting 
in a vesting of 62% of maximum. As set out on 
page 116, the overall resultant outcome is that 
78% of the total award vests. This outturn follows 
two years of zero vesting in 2020 and 2021, 21.5% 
vesting in 2022 and 100% vesting in 2023.

In line with our Policy, there is a further 
two-year holding period attached to Kris’ 
and Jeff’s LTIP awards. Nicandro and Shannon 
did not participate in the 2021 LTIP.

2024 remuneration
Salaries for 2024 for the CEO and CFO are 
unchanged from 2023 at £1,100,000 and 
£760,000, respectively. The 2024 salary increase 
budget for the wider UK employee population 
was 5.5% to 6% depending on location.

There are no changes to the bonus opportunity 
for the CEO and CFO, remaining at 120% 
and 100% of salary at target, respectively. 
Performance measures and weightings for 
the 2024 annual bonus will be the same as for 
2023, being NR and adjusted profit before tax, 
with a downward modifier based on NWC.

In line with prior years, the Committee has set the 
performance targets at a stretching level having 
considered the internal business plan and external 
expectations. As in prior years, the Committee will 
carry out a thorough assessment of performance 
in the round taking into account a wide range 
of factors before determining bonus payouts.

There are no changes to the 2024 LTIP awards 
including performance measures and weightings. 
Performance will continue to be assessed based 
on NR growth, ROCE, relative TSR, and ESG 
measures, which have been reviewed in light 
of share price performance, Group performance 
and individual performance. Kris’ 2024 LTIP 
award will consist of 150,000 performance share 
options and 75,000 performance shares and 
Shannon’s award will be 80,000 performance 
share options and 40,000 performance shares. 
These awards will be made in early March 2024 
following the full-year results announcement. 
Jeff will not receive a 2024 LTIP award.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT102

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Remuneration Policy review
In line with the normal three-year cycle, our 
Remuneration Policy is due for renewal at the 
2025 AGM. Over the course of 2024 we will 
undertake a full review of the Policy and its 
implementation, with a view to ensuring that 
our remuneration arrangements continue 
to appropriately incentivise the delivery of 
the strategy and the creation of long-term, 
sustainable shareholder value. This will include 
review of our incentive structures throughout 
the organisation. We will consult with our 
shareholders as part of this process.

Conclusion
On behalf of the Committee, I would like 
to thank shareholders for their continued 
support and engagement during the year. 
We welcome any comments you may have 
on this report and I look forward to your 
support at the upcoming AGM on 2 May 2024.

Finally, I would also like to thank my fellow 
Committee members during my tenure as Chair 
for their insight and commitment and shareholders 
for their invaluable feedback and support.

Alan Stewart
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc

21 March 2024

During the year, the Chair and Non-Executive 
Director (NED) fees have been reviewed with 
regard to increases given to the wider workforce 
and market practice. Taking into account the 
increased time commitment and responsibilities 
of the roles over the last few years, and the 
knowledge and skills required to undertake 
the roles, the fee for the Chair will increase to 
£680,000 and the basic NED fee will increase 
to £110,000, with effect from 1 January 2024. 
The additional fee for the Senior Independent 
Director (SID) will also increase to £35,000. 
There are no changes to fees for Committee Chair, 
Committee member or Designated Non-Executive 
Director for Engagement with Company’s 
Workforce. 25% of the Chair fee and basic 
NED fee continues to be paid in shares. We will 
continue to review NED fees to ensure they are 
appropriate and competitive against the market.

Context for remuneration of the wider workforce
Reckitt is committed to fair and consistent 
reward policies for its employees, aligned with 
our Compass, remuneration philosophy and our 
culture. The Remuneration Committee reviews 
various aspects of workforce remuneration 
and related policies regularly. In 2023, Reckitt 
has made significant developments and 
demonstrated further commitment to support 
sustainable livelihoods, ensure pay equity 
and gender pay gaps are addressed, build 
an inclusive culture and facilitate employee 
development. The annual employee survey 
shows high levels of satisfaction and pride among 
Reckitt’s employees and we are recognised 
as Top Employers in several markets. For more 
information, please refer to pages 120-122.

RECKITT’S REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE

Reckitt strives for leading global performance. 
Our management team is multinational and 
we compete for talent globally. Central to our 
remuneration philosophy are the principles 
of pay for performance and shareholder, as 
well as strategic, alignment. Combined with 
our Compass and business model, these 
principles define how decisions are made, 
how people act and how we reward them.

To reinforce our philosophy, the majority 
of the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are made up of variable at-risk pay, 
linked to stretching targets that align with 
our strategy and shareholder value creation, 
and are largely delivered in Reckitt shares. 
In addition, we have market-leading shareholding 
requirements for Executives. This approach is 
cascaded throughout our senior leadership.

Context for remuneration at Reckitt
Reckitt’s Compass

Put consumers
and people ﬁrst

Reckitt’s remuneration philosophy

Pay for 
performance

Strategic 
alignment

Shareholder
alignment

Build shared
success

Do the
right thing.
Always.

Seek out new
opportunities

Strive for
excellence

Reckitt’s strategy
–  Purpose and culture fit for the future

–  Excellent brand portfolio for value creation

–  Scaled global footprint

See pages 8-11

–  Enhanced returns to shareholders

for more details of our Company strategy.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT103

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

The tables below illustrate the remuneration principles at Reckitt, which are driven by our Compass, 
strategy and the remuneration philosophy 

1

2

High proportion of variable pay
Maximum CEO pay under the Remuneration Policy

Market-leading share ownership policy

In-employment shareholding requirement

Number  
of shares

Value 
of shares (£)1

% of 2023 
annual salary

Summary of our Remuneration Policy
The table below summarises the current Directors’ Remuneration Policy which can be found on pages 
160-167 of the 2021 Annual Report and is also available on our website in the Corporate Governance 
section. The Committee is of the view that the current remuneration framework remains fit for purpose 
and therefore no changes to the Policy were proposed for 2024.

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

Up to Year 10

Fixed pay

Salary, 
benefits 
and 
pension

Variable
pay
92%

LTIP
64%

Salary 7%
Pension 1%

Fixed
pay
8%

APP
(cash)
19%

APP
(shares)
10%

CEO

CFO

CEO

CFO

200,000

11,112,000

1,010%

100,000

5,556,000

731%

Annual bonus 
(APP)

One-year 
performance 
period

Two-thirds paid in cash; one-third in 
Reckitt shares deferred for three years
No further performance conditions

Post-employment shareholding requirement2

Number  
of shares

Value 
of shares (£)1

% of 2023 
annual salary

LTIP 

100,000

5,556,000

50,000

2,778,000

505%

366%

Performance shares and 
performance share options
Three-year performance period

Two-year holding period
No further performance 
conditions

Note: Value of the CEO’s maximum 2024 package. This 
illustrates fixed remuneration plus full payout of the annual 
bonus (APP) and full vesting of the LTIP awards including 
50% share price growth

1.  Based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 

of £55.56

2.  Reflecting 50% of the in-employment shareholding 

requirement

3

4

Attract and retain the  
best global talent

Ensure alignment with strategy 
across the business

–  Engage highly performance-driven individuals

–  Alignment of performance metrics with strategy

–  Reflect global competitive practice across our 

–  Alignment across the business of metrics 

industry peer group

and ownership

Ten-year life for options from grant

Shareholding 
requirements

Period of eight years from appointment to achieve requirements
Two-year shareholding requirement post-departure

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT104

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

   Purpose and culture 
fit for the future

   Excellent brand portfolio  
for value creation

   Scaled global  
footprint

   Enhanced returns 
to shareholders

Element

Key features of operation of policy

How will we implement for 2024

Link to strategy

Salary, benefits and pension

– Salary increases and pension contribution set in 

– Zero salary increase for CEO and CFO

– To enable the total package to support 

context of wider workforce

– CEO and CFO pension contribution of 10% of salary 

recruitment and retention

– Salaries and benefits set competitively against peers

in line with the wider workforce in the UK 

Annual bonus (APP)

– Target bonus of 120% of salary for CEO and 100% 

– Targets set for NR and adjusted profit before 

– To drive strong performance, with 

for CFO

income tax

– One-third deferred into awards over Reckitt shares 

– NWC target to act as a downward modifier

for three years

– Malus and clawback provisions apply (in circumstances 
including material misstatement of financial results, 
gross misconduct and corporate failure)

– Threshold performance results in zero payout, 

with maximum of 3.57x target for truly exceptional 
performance on all three metrics

– Remuneration Committee assessment of 

performance in the round

– Three-year performance period and two-year 

– Targets set for LFL NR growth (40% weighting); 

holding period

– Malus and clawback provisions apply (in circumstances 
including material misstatement of financial results, 
gross misconduct, and corporate failure) until two 
years after vesting

ROCE (25% weighting); relative TSR (25% weighting); 
and ESG (10% weighting, split equally between 
two metrics)

significant reward for overachievement 
of annual targets linked to Reckitt’s 
strategic priorities

– Use of deferral for longer-term 

shareholder alignment

– To incentivise and reward long-term 
performance and align the interests 
of Executive Directors with those 
of shareholders

– Performance conditions are applied to both 

– Two-year holding period for longer-term 

performance share options and performance shares

shareholder alignment

LTIP
Performance shares and 
performance share options

– Options have approximately seven years to exercise 

– Remuneration Committee assessment of 

post vesting

performance in the round

Shareholding requirements

– CEO: 200,000 shares

– Period of eight years from appointment to 

– Promotes long-term alignment 

– CFO: 100,000 shares

achieve requirements

with shareholders

– Two-year shareholding requirement post-departure

– Promotes focus on management 

of corporate risks

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT105

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Summary of performance and payout
Annual performance plan
The performance outcome for the annual bonus was 82% of maximum. A third of the bonus is deferred, 
by way of an award over Reckitt shares.

Performance
measure

Threshold
(zero bonus)

Actual/Achieved

Maximum
(3.57x target)

Multiplier

LTIP
The 2021 LTIP vested at 78% of maximum, against the performance conditions over the three-year period.

Performance
measure

LFL NR growth
(3-year CAGR) 
(50% weighting)

Threshold
(20% vesting)

Achieved

Maximum
(100% vesting)

Vesting 
(% of total award)

0.9% p.a.

 Actual 4.8% p.a.

Like-for-like
Net Revenue

Adjusted proﬁt
before income tax
at constant rates

£14.07bn

Actual £14.86bn

1.74x

£14.93bn

EPS (ﬁnal year) on an actual 
foreign exchange basis
(12.5% weighting)

289p

 Actual 323.4p

£2.85bn

Actual £3.23bn

1.89x

Average NWC

-7.4%

Actual -7.7%

Total 

Achieved

£3.19bn

-9.6%

0.89x

2.93x

EPS (ﬁnal year) on 
a constant FX basis 
(12.5% weighting)

ROCE (ﬁnal year) 
(25% weighting)

Total vesting

Achieved

308p

 Actual 332.4p

13.7%

 Actual 14.6%

4.9% p.a.

360p

382p

15.4%

98%

59%

46%

62%

78%

2023 base 
salary
(£)

Target bonus 
opportunity  
(% of salary)

Multiplier 
achieved

Bonus payout  
(% of salary)

Value 
delivered  
in cash
(£)

Value 
deferred  
into shares
(£)

Kris Licht

575,0001

100%/120%2

2.93x

293%/352%2

 1,230,600

 615,300

Shannon Eisenhardt

158,3331

Jeff Carr

760,000

Nicandro Durante

1,100,000

100%

100%

120%

2.93x

2.93x

2.93x

293%

 309,278

 154,639

293%  1,484,533

 742,267

352%  2,578,400

 1,289,200

Performance 
share 
options 
granted

Performance 
shares 
granted

Total  
vesting 
%

Performance 
share 
options 
vesting

Performance 
shares 
vesting

Total value 
of award 
vesting
(£)3

Kris Licht2

Jeff Carr

50,000

25,000

80,000

40,000

78%

78%

 39,000

 19,500

1,083,420

 62,400

 31,200

1,733,472

1.  Nicandro and Shannon did not participate in the 2021 LTIP
2.  Kris’ LTIP award was granted in relation to his previous role which did not sit on the Board, however, the full value of the award 

1.  The 2023 base salary for Kris Licht and Shannon Eisenhardt are pro-rated for the period served as Executive Directors
2.  Kris’ target bonus opportunity as CEO Designate was 100% of salary, which increased to 120% of salary on his appointment as CEO

has been shown for transparency 

3.  Based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 of £55.56

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT£3.62m

Remuneration Committee governance
Committee membership and meeting attendance
The Remuneration Committee is made up entirely of NEDs who are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. Membership and meeting attendance of the 
Remuneration Committee during the year were as follows:

£4.81m

Member

Member since

Meetings attended

£5.26m

Alan Stewart, Committee Chair

February 2022

Jeremy Darroch

Mary Harris

Chris Sinclair

January 2021

November 2022

May 2017

March 2016

5/5

4/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

The Chief Human Resources Officer was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year. Meetings 
were also attended by the CEO, CFO and SVP Reward by invitation. Deloitte was the appointed advisor 
to the Committee throughout the year. Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person 
attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.

106

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

2023 single figure

Kris Licht

Sharon Eisenhardt

£1.24m

Jeff Carr

Nicandro Durante

£m

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

Olivier Bohuon

Fixed remuneration

Annual bonus (cash)

Annual bonus (shares)

LTIP

Buyout

Executive Director shareholding
Reckitt operates a market-leading shareholding requirement with an eight-year timeframe for 
achievement and a two-year post-employment holding period. The chart below illustrates the progress 
towards this for the Executive Directors.

Kris Licht

Shannon
Eisenhardt

Jeff Carr

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

Shareholding
requirement
Current
shareholding

£3.18m1

£0.25m1

£5.24m1

0

25,000

50,000

75,000

100,000

125,000

150,000

175,000

200,000

Shares held2

Shares deferred from 2023 APP3

2024 vesting4

1.  Current shareholding value based on the average closing share price in Q4 2023 of £55.56
2.  Includes shares owned outright and shares subject to post-vesting holding restrictions
3.  This is the estimated number of shares awarded, after tax under the Deferred Bonus Plan, including those to be deferred from 

the 2023 APP

4.  For Kris and Jeff this is the number of shares vesting in May 2024 under the 2021 LTIP, after tax. For Shannon this also includes 

the restricted shares from buyout awards vesting in December 2024

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT107

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

The Committee’s role and key activities during the year
The Committee’s purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility 
by ensuring that the Remuneration Policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly, are designed 
to support the strategy and long-term success of the Company and take account of the generally 
accepted principles of good governance.

Reckitt’s Remuneration Policy and the Corporate Governance Code
Reckitt’s Remuneration Policy and practices reflect the philosophy of pay for performance, shareholder 
alignment and strategic alignment over the short, medium and long term. When determining the current 
Policy and its implementations, Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance Code was taken into 
account as follows:

The key activities and decisions made by the Committee during the year are set out below:

Clarity

Changes to the Board and GEC
Approved the leaving arrangements for Nicandro Durante and Jeff Carr and the remuneration 
arrangements for Kris Licht and Shannon Eisenhardt.

Approved remuneration arrangements for appointments to the GEC.

Wider workforce
Reviewed wider workforce remuneration and related policies.

Reviewed changes to the all-employee share plan launch dates.

Reviewed current shareholdings for senior employees with share ownership requirements.

Performance outcomes and target setting
Reviewed and approved performance outcomes to 2022 annual bonus and 2020–2022 LTIP, taking 
into account wider performance of the Company and Executive Directors.

Approved 2024 annual bonus measures and targets and 2024 LTIP award and performance 
measures. Approved 2023 LTIP performance targets.

Determined 2024 remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and GEC members.

Regularly reviewed performance for inflight bonus and LTIP awards.

Internal and external governance
Reviewed 2023 AGM voting, wider market trends, shareholder guidelines and corporate 
governance updates.

Reviewed Remuneration Committee terms of reference.

Reviewed Remuneration Committee effectiveness.

Arrangements are transparent and reflect shareholder alignment and Reckitt’s 
strategic priorities, thereby effectively engaging with the wider workforce and 
shareholders. The Committee consulted with shareholders as part of the design 
phase of the Policy and communicated to the wider workforce details of how 
Executive pay is set, its alignment with the Company’s approach to the wider 
pay policy and how decisions are made by the Committee. It also gave employees 
the opportunity to ask any questions on these topics.

The Policy is simple and clear, comprising fixed pay, such as salary and benefits, 
pension schemes that are offered to most of the workforce, plus variable pay 
which incorporates the annual bonus, LTIP (performance share options and 
performance share awards) and a clear Share Ownership Policy for senior members 
of the business. Variable pay is set against financial targets to incentivise short- 
and long-term financial performance and alignment with shareholders.

The malus and clawback provisions which apply to annual bonus and LTIP awards 
act as a safeguard to the Company and are one mechanism used to help encourage 
the right behaviours, which lead to long-term shareholder alignment and sustained 
value creation. The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus and 
LTIP outcomes both upwards and downwards.

Simplicity

Risk

Predictability

The total of fixed pay and variable pay (target and maximum) illustrated in the 
scenarios of total remuneration in our Policy provide an estimate of the potential 
future remuneration of the Executive Directors, including the total remuneration 
if a 50% share price growth is achieved.

Proportionality

There is a clear link between pay for performance and business strategy, with 
stretching financial targets applied to annual bonus payouts and LTIP vesting.

Alignment 
to culture

Financial targets apply to the annual bonus and LTIP awards across the wider 
workforce to drive business performance. These targets are reviewed on an annual 
basis. Malus and clawback provisions apply to annual bonus and LTIP, and together 
with deferred annual bonus, holding periods and share ownership for the Executive 
Directors (and any other relevant senior employees), drive the right behaviours 
expected within Reckitt. The remuneration arrangements of the wider workforce 
reinforce employee engagement.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT108

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION

The rest of this report sets out how we have implemented our Remuneration Policy in 2023, and how 
we intend to implement the Policy in 2024.

Remuneration arrangements for the new CEO and CFO
CEO
Kris was appointed as CEO Designate on 1 May 2023 and to the Board as Executive Director effective 
1 June 2023 before assuming the role of CEO on 1 October 2023. His remuneration was fully disclosed 
upon the announcement of his appointment on 26 April 2023 and in line with the approved Policy.

As CEO Designate Kris received a salary of £900,000 per annum, which increased to £1,100,000 after 
taking up the role of CEO, in line with his predecessor. He did not have a salary increase on 1 January 
2024. Kris receives a pension allowance of 10% of salary in line with the wider Reckitt workforce in the UK 
and other benefits including relocation in line with Reckitt’s benefits and international mobility policies.

As CEO Designate, Kris had a target APP of 100% of salary, which increased to 120% of salary as CEO, 
with a maximum multiplier of 3.57x. In line with the Policy, one-third of any bonus will be deferred into 
Reckitt shares for a period of three years. Kris will be eligible for an LTIP grant to be made in 2024 of 
75,000 performance shares and 150,000 performance share options for the three-year performance 
period 2024 to 2026, followed by a two-year holding period. Share awards granted to Kris prior to 
his appointment as CEO Designate in respect of his previous role will continue on their original terms. 
These LTIP awards are subject to the same performance measures and targets as the LTIP awards 
granted to Executive Directors, full details of which will be provided in the relevant Directors’ 
Remuneration Report when they vest.

The share ownership requirement as CEO is 200,000 shares and he will be subject to the post-
employment shareholding requirement. There are no buyout awards associated with his appointment.

CFO
Shannon was appointed as CFO Designate on 17 October 2023, joining the Board as an Executive Director 
on the same day, and received a salary of £760,000 per annum, in line with her predecessor. Shannon 
receives a pension allowance of 10% of salary in line with the wider Reckitt workforce in the UK and 
other benefits including relocation in line with Reckitt’s benefits and international mobility policies.

Shannon has a target APP opportunity of 100% of salary with a maximum of 3.57 times, with one-third 
of any bonus awarded deferred into Reckitt shares for a period of three years. Her 2023 annual bonus 
has been pro-rated based on the portion of the year employed. Shannon received an initial 2023-2025 
LTIP grant of 29,453 performance shares and 58,905 performance share options, for the three-year 
performance period 2023 to 2025. This has been calculated as a pro-rata award of the CFO’s annual 
LTIP award of 40,000 performance shares and 80,000 performance share options, based on the period 
employed during the performance period. All LTIP awards will be subject to a two-year holding period.

The share ownership requirement for Shannon will be 100,000 shares and she will be subject to the 
post-employment shareholding requirement.

Shannon has also been granted replacement awards to compensate for remuneration arrangements 
forfeited on leaving her previous employer. The terms of the buyout awards substantively replicated 
the rules of the Company’s LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and are in line with the 
current Policy approved at the 2022 AGM. The structure takes into account shareholder guidance and 
market practice and they remain subject to performance conditions where appropriate and mirror the 
time horizons of forfeited awards. As Shannon is participating in the 2023 Reckitt LTIP, she will not be 
compensated for any 2023 LTIP awards made by her previous employer. Details of these awards were 
disclosed at the time of the grant and are detailed below. Dividend equivalents will accrue on the awards 
and vest at the same time as the relevant award, delivered in shares.

Performance share awards
Performance share awards lapsing due to Shannon’s leaving her previous employer have been replaced 
by awards of Reckitt performance shares of equivalent value as follows:

–  An award of 3,526 performance shares granted in relation to the long-term incentive award over 

Nike shares granted to Shannon in August 2021 and vesting based on Nike’s performance over the 
three-year period to 31 May 2024 as to be disclosed in Nike’s 2024 Proxy Statement. Any shares which 
vest following assessment of performance will be released in August 2024 to mirror the time horizons 
of forfeited awards

–  An award of 5,248 performance shares granted in relation to the long-term incentive award over Nike 
shares granted to Shannon in August 2022. Since Shannon had served less than half of the three-year 
Nike performance period, to further align her with Reckitt’s performance this award will be subject to 
the same performance conditions and targets as the Reckitt 2022 LTIP award. Any shares which vest 
following assessment of performance will be released in August 2025 to mirror the time horizons of 
forfeited awards

The vesting of these awards will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year 
and included in the single figure table for that year.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT109

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Restricted share awards
An award of 5,564 restricted shares were also granted to replace the Nike restricted shares granted in 
December 2021, which lapsed upon Shannon’s leaving. The first tranche of 2,782 restricted shares vested 
on 10 December 2023 and the second tranche will vest in December 2024. The value of these awards 
is included in the 2023 single figure table on page 117.

Bonus replacement award
The Nike FY24 bonus for the period from 1 June 2023 to 16 October 2023, being the date before Shannon 
joined Reckitt, has also been bought out. The value of this will be based on the average annual bonus 
outturn (in % of maximum terms) for the Named Executive Officers excluding the CEO in the Nike 2024 
Proxy Statement, pro-rated for time and delivered in cash in line with the original terms of the award. 
The value of the FY24 Nike annual bonus will be determined and paid as soon as practicable following 
the publication of the Nike 2024 Proxy Statement. An estimated bonus replacement award value based 
on the FY24 Nike target performance is included in the single figure table on page 117.

Shannon also forfeited market value option awards upon leaving her previous employer. These have not 
been bought out and replaced at Reckitt as they were underwater when she joined.

Remuneration arrangements for the departing CEO and CFO
CEO
Nicandro Durante stepped down as CEO in October 2023 and remained on the Board as an Executive 
Director until 31 December 2023 to ensure a smooth transition, at which time he left the Group. 
Nicandro was paid salary and benefits until his departure date. There is no payment in lieu of notice. 

Nicandro is considered a ‘good leaver’ and his incentives have been treated accordingly. Nicandro was 
paid an annual bonus in respect of 2023, with two-thirds delivered in cash and one-third is awarded as 
Reckitt shares deferred for three years. Any outstanding deferred bonus awards will vest in line with 
normal timescales.

Nicandro’s 2022 and 2023 LTIP awards remain subject to performance against the original performance 
conditions over the respective three-year performance periods. Both of these awards will be reduced on 
a pro-rata basis to reflect the proportion of the performance period employed as an Executive Director. 
These will also be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the respective performance 
periods. Nicandro remains subject to the post-employment shareholding requirement.

CFO
Jeff Carr will remain on the Board as an Executive Director until 31 March 2024 to ensure a smooth 
transition, at which time he will leave the Group. He will be paid salary, benefits and pension 
contributions which are unchanged from 2023, until his departure date. There is no payment in lieu 
of notice. Jeff will receive a capped contribution of £8,000 plus VAT towards legal fees incurred 
in connection with his departure.

Jeff is considered a ‘good leaver’ and his incentives have been treated accordingly. Jeff was paid 
an annual bonus in respect of 2023, with two-thirds delivered in cash and one-third in Reckitt shares 
deferred for three years. He remains eligible for an annual bonus in respect of 2024 which will be based 
on the same performance measures and targets as for the other Executive Directors and pro-rated 
based on the portion of the performance year employed. Any bonus awarded will be delivered at 
the original dates, with two-thirds in cash and one-third deferred into Reckitt shares for three years. 
Any outstanding deferred bonus awards will vest in line with normal timescales.

Jeff’s 2021 LTIP award will vest in May 2024 and be subject to a two-year holding period and is not 
subject to time pro-rating as he was employed for the full performance period. The 2022 and 2023 LTIP 
awards will be pro-rated based on the proportion of the relevant performance period employed and 
remain subject to the original performance and time horizons. He will not receive a 2024 LTIP award.

Jeff remains subject to the post-employment shareholding requirement.

2023 performance and remuneration outcomes
In reviewing Executive Director remuneration, the Remuneration Committee took into account 
remuneration decisions for the wider workforce and individual performance of the Directors. The 
Committee also reviewed market practice, primarily against the FTSE 30 (excluding financial services 
companies) and considered an international remuneration peer group which Reckitt competes with for 
talent and is subject to similar market forces. Operationally, the international peer group is representative 
of the three Reckitt product categories of Hygiene, Health and Nutrition. This comprises 22 companies 
as follows: Abbott Laboratories, Bayer, Campbell Soup, Church and Dwight, Clorox, Coca-Cola, Colgate, 
Danone, GSK, Haleon, Henkel, Johnson & Johnson, Kellogg, Kimberly-Clark, Kraft Heinz, Nestlé, Novartis, 
PepsiCo, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Sanofi and Unilever. This peer group is also used to benchmark 
remuneration for the GEC.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT110

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Assessment of incentive outcomes
The Committee thoroughly evaluates the performance of both the Company and the Executive Directors 
in the round to assess whether the formulaic level of annual bonus payout and long-term incentive 
vesting are appropriate and justified. The Committee has formalised its approach to this assessment 
and the framework which is applied is illustrated below.

Annual bonus in respect of 2023 performance
Executive Director 2023 bonus opportunity
In line with the Remuneration Policy, the CEO and the CFO target bonus opportunities are 120% 
of salary and 100% of salary, respectively. Kris Licht’s target bonus opportunity as CEO Designate 
was 100% of salary. The bonus outcome and payout are calculated as follows:

What is the formulaic outcome?
Committee to consider year-on-year change, whether this reflects  
performance trend and impact on the single figure outcome.

Consider the quality of earnings
Committee to review the results to ensure they reflect the underlying  
performance and also consider any exceptional items.

Compare outcome against the shareholder experience
Committee to consider absolute and relative shareholder return over the relevant periods, the 
dividend payment(s) and the likely shareholder response to results based on broker feedback.

Compare outcome with overall Company performance
For example, market share, competitor benchmarking, sustainability, people and culture, strategic 
progress, wider stakeholder experience and analyst feedback.

Consider any events and other input
For example, reputation/risk related, any change of accounting standards etc.  
Draw on input from CRSEC Committee, Audit Committee and management functions  
and consider the impact of any external head or tailwinds.

Compare with historical use of discretion 
In addition, consider whether bonus and LTIP outcomes are consistent.

Final APP and LTIP outcomes 
Committee to agree whether adjustments are required to formulaic results  
and determine the final outcomes for APP payouts and LTIP vesting.

–  For each performance measure a target range is set

–  A performance multiplier is calculated for each measure, calculated by the extent to which the 

performance for that measure is achieved. These multipliers can be up to 1.89x for outperformance 
of the stretching range set by the Committee. Net working capital is a downward modifier only and 
the multiplier is capped at 1.00x target

–  Three individual multipliers are then multiplied together

Net revenue 
multiplier  
(up to 1.89x)

X

Adjusted profit 
before tax 
multiplier  
(up to 1.89x)

X

NWC modifier 
(up to 1.00x)

=

Performance 
multiplier

(Threshold = 0x; 
target = 1.0x; 
max = 3.57x)

–  The total performance multiplier can range from zero for performance at threshold or below, to 3.57 
for truly exceptional performance. The 3.57 multiplier will only be awarded if maximum performance 
is achieved on all metrics (i.e. 1.89 x 1.89 x 1.00)

–  This total performance multiplier is then applied to the target bonus opportunity to calculate the 

overall formulaic bonus outcome. This is different to usual UK market practice whereby performance 
measures are assessed independently and payment under one metric may result in payout regardless 
of performance in other metrics. In Reckitt, the three measures combine to give the resultant payout

Base salary

X

Target bonus 

=

Final bonus 
outcome

Cash

Shares

2/3

+

1/3

–  The effect of the multiplicative approach means that a high-performance multiplier can only 

be achieved for outperformance on both top-line and bottom-line performance, with excellent 
management of working capital

–  Similarly, underperformance in one of the performance metrics will reduce the overall bonus payout, 

even in the case of outperformance of the rest

–  For example, if we grow NR above the stretching requirement for maximum performance and 
maintain an excellent level of NWC, but fail to meet the profit threshold, the bonus payout will 
be zero (i.e. 1.89 x 0 x 1.00)

–  One-third of any APP is deferred into an award over Reckitt shares, to strengthen alignment 

with shareholders

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT111

Reckitt Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

2023 performance targets
The Remuneration Committee set targets for the Executive Directors prior to the 2023 financial year. 
These were based on NR and adjusted profit before income tax, both measured in GBP at a constant FX. 
NWC is also used as a downward modifier on both measures. All targets were based on the business 
plan at the time, with reference also being made to external expectations of performance and market 
practice of companies in a similar stage of the business cycle to Reckitt.

At the time the Committee finalised the targets, consensus expectation was 2.6% for LFL NR growth. 
In setting the targets, the Committee also had regard to competitor performance.

2023 financial performance against APP targets
As stated earlier in the annual report, 2023 marked a year of continued progress, with strong mid-single-
digit growth for our Health & Hygiene GBUs and the expected rebasing of our US Nutrition business as 
it maintains market leadership and delivered strong performance, but laps the prior year competitor 
supply issue. 

LFL NR growth was 3.5% resulting in the bonus metric of £14.86 billion (on a constant FX basis), 
significantly exceeding the market expectations when the targets were set.

For 2023, operating margin was 23.1%, in line with guidance, resulting in the bonus metric of adjusted 
profit before income tax (on a constant FX basis) of £3.23 billion which outperformed target range 
set by the Committee at the start of the year.

During 2023, NWC was -7.7%. The NWC metric for APP purposes is an Operating NWC and is calculated as 
a 12-month average.

The chart below illustrates performance compared to the targets:

Performance
measure

Threshold
(zero bonus)

Actual/Achieved

Maximum
(3.57x target)

Multiplier

Like-for-like
Net Revenue

Adjusted proﬁt
before income tax
at constant rates

£14.07bn

Actual £14.86bn

1.74x

£14.93bn

£2.85bn

Actual £3.23bn

1.89x

Average NWC

-7.4%

Actual -7.7%

Total 

Achieved

£3.19bn

-9.6%

0.89x

2.93x

As illustrated above, 2023 NR was at the upper end of the performance range, and adjusted profit before 
income tax exceeded the maximum of the performance range set for the 2023 annual bonus. With a 
0.89x modifier on NWC, the overall formulaic bonus multiplier was 2.93x of target (82% of maximum).

These results reflect continued progress in 2023, delivering a four year growth CAGR at the top end of 
our peer group during a period of significant market volatility and supply challenges. Total adjusted 
diluted EPS was 323.4p in 2023, with FCF increased by 11% to £2.3 billion. Reckitt is well positioned today 
to continue to deliver mid-single-digit growth in the medium term. We have an excellent portfolio of 
market-leading, high margin brands in growth categories. With the proposed 5% increase in our annual 
dividend, we continue to deliver returns to shareholder in line with our capital allocation policy.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOTHER INFORMATIONGOVERNANCESTRATEGIC REPORT