Strategic Report | Environmental and Social Responsibility

About our responsibility data and reporting 
We aim to align our data and reporting with best 

practice standards. We publish a separate 

Responsibility Data Appendix on Burberryplc.com 

with more detailed environmental and social 

performance data. Our Responsibility Data Appendix 

also summarises how we align with external 

frameworks, including the UN SDGs.

Burberry has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

(PwC) to provide independent limited assurance on 

selected planet and product metrics. The data marked by 

the following symbol ^ is in scope for PwC assurance 
procedures over selected Responsibility KPIs on pages 

50 to 94. The assurance statement for selected 

Responsibility KPIs is available at Burberryplc.com. The 
data marked by the following symbol   is in scope for 
PwC assurance procedures over the Use of proceeds. 

The assurance statement for the Use of proceeds is 

available at Burberryplc.com. Additionally, our Basis of 

Reporting contains details of our data collection 

methodology for our assured metrics (available on 

Burberryplc.com). Details of our methodology for our 

non-assured metrics can be found in our Responsibility 

Data Appendix on Burberryplc.com.

Sustainability Bond – use of 
proceeds report

Burberry is committed to using its position and 

influence to drive social and environmental 

improvements and foster sustainability innovation in 

the value chain, from the sourcing of raw materials to 

the manufacturing of finished products and distribution 

through our stores and wholesalers. We are also 

committed to enlisting the support of investors in 

delivering these ambitions by linking Burberry’s 

Sustainability strategy to its funding requirements. 

Burberry issued a debut five-year sterling 

Sustainability Bond on 21 September 2020 for 

£300 million at a coupon of 1.125% (the “Sustainability 
Bond”). As part of the Sustainability Bond Framework1 
(the “Framework”), a commitment was made to 

publish a use of proceeds report within one year of the 

issuance of the Bond and annually thereafter. 

This report constitutes Burberry’s third use of 

proceeds report to investors and covers the allocation 

of proceeds from the Sustainability Bond by category 

per the Eligibility Criteria as defined in the Framework. 

We comply with reporting regulations on climate 

change. We publish a Climate-related Financial 

Eligibility Criteria and oversight 
The categories of our Eligibility Criteria are as follows: 

Disclosure consistent with TCFD Recommendations 

•  Green buildings 

(see page 94) to comply with The Companies 

•  Environmentally sustainable management of living 

(Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial 

natural resources and land use 

Disclosure) Regulations 2022 and FCA Listing Rules. 

We publish UK energy and carbon data (page 58) to 

comply with the UK’s Streamlined Energy and Carbon 

Reporting requirements.

We are also working to prepare for new reporting 

requirements under the EU Corporate Sustainability 

Reporting Directive (CSRD) that will apply 

in future years.

Our contribution to the UN SDGs
We take action on the goals that are most relevant to 

our Company and where we can have the biggest 

positive impact. Our strategic priorities and 

associated initiatives contribute to many of the UN 

SDGs as outlined in the Progress Against Targets 

tables under each pillar on pages 51, 56, 68 and 82. 

•  Pollution prevention and control (including waste 

prevention, waste reduction and waste recycling) 

Burberry’s responsibility targets are owned by senior 

leadership across all regions and key functions and 

progress is reviewed by the Sustainability Committee. 

The Sustainability Committee was established in 

2019 to review and oversee the Group’s strategy on 

Environmental, Social and Governance issues related to 

our Sustainability agenda. The Sustainability Committee 

convened four times during FY 2022/23 and is chaired 

by the CEO, who is accountable for ensuring oversight of 

climate-related risks and opportunities for the Group. 

In addition to the Sustainability Committee, 

sustainability matters are regularly discussed at the 

Ethics and Risk Committees and updates are shared 

We have outlined the main ways we contribute to the 

with the Board and the Audit Committee. 

SDGs in more detail in our Responsibility Data 

Appendix on Burberryplc.com.

The Sustainability Committee has considered the 

Eligibility Criteria in the Framework and reviewed  

92

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Environmental and Social Responsibility

the spend on projects eligible for financing under  

remains committed to driving demand for organic 

the Sustainability Bond and allocated the 

cotton. As part of this, 31%^ of total cotton was 

proceeds accordingly.

Allocation of proceeds 
The proceeds of the Sustainability Bond have been 

allocated across the three categories outlined in the 

Framework. In accordance with the Framework, 

these eligible projects and spend were completed 

within the three-year period preceding and the 

certified organic in FY 2022/23, however, organic 

cotton does not meet the Eligibility Criteria under the 

Framework document and therefore no proceeds 

have been allocated this year. 

In addition, we support Cotton 2040, a cross-industry 

partnership convened by Forum for the Future to 

address long-term resilience in cotton supply chains. 

financial years since the issuance of the Sustainability 

Pollution prevention and control 

Bond in September 2020. 

The allocation across categories is summarised below.

Unallocated proceeds 
The unallocated proceeds under the bond are 

£45 million. The cash is kept on deposit in accordance 

with Burberry’s Treasury Policy. 

Project examples

Green buildings:

Burberry is passionate about driving positive  
change and building a more sustainable future. 

Our sustainable packaging materials commitment 

aims to minimise the amount of packaging used and, 

where packaging is unavoidable, to maximise use of 

recycled, reusable and recyclable materials in line 

with circular economy principles. 

All Burberry retail bags and gift boxes are now made 

with paper-based materials, which are widely recyclable 

and reusable. Our garment covers are currently made 

Projects include the financing or refinancing of 

from 100% recycled polyester and our hangers contain 

properties, which have one of the following 

a minimum of 60% recycled plastic. 

certifications. For existing buildings, certification  

has been received within the last four years. 

Certifications include:

a. LEED: Platinum or Gold level 

b. BREEAM: Excellent or Outstanding level

Environmentally sustainable management of living natural 
resources and land use: 

Burberry continues to promote more sustainable 

farming practices among its suppliers and also 

Categories of spend

Green buildings

Environmentally sustainable management of living natural 

resources and land use

Pollution prevention and control
Total

We have allocated proceeds against packaging 

procurement where recycled content is more than 20%.

External assurance of the use of proceeds
Burberry has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers 

LLP (PwC) to provide independent limited assurance 

over the allocation of use of proceeds. Information 
subject to assurance is denoted with a  . PwC’s 
assurance report and Burberry’s Sustainability Bond 

Framework are available on Burberryplc.com.

Total allocation from  
21 September 2017 to 1 April 2023 
£m

United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals 
(UN SDG)

100.4

90.2

64.4
255.0

1.  The Framework can be found at: https://www.burberryplc.com/en/investors/debt.html.

Burberry has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to provide limited assurance over the allocation of use of proceeds. Information subject 
to assurance is denoated with a   symbol. PwC’s assurance report and Burberry’s Sustainability Bond Framework are available on Burberryplc.com.

 ^ Burberry appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to provide independent limited assurance over selected planet and product information 

for FY 2022/23. Information subject to assurance is denoted with a ^. PwC’s assurance report and Burberry’s Basis of Reporting for data subject 
to assurance are available on Burberryplc.com.

93

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures

FCA Listing Rule 9.8.6R(8) 

The Company has included in its Annual Report climate-related financial disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations 

and recommended disclosures. 

TCFD recommendations  
and recommended disclosures

Governance
Disclose the organisation’s 

governance around 

climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

Strategy
Disclose the actual and 

potential impacts of 

climate-related risks and 

opportunities on the 

organisation’s businesses, 

strategy and financial 

planning where such 

information is material.

Risk management
Disclose how the organisation 

identifies, assesses and 

manages climate-related risks.

Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and 

targets used to assess  

and manage relevant 

climate-related risks and 

opportunities where such 

information is material.

Disclosure location within  
Annual Report 2022/23

a. Describe the board’s oversight of 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

climate-related risks and opportunities.

Disclosures, pages 94 to 111

b. Describe management’s role in assessing  

and managing climate-related risks 

and opportunities.

a. Describe the climate-related risks and 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

opportunities the organisation has identified 

Disclosures, pages 94 to 111

over the short, medium and long term.

b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks 

Publication on Burberryplc.com: Burberry 

and opportunities on the organisation’s 

Beyond Climate Positive 2040 report

businesses, strategy and financial planning.

c. Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 

strategy, taking into consideration different 

climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or 

lower scenario.

a. Describe the organisation’s processes for 

identifying and assessing climate-related risks.

b. Describe the organisation’s processes for 

managing climate-related risks.

c. Describe how processes for identifying, 

Risk and Viability Report, pages 118 to 148.

assessing and managing climate-related risks 

are integrated into the organisation’s overall 

risk management.

a. Disclose the metrics used by the organisation 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

to assess climate-related risks and 

Disclosures, pages 94 to 111

opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 

management process.

b. Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, 

Planet pages 56 to 67 

scope 3 GHG emissions and the related risks.

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

Disclosures, pages 94 to 111

c. Describe the targets used by the organisation 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

to manage climate-related risks and 

Disclosures, pages 94 to 111

opportunities and performance against targets.

94

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Burberry has a longstanding commitment to addressing 

the impacts of climate change and is a luxury industry 

Governance
The Board is responsible for ensuring its approach  

leader in taking steps to advance our decarbonisation 

to sustainability is integrated into and implemented 

agenda. Since 2016, we have reduced our market-based 

across the business. The governance framework of 

scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93%, becoming carbon 

committees and advisory forums provide updates  

neutral across our own operations by compensating for 

and key information to the Board to ensure that it is 

residual emissions through the use of verified carbon 

able to make informed decisions. Our governance 

credits and maintaining our commitment to use 100% 

framework is outlined in the Corporate Governance 

of our electricity from renewable sources.

Building on these accomplishments, in FY 2022/23 

we published our latest Responsibility strategy, 

Burberry Beyond, to focus on four strategic priorities: 
Product, Planet, People and Communities. Our pledge 

to become Climate Positive by 2040 is ahead of the 

UK Government’s net-zero by 2050 target and aligns 

with the Planet pillar of our strategy. To achieve this, 

we are committed to continued emissions reduction 

across our extended supply chain and investing in 

nature-based projects with carbon benefits that 

Statement on page 153 and more detail on the roles 

of the Board and its committees is set out in the 

Matters Reserved for the Board and its Committees’ 

terms of reference, which are available in the 

Corporate Governance section of Burberryplc.com. 

The Board is also responsible for overseeing  

and monitoring the management of risks and 

opportunities, including those related to climate 

change. Further information on the risk management 

process is included in the Risk and Viability Report 

on page 118. 

restore and protect natural ecosystems, enhancing 

The Group’s strategy on environmental and 

the livelihoods of global communities. See Planet on 

climate-related issues is governed by the 

pages 56 to 67 for further details.

We have adopted the recommendations of the TCFD 

and reported on its four thematic areas: Governance, 

Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and 

Targets, since FY 2019/20. This section builds on our 

previous reports and describes our approach to 

scenario analysis, the results of the scenario analysis, 

and the actions taken in response to these results. 

Climate change and the transition to a low-carbon 

economy also present opportunities for efficiency, 

innovation and growth, all of which are built into our 

Climate Positive by 2040 ambition.

As scientific understanding of climate change and the 

global transition towards a lower-carbon economy 

evolves, we will continue to develop our assessment of 

climate-related risks and mitigation strategies and 

evolve our TCFD disclosures to reflect such changes, 

ensuring they follow latest guidance and leading practice.

Sustainability Committee, which convened four  

times in FY 2022/23 and is chaired by the CEO. 

The Committee plays an important decision-making 

role to support Burberry’s Responsibility strategy, 

with membership including senior leaders from  

across the organisation who are responsible for the 

execution of the responsibility strategy within their 

respective business areas. Topics discussed in the 

Sustainability Committee in FY 2022/23 include 

plastic packaging, circular business models and a 

scope 3 GHG emissions update. The Company 

Secretary or their designate is secretary to 

the Committee.

During FY 2022/23, the Board received two updates 

from the Sustainability Committee, which included 

progress against the Group’s sustainability-related 

goals and targets. The Board also received an update 

on Burberry’s climate ambition including progress 

towards our industry-leading goal to become Climate 

The Burberry TCFD Basis of Reporting outlines how 

Positive by 2040.

we have prepared the financial statements and 

disclosures, considering relevant TCFD guidance 

publications and the principles for effective 

disclosure. We have engaged EY as independent 

auditors to provide a limited assurance statement in 

accordance with ISAE 3000 on our FY 2022/23 

TCFD disclosures. The TCFD Basis of Reporting and 

assurance statement is available on Burberryplc.com. 

95

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

The cross-functional TCFD working group, which 

Similarly, we are committed to having a suitable pool 

includes members from the Finance, Corporate 

of internal sustainability experts with relevant 

Responsibility and Risk teams, defines the approach 

knowledge and skills to support decision-making. 

for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. 

Members of the TCFD working group participate in 

In FY 2022/23, the TCFD working group provided an 

external training courses and educational events, 

update on the outputs of the scenario analysis and 

including the Accounting for Sustainability Academy, 

proposed draft disclosure to the Risk Committee, 

to keep abreast of relevant climate and nature-

which was chaired by the Chief Operating and 

related topics. We also educate employees on  

Financial Officer (CO&FO). 

The Audit Committee reviews the work performed by 

the TCFD working group, including progress against 

the four TCFD pillars, outcomes of the scenario 
analysis and proposed disclosure. The Board reviews 

our climate-related reporting as part of its overall 

assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable 

nature of the Annual Report.

Knowledge and skills
Burberry seeks to ensure that our Board and senior 

leadership have the relevant knowledge and skills to 

help us build a business that is both successful and 

various sustainability-related topics through  

frequent engagement, focused events, strategic 

communications and volunteering opportunities. 

See our Responsibility Approach on pages 87  

for further details.

Remuneration
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is 

partly linked to our progress in building a more 

sustainable future, including progress towards the 

Group’s longer term climate goals, via the annual 

bonus plan and a sustainability underpin in the 

Burberry Share Plan (BSP).

responsible. We currently have five members of our 

For FY 2023/24, 25% of the Executive Director’s 

Board who have extensive leadership experience on 

bonus is once again linked to strategic measures 

sustainability issues. Details on the sustainability 

including environmental and social measures and 

skills and experience of these Board members is 

there will also be a sustainability underpin in the 2023 

included in Board Leadership and Company Purpose 

BSP award. 

on page 157.

Building on this, in FY 2023/24 we are 

We also worked with the Cambridge Institute  

introducing specific sustainability metrics linked to 

for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) to build 

our ambition to become Climate Positive by 2040  

sustainability awareness and knowledge among  

to the annual corporate bonus plan for the wider 

our Board and senior leaders. In May 2022, CISL 

workforce. We believe that cascading sustainability 

delivered a training session to our Board on global 

targets represents an invaluable opportunity to drive 

sustainability challenges, including climate change, 

the cultural evolution necessary to achieve our 

biodiversity and the potential implications of these  

long-term goals. 

on our business. This followed a similar session 

presented to the Executive Committee in 

March 2022.

96

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Strategy 
This section describes our key climate-related risks 

and opportunities, their potential impact on our 

Scenarios are hypothetical constructs and not 

designed to deliver precise outcomes or forecasts. 

Instead, scenarios provide a way for the Group to 

business and its resilience to such impacts, which has 

consider how the future might look if certain trends 

been assessed using scenario analysis as described 

continue, or certain conditions are met, and to assess 

below. Our strategy to address climate-related  

risks is integrated into our business strategy and 

decision-making in areas such as capital allocation, 

investment appraisal, supply chain planning and raw 

material sourcing. 

the Group’s strategic resilience.

As the scientific understanding of climate change and 

availability of data evolves, we expect greater rigour 

and sophistication in approaches to scenario analysis. 

We will continue to develop and update our scenario 

Our Burberry Beyond Climate Positive 2040 report 

analysis to support our assessment of the resilience 

details our strategic direction and plan to reduce 
GHG emissions across our operations and supply 

chain. With the majority of our GHG emissions arising 

from our extended supply chain, we are focusing on 

five key impact areas with each having defined actions 

of our business strategy to climate-related risks and 
ensure relevant mitigating strategies are in place.

Our approach to scenario analysis
Our scenario analysis incorporates the Group’s 

to drive progress: Raw Materials, Circularity and 

financial forecasts, operational footprint, supply chain 

Product-related Waste, Supply Chain Decarbonisation, 

information and environmental data, to create a digital 

and Sustainable Transportation. Further details on 

twin representation of the business. The product 

initiatives under each of these areas are provided in 

portfolio is modelled based on our updated strategy, 

the Decarbonising our Value Chain section of the 

Burberry Beyond Climate Positive 2040 report.

Background to scenario analysis
Scenario analysis is a process for identifying and 

assessing the potential implications of a range of 

with the Group’s value chain being modelled using 

historical data. This information is combined with 

industry reference scenarios on climate emission 

pathways, including assessments by the 

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and 

International Energy Agency, to consider the potential 

plausible future states, under conditions of uncertainty. 

impact of physical and transition risks on the Group.

Our scenario analysis considers the impacts of both physical and transitional risks.

Physical Risks

Transition Risks

Definition

Risks related to the physical impacts of 

Risks which may occur while transitioning to a 

climate change. They include both acute 

lower-carbon economy. These could include policy, 

weather events, such as heatwaves, and 

market, reputation and liability risks. The level of risk 

chronic long-term climate shifts, such as 

depends on the nature and speed of the transition.

rising sea levels. 

Timing of 

Acute physical risks are already  

The timing of transitional risks is uncertain,  

impacts

occurring, and these are expected to  

but they are more likely to occur in the short to 

happen more often and with greater  

medium term.

severity. Chronic physical risks are  

more likely in the long term.

97

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

In addition, we have considered the risk that a market 

The impact of physical and transition risks has been 

shock caused by transition to a low-carbon economy 

considered over a range of emission trajectories and 

would impact the Group’s cost of debt, and how 

global average temperatures. This is in line with the 

low-carbon innovations would devalue the Group’s 

recommendations of the TCFD to select a set of 

technology. We have concluded that these risks are 

scenarios that cover a reasonable variety of future 

not significant at this time due to the Group’s strong 

outcomes, both favourable and unfavourable. We 

net cash position, focus on renewable energy 

have also included a low-emissions scenario aligned 

consumption and absence of carbon intensive 

to the Paris Agreement aspiration to limit global 

machinery. We will continue to monitor and report  

warming to 1.5°C, as per the TCFD recommendation 

on these risks. 

that organisations use a 2°C or lower scenario. 

These are defined below, alongside a summary of the 

potential global impact of physical and transition 

risks under these scenarios. 

Average global temperature rise  
compared to pre-industrial levels by 2100

1.5˚C

2˚C – 3˚C 

> 4˚C

Scenario description

Global impact of climate-related risks over time

The world takes immediate and  

To limit global warming to 1.5°C compared to pre-

substantial action in line with the  

industrial levels, collective global action will be needed. 

Paris Agreement to lower emissions.

The nature and speed of the transition to a low-carbon 

economy is uncertain, but transition risks are more 

likely to occur in the short to medium term. By taking 

such collective action, the impact of physical risks 

occurring in the long term may be reduced.

The world partially implements  

If limited global action is taken to tackle climate 

policies to lower emissions with  

change and reduce GHG emissions, transition risks 

no further actions taken.

would reduce in the short term. However, inaction 

would increase the severity and frequency of physical 

risks in the long term.

The world takes limited or no actions  

Without any global action at all, transition risks would 

to limit emissions.

be limited and the impact of physical risks would 

become even greater in the long term.

98

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

We have defined our time horizons as short term (five 

years), medium term (five to 20 years) and long term 

Scenario analysis results
In FY 2022/23, we further developed our scenario 

(more than 20 years). The time horizon used for our 

analysis to best reflect our current understanding  

detailed scenario analysis is a short-term outlook of 

of how climate change could impact the Group. 

five years, during which we can influence decisions 

This includes incorporating the latest scientific data 

through strategy, capital allocation, costs and 

on the global impact of climate change, increased 

revenues. Typically, three years is used for our 

sophistication when modelling transition risks and 

financial and operational planning, as this is sufficient 

updating the digital twin representation of our business.

to cover almost all approved capital expenditure 

projects, and most current business development 

projects will be completed in the three-year period. 

Our viability assessment is also aligned to this time 

period, with ongoing concern typically considered over 

18 months. We have extended the period to five years 

using a growth assumption, which more closely aligns 

with our expected asset lifetimes, and strategic 

The tables below show the results of our scenario 

analysis and our strategic response. The financial 

impact represents the estimated loss of value to the 

Group’s discounted cash flows over the next five years 
assuming no mitigating actions are taken. This impact 

has been rated as High, Medium or Low, reflecting 

materiality to the Group’s financial statements. 

plans. Beyond five years, there is less certainty 

At Burberry, we believe our long-term success 

around the impact of climate-related risks as this is 

depends on actively addressing the potential impact 

dependent on the pace and effectiveness of the 

of climate-related risks and adapting to potential 

global transition to a lower-carbon economy. 

opportunities. As such, we have adopted strategies 

Building on our detailed analysis, which covers a 

five-year time horizon, we have also considered the 

impact of climate-related risks in the short to 

medium time period of 10 years, which we will use to 

support our strategy over this period.

and actions to mitigate these risks and ensure our 

strategy adapts to the potential opportunities. 

Where such actions have quantifiable investments 

associated with them, these are embedded within our 

Board-approved financial plans, which are translated 

in to annual budgets, and detailed in Our Strategic 

Each physical and transition risk was modelled 

Response on pages 100 to 104. We have also 

independently due to the complexity and uncertainty 

considered the impact of climate change in the 

associated with measuring the interconnectivity of 

preparation of our Financial Statements, which can 

risks and how they influence each other. Planned future 

be found on page 270.

mitigating actions, including those to deliver our 

ambition to be Climate Positive by 2040, have not 

been taken into consideration in the scenario analysis. 

99

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Impact: potential impact on Burberry’s cumulative discounted cash 
flows over five years, assuming no mitigating actions are taken:

Low

(<£1m – £25m)

Medium

(£25m – £125m)

High

(£125m – £250m)

Physical risk

Global emissions environment
Average global temperature rise 

How we modelled the risk 

compared to pre-industrial levels 

We quantified how extreme weather events and chronic changes in the climate might 

by 2100

impact sourcing of raw materials, disrupt manufacturing and distribution of goods, damage 

assets and impact retail activities leading to changes in consumption patterns. 

> 4˚C

2˚C – 3˚C

1.5˚C

Impact Medium Medium Medium

Timeframe for most significant 
impact: long term

Potential areas of impact 

An increase in the frequency and severity of acute weather events may impact raw 

material sourcing, disrupt operations and damage facilities. Facility disruption may result 

from an increased risk of tropical windstorms and floods in Asia as well as increased risk of 

droughts and heatwaves in Asia, Europe and the Americas. 

The impact of physical risks will become more significant in the medium and longer term, 

particularly in the >4˚C and 2˚C to 3˚C scenarios. The impact of chronic physical risks, 

such as increasing global temperatures, will be particularly impactful over this time period.

Key assumptions 

•  Scenario analysis is based on our current asset base and value chain. Planned changes to 

our asset base and sourcing locations have not been taken into consideration in 

quantifying the five-year earnings at risk 

•  We have considered the extent to which financial impacts may be passed on to 

consumers. This has been assessed in line with expectations of market capacity for price 

increases and impact on net cash

•  Update in methodology in FY 2022/23 to include range of Representative Concentration 

Pathways (RCPs), Coupled Model Intercomparison Project Phase (CMIP6) data, updated 

hazard definitions and improved granularity when considering likelihood of hazards

Our strategic response 

•  We are committed to reducing our impact on the environment, promoting more 

sustainable practices in our supply chain, and ensuring that we build resilience in our 

operations. The quantifiable financial investments associated with these actions are 

included in our financial plans

•  We are committed to sourcing 100% certified organic cotton, which holds environmental 

benefits and is traced via a chain of custody by FY 2029/30

•  We continue to develop our business continuity and resilience plans to allow us to 

respond to the impacts of physical risks at key locations such as our distribution centres. 

Our Incident Management teams were convened to respond to a number of weather-

related events in FY 2022/23

•  We require regular effluent testing and work with over 40 wet processing facilities to 

monitor and improve effluent management practices. We also work with suppliers to 

identify water-saving opportunities, such as water recycling and leak repairs

•  We continue to monitor and adapt our supply chain to ensure we are able to both 

mitigate climate-related risks to the Group and achieve our Climate Positive by 

2040 ambition

•  All Burberry retail bags and boxes are reusable, recyclable and certified by the FSCTM 

See also: Planet, pages 56 to 67. 

100

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Policy risk

Global emissions environment
Average global temperature rise 

compared to pre-industrial levels 

by 2100 

> 4˚C

2˚C – 3˚C

1.5˚C

Impact

Low*

Low

Low

Timeframe for most significant 
impact: short to medium term

How we modelled the risk 

We quantified how the implementation of carbon pricing may result in increased costs 

associated with production, distribution and raw materials.

Carbon prices and projected changes in these have been considered at a country level.

Potential areas of impact 

An increase in costs of production, distribution and raw materials in the short to medium 

term, with a higher carbon price required to achieve a lower temperature scenario.

 * Under a >4°C scenario there is potential for a minimal positive impact due to reversal of current carbon pricing policies.

Key assumptions 

•  Scenario analysis and quantification of the five-year earnings at risk does not take into 

consideration our actions to be Climate Positive by 2040 and therefore assumes a growth 

in GHG emissions aligned to an average growth rate used in our financial forecast

•  GHG emissions are based on our assured FY 2021/22 emissions footprint

•  We have considered the extent to which financial impacts incurred may be passed on to 

consumers. This has been assessed in line with expectations of market capacity for price 

increases and impact on net cash. Global carbon prices used in the modelling are shadow 

prices, which are a measure of overall policy intensity and expected to increase on a 

straight-line basis over the period. The annual carbon price has been interpolated based 

on the final carbon price reached at the end of the scenario modelling period. The global 

average carbon prices reached by the end of our scenario modelling period are:

•  1.5˚C = USD 75 per tonne 

•  2°C – 3°C = USD 5 to USD 45 per tonne

•  > 4°C = USD 0 per tonne 

Our strategic response 

•  In FY 2022/23, we published our Burberry Beyond: Climate Positive by 2040 report, which 

details our current GHG emissions footprint and our commitment to reducing this

•  We have reduced our absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 93% from our FY 2016/17 

base year and will continue to identify the energy efficiency opportunities required to reach 

and maintain our 95% reduction target in FY 2023/24. We also aim to reduce our absolute 

scope 3 GHG emissions by 46% by FY 2029/30. Our emissions targets are recognised by 

SBTi, and we will continue to report our progress against these

•  The remuneration of our Executive Directors is partly linked to our progress in building a 

more sustainable future, including progress towards our Group climate goals 

•  Our £300 million Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) is linked to our scope 3 GHG emissions 

reduction target

•  To support our strategic response, we have also quantified the potential impact of our 

Climate Positive by 2040 ambition on the Group’s exposure to this risk

The quantifiable financial investments associated with these actions are included in our 

financial plans. We will continue to embed our Climate Positive by 2040 roadmap and 

monitor this through KPIs applied across the business. We continue to monitor regulatory 

and market developments in carbon pricing to inform our strategy and financial plans. 

See also: Planet, pages 56 to 67. 

101

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Market risk

Global emissions environment
Average global temperature rise 

How we modelled the risk 

compared to pre-industrial levels 

We quantified how shifts in consumer preferences towards more sustainable and less 

by 2100

carbon intensive products may impact demand for our products.

Consumer preference shifts have been considered at a country level. 

> 4˚C

2˚C – 3˚C

1.5˚C

Potential areas of impact 

Impact

Low Medium High

A shift away from products constructed using less sustainable raw materials, including 

Timeframe for most significant 
impact: short to medium term

animal-based products, towards organic, regenerative or recycled fabrics. This shift is 
expected to happen in the short to medium term, and more quickly in geographical regions 

where public attention on sustainable materials used to produce clothing is greater. The 

shift will be more apparent in a lower temperature scenario, which assumes that a higher 

proportion of consumers will adopt more sustainable choices.

Key assumptions 

•  Consumer perception of Burberry products is assumed to be linked to the carbon 

footprint of sourcing raw materials, production and distribution 

•  Scenario analysis is based on Burberry’s future product strategy, aligned with its 

updated strategic vision and projected raw material usage

•  We have considered how shifts in consumer preferences may impact operating margin 

and net cash. This has been assessed in line with our current cost structure

Our strategic response 

•  We are committed to shifting to more sustainable, low-impact materials. We have a 

series of ambitious targets to achieve this aim with Product being a key pillar of our 

Burberry Beyond strategy

•  We are a member of the Textile Exchange, which is a not-for-profit organisation working 

to increase the global market for sustainable fibres and to create certifiable 

sustainability standards for key raw materials

•  In FY 2022/23 we joined Fashion For Good, a global platform established to drive 

sustainable solutions within the textile industry. We have hired a Materials Innovation 

Manager to pilot innovation in the raw materials space

•  We are aiming to ensure all key materials are 100% traceable by FY 2029/30, supported  

by our use of certified materials where the country of origin is verified and disclosed. 

To support this, we are investing in a traceability solution. The quantifiable financial 

investments associated with these actions are included in our financial plans

•  We continue to evolve our aftercare offer and trial new circular business models. See 

Opportunities and Product on pages 51 to 55

•  To support our strategic response, we have also quantified the potential impact of 

achieving some of our key raw material targets on our exposure to this risk 

See also: Product, pages 51 to 55.

102

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Reputation risk

Global emissions environment
Average global temperature rise 

How we modelled the risk 

compared to pre-industrial levels 

We quantified how climate activism due to negative perception of our climate impact and 

by 2100

strategy may result in reputational damage, disruption to spending patterns and loss 

of revenue.

Society’s opinion with respect to the threat of climate change has been considered at a 

> 4˚C

2˚C – 3˚C

1.5˚C

country level.

Impact

Low

Low

Low

Potential areas of impact 

Timeframe for most significant 
impact: short to medium term

Society may engage in climate activism in the short to medium term with companies 

perceived as less sustainable being targeted, decreasing revenue and reducing market 

share. Despite minimal shifts in consumer preferences in the short term under a >4°C 

scenario, a section of society may engage in general activism against organisations due to 

their inaction in relation to climate change, resulting in disruption and lost revenue.

Key assumptions

•  Scenario analysis is based on Burberry’s future Product strategy, aligned with its 

updated strategic vision

•  We have considered the extent to which financial impacts incurred may be passed on to 

consumers. This has been assessed in line with expectations of market capacity for price 

increases and impact on net cash

•  Scenario analysis uses a performance percentile to benchmark Burberry against its 

wider industry in terms of GHG emissions

Our strategic response

•  Sustainability is an increasingly important factor in consumers’ purchasing decisions. 

Consumers, particularly the younger generations, expect brands to have a clear and 

comprehensive agenda with respect to sustainability and social responsibility, including 

carbon reduction efforts; sustainable raw material sourcing and traceability; fair labour 

practices; diversity and inclusion, and protecting nature

•  We are working to reduce our environmental footprint and meaningfully support our 

global communities while seeking to transform our industry 

•  We have made a number of industry-leading climate change commitments, which have 

been recognised externally:

•  Burberry received a Highly Commended in Communicating Integrated Thinking at the 

2022 Finance for the Future awards

•  In 2022, Burberry was ranked by CDP in the Leadership band, receiving an A for its 

climate change submission

•  We continue to play a role in shaping policy and regulation within our industry and are 

working collaboratively with partners, suppliers and other organisations to achieve our 

ambition. This includes the United Nations Global Compact, the Fashion Pact, The UN 

Fashion Charter, RE100, Race to Zero, Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest 

finance (LEAF) and the Prince’s Trust Accounting for Sustainability project

See also: Planet, pages 56 to 67 and Product, pages 51 to 55. 

103

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Liability risk

Global emissions environment
Average global temperature rise 

How we modelled the risk

compared to pre-industrial levels 

We quantified how perceived involvement in activities, which drive climate change, such as 

by 2100 

the emission of GHGs, may result in additional operating expenses due to litigation.

> 4˚C

2˚C - 3˚C

1.5˚C

Impact

Low

Low

Low

Timeframe for most significant 
impact: short to medium term

Potential areas of impact

Potential operating expenses may arise from fines, settlement and legal costs in the short 

to medium term.

Key assumptions

•  We quantified how perceived involvement in activities, which drive climate change, such 

as the emission of GHGs, may result in additional operating expenses due to litigation

Our strategic response

•  We monitor and continuously improve processes to gain assurance that our licensees, 

suppliers, franchisees, distributors and agents comply with Burberry’s contractual terms 

and conditions, its ethical and business policies, and relevant legislation

•  Specialist teams at corporate and regional level, supported by third-party specialists 

where required, are responsible for ensuring the Group’s compliance with applicable 

laws, ethical and business policies and regulations, and that employees are aware of the 

policies, laws and regulations relevant to their roles

•  Our Global Environmental Policy stipulates our commitments relating to energy, 

emissions, chemicals, water and raw materials. This is mandatory and applies to all of 

our own and business associates’ activities 

See also: Risk and Viability Report, pages 118 to 144.

Beyond a five-year time horizon, the level of 

Overall, the results of our scenario analysis indicate 

uncertainty increases. Transition risks are expected 

that the physical and transition risks associated  

to be the most impactful in the short to medium 

with climate change could impact the Group in  

term, continuing the trends our five-year scenario 

the short, medium and long term. The size of the 

analysis have identified. Physical risks are expected 

impact will depend on the nature and speed of the 

to become most impactful in the long term, with the 

global transition towards a lower-carbon economy. 

size of the impact dependent on the success of global 

The 1.5°C scenario would have most impact on 

initiatives to limit the repercussions of climate 

Burberry in the short to medium term before 

change. These long-term physical risks may disrupt 

considering any mitigating actions. We will continue 

our supply chain and create operational challenges. 

to consider and identify how the results of our 

Our commitment to more sustainable, low-impact 

scenario analysis may be utilised to inform future 

materials and our partnerships focused on innovation 

strategic planning where appropriate.

are key to limiting this impact. We will remain agile 

and continue to monitor this risk, informed by the 

latest scientific understanding of climate change. 

104

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Opportunities
In addition to these climate-related risks, there are also opportunities for risk mitigation and growth, which may arise for the 

Group as it transitions toward a lower-carbon economy.

The Group’s approach to identifying climate-related opportunities is integrated within its wider strategy to deliver positive 

change with sustainability at its core. Supported by the Group’s overarching Climate Positive by 2040 ambition, the Sustainability 

Committee is key to the identification, prioritisation and realisation of climate-related opportunities. 

Examples of such climate-related opportunities are summarised below.

TCFD  
Opportunity Area

Resource 
efficiency

Energy 
Source

Products 
and Services

Opportunity Description

Actions Taken To Realise Opportunities

Time Horizon  
of Impact

Use of more efficient 

Moved to electrically operated steam boilers in our key 

Short/medium 

production and distribution 
processes

internal manufacturing site

term

Move to more efficient 

Improved building efficiency through obtaining LEED and 

Short/ 

buildings

BREEAM certification for stores

medium term

Use of lower-emission 

100% of the electricity used in our own operations is from 

Short term

sources of energy

renewable sources and we will continue to maintain this

Development and/or 

Our collections increasingly feature products made with 

Short/medium 

expansion of low-emission 

certified key raw materials, supported by our targets in 

term

goods and services

this area

We offer Trench, Cashmere and Leather Refresh services 

Short/medium 

globally and continue to expand these initiatives

term

Development of new 

We are currently funding a two-year research project with 

Short term

products or services through 

HKRITA to design a post-consumer leather goods recycling 

research and development, 

system. Read more about this project in the Environmental 

and innovation

and Social Responsibility section on page 67

Markets

Access to new markets

In FY 2022/23 we began a handbag rental trial with Cocoon 

Short term

and are planning to launch a product rental service with the 

UK’s leading fashion rental platform, My Wardrobe HQ

See more on our circularity initiatives in Product, page 54

Short/medium 

term

Resilience

Participation in renewable 

We are currently working with the Apparel Impact Institute 

Short/medium 

energy programmes and 

(AII) to implement the Clean by Design programme and 

term

adoption of energy efficiency 

improve energy, water and chemical use at eight mills known 

measures

for producing high-quality textiles for luxury garments

Resource substitutes/ 

We continue to invest in a traceability solution, which will 

Short/medium 

diversification

enable us to better manage risks and opportunities 

term

associated with our key raw materials supply chains

We recognise the potential impact of climate change, which remains a principal risk for the Group. While there are challenges 
ahead, the Group is well positioned to both address these and capitalise on the identified opportunities, which will arise in the 

transition towards a lower-carbon economy. Our Climate Positive ambition will be key in ensuring the Group’s resilience to the 

potential impacts of climate change, supported by our wider Burberry Beyond strategy see Responsibility (pages 50 to 94) and 

underpinned by ambitious targets, which are detailed in Metrics and Targets (see pages 30 to 35).

105

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Risk Management
Climate change has been identified as a principal risk 

to Burberry see page 95 and has the potential to 

impact our business in the short, medium and long 

term as detailed on page 99. 

The overarching approach to identifying 

climate-related risks is the same as for all principal 

risks and is described on page 97. Additionally for 

climate-related risks, we have undertaken qualitative 

Climate-related risks and opportunities are 

continually monitored as part of our Enterprise Risk 

Management framework. This allows us to evaluate 

the relative significance of our risks based on their 

likelihood and impact, and to prioritise accordingly. 

The Group has also developed a risk platform, which 

enables us to track our business objectives, including 

those that create or protect financial, social, 

environmental and reputational value. 

scenario analysis since FY 2018/19 and a quantitative 

We also monitor the environment for new and 

scenario analysis since FY 2019/20 to support our 

emerging risks, and to keep abreast of evolving 

regulatory requirements. We will continue to develop 
our scenario analysis to improve our understanding of 

these risks and opportunities and align our strategy 

and actions accordingly. 

Metrics and targets
We have a number of metrics and targets in place to 

monitor and manage the most significant risks and 

opportunities arising from climate change. These are 

outlined in the tables on pages 105 to 109 and are 

linked to the risks modelled as part of the scenario 

analysis and the opportunities identified by the Group.

identification and understanding of such risks.

For each principal risk we have a risk management 

framework detailing the controls in place and those 

responsible for managing the overall risk and the 

relevant mitigating controls. We monitor risks 

throughout the year to identify changes in principal 

risk profiles. Management of climate-related risks  

is distributed throughout the organisation,  

depending on where the risk resides. For example, 

climate-related risks in relation to raw materials in 

the supply chain are managed by our Sourcing team 

responsible for buying commodities. 

The cross-functional TCFD working group defined 

the risk management methodology and approach for 

identifying and assessing climate-related risks and 

mitigating controls. Using scenario analysis, the 

working group quantified climate-related risks to 

Burberry and evaluated their size and scope. This 

supported the working group in prioritising risks and 

assessing the resilience of our business strategy to 

potential climate-change impacts.

When sustainability and climate-related risks are 

assessed, existing mitigating activities and controls 

are highlighted and, where relevant and appropriate, 

additional activities and controls are implemented  

if risks fall outside of appetite. Progress against 

these mitigating activities is assessed by the Risk 

Committee and is subject to independent review by 

Group Internal Audit as part of the annual audit plan. 

During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed  

the work performed by the TCFD working group, 

including progress against the four TCFD pillars and 

proposed disclosure. 

106

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Theme

Metrics

Targets

Physical risks 

Water 

Supply chain water management practices, 

•  Maintain regular assessment coverage of at least 80% of 

water intensity across supply chain sites in 

our vendors and raw material suppliers

absolute and relative terms, and water 

risks based on the geographical area.

•  We are aiming for zero water conservation hotspots by 

2030 and monitor the percentage of products delivered by 

supply chain partners rated as hotspots 

Our water risk assessment, which 

incorporates the WWF Water Risk Filter, 

considers physical risk, regulatory risks and 

reputational risks.

Water scarcity, quality and flooding risk 

details are collected by supply chain partners 

and reviewed by Burberry against our water 

conservation framework. The framework 

rates sites as red, amber or green and 

identifies hotspots, which are defined as 

sites in areas of high water stress. If these 

risks are deemed to be high, Burberry 

conducts specific risk assessments for the 

site covering emergency and mitigation 

plans, and water stewardship activities. 

107

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Theme

Metrics

Targets

Policy 

GHG emissions  GHG emissions across scopes 1, 2 and 3. 

GHG emissions reductions: 

•  Burberry committed to reduce absolute scope 1 

and 2 GHG emissions by 95% by FY 2022/23 

from a FY 2016/17 base year and to maintain the 

reduced level of emissions thereafter. Scope 1 

and 2 progress for this year is 93%

•  To reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 

46% by 2030, from a FY 2018/19 base year 

See our Responsibility KPI results on page 56 
and our GHG emissions table on page 60

Renewable electricity: 

•  100% renewable electricity across our 

operational footprint by end of FY 2021/22. 

This target has been achieved and maintained

See our results on page 60

These metrics and targets also support the Resource 

Efficiency and Energy Source opportunity areas. 

Sustainability 
Bond

Our Sustainability Bond proceeds are allocated across 

•  We aim to allocate the full use of proceeds from 

three categories outlined in the Framework as 

the Sustainability Bond to these three categories 

Eligibility Criteria: 

•  Green buildings

and are on track to do this by 2025 when the 

bond matures

•  Environmentally sustainable management of living 

natural resources and land use

•  Pollution prevention and control (including waste 

prevention, waste reduction and waste recycling)

This metric also supports the Resource Efficiency 

opportunity area. 

Remuneration

•  The remuneration of our Executive Directors is partly 

•  In FY 2022/23, 10% of the annual bonus for 

linked to our progress in building a more sustainable 

Executive Directors was linked to KPIs on our 

future, including progress towards the Group’s climate 

scope 3 GHG emissions and Diversity, Equity 

goals. More details of this are set out in the Directors’ 

and Inclusion goals

Remuneration Report on pages 200 to 245 

•  We have included environmental and social KPIs 

into personal objectives for our senior leaders, 

which also form part of the corporate bonus.

•  Building on this, in FY 2023/24 we are introducing 

specific sustainability metrics linked to our ambition  

to become Climate Positive by 2040 to the annual 

corporate bonus plan for the wider workforce. We 

believe that cascading sustainability targets represents 

an invaluable opportunity to drive the cultural evolution 

necessary to achieve our long-term goals.

108

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Theme

Metrics

Targets

Market 

Product and 
sustainable 
raw materials 

•  Percentage of traceable and certified 

100% of key raw materials in our products to be certified. 

materials

This includes: 

•  Total number of products refreshed using 

•  Source 100% certified recycled nylon* and recycled 

our aftercare offer. See Product on page 

polyester* by FY 2029/30, where nylon or polyester is the 

54 for further details on our ambitions 

product’s main material

around circular business models

•  Source 100% certified wool* by FY 2029/30, supporting 

•  % share of low-carbon materials 

certifications that uphold the highest animal welfare standard

procured for use in Burberry products

•  Source 100% certified organic cotton* by FY 2029/30 

•  % of low-carbon products produced. 

which holds environmental and social benefits and is traced 

This is based on products manufactured 

through our supply chain via a chain of custody. This builds 

at vendors where we achieved GHG 

on our target to source 100% of our cotton more 

emissions reductions. Details are 

sustainably by end of FY 2021/22. For details of our 

available in our CDP Climate disclosure

FY 2022/23 results, see page 51

•  Source 100% of our leather* from certified tanneries by 

FY 2029/30, with environmental, traceability and social 

compliance certificates. For details of our FY 2022/23 

results, see page 51

 * Where the material referred to is the product’s main material.

These metrics and targets also support the Product and 

Services opportunity area. 

Reputation 

Consumer 
sentiment 

Burberry monitors consumer perception 

•  N/A 

metrics on the extent to which Burberry is 

considered a socially responsible brand. 

We are committed to continued 

participation in CDP, FTSE4Good Index, 

MSCI and Sustainalytics indices

Due diligence 

Liability 

Burberry monitors activity across its supply 

•  N/A

chain in line with its Responsible Business 

Principles, which includes its Global 

Environmental Policy. Key metrics include: 

•  Number of supply chain audits and 

engagement visits conducted 

•  Supply chain chemical management 

assessment results 

•  Effluent testing results (available on 

Burberryplc.com) 

109

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Setting and monitoring targets is key to driving 

In addition, we have a number of internal targets to 

progress towards our Burberry Beyond strategy  

achieve our Climate Positive and Net-Zero Roadmap with 

and we have an extensive range of KPIs focusing  

accountability sitting with relevant Executive Committee 

on our four pillars of Product, Planet, People and 

members. Looking ahead, we are committed to reviewing 

Communities. These KPIs are integral in ensuring we 

and refining these internal targets as required. 

both build a better world for the next generation and 

safeguard the long-term success of our business. See 

our Responsibility Data Appendix on Burberryplc.com, 

Reporting 
We align our reporting on climate-related metrics to 

which includes further details on how we monitor 

recognised standards, including the GHG Protocol, The UK’s 

performance in this space and the latest KPI data. We 

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting and the TCFD. 

have also considered the cross-industry climate-related 

metrics and targets recommended by the TCFD and 

will continue to develop metrics and targets in relation 

to transition risks, physical risks and opportunities, 

where they are deemed to facilitate comparability.

Our climate-related metrics and targets cover renewable 

energy procurement and GHG emissions reductions 

across scopes 1, 2 and 3. Burberry has appointed 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to provide 

independent limited assurance over selected KPIs as part 

of our Responsibility strategy, as well as key metrics 

reported in our GHG table. KPIs subject to assurance by 

In line with the Large and Medium sized Companies and 

Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as 
amended by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 

and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, our GHG 

emissions are set out on page 60. 

In recognition of the importance of the TCFD and 

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) being 

key Environmental, Social and Governance reporting 

frameworks for our stakeholders, we continue to produce a 

SASB-aligned disclosures report, which is available within 

our Responsibility Data Appendix on Burberryplc.com. 

PwC are denoted with a ^ throughout this Annual Report.

As part of the development of our transition plan, we have 

Our GHG emissions reduction targets are approved 

as science based by the SBTi: 

•  To reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
by 95% by FY 2022/23 from a FY 2016/17 base 

year and maintain 95% emissions reduction

•  We reduced absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 

by 93% from our FY 2016/17 base year. We have 

therefore not met our target this year, however, 

we will continue to identify the energy efficiency 

opportunities required to reach and maintain our 

95% reduction target in FY 2023/24. We also 

continued to ensure 100% of our electricity was 

sourced from renewable sources 

baselined the Group’s current position and set our Climate 

Positive by 2040 ambition (which can be found within 

Planet on page 58). We will continue to monitor the 

developments of the Transition Plan Taskforce to ensure 

we align with its requirements.

Reflecting the importance of CDP as a gold standard  

for environmental reporting with the richest and most 

comprehensive dataset on corporate action on climate, 

we have been reporting to CDP since 2010. In 2022, 

Burberry was ranked by CDP in the Leadership band, 

receiving an A for its climate change submission.

We recognise that meeting our climate-related targets is 

dependent on collective action. Foremost are countries 

•  To reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 46% 
by FY 2029/30 and by 90% by FY 2039/40 from a 

implementing their Paris Agreement-aligned commitments 

and increasing them to more ambitious levels. Improving the 

FY 2018/19 base year

market conditions for clean energy supply, such as the rate 

•  In FY 2022/23, we reduced our absolute scope 3 

of installation of renewable electricity in many countries, 

emissions by 11% from the previous year 

reducing costs and the availability of purchase power 

(FY 2021/22), and by 40% since our FY 2018/19 

agreements will help shift the rate of decarbonisation at 

base year 

scale. We believe we have a role in helping to shape the 

•  Independent limited assurance has been obtained 

policy and regulation required and are working 

by the Group over our FY 2022/23 reduction in 

collaboratively with partners, suppliers and other 

scope 3 emissions from a FY 2018/19 base year, 

organisations to achieve our ambition, including the United 

as we progress towards our Science-Based 

Target. The assurance report is available on 

Nations Global Compact, the Fashion Pact, The UN Fashion 

Charter, RE100, Race to Zero and the Prince’s Trust 

Burberryplc.com

Accounting for Sustainability initiative. 

110

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

111

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Stakeholder Engagement

Stakeholder Engagement

Understanding our stakeholders and doing right by them is fundamental  
to sustaining Burberry’s success in the long term.

The Board is aware of its obligations, both collectively 

and individually, to promote the success of the 

Company for the benefit of its stakeholders. 

Ensuring regular, comprehensive engagement with 

those stakeholders helps us to understand their 

perspectives, values and insights. This knowledge 

informs our decision-making and planning, and allows 
us to deliver our strategy, conscious of the potential 

impact of our actions. 

Section 172(1) statement and statement  
of engagement with employees and 
other stakeholders
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the 

Act) as amended by the Companies (Miscellaneous 

Reporting) Regulations 2018, the Directors provide 

this statement to describe how they have engaged 

with and had regard to the interests of our key 
stakeholders when performing their duty to promote 

the success of the Company, under section 172 of 

Papers submitted to the Board for approval from 

the Act.

various areas of the business are required to outline 

the impact on stakeholder groups to enable the 

Board to have informed discussions before reaching 

key strategic decisions.

Reflecting the importance of our stakeholders and 

the impact they have on our strategy, reputation and 

the Group’s long-term success, consideration has 

been given to them throughout the FY 2022/23 

Annual Report. The table on pages 116 and 117 

identifies where further information can be found 

on how the Board has engaged with our stakeholders. 

112

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Stakeholder Engagement

People

We are committed to attracting and retaining the best talent in an inclusive environment where everyone thrives.

Why they 
matter to us

Our people are Burberry’s greatest asset. We believe that an engaged and motivated workforce is 

essential to the growth of our business. We are committed to the professional and personal 

development of our people.

What matters  
to them

•  Career development

•  Operational efficiency

•  Wellbeing and flexible working

•  Fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive 

culture

Board 
engagement

Meaningful two-way communication between the Board and our workforce is crucial. How the Board 

has engaged:

•  The Global Workforce Advisory Forum

•  Holding and participating in global town halls

•  Colleague surveys

•  For FY 2022/23 this included town halls in the 

USA, Japan and Korea in which the Chair 

participated in person

Customers

We serve our customer base through Burberry.com, directly operated stores, concessions and wholesale partners.

Why they 
matter to us

What matters  
to them

Providing exceptional customer service and assistance is vital for any luxury brand. We aim to create a 

cohesive experience, where our customers can engage with our brand, our product, our campaigns and 

our people, in person and online.

•  Product innovation and newness

•  Addressing evolving customer habits and 

•  Customer service and brand experience

changes in buying patterns

•  Environmental and social impact

Board 
engagement

Understanding our customers and what they are looking for is key to the success of our brand. How the 
Board has engaged:

•  Customer insights provided through 

•  Regular store visits, including visits 

presentations from our CEO and senior 

which formed part of strategy meetings 

management team

in October 2022

•  Personal customer experience across all of 

our channels

113

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Stakeholder Engagement

Shareholders

We are creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders through the delivery of the Group’s refreshed strategy.

It is important to develop an open and transparent relationship with our shareholders so they can make 

informed decisions based on knowledge of our business and its strategy.

•  Capital gain through share price appreciation 

•  Environmental, Social and Governance and, in 

and capital return via dividend

particular, climate-related strategies

•  Operation of the Capital Allocation Framework, 

•  Profitability and business growth potential

which included the quantum of the share 

buyback programme 

•  Quality of governance

The Board benefits from the views of the investment community in its decision-making. How the Board 

has engaged:

•  Review of all shareholder communications, 

•  AGM enables shareholders to directly engage 

including trading updates, results, the  

Annual Report and Notice of Annual  

General Meeting (AGM)

Why they 
matter to us

What matters  
to them

Board 
engagement

Communities

At Burberry, we have a longstanding commitment to operating as a responsible business and supporting our communities 

through various programmes and initiatives.

Why they 
matter to us

What matters  
to them

Board 
engagement

Caring for our communities is intrinsic to our Company values. We support The Burberry Foundation 

(UK registered charity number 1154468) in creating long-term partnerships that drive positive change 

in our communities and help build a more sustainable future through innovation.

•  Positively impacting the communities living and 

•  Employment within our communities

working around us

•  Increased focus on Environmental and Social 

Responsibility initiatives

As a global business, the Board recognises the importance of supporting our communities. How the 

Board has engaged:

•  Approval of donation to The Burberry 

•  Receiving updates on how Burberry is 

Foundation, which in FY 2022/23 was 1% of 

supporting communities through sustainability 

Group adjusted profit before tax, for social and 

initiatives and projects

community causes worldwide

114

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Stakeholder Engagement

Partners

Our partners include our suppliers, companies, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), civil society groups and retail third parties.

Why they 
matter to us

We build collaborative relationships with our partners and take pride in sharing knowledge and 

expertise to find solutions and opportunities for innovation. We nurture close relationships with 

members of our supply chain to drive social and environmental improvements.

What matters  
to them

Board 
engagement

•  Increased focus on Environmental and Social 

•  Driving collaboration and contributing to the 

Responsibility initiatives

UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

The Board recognises the importance of engaging with our partners to support our strategic goals. 

How the Board has engaged:

•  Supplier visits, which formed part of strategy 

•  The Audit Committee receives updates on 

meetings in October 2022 

ethical audits across our supply chain 

•  The Board receives regular updates on 

•  Receiving updates on collaborations and 

sustainability-related matters in our supply 

knowledge sharing with partners including 

chain, including those related to climate change 

industry experts and peers. See page 91 

•  The Board reviewed and approved the 

for details of the organisations we are 

Transparency in Supply Chain and Modern 

working with

Slavery Statement 

Governments

Governments influence long-term retail environments, environmental priorities, employment laws, trade and other business 

matters, which impact Burberry.

Why they 
matter to us

What matters  
to them

Board 
engagement

We regularly engage with governments in the countries and territories where we operate to understand 

their concerns so we can seek solutions to shared environmental, social, economic and governance issues.

•  Industry/product policies such as taxes, 

•  Employment

restrictions, trade and regulations

•  Increased focus on Environmental and Social 

Responsibility initiatives

As a global organisation, the Board is mindful of the impact local governments can have on our 

business. How the Board has engaged:

•  The Board is briefed on engagements with 

•  The Group Tax Strategy which includes 

governments. In FY 2022/23 this included 

the Group’s approach to engaging with 

topics such as trade compliance matters, 

tax authorities in the territories in which 

corporate tax including tax compliance, 

we operate, is reviewed and approved 

cross-border tax agreements and developments 

by the Audit Committee

in domestic and international regulations

115

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Board Engagement

Board Engagement

The table below sets out where further information can be found on how the 
Board has exercised its duties in accordance with Section 172 of the Act.

Section 172 responsibilities

Strategic Report

Corporate Governance Report

Burberryplc.com

a. Long-term results – the likely consequences of any decision in the long term

Business Model 

Chair’s Letter 
Chief Executive Officer’s 

Letter
Capital Allocation  

Framework
Investment Case
Key Performance 

page 12

page 3

Report of the  

Audit Committee

page 190

page 7

page 47
page 14

Indicators
Risk and Viability Report

page 30
page 118

b. Our workforce – the interests of the Group’s employees

Business Model

page 12

Purpose
Operational Risks

page 5
page 131

Environmental and Social 

Responsibility

page 50

Chair’s Introduction
Division of 

Responsibilities
Directors’ Remuneration  

Report
Directors’ Remuneration 

Policy 
Report of the Audit  

page 155

Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Report
Environment and 

page 173

Social Responsibility

page 200

page 212

Committee

page 190

c. Our business relationships – the importance of developing the Group’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others

Business Model
Environmental and Social 

page 12

Responsibility
Stakeholder Engagement

page 50
page 112

116

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Board Engagement

Strategic Report

Corporate Governance Report

Burberryplc.com

d. Communities and the environment – the impact of the Group’s operations on our communities and the environment

Environmental and Social 

Responsibility
Climate Change Risks
Task Force on  

Climate-related Financial  

Disclosures 
Communities

page 50
page 128

page 94
page 82

Responsibility

e. Our reputation/our desire to maintain our reputation for high standards of business conduct

Environmental and Social 

Responsibility
Planet

Human Rights Statement
Compliance Risks
Non-Financial 

Information and 

page 50
page 56

page 78
page 143

Sustainability Statement

page 48

Board Roles
Other Governance  

Disclosures and Tax  

page 174

Transparency in Supply Chain and 

Modern Slavery Statement

Governance Framework

page 172

f. Fairness between our shareholders – our aim is to act fairly as between members of the Company

Stakeholder Engagement

page 112

Engagement with  

Shareholders
Directors’ Remuneration  
Report
Board Roles

page 114

page 200
page 174

117

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Risk and Viability Report

Risk and Viability Report

Risk management at Burberry supports value creation and protects existing 
value. Our approach is to understand external and internal risks to Burberry, 
quantify the value at risk, implement and monitor controls, and maintain 
governance processes. This approach allows us to make informed decisions  
about which risks to prioritise and the controls necessary to mitigate and 
manage them. 

Our approach to risk 
Comprehensive risk management is essential to 

effective decision making in executing our strategy 
and delivering sustainable financial, environmental, 

The Group Risk team (Group Risk) comprises risk 

management, risk analytics, business continuity and 

insurance. This team assesses and prioritises risks to 
determine mitigating actions and to secure a more 

social and reputational value. We identify risks to our 

resilient organisation. Group Risk also promotes 

strategic objectives and support the implementation 

agility, by highlighting areas of control, which require 

of mitigations to manage those risks within our 

appetite. Risk assessments are formally updated, 

documented and approved at least twice a year.

The Board is ultimately responsible for determining 

the nature and extent of the principal risks that 

impact our ability to achieve our strategic objectives 

further investment, and supports the Group’s 

incident response to urgent emerging challenges. 

The Group Incident Management team is a senior 

multi-disciplinary team established to manage global 

incidents with significant impact on our business and 

is chaired by our CEO. 

(the Group risk appetite), and challenging 

Risk management activities are reviewed by Internal 

management’s development and implementation of 

Audit and other control functions, which provide 

effective systems of risk identification, assessment 

assurance to the Risk Committee, Audit Committee, 

and mitigation. The Board has delegated the 

and Board, as described on page 145. In FY 2022/23, 

responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the 

we further developed our in-house predictive 

Group’s internal controls and risk management 

arrangements to the Audit Committee. Ongoing 

review of these controls is provided through the  

Risk and Ethics Committees and supporting internal 

governance processes. 

modelling capabilities, which helped inform Board 

discussions in October 2022 and March 2023. 

118

Burberry 2022/23Strategic Report | Risk and Viability Report

Risk Management Approach

External risks 
Risks that could impact  

Burberry’s ambitions and objectives

Key milestones
Understand key milestones  

in Burberry’s strategy

Internal risks
Identify internal risks to 

key milestones

Controls
Identify investments required  

to manage risk exposure to  

within risk tolerance

Audit
Provide assurance over  

the previous steps

Risk appetite 
We seek to protect the long-term value and 

reputation of our brand, maximising commercial 

benefits to support responsible and sustainable 

growth within a defined risk tolerance. 

We accept some risk in pursuit of growth through 

brand elevation commensurate with our position in 

luxury fashion. 

We approve capital investment in strategic projects 

and accept a moderate to high level of risk in our 

dynamic pursuit of profitable growth through our 

creativity and innovation, balancing a reasonable 

return on capital with a proportionate level of 

commercial risk within the approved Capital 

Allocation Framework. 

Complying with applicable laws and regulations and 

doing the right thing are part of our culture and 

underpin our strategic ambition. In evaluating risks 

and opportunities, we prioritise the interests and 

safety of our customers and our people. 

Our principal risks 
The Board considers principal risks to be the most 

significant risks faced by the Group, including those 

most material to our performance and those which 

could threaten our business model or the future 

long-term solvency or liquidity of Burberry. The Risk 

Committee, Audit Committee and Board approve the 

risk positions, movements and outlooks for each of 

the principal risks at least twice a year. Where any 

risks are outside of tolerance, we put additional plans 

in place to mitigate the risk exposure within a 

reasonable timeframe. The principal risks do not 

comprise all the risks associated with our business 

and are not set out in priority order in the Annual 

Report. We conduct horizon scanning to identify 

additional risks not known to management, or 

currently deemed to be less material, which may also 

have an adverse effect on our business. 

Our risk framework is structured using the following 

categories of risk: External, Strategic, Operational 

and Compliance. Each principal risk is linked to one of 

these categories and may impact one or more of our 

strategic priorities. Climate change has been included 

in our strategic risk category for FY 2022/23.

119

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement

Board Leadership and Company Purpose 

Chair’s Introduction 

Board of Directors

Executive Committee 

Corporate Governance Report 

Monitoring our Corporate Culture

Principal Areas of Focus for the Board During FY 2022/23 

Division of Responsibilities

Governance Structure and Division of Responsibilities 

Composition, Succession and Evaluation 

Board Evaluation 

Report of the Nomination Committee 

Audit, Risk and Internal Control 

Report of the Audit Committee 

Remuneration 

Directors’ Remuneration Report 

Directors’ Report 

155

157

163

164

166

168

173

179

182

190

200

246

153

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Chair’s Introduction

Gerry Murphy 

Chair 

154

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Chair’s Introduction

Chair’s Introduction

“Burberry’s long-term success depends on our 
values and strong culture, underpinned by 
robust governance.”

Dear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the 

year ended 1 April 2023. This report describes Burberry’s corporate governance framework 

and procedures and summarises the work of the Board and its Committees to illustrate how 

we have discharged our responsibilities this year.

Burberry’s long-term success depends on our values and strong culture, underpinned by 

robust governance. This report sets out how our governance processes support Burberry’s 

long-term success and the Board’s role in overseeing the implementation of strategy and 

monitoring of the Group’s culture. We explain the various ways in which we engage with our 

key stakeholders to assess whether Burberry’s culture is embedded across the business and 

is reflected in the way we do business and in our dealings with stakeholders.

During the year, the Board has overseen the development of the sustainability strategy  

under the banner Burberry Beyond. The Board has taken time, with a dedicated session in 

May 2022 led by the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, to discuss Burberry’s 

sustainability performance, strategic evolution and key focus areas. Other areas of Board 

focus are detailed on pages 168 to 171.

It is just over a year since Jonathan Akeroyd joined Burberry as CEO. I have welcomed the 

wealth of experience and insight he brings to the Board and his energy and commitment to 

drive important changes within Burberry.

Board changes during FY 2022/23
Julie Brown stepped down from the Board as CO&FO on 1 April 2023 after more than six years 

at Burberry. During her tenure, Julie played a key role in Burberry’s transformation and built a 

strong financial base for the next chapter of growth. On behalf of the Board, I would like to 

thank Julie and wish her the best in her future endeavours.

Following a recruitment process led by the Nomination Committee, we appointed Kate Ferry 

as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Kate will join Burberry on 17 July 2023 and, in the interim, 

Ian Brimicombe has been appointed as Interim Chief Financial Officer from 2 April 2023.  

Ian is exceptionally qualified to lead our financial strategy during this transition period,  

having played a central role in steering our financial strategy over the past six years.

155

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Chair’s Introduction

We also welcomed Alan Stewart who was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2022. 

More information on the recruitment process for Kate and on Alan’s induction programme 

can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 186 and 187.

There were further changes to the Committees during the year. Orna NíChionna was 

appointed as Senior Independent Director on 2 April 2022. Danuta Gray succeeded Orna as 

Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2022. As announced on 5 August 2022, 

Matthew Key will retire as a Non-Executive Director following the Annual General Meeting 

(AGM) in July 2023 having served on the Board for just over nine years. Following Matthew’s 

retirement, Alan Stewart will be appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee.

Board effectiveness
This year the Board undertook an internal performance review. An explanation of the process 
undertaken and the findings of the review can be found on pages 179 to 181, together with an 

update on our progress in addressing the actions identified following the FY 2021/22 review. 

My role as Chair includes ensuring that the Board operates effectively within an environment 

of openness and inclusivity and that all Board members contribute to the fullest extent, so 

that we make the most of their diverse skills and experience. We ensure that new Board 

members receive everything they need to contribute fully as soon as possible and I review the 

performance of individual Board members with a view to ensuring the optimum functioning of 

the Board. 

Following the 2022 AGM we contacted shareholders who had voted against the re-election of 

Antoine de Saint-Affrique to understand their concerns. We explain on page 184 why we 

believe that Antoine continues to be an effective and valuable member of the Board and the 

actions taken to understand shareholder concerns since the 2022 AGM.

Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Burberry Directors’ Remuneration Policy was last approved by shareholders in 2020  

and shareholders will be asked to renew that approval at the 2023 AGM in line with the 

Companies Act 2006 which requires shareholder approval at least every three years.  

As set out in the letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, which introduces  

the Directors’ Remuneration Report commencing on page 200 of this Annual Report, 

the Committee is not recommending any material changes to the Policy. When considering 

changes to Executive Director remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into 

account the experience of the wider workforce and has been particularly mindful of the  

impact of the cost-of-living crisis on colleagues, particularly those in lower-paid roles.

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Burberry complied with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 

FY 2022/23 with the exception of Provision 38, which refers to Executive Directors’ pensions 

compared to the wider workforce. Full compliance with Provision 38 was confirmed with 

effect from 1 January 2023 when the pension contribution levels for our CO&FO were aligned 

with the maximum rate available to the majority of our UK workforce.

Gerry Murphy 
Chair

156

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Board of Directors

As a Board we have collective responsibility for the long-term success of 
Burberry and are accountable to Burberry’s stakeholders.

Dr Gerry Murphy (67)
Chair

Appointed as Chair: 

12 July 2018

Appointed to the Board: 

17 May 2018 
Nationality: Irish 
Committees:  N  
Board skills  

Jonathan Akeroyd (56)
Chief Executive Officer

Appointed: 15 March 2022  

Nationality: British 

Board skills  

Key skills and experience
Gerry brings to the Board experience of managing 

Key skills and experience
Jonathan is an experienced leader with a strong track 

business transformations and has substantial 

record of building luxury brands and driving profitable 

international and senior management experience. 

growth. He has extensive experience across the 

With his in-depth understanding of UK corporate 

fashion and luxury goods sector, with a focus on 

governance requirements and his extensive 

brand and product elevation, strategic development, 

experience in the retail sector, Gerry provides the 

digital and global expansion. He shares our values and 

Board with highly relevant and valuable leadership as 

our ambition to build on Burberry’s unique British 

Burberry continues to focus on delivering long-term 

creative heritage, and his deep expertise and strong 

sustainable value for all our stakeholders.

leadership will be pivotal in advancing the next phase 

of Burberry’s evolution.

Previous Appointments
•  CEO of Gianni Versace SpA

•  President and CEO of Alexander McQueen

•  Harrods: various senior retail roles including 

Executive Merchandise Director and Director, 

Menswear, Sports and Childrenswear

Current Appointments
•  Chair, Tate & Lyle plc

•  Trustee, The Burberry Foundation

Previous Appointments
•  Non-Executive Director: British American Tobacco 

plc, Merlin Entertainments plc, Reckitt Benckiser 

plc, Abbey National plc and Novar plc

•  CEO: Kingfisher plc, Carlton Communications plc 

(now ITV), Exel plc and Greencore Group plc

•  Chair: The Blackstone Group International  

and partner in the firms’s private equity 

investment unit

Committee key 

 Chair

R  Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination Committee

A  Audit Committee

Skills key 

 Operational excellence

 Digital and media

 Retail, sales and marketing

 Luxury brands

 Environment / Sustainability

 Financial expertise

157

Burberry 2022/23 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Orna NíChionna (67)
Senior Independent 

Director 

Fabiola Arredondo (56)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director

Appointed: 3 January 2018  

Appointed: 10 March 2015  

Nationality: Irish 

Committees:  R   N  

Board skills  

Nationality: American 
Committees:  R   N  
Board skills  

Key skills and experience
Orna has strong UK plc and international business 

Key skills and experience
Fabiola built and led a major division of Yahoo! Inc. 

experience especially in the consumer and retail 

and brings relevant international, strategic and 

markets. She also brings to the Board significant 

operational experience in the internet and media 

strategic, financial and governance experience. 

sectors. Through her deep engagement at the 

Orna is a committed environmentalist and was Chair 

World Wildlife Fund, Fabiola also has considerable 

of the Soil Association (which campaigns for more 

experience overseeing sustainability initiatives. 

environmentally-friendly food and farming) for six 

Her digital and consumer background, coupled  

years. Her passion for the environment is an asset to 

with her extensive international Non-Executive 

Burberry as we continue to drive positive change and 

Directorship experience, make Fabiola an important 

build a more sustainable future through our ongoing 

member of the Board. 

Environmental and Social Responsibility agenda.

Current Appointments 
•  Trustee, Institute for Fiscal Studies 

Current Appointments
•  Non-Executive Director: Campbell Soup Company 

and Fair Isaac Corporation

•  Trustee and Chair designate, The Eden Trust

•  National Council Member, World Wildlife Fund 

Previous Appointments 
•  Senior Independent Director: Saga plc and 

Royal Mail

•  Non-Executive Director: Bupa, HMV, Northern 

Foods and Bank of Ireland UK

•  Interim Chair, The National Trust 

•  Chair, Founders Intelligence

•  Partner, McKinsey & Company and co-lead of its 

European Retail Practice

for Nature

•  Member, Council on Foreign Relations

•  Board Member, FINRA Board of Governors

•  Managing Partner, Siempre Holdings

Previous Appointments
•  Non-Executive Director: Experian plc, BOC Group 

plc (now Linde Group), Saks Incorporated (now 

Hudson’s Bay Company), Bankinter S.A., National 

Public Radio, Rodale Inc., Intelsat Inc., Sesame 

Workshop and the World Wildlife Fund UK and USA

•  Senior executive roles at Yahoo! Inc., the BBC and 

Bertelsmann AG

Committee key 

 Chair

R  Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination Committee

A  Audit Committee

Skills key 

 Operational excellence

 Digital and media

 Retail, sales and marketing

 Luxury brands

 Environment / Sustainability

 Financial expertise

158

Burberry 2022/23 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Sam Fischer (55)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director 

Ron Frasch (74)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director

Appointed: 1 November 2019 

Appointed: 1 September 2017  

Nationality: Australian 

Committees:  R   N  

Board skills  

Nationality: American 
Committees:  A   R   N  
Board skills 

Key skills and experience
Sam has a wealth of global leadership experience, 

Key skills and experience
Ron has spent over 30 years working in the retail 

including leading iconic heritage premium brands 

industry. He has clear strategic acumen, strong 

from across the lifestyle and consumer sectors. 

leadership skills and wide-ranging experience of 

He has a strong track record in driving business 

working with luxury fashion brands. While working  

growth and a deep understanding of key Asian 

at Saks, he was the instrumental driving force behind 

markets, which is a tremendous asset to Burberry  

developing the company’s private-label collections. 

as we continue to engage our communities in the 

Ron’s wealth of fashion experience and his  

region with innovative products and culturally 

well-established merchandising skills will continue  

relevant experiences.

Current Appointments 
•  CEO, Lion Group 

to play a pivotal role as Burberry continues to  

grow and we strengthen our performance in the 

luxury fashion market.

Previous Appointments 
•  Senior executive roles at Diageo plc, including 

President, Asia Pacific and Global Travel, Executive 

Current Appointments
•  CEO, Ron Frasch Associates LLC

•  Non-Executive Director, Crocs Inc.

Committee member, Managing Director for 

Greater China and Managing Director for 

Previous Appointments
•  Non-Executive Director, MacKenzie Childs and 

South East Asia

Aztech Mountain

•  Various commercial and general management roles 

•  President and Vice Chairman, Saks Fifth Avenue Inc.

at Colgate-Palmolive, including Managing Director 

•  President and CEO, Bergdorf Goodman 

for Central Europe

•  President of the Americas for an Italian licensing 

company of luxury fashion brands

Committee key 

 Chair

R  Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination Committee

A  Audit Committee

Skills key 

 Operational excellence

 Digital and media

 Retail, sales and marketing

 Luxury brands

 Environment / Sustainability

 Financial expertise

159

Burberry 2022/23 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Danuta Gray (64)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director

Matthew Key (60)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director

Appointed: 1 December 2021  

Appointed: 1 September 2013 

Nationality: British 

Committees:  R   N  

Board skills  

Nationality: British 
Committees:  A   R   N  
Board skills  

Key skills and experience
Danuta is a highly experienced Non-Executive 

Key skills and experience
Matthew has significant strategic, regulatory and 

Director and Chair with a strong understanding of 

operational experience in the e-commerce and 

consumers, technology, sales and marketing within 

technology sectors. He brings a wealth of experience 

the UK and international business markets gained 

of managing dynamic and fast-moving international 

through her executive career. Her extensive UK plc 

companies and has an extensive understanding of the 

board experience and deep understanding of UK 

consumer market. Matthew is a qualified chartered 

governance requirements make her a strong asset  

accountant and his deep financial knowledge and 

to our Board.

Current Appointments 
•  Chair, Direct Line Insurance Group PLC

•  Board member, Employ Autism Development 

•  Chair, North SP Limited

Previous Appointments 
•  Chair, St Modwen Property plc

•  Senior Independent Director, Aldermore Bank plc

•  Non-Executive Director and Remuneration 

Committee Chair, Old Mutual plc and Page 

Group plc

•  Non-Executive Director, Paddy Power plc, Aer 

Lingus plc and UK Ministry of Defence

•  CEO, Telefónica O2 and Executive Director, 

Telefónica Europe plc

expertise are important to the Board, as reflected in 

his appointment as Chair of the Audit Committee. 

Matthew qualified as a chartered accountant with 

Arthur Young (now EY). 

Current Appointments
•  Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit and 

Risk Committee, BT Group plc

Previous Appointments
•  Chair and CEO, Telefónica Europe plc and 

Telefónica Digital

•  Member, Advisory Board of Samsung Europe

•  Executive positions included various financial roles 
at Grand Metropolitan plc (now part of Diageo plc), 

Kingfisher plc, Coca-Cola and Schweppes

Committee key 

 Chair

R  Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination Committee

A  Audit Committee

Skills key 

 Operational excellence

 Digital and media

 Retail, sales and marketing

 Luxury brands

 Environment / Sustainability

 Financial expertise

160

Burberry 2022/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Debra Lee (68)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director

Appointed: 1 October 2019 

Nationality: American 

Committees:  A   N  

Board skills  

Antoine de Saint-
Affrique (58)
Independent Non-Executive 

Director 

Appointed: 1 January 2021  

Nationality: French 
Committees:  A   N  
Board skills  

Key skills and experience
Debra is one of the most influential female voices  

Key skills and experience
Antoine has a wealth of experience in the consumer 

in the entertainment industry and has a deep 

sector, having led a number of global brands 

understanding of the American consumer and culture. 

throughout his career. As CEO of Barry Callebaut, 

She is the former Chairman and CEO of Black 

Antoine put sustainability at the heart of the 

Entertainment Television, which under her leadership 

company’s strategy, setting ambitious targets that 

became the largest global provider of entertainment 

addressed the most pertinent challenges in the 

for the African-American audience and consumers 

chocolate supply chain. His strong understanding of 

of black culture. Debra is a passionate advocate of 

sustainability and of the consumer market makes him 

women and people from ethnically-diverse backgrounds.

a valued asset to our Board as we continue to focus 

on positively impacting the environment and 

Current Appointments 
•  CEO and founder, Leading Women Defined, Inc.

our communities.

•  Non-Executive Director, Warner Bros. Discovery, 

Inc., Marriott International, Inc. and The Proctor & 

Current Appointments 
•  CEO and Director, Danone

Gamble Company

•  Non-Executive Director, Barry Callebaut

Previous Appointments 
•  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Black 

Previous Appointments 
•  CEO, Barry Callebaut

Entertainment Television LLC 

•  President, Unilever Foods and member of the 

•  Non-Executive Director, Twitter, Inc. and AT&T Inc.

Group Executive Committee at Unilever plc

•  Attorney, Steptoe & Johnson

•  Non-Executive Director, Essilor International

Committee key 

 Chair

R  Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination Committee

A  Audit Committee

Skills key 

 Operational excellence

 Digital and media

 Retail, sales and marketing

 Luxury brands

 Environment / Sustainability

 Financial expertise

161

Burberry 2022/23 
 
  
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Alan Stewart (63)
Independent Non-

Executive Director 

Appointed: 1 September 

2022  

Nationality: British  
Committees:  A   N  
Board skills  

Key skills and experience
Alan has a wealth of corporate finance and 

accounting experience gained from a variety of 

industries, including retail and leisure. He has 

considerable executive leadership experience, 

including various Chief Financial Officer positions 

within top FTSE organisations. Alan is currently a 

member of Chapter Zero, a community of non-

executive directors committed to achieving net-zero 

targets, and was a founding member of the 

Accounting 4 Sustainability CFO network. His keen 

interest in sustainability is important to the Board in 

driving forward Burberry’s climate change strategy. 

Alan qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte. 

Current Appointments 
•  Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit 

Committee, Diageo plc 

Gemma Parsons
Company Secretary

Appointed: 1 October 2018 

Nationality: British

Experience

Current Appointment 
•  Fellow of the Chartered Governance Institute and 

has more than 25 years’ company secretarial 

experience

•  Member of the Chartered Governance Institute’s 

Company Secretaries’ Forum and of the 

Association of General Counsel and Company 

Secretaries of FTSE 100 companies

Previous Appointments
•  Company Secretary of The Berkeley Group 

Holdings plc

•  Deputy Company Secretary of Smith & Nephew plc

•  Deputy Company Secretary of TSB Banking 

Group plc 

•  Non-Executive Director and Chair of Remuneration 

Committee, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 

Directors whose tenure ceased during FY 2022/23
•  Julie Brown stepped down as CO&FO on 1 April 2023

Previous Appointments 
•  Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee 

Chair, Games Workshop Group 

•  Chief Financial Officer, Tesco PLC

•  Chief Financial Officer, Marks & Spencer PLC

Committee key 

 Chair

R  Remuneration Committee

N  Nomination Committee

A  Audit Committee

Skills key 

 Operational excellence

 Digital and media

 Retail, sales and marketing

 Luxury brands

 Environment / Sustainability

 Financial expertise

162

Burberry 2022/23 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Executive Committee

Jonathan Akeroyd
Chief Executive Officer

Ian Brimicombe 
Interim Chief Financial Officer

Giorgio Belloli 
Chief Digital, Customer  

and Innovation Officer

Klaus Bierbrauer 
Chief Supply Chain and 

Industrial Officer

Leonie Brantberg
Chief of Staff, Strategy  

and Growth Projects 

Gianluca Flore
Chief Commercial Officer

Rod Manley
Chief Marketing Officer

Mark McClennon
Chief Information Officer

Edward Rash
General Counsel

Delphine Sonder 
Chief Merchandising Officer 

Melissa Johnston
Chief Visual Officer 

Changes to the Executive Committee since FY 2021/22
•  Delphine Sonder joined the committee on 9 January 2023

•  Julie Brown was a member of the committee until 1 April 2023 

•  Giorgio Belloli joined the committee on 10 January 2023

•  Ian Brimicombe joined the committee on 2 April 2023

•  Adrian Ward-Rees was a member of the committee until 16 January 2023

•  Klaus Bierbrauer joined the committee on 3 April 2023

•  Erica Bourne was a member of the committee until 24 January 2023

•  Jérôme Le Bleis was a member of the committee until 14 April 2023 

•  CP Duggal was a member of the committee until 31 January 2023

•  Melissa Johnston joined the committee on 11 May 2023

163

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report

UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 

Directors’ pensions compared to the wider workforce. 

The pension contribution level for our former CO&FO 

sets out the framework of governance for premium 

was aligned with the maximum employer pension 

listed companies within the UK. The Code is published 

contribution rate available to the majority of our UK 

by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and can be 

found on its website frc.org.uk. As a premium listed 

workforce with effect from 1 January 2023 and we have 

complied with Provision 38 since that date. Under the 

company, we describe Burberry’s corporate governance 

Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 

from two points of view: the first dealing generally with 

2020 AGM, pension contribution levels for new Executive 

the application of the Code’s main principles, and the 

second dealing specifically with non-compliance with 

Directors align with the maximum employer pension 

contribution rate available to the majority of the UK 

any of the Code’s provisions.

Together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 200 to 245, this report sets out the Board’s 

approach to governance and the work undertaken 

during FY 2022/23. We have complied with the 

provisions of the Code during FY 2022/23 with the 

workforce and this applies to our CEO and our new CFO, 

who will join Burberry on 17 July 2023. 

Further information on how the Company has applied the 

principles of the Code is set out in this Corporate 

Governance Statement. Key highlights of the Company’s 

compliance with the Code along with cross references to 

exception of Provision 38, which refers to the Executive 

other sections of the Annual Report are detailed below.

How we apply the principles of the Code

Board leadership and company purpose

Audit, risk and internal control

Pages

Pages

155 to 156

Auditor independence and effectiveness 

196 to 197

Chair’s Introduction

Strategic Report

The role of the Board

Purpose and culture

3 to 151

174 to 178

166 to 172

of the audit

Principal and emerging risks 

Risk management activities

Stakeholder and workforce engagement

112 to 117

Fair, balanced and understandable 

Division of responsibilities

Board composition

176 and 188

Role of the Chair, Senior Independent 

176 to 177

Director, Non-Executive Directors and 

Company Secretary 

assessment

Viability Statement

Remuneration

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

118 to 144

145 to 148

199

149 to 151

200 to 245

212 to 225

Time commitment, external 

178 and 188

Engagement with stakeholders 

206 and 225

appointments, independence and tenure

on remuneration

Composition, succession and evaluation

Appointment to the Board and 

182 to 189

succession planning

Skills, experience and knowledge of 

182

the Board

Board diversity

Board evaluation

187 to 189

179 to 181

164

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Corporate Governance Report

Governance structure and division 
of responsibilities
The Board (supported by its Committees) is collectively 

responsible for how Burberry is directed and 

controlled. Its responsibilities include:

•  Promoting Burberry’s long-term success

•  Setting its strategic aims and values

•  Supporting leadership in delivering strategy

•  Supervising and constructively challenging 

leadership on the operational running of 

the business

•  Ensuring a framework of prudent and 

effective controls

•  Reporting to shareholders on the 

Board’s stewardship

More information on the Company’s governance 

structure can be found on page 173.

Environmental, Social and Governance
Sustainability is an essential element of Burberry’s 

strategy for which the Board is responsible. 

Accordingly, the Board is also responsible for 

ensuring its approach to sustainability is integrated 

into and implemented across the business, reflecting 

the increasing importance of these topics to the 

Group and society as a whole. The governance 

framework of committees and advisory forums (as 

shown in the diagram on page 173) provides regular 

updates and key information to the Board, to ensure 

that it is able to make informed decisions. 

Sustainability is embedded into the remit of the 

committees where appropriate.

For more information on the Group’s Environmental, 

Social and Governance priorities see pages 50 to 93.

Stakeholder engagement
As highlighted by the Code, the Board recognises the 

The Board has chosen to engage with the workforce 

through the formally-constituted Global Workforce 

Advisory Forum which is one of the methods set out 

in Code Provision 5. The Board uses additional ways 

to understand employee views including the employee 

engagement survey and site visits. During the year, 

the Board visited Italy and had the opportunity to 

tour our manufacturing facility and speak to colleagues.

Our Investor Relations team met with over 280 

investors during the financial year. Our Chair, the 

Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Executive 

Directors and other members of senior management 
met with over 60 investors. This engagement 

included presentations to institutional shareholders 

and analysts following the release of the Group’s 

half- and full-year results (available on the Group’s 

website Burberryplc.com), as well as meetings with 

the Group’s 20 largest investors. Topics discussed in 

investor meetings included Jonathan Akeroyd’s 

strategy, Daniel Lee’s appointment and first show, 

regional performance and management changes. 

The team also arranged specific ESG engagements 

with analysts. 

At the 2022 AGM, all resolutions were passed 

although the Company received more than 20% of 

votes against the re-appointment of Antoine de 

Saint-Affrique as a Non-Executive Director of the 

Company. The Board acknowledges the outcome of 

the vote and has actively engaged with significant 

shareholders to understand their concerns. Further 

details can be found on page 184. 

At the 2023 AGM, the Company will be seeking 

approval of its Directors’ Remuneration Policy. In 

developing the policy the Chair of the Remuneration 

Committee has engaged with our major shareholders 

and key proxy bodies.

Our Investor Relations and Company Secretariat 

importance of identifying its key stakeholders and 

departments act as the centre for ongoing 

understanding their perspectives and values. Through 

communication with shareholders, investors and 

regular dialogue and communication, the Board is 

mindful of all of Burberry’s stakeholders when 

analysts. The Board receives regular updates about 

the views of the Group’s major shareholders and 

planning or making decisions of strategic significance.

stakeholders from these departments as well as via 

direct contact.

Further information on how the Board has engaged 

with its key stakeholder groups can be found on 

pages 112 to 117.

165

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Monitoring our Corporate Culture

In FY 2022/23, we continued to build on Burberry’s Leadership Standards, using 
our organisation’s purpose and values as a common framework for how we 
operate and the expectations we have of our colleagues. As a Board, we 
recognise the vital role of ensuring that Burberry’s workplace culture is aligned 
with our purpose, values and strategy. We are equally cognisant of the 
opportunities created when our colleagues bring this purpose to life.

How we measure culture
The Board has continued its programme of day-to-

day interactions with Burberry colleagues, through 
site and store visits. Our Global Workforce Advisory 

To provide additional insight into Burberry’s 

workplace culture, we ran a Company-wide culture 

survey in March 2023. It focused on our colleagues’ 
experience, views on our progress, and how we can 

Forum (the Forum) has also created opportunities for 

continue to create a working environment where our 

meaningful discussions with colleague 

representatives. The Forum brings together 

colleagues can do their best work. We measure our 

progress on culture by tracking against six key 

colleague representatives to meet with members of 

cultural measures using insights gathered through 

the Board to discuss key topics. 

In FY 2022/23, the Forum met three times and 

discussed reward and benefits, sustainability, 

colleagues’ views and sentiment on our purpose 

listening sessions, colleague surveys and our people 

data on attrition, learning and wellbeing.

With the aim of supporting a culture where our 

colleagues can thrive, we embedded our Leadership 

statement ‘Creativity Opens Spaces’ and colleagues’ 

Standards into our culture by directly linking our 

expectations and hopes for Burberry’s new Chief 

assessment of performance and reward to them. For 

Creative Officer. The Forum is chaired by our Chief 

the first time, all colleagues have been formally 

People Officer with each meeting attended by our 

Chair and one other Non-Executive Director. The 

Forum has proportionate representation from all 

assessed in two parts: equally weighting “what” they 

have achieved and “how” they have achieved this, 

demonstrating the importance of being guided by our 

areas of our business and the countries and 

purpose and values in all we do.

territories in which we operate.

166

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Our cultural indicators

Measure

Purpose

Description

Creativity Opens Spaces and guides our interactions with each other, our customers  

and communities.

Collaboration

We listen, work well together and support each other to get things done.

Learning

Humanity

Execution

Integrity

We incorporate learning on critical topics into our work to remain safe and secure.

We create safe environments for colleagues at work and care about their  

health and wellbeing.

We move quickly and reliably and create great experiences for our customers.

We are fair and objective when dealing with colleague behaviour and create psychological  

safety for colleagues to speak up.

Our culture survey tells us what our colleagues feel it 

is like to work at Burberry. The overall results from 

our FY 2022/23 survey provided another positive 

response from our colleagues, with strong 

engagement, an increasing belief that we have the 

right culture to be successful in the future and faith 

that we demonstrate our values at work.

Culture survey scores

75 points

People at Burberry make decisions  
with the customer in mind
February 2022: 76 points

76 points

I would recommend Burberry as a  
great place to work
February 2022: 75 points

74 points

Burberry has the right culture to be  
successful in the future
February 2022: 72 points

76 points

Burberry is innovative
February 2022: 74 points

167

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Principal Areas of Focus for the 
Board During FY 2022/23

The table below gives details of Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings during the year ended 1 April 2023. This is expressed as the number of 
meetings attended out of the number that each Director was eligible to attend.

Gerry Murphy
Jonathan Akeroyd
Julie Brown1 
Orna NíChionna
Fabiola Arredondo
Sam Fischer2
Ron Frasch
Danuta Gray3
Matthew Key
Debra Lee4
Antoine de Saint-Affrique
Alan Stewart5

Board

Audit 

Nomination

Remuneration

8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
7/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
4/4

–
–
–
–
–
–
4/4
–
4/4
3/4
4/4
3/3

3/3
–
–
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/2

–
–
–
5/5
5/5
4/5
5/5
5/5
5/5
–
–
–

1.  Julie Brown stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2023.

2.  Sam Fischer was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting which was convened at short notice.

3.  Danuta Gray was unable to attend one Board meeting which was convened at short notice.

4.  Debra Lee was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting due to an unavoidable diary clash.

5.  Alan Stewart joined the Board on 1 September 2022.

The Board held six scheduled meetings during the 

The Board and Committee agendas were shaped to 

financial year, including an in-depth strategy session 

ensure that discussion was focused on our key 

in Italy where Directors visited suppliers, as well as 

strategies and responsibilities, as well as reviews of 

manufacturing and retail operations. Two additional 

significant issues arising during the year, such as 

meetings were called at short notice. If any Directors 

changing macro economic and geo-politcal conditions. 

are unable to attend a meeting they are given 

The Group’s ongoing performance against strategic 

the opportunity to provide feedback in advance 

priorities is reviewed at each scheduled meeting.

of the meeting.

At each Board meeting, the Chair and Non-Executive 

Directors held a closed session without management 

present. In addition, the Board met informally on a 

number of occasions to receive business updates and 

in connection with the resignation of Julie Brown as 

the CO&FO and appointment of the new Chief 

Creative Officer and new CFO. Throughout the year, 

Directors also devoted time to meeting with investors 

and interviewing candidates for both executive and 

non-executive roles. In addition, Directors undertook 

store and site visits and attended our fashion shows, 

town halls, brand events and meetings of the Global 

Workforce Advisory Forum.

168

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Decision for the proposed acquisition of Pattern SpA

On 28 March 2023, the Company announced it had 

•  Customer and shareholders: opportunity to grow 

entered into an agreement to acquire a business from 

outerwear category

long-term supplier Pattern SpA which is expected to 

•  Shareholders: rigorous commercial and financial 

complete later in the year. In considering the 

evaluation to analyse return on investment

transaction, the Board identified and assessed the 

impact on stakeholders as part of its decision-making 

process. Some of those considerations were as follows:

•  Sustainability: opportunity to further embed 

sustainability in the value chain

•  People: additional skills brought in house as a result 

of staff transfers to Burberry

•  Partners: determined that there would be minimal 

impact on our supply chain partners at this point in 

time

Principal areas of focus for the Board during FY 2022/23

Topic

Activity

Outcome

Relevant stakeholders and s.172  
duties considered

Strategy

Strategic review

•  Reviewing strategy to take 

•  Providing feedback, 

Relevant stakeholders:

stock of progress and prioritise 

questions and challenge 

Customers; shareholders; people; 

areas of focus within the 

throughout the process

partners; communities

long-term strategic plan

•  Supporting the 

•  Considering market trends 

programmes undertaken

and assessing their implications 

on areas of strategic focus

s.172 duties:

Long-term results; workforce; 

environment; reputation; and 

business relationships

Performance

•  Reviewing regional updates

•  Providing feedback and 

Relevant stakeholders:

asking questions

Customers, shareholders, people, 
partners, communities

s.172 duties:

long-term results; workforce; 

reputation; and business 

relationships

169

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Topic

Activity

Outcome

Relevant stakeholders and s.172  
duties considered

Shareholder engagement

Shareholder 

•  Reviewing updates from the 

•  Inclusion of shareholder 

Relevant stakeholders:

feedback, 

Investor Relations team on share 

themes within the Board’s 

including activist 

price performance, register 

strategic and/or other 

themes

activity and analyst sentiment

considerations

Shareholders

s.172 duties:

•  Discussing specific issues 

raised by shareholders, 

including the re-election of 

Antoine de Saint-Affrique

•  Engaging with major 

shareholders and key proxy 

bodies on the proposed 

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Long-term results; workforce; 

environment; reputation; and 

business relationships

Finance

Budget and 

•  Approving the FY 2022/23 

•  ‘In principle’ support for the 

Relevant stakeholders:

capital allocation

budget

FY 2023/24 budget

Customers; shareholders; people

•  Scrutinising financial 

•  Prior year (March and May 

performance

2022) budget delivered

•  Considering capital structure, 

•  Approval of a £400 million 

distributions and liquidity 

share buyback to be 

•  Reviewing the quarterly 

implemented in FY 2022/23

financial results

•  Approval of the payment of 

•  Reviewing FY 2023/24 budget 

a final dividend for 

scenarios and three-year 

forward plan

•  Reviewing and approving 

capital expenditure projects

FY 2021/22 and an interim 

dividend for FY 2022/23

s.172 duties:

Long-term results; workforce; and 

fairness between our shareholders

Governance

Monitoring 

•  Reviewing the delivery of key 

•  Support for management’s 

Relevant stakeholders:

culture

areas of focus to embed our 

approach

Customers; shareholders; people; 

purpose and values

•  Greater understanding of 

communities

•  Discussing the results of the 

the views of the workforce 

Colleague Engagement 

to strengthen the colleague 

Surveys, including trends, and 

voice in the Boardroom

receiving feedback following 

Global Workforce Advisory 

Forum meetings

•  Refer to pages 166 to 167 

covering monitoring culture 

for further detail

s.172 duties:

Long-term results; workforce; 

reputation; and business 

relationships

Board evaluation

•  Progress update against 

•  Refer to pages 179 to 181 

Relevant stakeholders:

FY 2022/23 areas of focus

covering Board evaluation 

Customers; shareholders; people

•  Discussing the results of the 

FY 2022/23 Board evaluation 

and reflecting on the 

effectiveness of the Board and 

its Committees

for further detail

170

s.172 duties:

Long-term results; workforce; and 

reputation

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Topic

Risk

Activity

Outcome

Relevant stakeholders and s.172  
duties considered

Risk appetite

•  Considering the Board’s 

•  Approval of the 

Relevant stakeholders: 

appetite for risk 

Group’s risk appetite 

Customers; shareholders; people; 

•  Considering emerging and 

•  Refer to the Risk and 

communities 

principal risks, including 

Viability Report on pages 

changes to the risk profile 

118 to 151 for further detail 

•  Reviewing and approving 

directors’ and officers 

liability provisions

s.172 duties: 

Long-term results; and reputation 

Risk deep dives

•  Reviewing geopolitical 

•  Support for the programme 

Relevant stakeholders: 

market context 

to be undertaken

People; shareholders 

•  Reviewing business continuity, 

cybersecurity, fraud and 

GDPR risks

People, culture and values

s.172 duties: 

Long-term results; and reputation

Diversity, Equity 

•  Discussing the Diversity,  

•  Support for the Diversity, 

Relevant stakeholders: 

and Inclusion

Equity and Inclusion strategy 

Equity and Inclusion 

People; shareholders; communities; 

for FY 2023/24

strategy for FY 2023/24

customers; governments 

•  Holding meetings with the 

Internal Diversity and Inclusion 

Council and the Cultural 

Advisory Council 

s.172 duties: 

Long-term results; workforce; 

environment; reputation; and 

business relationships 

Environmental and 

•  Discussing the Community 

•  Approval in May 2022 to 

Relevant stakeholders: 

Social 

Investment strategy for 

donate 1% of FY 2022/23 

People; shareholders; communities; 

Responsibility

FY 2023/24 

adjusted profit before tax to 

customers; partners; governments 

•  Reviewing and approving 

the Company’s Modern 

social and community 

causes worldwide 

Slavery Statement 

•  Approval of the response to 

•  Considering the proposed 

Environmental, Social and 

the humanitarian crisis 

in Ukraine

Governance priorities 

•  Approval of the response to 

s.172 duties: 

Long-term results; workforce; 

environment; reputation; and 

business relationships

the Turkey-Syria 

earthquake 

•  Reviewing and discussing 

updates on progress towards 

our climate ambition

•  Audit Committee review of 

progress against four TCFD 

pillars and the proposed 

disclosure 

171

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Managing conflicts of interest 
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 

Other governance disclosures 
The Group is committed to acting with integrity and 

2006 to avoid a situation in which they have, or could 

transparency on all tax matters and complying fully 

have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or 

with applicable tax laws, having regard to 

possible conflict of interest with the Company and/or 

international standards and guidance on tax practice 

the Group. 

Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the 

Board has the authority to approve situational 

conflicts of interest. It has adopted procedures  

to manage and, where appropriate, approve 

such conflicts. 

and tax reporting. The Group will only engage in 

responsible tax planning aligned with genuine 

commercial economic activities. We will not use tax 

structures or undertake artificial transactions, the 

sole purpose of which is to create a contrived tax 

result. For example, we do not participate in 

transactions with parties based in tax haven 

Authorisations granted by the Board are recorded by 

jurisdictions when the transactions are not in the 

the Company Secretary in a register and are noted by 

ordinary course of Group trading business or which 

the Board at its next meeting. A review of situational 

could be perceived as artificially transferring value to 

conflicts that have been authorised is undertaken by 

low tax jurisdictions. We are also committed to 

the Board annually.

Following the last review, the Board concluded that 

the potential conflicts had been appropriately 

authorised, that no circumstances existed which 

would necessitate that any prior authorisation be 

revoked or amended and that the authorisation 

process continued to operate effectively.

Productivity 
The Company continues to demonstrate and develop 

improving levels of productivity, owing to strong 

human capital, training and development 

programmes, and focus on elevating the customer 

experience throughout our distribution and retail 

networks. Further information about these aspects 

of the business is provided on pages 20 to 29 

and 68 to 81. 

engaging in open and constructive relationships with 

tax authorities in the territories in which we operate. 

The Group Tax strategy directs our tax planning, 

reporting and compliance activities and is aligned 

with the Group’s strategic objectives. Further 

information regarding the Group Tax strategy is 

provided on Burberryplc.com. 

Tax governance framework 
The CFO is responsible for the Group Tax strategy, 

the effectiveness of tax risk management, tax 

processes and transparency of disclosures. The 

strategy is implemented by the global tax and trade 

compliance teams with the assistance of the finance 

leadership team. Compliance with the Group Tax 

strategy is reviewed on an ongoing basis as part of 

the regular financial planning cycle. The Audit 

Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group 

Tax strategy at least once a year and significant tax 

matters as they arise.

Share capital 
Further information about the Company’s share 

capital, including substantial shareholdings, can be 

found in the Directors’ Report on page 246.

172

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Division of Responsibilities

Governance Structure and Division 
of Responsibilities 

Governance structure for Burberry
The diagram below illustrates our governance structure of Committees and advisory forums and the  

key environmental, social and governance topics within their scope. 

This structure establishes an information flow to the Board, enabling it to make informed decisions.

Burberry Group plc Board

CEO

Nomination 

Committee

Remuneration 

Committee

Audit  

Committee

Global Workforce 

Advisory Forum

Executive 

Committee

Sustainability 

Committee

Risk  

Committee

Group Treasury 

Committee

Ethics  

Committee

Cybersecurity 

Steering Group 

Data Privacy 

TCFD Working 

Group Health and 

Steering 

Committee

Group 

Safety Committee 

Digital Advisory 

Cultural Advisory 

Internal Diversity 

Board

Council 

and Inclusion 

Council

Key:

 Decision-making 

 Advisory

Environmental, Social and 
Governance topics covered:

Environment

Finance and Risk

People

Ethics

Legal/Compliance

Communities

173

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Division of Responsibilities

Roles and responsibilities

Governance

The Board is responsible for promoting Burberry’s long-term success. This is achieved through effective 

governance and keeping the interests of stakeholders at the fore in decision-making. The Board establishes 

the Group’s purpose and values and sets the Group’s strategy, including sustainability and climate goals, 

ensuring alignment with our culture, and overseeing its implementation by management.

The Board is also responsible for oversight of the Group’s governance, internal control and risk management, 

including the Group’s risk appetite. A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision is available in 

the Corporate Governance section of Burberryplc.com.

The Board has established Committees to assist with exercising its authority.

Audit Committee 

Remuneration Committee

Nomination Committee

Chaired by Matthew Key

Chaired by Danuta Gray

Chaired by Gerry Murphy

Monitors the integrity of Financial 

Determines the policy for 

Reviews the composition of 

Statements, including disclosures 

Executive Director remuneration 

the Board, ensuring plans are in 

associated with the TCFD 

and sets the remuneration for the 

place for orderly succession for 

recommendations and reviewing 

Chair, Executive Directors and 

both Board and senior leadership 

the Group’s internal financial 

senior management.

positions, keeping in mind the 

controls and risk management 

systems, the Internal Audit 

function, and the Group’s 

Oversight of wider employee 

reward policies.

importance of diversity in 

all its forms and balancing 

skills and experience when 

relationship with the external 

The Directors’ Remuneration 

making appointments.

auditor. The Audit Committee is 

Report can be read on pages 200 

supported by the Ethics Committee, 

to 245.

the Risk Committee and the Group 

Treasury Committee.

The Audit Committee Report can 

be read on pages 190 to 199.

The Nomination Committee Report 

can be read on pages 182 to 189.

174

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Division of Responsibilities

CEO and Executive Committee

The Board delegates the day-to-day responsibility for running the Group to the CEO, who is responsible  

for all commercial, operational, risk and financial elements of the business. The CEO is also responsible for 

management and development of the strategic direction of the Group for consideration and approval by the 

Board. The Executive Committee assists the CEO in implementing the strategy as approved by the Board.

The Board is responsible for supporting management in its strategic aims, which enable the Company to 

continue to perform successfully and sustainably for our shareholders and wider stakeholders. The Audit 

Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee support the Board in its activities. 

The terms of reference for each of these Committees can be viewed in the Corporate Governance section of 
Burberryplc.com. Pages 173 to 177 outline our governance structure as well as the roles and responsibilities 

within that framework.

The Committees may engage third-party consultants and independent professional advisors. They may also call 

upon other Group resources to assist them in discharging their respective responsibilities. In addition to the 

Committee members and the Company Secretary, external advisors and, on occasion, other Directors and 

members of our senior management team attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chair 

of the relevant Committee.

175

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Division of Responsibilities

Board roles
Our Board currently comprises 11 members: the 

Chair, the CEO, and nine independent Non-Executive 

Directors who are experienced and influential 

individuals, drawn from a wide range of industries and 

backgrounds with the skills to promote the long-term 

sustainable success of the Group. The Board has 

determined that all Non-Executive Directors are 

independent and the Chair was also considered to be 

independent on appointment. Further to the 

resignation of the CO&FO, the Board has appointed 

Kate Ferry as CFO. Kate will join the Company as an 

Executive Director on 17 July 2023. Ian Brimicombe 

has been appointed as Interim CFO but he is not an 

Executive Director.

Directors’ biographies, tenures, key skills and 

experience and external appointments are set out on 

pages 157 to 162.

To ensure the Board performs effectively, there 
is a clear division of responsibilities between the 
leadership of the Board and the executive 
leadership: 

Our Chair

•  Chairing Board meetings, Nomination Committee 

meetings and the AGM, and setting the 

Board agenda

•  Ensuring there is effective communication 

between the Board, management, shareholders 

and the Group’s wider stakeholders, while 

promoting a culture of openness and constructive 

debate

•  Ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and 

clear information

•  Overseeing the annual Board performance review 

All Directors are appointed to the Board for an initial 

and addressing any subsequent actions

fixed three-year term, subject to annual re-election by 

•  Promoting the highest standards of 

shareholders at the Company’s AGM. In accordance 

corporate governance

with the Code, with the exception of Matthew Key,  

all Directors will retire and offer themselves for 

re-election at the 2023 AGM. Alan Stewart, who 

joined the Board on 1 September 2022, will offer 

himself for election having joined the Board since  

the last AGM. Matthew Key will cease to be a 

Non-Executive Director following the 2023 AGM.

•  Ensuring the views of stakeholders are taken 

into account when making decisions

•  A full description of the Chair’s role and 

responsibilities can be found in the Corporate 

Governance section of the Group’s website 

Burberryplc.com

Our Senior Independent Director

•  Acting as a sounding board for the Chair

•  Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors, 

where necessary

•  Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chair

•  Being available to shareholders and stakeholders 

if they have any concerns, which they have been 

unable to resolve through normal channels

•  Together with the Non-Executive Directors, 

assessing the performance of the Chair on an 

annual basis

•  Leading the search and appointment process and 

recommendation to the Board of a new Chair, 

if necessary

•  A full description of the Senior Independent 

Director’s role and responsibilities can be found in 

the Corporate Governance section of the Group’s 

website Burberryplc.com

176

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Division of Responsibilities

Our Non-Executive Directors

Our CFO

•  Providing effective and constructive challenge 

•  Supporting the CEO in developing the Group’s 

to the Board and scrutinising the performance 

strategy and its implementation

of management

•  Overseeing the global Finance and Business 

•  Assisting in the development and approval of the 

Services functions and developing the Group’s 

Group’s strategy

Capital Allocation Framework

•  Reviewing Group financial information and 

•  Responsible for establishing financial planning 

ensuring there are effective systems of 

and maintaining adequate internal controls over 

governance, risk management and internal 

financial reporting

controls in place

•  Representing the Group to external stakeholders

•  Ensuring there is regular, open and constructive 

•  Responsible for the oversight of the following key 

dialogue with shareholders

Our CEO

•  Day-to-day management of the Group

•  Responsible for all commercial, operational, risk 

and financial elements of the Group

functions: Investor Relations, Internal Audit and 

Risk Management, Business Continuity, Burberry 

Business Services, Finance, Insurance, Tax, 

Treasury and Trade Compliance

Our Company Secretary

•  Developing the Group’s strategic direction and 

•  Providing advice and support to the Chair and 

implementing the agreed strategy

all Directors

•  Ensuring effective communication and 

information flows to the Board and the Chair

•  Representing the Group to external stakeholders

•  Responsible for the oversight of the following key 

functions: Design, Marketing, Digital, 

Merchandising, Supply Chain, Corporate Affairs, 

Human Resources, Strategy, Global Commercial, 

Corporate Responsibility and IT

•  Ensuring the Board receives high-quality 

information and resources in a timely manner so 

that the Board can operate effectively at 

meetings

•  Assisting in setting the agenda for Board and 

Committee meetings

•  Advising and keeping the Board up to date with 

all matters of Corporate Governance

•  Responsible for oversight of the sustainability 

•  Facilitating the induction programme for new 

agenda and climate goals

•  A full description of the CEO’s role and 

responsibilities can be found in the Corporate 

Governance section of the Group’s website 

Burberryplc.com

Directors and, together with the Chair, assessing 

ongoing training needs for all Directors

177

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Division of Responsibilities

External directorships 
Our Board’s Executive Directors are permitted to hold 

Information flow and professional development 
Our Chair works closely with the Company Secretary 

one external non-executive directorship. Jonathan 

in the planning of agendas and scheduling of Board and 

Akeroyd is the only Executive Director at present  

Committee meetings. Together, they ensure that 

and does not hold any other external directorships. 

information is made available to Board members on a 

Kate Ferry, who will join the Board on 17 July 2023  

timely basis and is of a quality appropriate to enable the 

as an Executive Director and CFO is currently an 

Board to effectively carry out its duties. The Board is 

independent non-executive director of Greggs plc.

kept up to date on legal, regulatory, compliance and 

Time allocation and independence 
Each of our Non-Executive Directors has a letter of 

governance matters through advice and regular papers 

from the General Counsel, the Company Secretary and 

other advisors. In addition, Executive Committee members 

appointment, which sets out the terms and conditions 

and other senior managers are invited, as appropriate, 

of his or her directorship. The Non-Executive 

to Board and strategy meetings to inform and update 

Directors are expected to devote the time necessary 

the Board on their areas of responsibility. The CEO, 

to perform their duties properly. This is expected to 

the Chief People Officer and the Company Secretary 

be approximately 20 days each year for basic duties. 

regularly attend Board and Committee meetings.

The Chair and Senior Independent Director are 

expected to spend additional time over and above this 

to carry out their extra responsibilities. The Chair, 

Induction, training and business engagement 
The Company Secretary assists the Chair in designing 

Senior Independent Director and CEO also have 

and facilitating a formal induction programme for new 

clearly defined responsibilities, which delineate the 

Directors and their ongoing training. Each newly appointed 

scope of their roles. A full description of these roles 

Director receives a formal and tailored induction programme 

can be found in the Corporate Governance section of 

to enable them to function effectively as quickly as possible, 

the Group’s website Burberryplc.com. The Board has 

while building a deep understanding of the business. Each 

noted changes to Non-Executive Directors’ external 

induction typically consists of meetings with both Executive 

appointments during the year and confirms that they 

and Non-Executive Directors and briefings from senior 

were not perceived to impact their independence or 

managers across our key business areas and operations. 

responsibilities to the Company. The Board considers 

In addition, Non-Executive Directors are provided with 

that the Chair and all Non-Executive Directors have 

opportunities to visit key stores, markets and facilities. This 

fulfilled their required time commitment during 

includes visits to our various operating facilities in the UK. 

FY 2022/23. In making this assessment the Board 

Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, 

considered the views of certain shareholders 

an understanding of the business is developed through 

regarding Antoine de Saint-Affrique’s time 

ongoing meetings and engagements as appropriate.

commitments, further details of which can be found 

in the Nomination Committee Report on page 184.

The Chair considers the training needs of individual 

Directors on an ongoing basis. During FY 2022/23, 

Each year, in accordance with its terms of reference, 

a number of Directors participated in a sustainability 

the Nomination Committee reviews the independence 

workshop in May 2022. The Board also held informal 

of the Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chair), 

meetings with our Internal Diversity and Inclusion 

taking into account a range of factors, including 

Council and our Cultural Advisory Council. Details of the 

those set out in Provision 10 of the UK Corporate 

induction programmes implemented for Jonathan 

Governance Code. The Nomination Committee 

Akeroyd and Alan Stewart are set out in the Nomination 

concluded this year that all the Non-Executive 

Committee Report on page 187. 

Directors continued to be independent. 

The Board has direct access to the advice and services 

Notwithstanding that Matthew Key was appointed to 

of the Company Secretary. The appointment and 

the Board in September 2013 and has therefore 

removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved 

served on the Board for over nine years, the 

for the Board as a whole. To carry out their duties, 

Nomination Committee concluded that Matthew 

Directors may also obtain independent professional 

Key’s independence was not compromised. 

advice, if necessary, at the Group’s expense. 

178

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Composition, Succession and Evaluation

Composition, Succession 
and Evaluation 

Board evaluation 

Evaluating our performance
The Board undertakes a formal annual review of its 

effectiveness, which is designed to help identify 

opportunities to improve and enhance its own 

performance and that of the Group. The evaluation 

process is led by the Chair and includes a review of 

the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the 

Board’s Committees and each individual Director. 

Every three years, the evaluation is facilitated 

externally with the last external evaluation taking 
place in FY 2020/21.

Internal evaluation in FY 2022/23
In November 2022, the Board decided to conduct an 

internal questionnaire-based review for FY 2022/23 

with the support of Independent Audit’s Thinking 

Board tool. Independent Audit Limited has no other 

connection with the Company. The Chair of the Board 

and the Chairs of each of the Board Committees 

worked with the Company Secretary to devise the 

questionnaires, which were circulated in February 

2023. The results were evaluated and discussed at 

the March Board meeting, following which the Board 

confirmed its view that the Board continues to 

operate effectively within an inclusive and 

transparent environment and displays a number of 

strengths, including: 

The questionnaires were supplemented by meetings 

between the Chair and each Director to discuss 

individual performance, seek additional feedback and 

raise any issues or concerns regarding the 

management of the Company or the Board’s 

performance. On resignation, Non-Executive 

Directors are also encouraged to provide a  

written statement of any concerns to the Chair. 

No such concerns were raised in FY 2022/23. 

These discussions, together with the Nomination 

Committee’s considerations of independence, time 

commitment and tenure, are used as the basis for 
recommending the re-election of Directors by 

shareholders. The Board is satisfied that all Non-

Executive Directors bring robust, independent 

oversight and continue to remain independent.

The evaluation process also concluded that the Audit, 

Nomination and Remuneration Committees continue 

to operate well and provide effective support to the 

Board in carrying out its duties.

Separate to the formal Board evaluation process, the 

Senior Independent Director led a review of the 

Chair’s performance. The review included circulation 

of a short questionnaire, one-to-one meetings with 

each of the Non-Executive Directors and a final 

meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, without the 

Chair being present, to conclude on the review. The 

unanimous view was that the Chair continued to 

perform very effectively and to provide strong 

•  operating with a high level of trust and openness 

leadership throughout FY 2022/23.

between Board members

•  strong leadership of the Board and Board 

Committees

•  providing challenge and support to the 

executive team

•  assessing and monitoring performance of 

the business

179

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Composition, Succession and Evaluation

Areas of focus for FY 2023/24
Based on the feedback received during the assessment process, the Board agreed on the following areas of 

focus, which will be monitored during the year.

Area of development

Action

Strategy, purpose and 

•  Ongoing development of Board agendas to ensure sufficient focus on big trends including 

values 

sustainability, e-commerce and globalisation

•  Consider ways to develop the Board’s understanding of the opportunities and risks presented by 

emerging technology in the luxury industry

People and culture 

•  Continued focus on developing the long-term approach to executive succession planning including 

increased opportunities for Board members to engage with colleagues informally

•  Enhance the Board’s oversight of culture and values, including how well they are embedded across 

the business

Board composition 

•  Review the size and composition of the Board including the potential use of advisory support to 

supplement core skills of Board members where necessary

180

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Composition, Succession and Evaluation

Progress update on focus areas identified following FY 2021/22 Board effectiveness review

Action

Strategy, purpose and values

•  Reviewing Board agendas to 

More time spent on regional updates throughout the year to provide the Board with 

enable more time to be spent 

deeper insights for key markets. In addition, the Board received updates in July and 

considering emerging technology, 

October 2022 from external advisers on the macroeconomic and the geopolitical 

megatrends and key markets

environment and as part of the annual strategy meetings in October 2022 updates on the 

•  Considering ways to embed 

environmental, social and 

governance further into strategy, 

as well as into the purpose and 
values of the Company

luxury industry and key consumer trends. 

The Board and Executive Committee attended a sustainability workshop in May 2022 led 

by the Cambridge Institute of Sustainability Leadership and members of the Corporate 

Responsibility team. Topics discussed included the evolution of Burberry’s Sustainability 
strategy, such as focusing Burberry’s Communities strategy on youth and creativity; and 

the actions being taken to embed sustainability across the Leadership Standards, Code of 

Conduct and values. 

With effect from FY 2023/24 Sustainability metrics will also be incorporated into the 

corporate annual bonus plan.

Talent and succession planning

•  Continued development and 

Work is ongoing to enhance our Executive Development Programme which is a bespoke 

strengthening of the executive 

eight-month experience designed to elevate leadership capabilities and embed Leadership 

succession planning programme

Standards through immersive learning experiences, targeted coaching and impactful 

Board ways of working

networking opportunities.

•  Reviewing the Board’s 

The Board’s succession work during FY 2022/23 has focused on the search for a new CFO 

composition and advisory support 

and enhancing the financial expertise on the Board, in advance of Matthew Key’s stepping 

to ensure appropriate and 

down. Further details on the recruitment and appointment process for these roles can be 

contemporary expertise across all 

found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 186 to 187.

relevant areas, including luxury

In terms of advisory support, the Board met with members of the Internal Diversity and 

Inclusion Council in July 2022 and with the external Cultural Advisory Council in 

November 2022.

181

Burberry 2022/23Corporate Governance Statement | Report of the Nomination Committee

Report of the  
Nomination Committee

“Diverse and fresh perspectives 
are also important, that is  
why the Committee makes 
refreshment and succession 
planning a priority.”

Gerry Murphy
Chair, Nomination Committee

During FY 2022/23, we also reviewed the talent 

pipeline for the Executive Committee and other 

senior management roles and completed our annual 

governance processes. 

Board skills 
We recognise that having the right individuals in the 

boardroom is critical. Directors need to have skills and 

experience that align with the Company’s long-term 

strategy. Diverse and fresh perspectives are also 

important, that is why the Committee makes refreshment 

and succession planning a priority. A Board skills matrix is 

used to identify current and expected skill gaps.

Operational excellence

90.91%

90.91

Dear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased 

to present this report, which describes how we 

carried out our responsibilities during the year. 

The Committee met three times during FY 2022/23.

Board succession planning and the composition of 

Board Committees continued to be an important  

area of focus for the Committee. During FY 2022/23, 

the Committee recommended the appointment of 

Kate Ferry as our new Chief Financial Officer and the 

appointment of Alan Stewart as an additional 

Independent Non-Executive Director ahead of 

Matthew Key’s retirement from the Board in July. 

In our consideration of Board composition, we 

concentrated on identifying candidates who would 

add to the collective skills, experience and diversity 

of the Board to improve our ability to support and 

challenge management as Burberry develops 

Digital and media

and evolves.

Areas of focus for FY 2022/23
•  Board composition

•  Recruitment of CFO and new 

Non-Executive Director

•  Talent and executive succession planning

•  Corporate governance

54.55%

Retail, sales and marketing

Luxury brands

36.36%

Environment / Sustainability

45.45%

Financial expertise

18.18%

182

Burberry 2022/23