Board and committee 
evaluation 
The effectiveness of the Board and its 
committees is reviewed annually, with 
an independent, externally facilitated 
review being conducted every three 
years. An internal evaluation was 
completed this year as an external 
review was undertaken in 2022. 

The evaluation was led by the Chairman, 
supported by the Board Secretariat, 
using a self-assessment questionnaire 
complemented by an individual 
interview conducted by the Chairman 
with each non-executive director. The 
results were presented in a report to all 
Board members, and an action plan to 
address matters raised was agreed.

The overall conclusions of the review 
were positive, confirming that the Board 
and the committees continued to 
adequately fulfil their responsibilities 
and operated effectively during the 
reporting period. 

In relation to the agreed actions for 
2023, the Board considered that good 
progress had been made during the 
year. Regular updates on shareholder 
and investor engagement would 
continue and be enhanced. Ensuring that 
the Board continues to have the relevant 
skills and expertise remains an ongoing 
area of attention for the Nominations 
Committee. The focus on customer 
experience would also continue.

In addition to reviewing progress against 
the agreed action plan for 2023, the 
Board evaluation highlighted the strong 
working relationship between the Board 
and management, the progress made on 
operating company transformation, as 
well as the enhanced focus on culture 
and people.

Actions agreed for 2024 include: 

•  broadening the Board’s visibility 

on engagement with stakeholders, 
with a focus on customers, suppliers 
and investors; 

•  prioritising the focus on management 

succession planning and talent 
development, as well as on the 
diversity and inclusion agenda; and
•  continuing to oversee the cultural 

transformation of the Group.

Other statutory information
Directors’ disclosure duties, conflicts 
of interest, and related party 
transactions
Directors must inform the Company of 
any participation or interest they may 
hold or acquire in any company that 
is a competitor of the Group, or any 
activities that could place them in 
conflict with the corporate interest.

According to article 21 of the Board 
Regulations, directors have an obligation 
to adopt the measures necessary to 
avoid conflict of interest situations. 
These include any situation where the 
interest of the director, either directly 
or through third parties, may conflict 
with the corporate interest or with their 
duties to the Company. In the event 
of conflict, the affected director must 
inform the Company and abstain from 
participating in the discussion of the 
transaction referred to by the conflict. 
For the purposes of calculating the 
quorum and voting majorities, the 
affected director would be excluded 
from the number of members 
in attendance. 

The 2023 Annual General Meeting held 
on 15 June 2023 approved the re-
election of Giles Agutter and Robin 
Phillips as non-executive proprietary 
directors as proposed by IAG’s 
significant shareholder Qatar Airways 
Group (Q.C.S.C.) (‘Qatar Airways’). Qatar 
Airways, a Middle East air carrier 
headquartered in Doha, has been the 
single largest shareholder of IAG since 
2016, owning, as of the date of this 
report, 25.143% of the share capital of 
the Company. Throughout this period 
there has been a long-standing business 
and commercial relationship between 
Qatar Airways and the Group airlines. 
This close relationship of commercial 
cooperation, which has always been 
undertaken on an arm’s length basis and 
on market terms, significantly reduces 
the potential existence of permanent 
conflicts of interest between Qatar 
Airways and the Group’s airlines. 

As far as the relationship of the 
proprietary directors with the significant 
shareholder who proposed their 
appointments is concerned, it should 
be noted that Giles Agutter is the owner 
and Chief Executive of the consultancy 
services firm Southern Sky Limited, 
one of whose material clients is Qatar 
Airways, and that Robin Phillips has no 
relevant connection with Qatar Airways.

Any potential conflict of interest that 
might affect such proprietary directors 
is managed by applying the duty of 
abstention in accordance with the 
procedure for managing conflicts of 
interest described below. In addition, the 
Spanish and the UK regimes on related 
parties’ transactions are also applicable 
as detailed below.

In accordance with article 3.4 of the 
Board Regulations, the Board of 
Directors has the exclusive authority 
to approve transactions with directors 
or shareholders that have a significant 
holding or that are represented on the 
Board or with any persons related to 
them, on the terms established in the 
law and the Board Regulations and this 
will require a prior report from the Audit 
and Compliance Committee.

The execution of these type of 
transactions needs to be reported to the 
Audit and Compliance Committee to 
ensure that they are carried out at arm’s 
length and with due observance of the 
principle of equal treatment of 
shareholders. IAG’s internal regulations 
on related party transactions establish 
that the Audit and Compliance 
Committee needs to issue a report 
to the Board assessing whether the 
transaction is fair and reasonable from 
the standpoint of the Company and, 
where applicable, of the shareholders 
other than the related party, and report 
on this assessment, including the 
assumptions and methods used. Where 
appropriate, the directors related to 
the transaction shall not participate 
in the preparation of such report.

Depending on the amount or value of 
the proposed related party transaction, 
different corporate governance and 
disclosure requirements may apply 
under both the Spanish and UK 
legal frameworks. 

In accordance with IAG procedures 
on related party transactions, prior to 
the Audit and Compliance Committee 
consideration, shareholder related party 
transactions are also reviewed by the 
IAG Management Committee and 
are reported to the IAG Head of 
Group Audit.

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

153

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportCorporate Governance continued

Share issues, buybacks, treasury 
shares and dealings in IAG listed 
securities
The Annual General Meeting held on 
15 June 2023 provided authority for the 
Board, with the express power of 
substitution, for a term ending at the 
2024 Annual General Meeting (or if 
earlier, 15 months from 15 June 2023), to:

•  increase the share capital pursuant to 

Article 297.1.b) of the Spanish 
Companies Law, by up to 50% of the 
aggregate nominal amount of the 
Company’s issued share capital as at 
15 June 2023 (such amount to be 
reduced by the maximum amount that 
the share capital may be increased by 
on the conversion or exchange of any 
securities issued as authorised below), 
through the issue and placement of 
new shares (with or without a 
premium) for cash consideration;
•  issue securities (including warrants) 

convertible into and/or exchangeable 
for shares of the Company, up to a 
maximum limit of 1,500,000,000 
euros or the equivalent thereof in 
another currency, provided that the 
aggregate share capital that may be 
increased on the conversion or 
exchange of all such securities may 
not be higher than 50% of the 
aggregate nominal amount of the 
Company’s issued share capital as at 
15 June 2023 (such amount to be 
reduced by the amount that the share 
capital has been increased under the 
relevant authorisation); 

•  exclude pre-emptive rights in 

connection with the capital increases 
and the issuance of convertible or 
exchangeable securities that the 
Board may approve, under the 
previous authorities, for the purposes 
of allotting shares or convertible or 
exchangeable securities, in connection 

with a rights issue or in any other 
circumstances subject to an 
aggregate maximum nominal amount 
of the shares so allotted or that may 
be allotted on conversion or exchange 
of such securities of: 
•  10% of the aggregate nominal 

amount of the Company’s issued 
share capital to be issued on an 
unrestricted basis; and 

•  an additional 10% of the aggregate 
nominal amount of the Company’s 
share capital to be used for either 
an acquisition or a specified capital 
investment;

in each case, without the shares or 
convertible or exchangeable securities 
first being offered to existing 
shareholders in proportion to their 
holdings; 

•  carry out the acquisition of its own 

shares directly or indirectly through its 
subsidiaries, subject to the following 
conditions:

•  the maximum aggregate number of 
ordinary shares authorised to be 
purchased shall be the lower of the 
maximum amount permitted by the 
law and 10% of the aggregate 
nominal amount of the Company’s 
issued share capital on 15 June, 2023; 

•  the minimum price per share which 

may be paid is zero;

•  the maximum price per share which 

may be paid is the highest of: 

•  an amount equal to 5% above the 
average of the middle market 
quotations for the shares taken 
from the relevant stock exchange 
for the five business days 
immediately preceding the day of 
purchase; and 

•  the higher of the price of the last 

independent trade and the highest 
current independent bid on the 
trading venues where the 

transaction is carried out at the 
relevant time; exclusive of expenses. 
The shares acquired pursuant to this 
authorisation may be delivered 
directly to the employees or 
directors of the Company or its 
subsidiaries or as a result of the 
exercise of option rights held 
thereby. For further details see note 
31 to the Group financial statements. 
The IAG Securities Code of Conduct 
regulates the Company’s dealings in 
its treasury shares. This can be 
accessed on the Company’s website.

Capital structure and shareholder 
rights
As at 31 December 2023, the share 
capital of the Company amounted to 
497,147,601 euros (2022: 497,147,601 
euros), divided into 4,971,476,010 shares 
(2022: 4,971,476,010 shares) of the same 
class and series and with a nominal value 
of €0.10 each (2022: €0.10 each), fully 
subscribed and paid for.

As at 31 December 2023, the Company 
owned 55,844,755 shares as treasury 
shares.

Each share in the Company confers 
on its legitimate holder the status of 
shareholder and the rights recognised 
by applicable law and the Company’s 
Bylaws which can be accessed 
on the Company’s website.

The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) 
facility that trades on the over-the-
counter market in the US. Each ADR 
is equivalent to two ordinary shares 
and each ADR holder is entitled to the 
financial rights attaching to such shares, 
although the ADR depositary, Deutsche 
Bank, is the registered holder. As at 
31 December 2023 the equivalent of 
40,547,684 shares were held in ADR 
form (2022: 48,799,780 shares).

Company’s share capital
During the year there were no changes to the share capital.

The significant shareholders of the Company as at 31 December 2023, calculated according to the Company’s share capital as at the 
date of this report and excluding positions in financial instruments, were:

Name of shareholder 

Number of direct 
shares

Number of 
indirect shares

Qatar Airways (Q.C.S.C.)

1,249,999,997

–

Capital Research and 
Management Company

248,648,015

Collective investment institutions 
managed by Capital Research 
and Management Company

Name of direct holder

Total shares

1,249,999,997

248,648,015

Percentage 
of capital

25.14%

5.001%

154

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shareholders’ meeting 
The quorum required for the constitution 
of the shareholder’s meeting, the system 
of adopting corporate resolutions, 
the procedure for amending the Bylaws 
and the applicable rules for protecting 
shareholders’ rights when changing the 
Bylaws are governed by the provisions 
established in the Spanish 
Companies Law. 

The Annual General Meeting was held on 
15 June 2023 in Madrid. This was again 
held in person as in 2022, with the 
option for shareholders to attend and 
participate in the meeting remotely.

The Shareholders’ Meeting Regulations, 
which establish the operating rules 
of the shareholder meeting, are available 
in the Corporate Governance section 
of the Company’s website.

Disclosure obligations
The Company’s Bylaws establish a series 
of special obligations concerning 
disclosure of share ownership as well 
as certain limits on shareholdings, taking 
into account the ownership and control 
restrictions provided for in applicable 
legislation and bilateral air transport 
treaties signed by Spain and the UK.

In accordance with article 7.2 b) of the 
Bylaws, shareholders must notify the 
Company of any acquisition or disposal 
of shares or of any interest in the shares 
of the Company that directly or 
indirectly entails the acquisition or 
disposal of a stake of over 0.25% of the 
Company’s share capital, or of the 
voting rights corresponding thereto, 
expressly indicating the nationality 
of the transferor and/or the transferee 
obliged to notify, as well as the creation 
of any charges on shares (or interests 
in shares) or other encumbrances 
whatsoever, for the purposes of the 
exercise of the rights conferred by them.

In addition, pursuant to article 10 of the 
Bylaws, the Company may require any 
shareholder or any other person with a 
confirmed or apparent interest in shares 
of the Company to disclose to the 
Company in writing such information as 
the Company shall require relating to the 
beneficial ownership of or any interest in 
the shares in question, as lies within the 
knowledge of such shareholder or other 
person, including any information that 
the Company deems necessary or 
desirable in order to determine the 
nationality of the holders of said shares 
or other person with an interest in the 
Company’s shares or whether it is 
necessary to take steps in order to 
protect the operating rights of the 
Company or its subsidiaries.

In the event of a breach of these 
obligations by a shareholder or any 
other person with a confirmed or 
apparent interest in the Company’s 
shares, the Board may suspend the 
voting or other political rights of the 
relevant person. If the shares associated 
with the breach represent at least 0.25% 
of the Company’s share capital in 
nominal value, the Board may also direct 
that the transfer of any such shares is 
not registered.

Limitations on ownership of shares
In the event that the Board deems it 
necessary or appropriate to adopt 
measures to protect an operating right 
of the Company or of its subsidiaries, in 
light of the nationality of its shareholders 
or any persons with an interest in the 
Company’s shares, it may adopt any of 
the measures in article 11 of the Bylaws, 
including the determination of a 
maximum number of shares that may 
be held by non-qualifying shareholders 
provided that such maximum may not 
be lower than 40% of the Company’s 
share capital. If such a determination is 
made and notified to the stock market, 
no further acquisitions of shares by 
non-qualifying persons can be made.

In such circumstances, if non-qualifying 
persons acquire shares in breach of such 
restriction, the Board may also (i) agree 
on the suspension of voting and other 
political rights of the holder of the 
relevant shares, and (ii) request that the 
holders dispose of the corresponding 
shares so that no non-qualifying person 
may directly or indirectly own such 
shares or have an interest in the same. 
If such transfer is not performed on the 
terms provided for in the Bylaws, the 
Company may acquire the 
corresponding shares (for their 
subsequent redemption) pursuant to 
applicable legislation. This acquisition 
must be performed at the lower of the 
following prices: (a) the book value of 
the corresponding shares according to 
the latest published audited balance 
sheet of the Company; and (b) the 
middle market quotation for an ordinary 
share of the Company as derived from 
the London Stock Exchange’s Daily 
Official List for the business day on 
which they were acquired by the 
relevant non-qualifying person. 

Impact of change of control
The following significant agreements 
contain provisions entitling the 
counterparties to exercise termination 
in the event of a change of control 
of the Company:

•  Certain significant IAG financing 

arrangements allow for prepayment, 
redemption or early termination in 
certain circumstances if there is a 
change of control of the Company.

In addition, the Company’s share plans 
contain provisions as a result of which 
options and awards may vest and 
become exercisable on a change of 
control of the Company in accordance 
with the rules of the plans.

Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance
The Company has purchased insurance 
against Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
for the benefit of the directors and 
officers of the Company and its 
subsidiaries. The Board receives an 
annual update on the Group’s Directors’ 
and Officers’ liability insurance. 

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

155

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the  
Nominations Committee

Javier Ferrán
Nominations Committee Chair

Committee members

Javier Ferrán (Chair)

Giles Agutter

Peggy Bruzelius

Margaret Ewing

Heather Ann McSharry

Date appointed

8 September 2020

24 September 2020

16 June 2022

28 January 2021

31 December 2020

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Nominations 
Committee Report for the year ended 
31 December 2023. This report provides 
an overview of the work of the 
Committee and its activities during the 
year. 

The contribution of this Committee is 
key to ensuring that we have in place 
both a Board with the right combination 
of relevant skills and capabilities as well 
as an executive team capable of 
delivering our strategy. As in previous 
years, in 2023 the Committee focused 
on succession planning and oversight of 
the work being done on diversity and 
inclusion for both the Board and senior 
leaders. 

Board succession planning remains an 
area of work to ensure collective board 
ability to oversee the implementation of 
the Group’s strategy and effectively 
support management to drive 

transformation. Building on the findings 
of the external Board evaluation 
conducted in 2022, which are in line with 
this year’s internal exercise, we have a 
clear understanding of the skills and 
expertise required and the aspects that 
we could strengthen, so that we 
continue to ensure the necessary 
expertise and experience on our Board 
and its committees. 

Executive succession planning and 
talent development has been an 
important area of focus. The ongoing 
monitoring of management’s plans and 
programmes to improve the bench-
strength and diversity of the Group’s 
senior leadership through active 
succession planning and talent 
management is a priority for the 
Committee. We also continue to review 
succession planning for the leadership 
teams at our operating companies. This 
year the Committee considered several 

new appointments to the IAG 
Management Committee and to the 
boards and leadership teams of some of 
our operating companies, including the 
appointment of Fernando Candela as 
Chairman and CEO of Iberia; Julio 
Rodriguez as Chief Commercial Strategy 
Officer; Jorge Saco as Chief Information, 
Procurement, Services and Innovation 
Officer; and Jonathan Sullivan as Chief 
Transformation and Corporate 
Development Officer.

Following the refresh of both our Board 
Directors Selection and Diversity Policy 
and our Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy in 2022, we continue to build on 
the diversity strategy and framework. 

We are satisfied that the Board 
composition continues to meet the 
targets for the proportion of women on 
boards and ethnic diversity as set out in 
either the European and Spanish 
standards and the UK Listings Rules, the 
latter informed by the UK FTSE Women 
Leaders Review and the UK Parker 
Review.

The Committee also supports 
management's efforts to strengthen the 
presence of women in the senior 
leadership of the Company and across 
the Group. Despite progress made in 
2023, we still have a way to go to reach 
our target of 40% of senior leadership 
roles being held by women by 2025. IAG 
leadership is committed to this ambition 
and more generally to promoting an 
environment that ensures inclusion and 
equal opportunities. The clear gender 
targets are being supplemented with 
broader diversity ambitions, including 
ethnicity. Current initiatives underway 
are both supported and closely 
monitored by the Committee.

In line with the expectations of the UK 
and Spanish Corporate Governance 
Codes, we undertook an internal Board 
and Committee effectiveness review. 
More information on the results of this 
evaluation, and how it was carried out, 
can be found elsewhere in this report. 
The evaluation was very positive, and it 
remains the case that we are satisfied 
that the Board and its Committees are 
effective and provide the highest 
standards of leadership and oversight of 
the Group’s strategy. The Nominations 
Committee will continue to provide a 
special focus to management succession 
planning and talent development, as well 
as to the work on diversity and inclusion. 

Javier Ferrán
Nominations Committee Chair

156

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The Nominations Committee
The composition, competencies and 
operating rules of the Nominations 
Committee are regulated by article 31 
of the Board Regulations and by the 
Nominations Committee Regulations as 
approved by the Board on 25 February 
2021. A copy of the Board and the 
Nominations Committee Regulations 
can be found on the Company’s website. 

The Nominations Committee has overall 
responsibility for leading the process for 
appointments to the Board and to 
ensure that these appointments bring 
the necessary skills, experience, and 
competencies to the Board, aligning 
its composition to the business strategy 
and needs. The Committee also reports 
to the Board on the proposed 
appointment of senior executives of the 
Company and IAG appointments to 
Group company boards. It oversees 
Board and senior management 
succession planning and in general the 
development of a diverse pipeline for 
succession.

The Nominations Committee shall 
be made up of no less than three 
non-executive directors appointed by 
the Board, with the dedication, capacity, 
and experience necessary to carry out 
its function. A majority of the members 
must be independent directors that 
are EU nationals.

There were no changes to the 
Committee’s membership during 2023.

The Committee’s responsibilities 
The Nominations Committee’s 
responsibilities can be summarised as:

•  evaluating the mix of competencies, 

knowledge, and experience necessary 
in the Board‘s membership and 
reviewing the criteria for the Board 
composition and the selection 
of candidates

•  submitting the recommendation 

for appointment of directors to the 
Board for approval, and reporting 
on the proposed designations of the 
members of the Board committees 
and their chairs

•  succession planning for Board 

members making proposals to the 
Board so that such succession occurs 
in a planned and orderly manner

•  reporting to the Board on the 

appointment and removal of senior 
executives (which includes all of the 
IAG Management Committee)

•  ensuring that non-executive directors 

receive appropriate induction 
programmes

•  setting diversity targets (gender, 
ethnicity, and other criteria) both 
within the senior management and 
the succession pipeline

•  ensuring that plans are in place 
for orderly succession of senior 
management positions whilst 
safeguarding the achievement 
of agreed diversity targets

•  establishing a target for female and 

ethnicity representation on the Board 
which should adhere to the 
Company’s Directors Selection 
and Diversity Policy

•  coordinating the annual evaluation 
of the performance of the Board 
and its committees

The Committee’s activities in 2023
The Committee met six times during 
2023, with three scheduled and three 
ad-hoc meetings called to discuss 
management changes or appointments 
to the Group company boards. Directors’ 
attendance at these meetings can 
be found in the Corporate Governance 
section. The Group Chief Executive 
was invited to attend the Committee’s 
meetings as and when necessary. 

The Committee focused on the following 
activities during the year:

•  review of the composition of the Board
•  review of the Board committees’ 

membership

•  Board succession planning
•  review of the directors’ independence
•  review of compliance with the Directors 

Selection and Diversity Policy
•  review of diversity and inclusion
•  management succession plans
•  format of the annual Board evaluation 

process, as well as that of the 
Nominations Committee

•  changes to Group company boards
•  review of investor feedback from 

the Annual General Meeting

Board succession
The Committee regularly reviews the 
formal succession plan for the Board, 
including analysis of non-executive 
directors’ length of tenure, skills and 
experience, and planning for succession 
relating to any areas that could require 
strengthening from a skills and 
succession perspective. 

In September 2023, the Committee 
considered Board succession planning, 
including the Board refreshment 
timeline, the Board skills matrix, as well 
as the consideration and identification 
of those skills and characteristics 
relevant for future appointments 
to align with strategic objectives and 
policies. The Committee also noted that 
in terms of Spanish company law, the 
chairmanship of the Audit and 
Compliance Committee would need to 
be refreshed during 2024, and discussed 
planning for this succession. 

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

157

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Nominations Committee continued

Gender diversity principles are followed 
throughout the director appointment 
process, while preserving the general 
diversity and merit-based appointment 
principles established in the Policy. The 
Board’s policy is to consider candidates 
from a wide variety of backgrounds, 
without discrimination based on gender, 
race, colour, age, social class, beliefs, 
religion, sexual orientation, disability, 
or other factors. When conducting 
a search, the Company will only engage 
search firms that have signed up to the 
latest UK Voluntary Code of Conduct 
for Executive Search Firms (or its 
international equivalent). Additionally, 
the Nominations Committee ensures 
that the Board appointment ‘long’ and 
‘short’ lists provided in the search 
process are inclusive according to the 
widest definition of diversity.

Female directors currently represent 
45% of the Board, ahead of the target of 
at least 40%, and 63% of the 
independent non-executive directors 
(including the Chairman). In addition to 
this, three of the four Board advisory 
committees are chaired by women: the 
Audit and Compliance, the 
Remuneration and the Safety, 
Environment and Corporate 
Responsibility Committees. Lastly, the 
Senior Independent Director is a woman. 
From an ethnic minority perspective, the 
IAG Board has met its target to have one 
director from an ethnic minority group.

Directors’ independence, 
performance and re-election
The Nominations Committee, having 
considered the matter carefully, 
is of the opinion that all the current 
non-executive directors, with the 
exception of the two proprietary 
directors, are independent, both in 
line with the definition set out by the 
Spanish Companies Act and with that 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
and are free from any relationship 
or circumstances that could affect, 
or appear to affect, their independent 
judgement. 

In May 2023 the Nominations Committee 
considered the proposal for the re-
election of directors ahead of the Annual 
General Meeting. 

In accordance with the Board 
Regulations, all proposals for the 
appointment or re-election of directors 
presented to the 2023 Annual General 
Meeting were accompanied by an 
explanatory report issued by the Board 
of Directors with the support of the 
Nominations Committee assessing the 
competence, experience, and merits 
of each candidate. As part of its 
assessment, the Committee also reviews 
the time commitment and availability 
of each non-executive director.

Following this review, the Committee 
was of the opinion that each non-
executive director submitting 
themselves for re-election continued to 
demonstrate commitment to the role as 
a member of the Board and its 
committees and that each was making a 
valuable contribution to the leadership 
of the Company.

Each director is required to advise the 
Committee and seek its authorisation 
before accepting any external 
directorship or other significant 
appointment that might affect the time 
they are able to devote to the role as a 
director of the Company. 

Management appointments and 
succession planning
During 2023, the Committee considered 
and presented to the Board the 
following appointments to the IAG 
Management Committee: Fernando 
Candela as Chairman and CEO of Iberia; 
Julio Rodriguez as Chief Commercial 
Strategy Officer; Jorge Saco as Chief 
Information, Procurement, Services and 
Innovation Officer; and Jonathan Sullivan 
as Chief Transformation and Corporate 
Development Officer. 

Diversity
The procedure for the appointment 
of directors follows the principles 
established in the Directors Selection 
and Diversity Policy which has as its 
objective, the recognition of the 
importance of board diversity in a 
broader sense. As recommended by the 
Spanish Good Governance Code, the 
Nominations Committee reviews 
compliance with this Policy on an annual 
basis. The review for the 2023 reporting 
period was completed in January 2024. 
The diversity targets included in the 
Policy are to have:

•  at least 40% female board 

membership;

•  at least one of the Chair, Senior 

Independent Director, Chief Executive 
Officer or Chief Financial Officer roles 
be filled by a woman; and

•  at least one member of the Board 
being from an ethnic minority. 

When considering director 
appointments, the Committee follows 
a formal, rigorous, and transparent 
procedure, designed to capture the 
value of diversity in its broader sense, 
including a mix of skills, experience, 
professional and industry backgrounds, 
age, and ethnicity, while ensuring that 
any appointment is made on merit. 
Diversity considerations also include 
ensuring that more than half of the 
Board are independent EU nationals 
to meet regulatory obligations. 

158

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

As at 31 December 2023 the Board met the UK Listing Rules and FTSE Women Leaders Review targets. Our gender identity and 
ethnicity data reported in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(10) is set out below. Disclosure is based on self-identification through 
information gathering where individuals were provided with the requirements and categories for confirmation of classification. The 
information is reported at 31 December 2023, and remains unchanged at the date of this report.

Gender identity

Men

Women

Not specified/prefer not to say

Ethnic background

Number of 
Board 
members

Percentage 
of the Board

Number of senior 
positions on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage 
of executive 
management

6

5

-

55%

45%

-

2

1

-

9

3

-

75%

25%

-

Number of 
Board 
members

Percentage 
of the Board

Number of senior 
positions on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage 
of executive 
management

White British or other White 
(including minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/ prefer not to say

10

-

1

-

-

-

91%

-

9%

-

-

-

3

-

-

-

-

-

12

-

-

-

-

-

100%

-

-

-

-

-

Diversity and inclusion remained a priority during 2023. IAG’s aim is for both senior leaders and our businesses to reflect the diverse 
communities we work in and to create an environment where individuals feel their unique differences are valued. Beyond gender and 
ethnicity, the Management Committee is comprised of individuals with multiple nationalities (including Spanish, British, American, 
dual Brazilian/Argentinian, Irish and Italian). In addition, most of the executives have multi-jurisdictional backgrounds and/or careers 
which serve to enhance the value that they bring to the Group, its customers and employees. Further information on Board diversity 
is included in the Corporate Governance section of this report. 

The Board and the Nominations Committee are committed to improving diversity, including gender diversity, across the Group, 
encouraging and supporting management actions in this regard. IAG has a target of 40% of senior leadership roles to be held by 
women by 2025. At the end of 2023, IAG had 36% of women in those roles, up from 34% at year end 2022, and on track to achieve 
the 2025 target. In line with the Group’s diversity and inclusion framework and strategy, the Group’s operating companies and 
platform businesses have implemented a range of initiatives to support equity, diversity, and inclusion. 

In 2023, IAG partnered with Green Park, an independent UK-based talent and diversity consultancy, to conduct a survey to better 
understand the composition and diversity of IAG’s senior leadership, going beyond gender to include a broad range of factors 
regarding identity. The survey was voluntary, anonymous and confidential, designed to take into account the legal and cultural 
contexts and regulatory requirements of our key countries of operation. The results are based only on those individuals who 
self-disclosed their data and will provide a baseline of the diversity of IAG’s senior leaders, enabling IAG to track progress over time. 
6% of IAG’s UK senior leaders self-disclosed as ethnically diverse and IAG’s senior leaders globally represent over twenty 
nationalities. To ensure the continued focus on increasing representation, IAG has introduced an ethnic diversity ambition of 10% for 
our UK senior leaders by the end of 2027. Results will be shared with our senior leaders to inform our people strategies and support 
discussions around equity, diversity and inclusion and responses feed into the UK Parker review. 

Further details and explanations of the steps that IAG is taking to promote diversity and inclusion across the Group is set out in the 
People section and the Equity, diversity and inclusion subsection of Sustainability in the Strategic report.

The Committee annual evaluation
The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees was internally facilitated in 2023, following an external 
evaluation in 2022, and as set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

The evaluation concluded that the Committee operated effectively during the year. The Committee continues to maintain as a 
priority its focus on board and management succession planning, including talent retention and development, as well as diversity 
and inclusion, as these are two complex matters where changes are generated over the medium and long term.

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

159

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Safety, 
Environment and 
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee

principal sustainability ratings followed 
by the Company. For the fourth year 
running, we are pleased to have been 
awarded a CDP leadership grade (A-). 
This is the longest leadership performance 
of any airline and recognises the 
continued commitment of IAG in 
addressing its climate change impacts. 

The Committee has been regularly 
updated on the numerous regulatory 
initiatives affecting sustainability. 
In particular, and with the support from 
the Audit and Compliance Committee, 
we also continue to put focus on 
improving our reporting, both internally 
and externally. We are pleased 
with progress being made towards 
a reasonable assurance report being 
provided for our statement of 
non-financial information before 2027. 

Regulatory developments and the 
impact on IAG were a key focus for 
the Committee again this year together 
with consideration of relevant industry 
developments. An external 
benchmarking report provided a good 
base to identify focus areas for future 
management attention, and was well 
received by the Committee. 

In addition to the core work on tracking 
progress against our overall 
sustainability strategy and objectives, 
the Committee had a specific update 
on sustainability matters focused on 
the Group’s suppliers, including modern 
slavery and human trafficking, as 
well as considerations regarding 
payment terms.

The Committee continued its work 
monitoring the safety performance of 
IAG’s airline companies. This included 
the systems and resources dedicated 
to safety activities across the Group. 
In line with the Group’s business model, 
responsibility for safety and security lies 
with each Group airline and is applied in 
accordance with the company’s 
applicable standards, culture and the 
circumstances and characteristics of 
each business. This Committee exercises 
a high-level oversight of safety activities 
to ensure a minimum Group standard, 
supporting the Group homogenisation 
effort in safety reporting, the discussion 
of common issues and the sharing of 
best practices between Group airlines.

Nicola Shaw
Safety, Environment and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee Chair

Committee members

Nicola Shaw (Chair) 

Giles Agutter

Maurice Lam

Robin Phillips

Emilio Saracho

Date appointed

25 February 2021

25 February 2021

17 June 2021

25 February 2021

25 February 2021

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Safety, 
Environment and Corporate 
Responsibility (‘SECR’) Committee 
report for the year ended 31 December 
2023. This report highlights some of our 
work and activities during the year. 

This Committee assists the Board in a 
dual role. Firstly, by providing high-level 
oversight of the Group's safety activities 
and resources, and promoting the 
sharing of knowledge and best practices 
within the Group. Secondly, the 
Committee provides guidance and 
direction on IAG’s sustainability 

programmes and corporate 
responsibility ambitions, ensuring 
alignment to the Group’s sustainability 
strategic priorities.

Based on the conclusions of the 
evaluation of the Committee's 
performance in 2022, we decided 
to restructure the Committee's work 
so that it is more focused, devoting 
two of its four ordinary meetings mainly 
to safety issues and the other two 
to environmental and corporate 
responsibility matters.

As we did last year, the Committee 
reviewed the information on the 

160

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The Safety, Environment, and 
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Committee’s composition, 
competencies and operating rules are 
regulated by article 33 of the Board 
Regulations as well as by the 
Regulations of the SECR Committee. 
A copy of the Board and the SECR 
Committee Regulations can be found 
on the Company’s website.

The Committee shall be made up of 
no less than three directors appointed 
by the Board, with the necessary 
dedication, capacity and experience. 
All the members of the Committee are 
non-executive directors with the 
majority being independent directors.

In addition to the Secretary and Deputy 
Secretary, regular attendees at Committee 
meetings included the Chairman, the 
Group Chief Executive and the Chief 
People, Corporate Affairs and 
Sustainability Officer. Senior managers 
with responsibility for safety matters 
and others in charge of different 
sustainability areas were invited 
to attend specific agenda items as 
required and when relevant.

The Committee’s role 
and responsibilities
The Committee’s role is to support 
and advise the Board in matters relating 
to safety, environment and corporate 
responsibility. Responsibility for safety 
matters belongs to the Group’s airlines. 
IAG, through this Committee, has an 
overall view of each airline’s safety 
performance and of any important 
issues that may affect the industry. 
The Committee also has visibility 
of the Group airlines’ resources 
and procedures. Responsibility for 
performing detailed and technical 
assessments remains with each airline. 
In the areas of environment and 
corporate responsibility, the SECR 
Committee provides a governance 
forum for non-executive directors to 
exercise specific oversight, challenge 
and support to senior management 
in shaping the Group’s sustainability 
strategy, policies and targets, 
buttressing IAG’s vision to be a world’s 
leading airline group on sustainability.

According to its regulations, the SECR 
Committee’s remit includes: 

•  to receive significant safety 

information about IAG’s subsidiaries, 
franchise, codeshare or wet-lease 
providers used by any member 
of the Group

•  to exercise a high-level overview 
of safety activities and resources
•  to review the Group’s strategy and 

policies on social and environmental 
sustainability

•  to evaluate that the Company’s 

environment and social practices are 
in accordance with the established 
strategy and policies

At the July 2023 meeting, the Committee 
invited a representative of the Spanish 
agency "Servicios y Estudios para la 
Navegación Aérea y la Seguridad 
Aeronáutica" (SENASA) to provide the 
Committee with an overview of the 
aviation safety framework from a 
regulatory perspective. Also in the 
regulatory context, the Committee has 
decided to consider on an annual basis, 
in a specific way, the communications 
received from the various regulators 
on the safety performance of each 
of the Group's airlines.

This year, the Committee looked closely 
at the safety issues associated with the 
transport of lithium batteries and the 
approaches taken by the Group's various 
airlines. The Committee was also briefed 
on the operations of the Group in areas 
of conflict. 

Fundamental to our ambition is doing 
business in the right way. This is why 
sustainability is at the heart of our 
strategy as highlighted in November 
at the Capital Markets Day, with a 
dedicated presentation focusing on 
sustainability and the leading position 
that IAG is taking in the industry. 
Attendees were provided with an 
update on IAG’s progress and how 
we are using multiple decarbonisation 
solutions to achieve our net zero 
ambitions by 2050. The support 
of our other stakeholders, including 
policymakers, will be key for the industry.

The Committee’s performance was 
evaluated as part of an internal 
evaluation process. We used this 
opportunity to spend some time 
discussing the work programme and 
adapting it to ensure we continued 
to prioritise the right matters. We also 
agreed to continue to engage with 
external parties including those with 
expertise in the various components 
of our remit to enhance our work. 

I am delighted with the continued 
progress that has been made in the 
past year and look forward to furthering 
our ambitions in 2024. 

Nicola Shaw
Safety, Environment and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee Chair

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

161

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Safety, Environment and Corporate Responsibility Committee continued

Safety
Key topics discussed for each airline 
under their regular safety review include 
information on safety risk management, 
safety culture, operational risks, 
occupational injury risks, as well as 
reported data on aircraft damage. This 
year, the safety managers of each of the 
Group's airlines completed the revision 
of their reporting framework to this 
Committee, in order to homogenise and 
simplify the issues reported by the 
different airlines and to enhance 
comparability and sharing of best 
practices within the Group. In addition to 
this, the Committee considered some 
specific topics, including the Group 
airlines’ preparatory work for the 
transition to new rules regarding 
Continuing Airworthiness Management 
Organisation (CAMO).

A representative from the Spanish 
agency Servicios y Estudios para la 
Navegación Aérea y la Seguridad 
Aeronáutica (SENASA) joined the July 
Committee meeting to make a 
presentation on the aviation general 
safety framework. The Committee also 
devoted part of the same meeting to 
review practices and safety 
considerations for the transport of 
lithium batteries.

Market trends and EU and national 
ESG consultations 
The Committee has been regularly 
updated on any upcoming ESG policy 
consultations at international, EU or 
national level, including the Group’s 
positioning and actions intended in each 
of them. This year this included updates 
on the European Union ‘Fit for 55’ 
package, the UK Jet Zero Council, as 
well as the first meeting of the Spanish 
Alliance for Air Transport Sustainability.

Benchmarking 
At its meeting in May, the Committee 
considered a sustainability benchmarking 
exercise across all ESG factors conducted 
by an international sustainability and 
technology consultancy. The report 
provided an overview of IAG’s position in 
relation to the industry on a range of 
sustainability factors and provided a 
good roadmap for future management 
and Committee focus. 

Waste strategy, performance 
indicators and benchmarking 
The Committee considered an update 
on performance against its waste 
strategy plan adopted in 2021, with 
objectives due to be met by 2025. In 
addition to noting its current 
performance and endorsing the strategic 
objectives in this area, the Committee 
also considered industry developments, 
noting IAG’s performance was positive 
on a relative basis. 

•  to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
Company’s environment and social 
policies, to confirm that they are 
fulfilling its mission to promote the 
corporate interest and catering for, 
as appropriate, the legitimate interests 
of its stakeholders

•  to review the Group’s global 
environment and climate risk 
mitigation strategy, the 
implementation of sustainability 
programmes and any climate-related 
financial disclosure

•  to review the content of the Non-
Financial Information Statement 
or Sustainability report 

•  to monitor and evaluate the 

Company’s interaction with its 
stakeholder groups, including the 
workforce

•  to review the principal environmental, 

social and reputational risks 
•  to review the general diversity 

and inclusion policies 

The Committee’s activities during 
the year
During 2023, the Committee held four 
meetings. Directors’ attendance at these 
meetings is detailed in the Corporate 
Governance report. 

The Committee’s activities during the 
year included:

•  Group airline safety and security 

reviews;

•  review of significant safety and 

security issues;

•  lithium batteries update;
•  review of sustainability and non-
financial information reporting;
•  overview of sustainability trends;
•  Group sustainability strategy, 

including benchmarking;

•  review of sustainability compliance 

and key metrics;

•  IAG waste strategy, performance 
indicators and benchmarking;

•  regulatory updates;
•  review of the annual update to the 
Group Modern Slavery Statement;

•  sustainability risk review; and
•  Modern Slavery and Human 

Rights review.

162

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The Committee annual evaluation 
and priorities for 2024
The annual performance evaluation of 
the Committee was internally facilitated, 
following the external review completed 
in 2022. The evaluation concluded that 
the Committee operated effectively 
during the year. Notwithstanding this, 
the Committee agreed on several 
improvements for the coming year. In 
the area of safety, the Committee will 
analyse the safety corporate governance 
structures both in the different operating 
companies and in other airline groups 
with a view to improving coordination 
with the Group airlines and facilitating 
the exercise by this Committee of its 
general supervisory function. In the area 
of sustainability, the Committee will 
strengthen the focus on sustainable fuels 
and organise a knowledge update 
session in coordination with the Audit 
and Compliance Committee, as was 
done a few years ago. 

Stakeholder Engagement review
At its May meeting, the Committee 
considered a report on engagement 
with sustainability-specific stakeholders, 
industry associations, government 
and regulators, customers, investors, 
workforce and suppliers; going through 
the main objective of this dialogue and 
its impacts. More detail is included in the 
Stakeholder engagement section of the 
annual report. 

Modern slavery review
A session was devoted to updating the 
Committee on modern slavery and 
human trafficking matters within the 
Group, including supplier risks, training 
and information, compliance framework 
as well as the main external 
collaborations on this matter. More 
generally, the Committee was also 
updated on IAG GBS sustainability 
initiatives.

Sustainability risk
As in previous years, the Committee 
reviewed the Group sustainability risk 
assessments for the business plan period 
2024 to 2026 and to 2030, which helped 
the Committee understand the physical, 
policy, market and technology risks that 
the Group has considered could impact 
its sustainability ambitions. Further 
information regarding risks are set out in 
the Risk section of this annual report.

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

163

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Audit and 
Compliance Committee

Margaret Ewing
Audit and Compliance Committee Chair

Committee members

Margaret Ewing (Chair since September 2020)

Peggy Bruzelius

Eva Castillo

Maurice Lam

Date appointed

20 June 2019

31 December 2020

31 December 2020

17 June 2021

Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the report of the Audit and 
Compliance Committee for 2023. The 
Committee continues to play an 
important role in IAG’s governance 
framework, overseeing risk 
management, internal controls, financial 
and non-financial reporting, compliance, 
internal and external audit while also 
closely monitoring the macroeconomic 
and political environment and its impact 
on the business and its risks. This report 
provides an overview of the key matters 
considered in 2023, as well as insight 
into how the Committee has discharged 
its responsibilities and provided 
assurance on the integrity and reporting 
compliance of the 2023 Annual Report 
and Accounts.

The Committee held five planned 
meetings and two brief ad hoc meetings 
(to discuss specific matters such as 
auditor effectiveness) during 2023. The 

key items discussed by the Committee 
in discharging its oversight 
responsibilities and its areas of focus are 
set out in further detail in this report. 

The Group has focused during 2023 on 
reconnecting the world, transformation, 
returning the operations to pre-
COVID-19 capacity and improving 
resilience. As a result the Committee has 
increased its focus on the risk 
management, internal controls and 
financial implications of the strategy 
implementation. The rapidly evolving 
political and economic uncertainty 
arising from the wars in Ukraine and 
Middle East, along with continuing 
inflationary and recessionary pressures, 
has resulted in the need to constantly 
ensure these have been reflected 
by management in risk management, 
financial forecasts, strategic plan, going 
concern and viability assessments. In 
addition, digital security is fundamental 

to the Group’s operational resilience, and 
during 2023 management’s actions to 
improve digital and IT processes and 
systems have remained key areas of 
focus of the Committee.

Throughout 2023, I have maintained 
a dialogue with all members of the 
Committee, management and the 
internal auditors. I have met with 
‘agenda topic owners’ along with other 
Committee members prior to Committee 
meetings, ensuring the Committee 
would be provided with the necessary 
information to enable it to guide, 
challenge, advise and, when required, 
make informed decisions. I also met 
regularly with the lead partners of our 
external auditor, KPMG, and the Head of 
Group Audit.

The Committee ensures the reliability 
of the Group’s financial reporting, and 
compliance with laws and regulations, 
through the internal control framework, 
including the mature Group-wide 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
(ICFR) and risk management 
frameworks. During the year, 
the Committee closely monitored 
developments in and management’s 
response to the UK Government's 
proposed UK Corporate Governance 
Reform agenda, the FRC’s review 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the passing of the UK Economic 
Crime and Corporate Transparency 
Act 2023. While the UK Government's 
proposed reforms and elements of the 
proposed Code changes are not being 
taken forward, the Committee noted 
that key learnings in management’s 
preparation for adoption have 
strengthened the Group’s governance 
and controls.

In 2023, the Committee obtained 
external independent assessments of the 
Group’s whistleblower/speaking up 
programme and ethics and compliance 
maturity, drawing management and the 
Committee’s attention to a number of 
improvement opportunities. 
Management is preparing a programme 
to address the priority findings 
highlighted. This will be a key area of 
focus for the Committee in 2024, 
including monitoring the execution of 
management’s programme supported 
by Internal Audit.

164

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Report of the Audit and Compliance Committee continued

External audit

External auditor key information

Last tender

Transition year

AGM Approval of current auditor (for three years to 31 December) 

First audited Annual Report

Next audit tender required by regulations

2019 – January 2020

2020

September 2020

Year to 31 December 2021

For appointment effective for year to 31 December 2031

The Committee engaged throughout the 
year with KPMG, with the engagement 
partners attending all Committee 
meetings. Following completion of the 
2022 audit, the UK lead audit partner 
retired and Paul Nichols was appointed 
as KPMG’s UK lead audit partner, 
following his shadowing and 
transitioning activities during 2022. 

The Committee Chair met frequently 
with the Group and lead audit partners 
throughout the year to review Group 
developments, audit progress, their 
planned reporting and audit findings. 
The Committee’s key activities in relation 
to its interaction with KPMG included:

•  review of KPMG’s third-year audit 

arrangements and plan, and 
overseeing progress throughout 2023;

•  approval of the 2023 external audit 

plan and strategy including 
consideration of scope, approach and 
methodology, emerging industry and 
Group-specific audit risks and 
materiality. Monitoring the audit plan’s 
implementation, including receiving 
regular reports from KPMG, progress 
against plan in consideration of key 
judgements, audit matters and any 
significant weaknesses detected in the 
internal control environment;

•  discussion, prior to recommendation 
of the financial statements to the 
Board for approval, of the audit 
findings, including audit differences, 
and observations on internal controls, 
operations and resources. This 
included challenging the auditors on 
their conclusions regarding voucher 
revenue recognition discussed in 
significant financial reporting matters. 

•  performing an assessment of the 

effectiveness and independence of 
KPMG, including the quality of the 
2023 audit (throughout the year), 
implementation of improvement 
opportunities identified in the 2022 
effectiveness assessment and 
reviewing and approving the fees and 
terms of reference; and

•  reviewing and approving 2023 

non-audit services expenditure against 
policy and previously determined limit 
guidance. Reviewing and approving 
non-audit services limit guidance and 
expectations for 2024.

External audit scope, materiality and 
execution 
The Committee discussed and agreed 
the scope of the audit with KPMG in May 
including the interim review plan 
(comprising audit testing, risk assurance 
procedures, process walkthroughs, 
control testing and data and analysis 
routines) and ensuring that the audit 
strategy was robust and informed by the 
auditor’s assessment of the Group’s key 
risks, particularly those that are 
significant to the audit. KPMG explained 
to the Committee the key tests that it 
intended performing on the identified 
higher-risk audit areas that could lead to 
material misstatement of the financial 
statements and significantly influenced 
the audit plan. The auditor and the 
Committee confirmed a shared 
understanding of these risks and key 
audit matters, including passenger 
revenue recognition, the carrying value 
of tangible and intangible assets and 
how these were to be considered in the 
audit approach. During the fourth 
quarter, KPMG confirmed that, as a 
result of the forecast Group trading 
results and the headroom on the annual 
impairment assessment, the risk of asset 
impairment was no longer considered to 
be a significant risk.

The auditor confirmed that 100% 
(2022: 99%) of the Group’s forecast 
revenue and 95% (2022: 95%) of the 
Group’s forecast total assets would be 
subject to a full scope audit. The 
Committee agreed, after challenging the 
external auditor as to whether such a 
high level of coverage was required, that 
the approach was appropriate and 
should provide the Board with a high 
level of assurance regarding the integrity 
of the financial statements and 
subsequently approved the audit plan, 
recognising that the plan would evolve 

as the year concluded to reflect any 
changes in circumstances or outlook.

The Committee agreed with KPMG, 
in considering the accuracy of financial 
reporting, the scale of accounting errors 
of lesser significance that were to be 
brought to the Committee’s attention 
and the amounts that would need to be 
adjusted so that the financial statements 
give a true and fair view. The Committee 
agreed with the planning materiality 
based on the forecast results for 2023, 
which the Committee and the auditor 
kept under review during the final 
quarter of 2023 and the final stages of 
the 2023 audit.

External auditor quality and 
effectiveness
The Committee is very focused on audit 
quality and effectiveness, which is 
reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure 
the rigour and challenge of the external 
audit process is maintained. The 
Committee received updates from 
KPMG at five Committee meetings, 
enabling the Committee to assess and 
measure the quality of the audit through 
regularly monitoring the auditor’s 
communications with management 
and the Committee, including discussion 
and challenge during Committee 
meetings, compliance with relevant 
regulatory, ethical and professional 
guidance and assess, on an ongoing 
basis, the audit team’s qualifications, 
expertise, resources, partner 
performance and the effectiveness of 
the audit process. The Committee’s 
assessment included, in addition to its 
own independent assessment, a survey 
as well as detailed discussion with key 
executives and finance staff, which 
demonstrated that the 2023 external 
audit was deemed to be effective, 
robust and of good quality. The 
Committee’s independent assessment 
considered the overall quality of the 
audit, including whether the auditor 
exhibited an appropriate level of 
challenge and scepticism in its work 
and dealings with management and the 
independence of KPMG.

172

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The Committee also assessed the 
depth of review and level of challenge 
provided by the external auditor over 
the significant accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates made by 
management. The Committee felt that 
KPMG challenged management robustly 
on key judgements and estimates, 
accounting treatments and disclosures, 
for example in relation to loyalty 
programme revenue recognition where 
KPMG’s challenge included an evaluation 
of the effectiveness of management’s 
expert, the transition to a new expert 
and modelling. The observations and 
conclusion of the Committee in respect 
of this matter are noted in this 
report above. 

In addition to the annual evaluation 
and regular review of reports to the 
Committee and observations and 
feedback on the working practices of the 
KPMG audit team, the Committee 
undertook an ongoing assessment of 
external audit quality and effectiveness 
including, but not limited to, the following:

•  the Committee oversaw formal terms 
of engagement with the auditor and, 
after significant challenge by 
management as to the composition 
and quantum of the proposed fee 
increase, agreed the audit fee. KPMG 
assured the Committee that despite 
a significant increase compared 
with the 2020, 2021 and 2022 fee, 
the approved 2023 fee was at a level 
that was appropriate for the scope 
of the audit, to enable a quality audit 
to be undertaken;

•  reports from the external auditor 

were reviewed during all Committee 
meetings in 2023 and again in the 
February 2024 Committee meeting, 
covering: the conclusions of the 
review of the Group’s results for the 
half year; audit planning updates; 
interim audit findings (including those 
of the review of the relevant key IT 
general controls); progress update 
for year end matters; and final report 
for year end matters; 

•  KPMG attended all five of the planned 
Committee meetings during the year 
to answer any questions the 
Committee had outside these formal 
updates; and 

•  consideration of the FRC’s most 
recent Audit Quality Review 
conclusions relating to KPMG as a firm 
and any specific findings relating 
to audits led by the lead audit 
partners to IAG.

Taking all aspects of the assessment 
throughout the year into consideration, 
the Committee concluded that it is 
satisfied that the KPMG audit was 
probing, challenging and robust and the 
approach provided a reliable audit 
opinion with a reasonable expectation 
of detecting material errors, irregularities 
and material fraud. The Committee 
considered the external audit to have 
been effective and of a high quality.

External audit tender and transition

2021
KPMG first year of audit 
following the appointment 
approved by shareholders 
in 2020 for the 2021, 2022 
and 2023 financial years

2024
KPMG reappointment to be 
considered and approved 
by shareholders for year 
to 31 December 2024 and 
annually thereafter

2025
Mandatory appointment of 
new external (KPMG) audit 
Spanish lead partner to sign 
off on the 2026 financial year

2030
To comply with the Spanish 
Act 22/2015, a competitive 
tender will be required for 
auditor appointment effective 
for the year to 31 December 
2031 unless carried out earlier

To comply with the Spanish Act 22/2015, the Committee conducted an audit tender process that concluded in January 2020. 
Following KPMG’s appointment (by shareholders) as the external auditor of the Company in 2020 for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, 
the Committee has reviewed and monitored the implementation of KPMG’s transition and audit plans as well as the execution of 
these plans throughout 2023. The Committee considered and recommended to the Board the reappointment of KPMG for 2024.

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

173

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Audit and Compliance Committee continued

External auditor non-audit services and independence 
Non-audit service spend in 2023 is within the total target maximum and was €1,807,000. The Committee concluded that KPMG 
is independent, taking into account the level and nature of non-audit services provided.

IAG non-audit services policy, key features

Pre-approval

All non-audit services require pre-approval in accordance with the table below to ensure services approved are 
consistent with the IAG non-audit services policy for permitted services. This process ensures all services fall 
within the scope of services permitted and pre-approved by the Committee and does not represent a delegation 
of authority for pre-approval.

Value
More than €100,000

Pre-approver
Audit and Compliance Committee Chair and Chief 
Financial Officer

Between €30,000 and €100,000

Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Audit

Less than €30,000

Head of Group Audit

Fee cap 

The guideline amount is set to ensure the total fee payable for non-audit services should not exceed 70% of the 
annual audit fee.

The overall value of fees for work is addressed by a target annual maximum for 2023 of €2.4 million with an 
additional allowance of up to €1.5 million for large projects where the external auditor is uniquely placed to carry 
out the work.

The Committee reviews the nature and volume of the non-audit services undertaken by the external auditor 
on a quarterly basis.

Prohibitions

IAG’s policy includes a list of permitted non-audit services in line with the list of permitted services in the FRC’s 
Revised Ethical Standard 2019. Any service not on this list is prohibited.

All non-audit services over €100,000 are put to competitive tender with other providers, in line with the Group’s 
procurement policy, unless the skills and experience of the external auditor make it the only suitable supplier.

Details of the fees paid to the external auditor during the year can be found in note 7 to the Group financial statements.

174

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Report of the 
Remuneration Committee

Heather Ann McSharry
Remuneration Committee Chair

Committee members

Heather Ann McSharry (Chair)

Eva Castillo

Emilio Saracho

Nicola Shaw

Date appointed

31 December 2020

31 December 2020

20 June 2019

1 January 2018

Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present our 2023 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. This report 
includes both: (i) our 2023 Annual Report 
on Remuneration, detailing how our 
current Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
was implemented during 2023 and our 
proposed approach for 2024; and (ii) our 
proposed Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
that is intended to apply from the date of 
our 2024 Annual General Meeting, in line 
with the three-year cycle in UK and 
Spanish remuneration regulations.

It has been an important year for IAG, in 
which the Group has continued its strong 
recovery after a very difficult period, 
delivering strong financial performance 
and having communicated our updated 
strategic and transformation plans to the 
market. In this context, the Committee 
continued to oversee the implementation 
of the Remuneration Policy during the 
period, focusing in particular on our 

existing remuneration framework and its 
possible evolution in the short and 
medium term. In discharging its 
responsibilities, the Committee has 
remained mindful of the need to 
continue to attract, retain and incentivise 
our senior executives, in what has 
continued to be a dynamic and tight 
labour market, while consistently taking 
into account the wider experience of the 
workforce, our shareholders and all 
other stakeholders.

Performance delivered in 2023
IAG achieved strong operating profits as 
we continue to transform our businesses 
to deliver world-class operating margins 
and returns on invested capital. This 
result led to strong cash generation in 
the year, strengthening our balance 
sheet, with net leverage back within 
IAG’s target range and improved credit 
ratings, and enabling us to invest in 
improving our customer experience.

The Group's performance has been 
against a background of continued 
uncertainty driven by the macroeconomic 
and geopolitical environment.

•  Operating profit before exceptional 

items €3,507 million;

•  Capacity recovered to 95.7% of 2019 

levels and more than 115 million 
passengers flown;

•  Significantly strengthened our balance 

sheet, reducing gross debt by 
€3.9 billion by the end of the year;
•  This improved financial position has 

enabled us to invest in our customers 
and brands, in products, services, and 
IT, as well as adding 32 new fuel-
efficient aircraft to the fleet; and
•  Significant progress towards 2025 
carbon efficiency target as IAG 
continues to lead the industry on 
sustainability

Workforce experience
Our workforce is at the heart of what we 
do, and their hard work has again been 
key to the strong performance we have 
delivered this year. On behalf of the 
Committee, I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank our employees 
across the Group for their ongoing 
effort, flexibility, and commitment.

Our financial performance has enabled 
us to invest more in our people, and we 
have continued to focus on making IAG 
a fair and rewarding place, where our 
people can develop and succeed. In 
2023, our operating companies have 
made investments to improve colleague 
experience and our employee benefit 
packages. This includes enhanced 
flexible benefits offerings, mental and 
physical health offerings and financial 
wellbeing support. 

With respect to workforce remuneration, 
across our operating companies, almost 
90% of our employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements, many 
of which have been under review during 
2023. Each operating company has 
sought to reach collective agreements 
which best support colleagues, whilst 
ensuring the business and pay remains 
competitive and sustainable.

The Committee has received regular 
updates on workforce experience and, in 
particular, on the steps the operating 
companies have taken to support 
colleagues both in terms of cost-of-living 
challenges, and their overall wellbeing. All 
of the members of the Committee 
participate in the Board workforce 
engagement programme and have also 
used this opportunity to engage with 
employees on remuneration matters. 

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

175

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Remuneration Committee continued

The Committee has used these insights 
to ensure our decisions regarding 
executive remuneration take into 
account the approach taken across our 
workforce and reflect the expectations 
of all our stakeholders.

2023 annual incentive outcome
There was no change to our annual 
incentive framework for 2023. 60% of 
the annual incentive was based on 
operating profit before exceptional 
items, 20% on customer NPS, 10% on 
carbon efficiency and 10% on strategic 
and personal objectives.

These measures were chosen to reflect 
the most important priorities of the 
Group for the year, with a focus on 
strong financial performance, delivering 
the best experience for our customers 
and the strategic importance of ESG and 
sustainability to the Group.

The Annual Incentive Plan operated in 
line with our Remuneration Policy and 
reflects the strong execution of our 
strategy in the year. Under the 
scorecard measures, the annual 
incentive outcome was 82.9% of the 
maximum opportunity. Whilst the 
outcome of our customer measure is 
below target, we performed well against 
our financial and carbon measures with 
both paying out at stretch performance. 
Customer continues to remain a key 
area of focus for both the management 
team and the Board. IAG is committed 
to provide a best-in-class customer 
experience and the Group will keep 
investing to further improve it. Full 
details of achievement against targets 
are provided in the variable pay 
outcomes section of this report. 

50% of the CEO’s award will be deferred 
into shares for three years. 

Vesting of the 2021 restricted share 
plan (RSP)
The first restricted share award was 
made in June 2021 and is due to vest in 
June 2024. In advance of this vesting, 
the Committee assessed the 
performance underpin which applies to 
the restricted share awards, taking into 
consideration IAG’s overall financial and 
non-financial performance.

As part of this process, the Committee 
was presented with a framework for it to 
use in order to assess whether the 
performance underpin had been 
satisfied, taking into account the 
performance for the financial years 2021, 
2022 and 2023. This incorporated detail 
on: IAG's financial performance 
(including revenue, profitability, 

operating margin, cash generation, 
return on capital, as well as performance 
relative to sector peers) and IAG's key 
non-financial and operational 
performance measures (including 
progress towards IAG's sustainability 
ambitions and its broader social 
agenda). The purpose of the framework 
was to ensure that the RSP vesting 
outcome can be justified and to guard 
against payment for failure.

The Committee agreed that, based on 
this assessment, the conditions set out in 
the underpin had been satisfied. As a 
result, it is expected that the 2021 RSP 
award for the IAG CEO will vest in full in 
June 2024. The estimated value of the 
award is included in the single total 
figure of remuneration in this year’s 
report. The award is subject to a 
two-year holding period.

Remuneration Policy review
In line with the three-year policy cycle, 
our Directors’ Remuneration Policy is 
due for renewal at our next Annual 
General Meeting in 2024. 

Our current Policy was developed at a 
time when the Group was significantly 
impacted by the biggest crisis the airline 
industry has ever faced. A key challenge 
for us at that time was to ensure that 
our remuneration framework remained 
effective in attracting and, crucially, 
retaining the executive talent necessary 
to drive the recovery of our business. In 
this context, and mindful of the 
challenge of setting long-term 
performance targets, we determined 
that the right approach for IAG was to 
introduce a restricted share plan, which 
would also allow our management team 
to focus on overcoming the crisis, while 
making the right decisions to ensure the 
long-term sustainability of the business. 

The Committee has undertaken a 
thorough review of our existing 
Remuneration Policy during the year, 
considering the Group’s strategic 
priorities, the macroeconomic 
environment, alternative remuneration 
frameworks and the effectiveness of the 
current Remuneration Policy; and 
concluded that the existing Policy 
continues to provide the most 
appropriate framework for aligning 
executive and shareholder interests at 
this time. 

We believe that the current 
macroeconomic and geopolitical 
environment, as the industry continues 
to stabilise post COVID-19, creates a 
level of uncertainty and volatility that 
makes it very challenging to design and 

set appropriate long-term performance 
targets, while effectively incentivising 
and retaining our senior executives. In 
addition, the Committee is mindful of the 
fact that none of the awards under the 
Company’s RSP have yet vested, with 
the first awards vesting in June 2024. As 
we continue to drive the recovery, we 
consider IAG’s RSP will continue to 
ensure focus on the long-term health of 
our business and our strategic 
transformation agenda.

While we propose to retain the current 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy structure 
and framework, we are recommending 
some minor amendments to ensure that 
we remain competitive over the short 
term, the key change being the 
reduction of the annual incentive 
deferral from 50% to 20%, to apply only 
when the executive has met the 
shareholding guidelines (350% of salary 
for the IAG CEO). In this way, any 
reduction in deferral would only apply 
where an executive already has a 
substantial shareholding, therefore 
maintaining alignment with shareholder 
interests. The Committee also considers 
this change is more closely aligned with 
practice amongst our sector and 
Spanish peers, for whom bonus deferral 
is uncommon.

Our proposed 2024 Directors' 
Remuneration Policy can be found at the 
end of this report.

Shareholder engagement
In developing our approach to our 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy review, 
we consulted with our major 
shareholders and main proxy advisory 
bodies. No concerns were raised with 
our Policy proposal, and we received 
valuable questions and feedback which 
will help shape our future discussions. I 
would like to thank all those 
shareholders who engaged with us 
during this process. 

Implementation of the Policy in 2024
Base salary 
The Committee seeks to ensure that the 
salary level for the IAG CEO is 
competitive in the context of a dynamic 
talent market in the geographies in 
which the Group operates and competes 
for talent. At the same time, the 
Committee is mindful of the current 
economic environment, the wider 
stakeholder experience, as well as 
investor and proxy advisor views. 
Following a detailed review, the 
Committee approved a salary increase 
of 4% for the IAG CEO for 2024. This is 
below the average increase for the wider 
workforce, which is more than 5%. 

176

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

This year the Remuneration Committee 
has again sought to take a responsible 
and considered approach to executive 
pay, taking into account the experience 
of our employees, shareholders and key 
stakeholders in the period. The 
Committee considers that the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy operated as 
intended during 2023, and the 
remuneration outcomes are fair and 
appropriate, considering the strong 
performance delivered in the year. I 
hope to receive your support for both 
our Remuneration Report and the 
renewal of our Remuneration Policy at 
our 2024 Annual General Meeting.

Approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by

Heather Ann McSharry
Remuneration Committee Chair

Annual incentive
In 2024, IAG continues to face 
significant uncertainty and volatility 
driven by external factors. In this 
context, we have sought to ensure that 
the annual incentive plan continues to 
align with business priorities and reflect 
the underlying performance of the 
business.

The Committee has decided that the 
maximum annual incentive opportunity 
will remain at 200% of salary for the IAG 
CEO in line with the Policy, and that 
there will be no change to the 
performance measures for 2024, as the 
Committee believes the current 
measures continue to reflect the most 
important priorities of the Group for the 
year ahead. The targets for 2024 will be 
fully disclosed in next year’s report.

Restricted share plan
The Group CEO will receive a restricted 
share award of 150% of salary in March 
2024 under the existing Remuneration 
Policy. The award will vest after three 
years subject to the satisfaction of the 
discretionary performance underpin and 
will also be subject to a holding period 
until five years from grant.

Looking forward
The Committee will continue to review 
the economic and business context and 
consider any changes that might be 
appropriate to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy in the coming 
years. We will consult with our major 
shareholders and the main proxy 
advisory bodies (and seek approvals as 
required) in the next three years, to the 
extent that changes are proposed. As 
the Group returns to strong sustainable 
performance, there may come a time 
when it becomes appropriate to 
incentivise IAG’s management team to 
deliver our long-term financial and 
sustainability ambitions through robust 
long-term incentive targets. It is 
therefore our intention to keep our 
long-term incentive model under review 
to ensure that it remains effective. 

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

177

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Remuneration Committee continued

Remuneration at a glance

IAG Chief Executive Officer

Outcomes for 2023

Implementation in 2024

Proposed changes to Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy

Purpose and link to strategy 
features

Fixed remuneration

Base salary
To attract and retain 
talent to help achieve 
our strategic objectives.

Takes account of factors 
such as role, skills and 
contribution.

From 1 January 2023: £852,800 
(€979,526) (an increase of 4% 
from 2022).

Below the average increase for the 
majority of the wider workforce.

Taxable benefits and Pension-related benefits
Provides basic 
retirement and benefits 
which reflect local 
market practice.

Pension at 12.5% of salary, 
comparable to the rate applicable to 
the majority of the UK workforce. 
Benefits provided as per policy.

Variable remuneration

Annual Incentive Plan
Incentivises annual 
corporate financial and 
non-financial 
performance and the 
delivery of role-specific 
objectives.

The deferred shares 
element aligns the 
interest of executives 
and shareholders and 
provides a retention tool.

For our 2023 bonus, our scorecard 
was weighted to the following 
measures: 60% Operating profit 
(before exceptional items), 20% 
customer NPS, 10% carbon efficiency 
and 10% personal objectives.

Under those scorecard measures, the 
bonus outcome was 82.9% of 
maximum, and thus the 2023 bonus 
amount of £1,414,000.

50% deferred into shares for three 
years.

Long-Term Incentive (RSP)
Incentivises long-term 
shareholder value 
creation, and retention.

The first restricted share award was 
made in June 2021 and is due to vest 
in June 2024. Based on the 
Committee's assessment of the 
performance underpin, the 
Committee expects that the RSP 
award will vest in full. The award will 
be subject to a two-year holding 
period post vesting.

More detail on the Committee's 
assessment can be found later in the 
report.

Shareholding requirement
Provides long-term 
alignment with 
shareholders.

The CEO of IAG is required to build 
up and maintain a shareholding of 
350% of base salary.

No change.

If a broad-based employee 
share plan is implemented, 
Executive Directors will be 
able to participate on the 
same basis as other 
employees.

Proposal to amend the 
approach to deferral of the 
annual incentive. Currently 
executives have to defer 50% 
of any bonus earned into 
shares for three years. We are 
proposing that, if the 
executive has met the 
shareholding guidelines (350% 
of salary for the IAG CEO), 
then the amount deferred 
will be reduced to 20%.

No change.

Following a review, an increase 
of 4% has been awarded. From 
1 January 2024: £886,912 
(€1,018,707).

Below the average increase for 
the wider workforce, which is 
more than 5%.

Benefits to be provided as per 
policy and pension will remain 
unchanged.

Maximum opportunity 
unchanged at 200% of base 
salary.

No change to the scorecard 
measures and weightings for 
2024.

In line with IAG’s remuneration 
policy, a restricted share award 
of 150% of salary will be granted 
to the IAG CEO in 2024. In line 
with previous years, the award 
will vest after three years 
subject to the satisfaction of the 
discretionary performance 
underpin and will also be 
subject to a holding period of 
two years post vesting.

No change to shareholding 
requirements. As at 
31 December 2023 the IAG CEO 
had a shareholding of 518% of 
base salary.

No change.

Malus and clawback provisions apply to Annual Incentive and Long-Term Incentive awards and 
the Committee has discretion to adjust formulaic outcomes to reflect corporate performance and 
broader stakeholders experience.

No change.

The Committee considers that the Directors’ Remuneration Policy operated as intended during 2023.

178

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023 performance and pay outcomes summary

Business performance

Key strategic highlights

•  Strong operating profit and financial performance
•  Strengthen our balance sheet and reinvested in the business
•  Capacity in the fourth quarter at 98.6% of 2019 levels across 

the Group

•  Continued to build a sustainable business (as we continue to 

renew our fleet and to invest in SAF)

Threshold

Target

Stretch

Performance outcomes

Annual Incentive Plan

Financial (60%)

Customer (20%)

Carbon (10%)

Strategic and personal 
(10%)

Key statistics

How we performed in 2023

•  Operating profit before exceptional items €3,507 million 

(+€2,260 million vly)

•  Net debt €9,245 million and Total liquidity €11,624 million 

(-€1,140 million and -€2,375 million vly)
•  Net Promoter Score (NPS) 16.6 (+0.9 vly)
•  Carbon intensity 80.5 gCO2/pkm (-3.6% vly)
•  SAF use (tonnes CO2 saved) 157,100 tonnes

Long-Term Incentive Plan

In 2021 the existing performance share plan was replaced with a 
Restricted Share Plan (RSP). 

Awards vest after three years subject to the satisfaction of the 
discretionary performance underpin and are also subject to a 
holding period of two years post vesting. 

The first restricted share award was made in June 2021 and is 
due to vest in June 2024.

82.9%
Formulaic outcome 
(% of maximum)

-
Committee 
judgement – no 
adjustments

82.9%
Final outcome 
(% of maximum)

The Committee undertook an assessment of the performance 
underpin attached to the restricted share awards made in 2021 
and agreed that, based on this assessment, the conditions set 
out in the underpin had been satisfied. As a result it is expected 
that the award will vest in full in June 2024.

IAG Chief Executive Officer remuneration history (£’000)

2019

£1,093 (€1,243)

£883 (€1,005)

£1,222 (€1,390)

£3,198 (€3,638)

2020

£963 (€1,085)

£963 (€1,085)

2021

£1,110 (€1,286)

£1,110 (€1,286)

2022

£1,208 (€1,419)

£1,369 (€1,608)

£2,577 (€3,026)

2023

£1,024 (€1,176)

£1,414 (€1,624)

£632 (€726)

£3,070 (€3,526)

Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive 

2020: current IAG CEO appointed in September 2020. 
2023: the value shown for Long-term incentive represents the estimated value of the 2021 RSP award. The estimate is based on the award 
vesting in full in June 2024 and on a three-month average share price from 1 October 2023 to 31 December 2023.

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

179

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Remuneration Committee continued

Alignment of IAG remuneration practices 
to Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance Code

UK Corporate Governance Code – Provision 40 

How we have achieved alignment

Clarity

Simplicity

Risk

Predictability

Proportionality

Alignment to culture

Our policy is that Executive Directors only participate in an annual bonus 
and a single restricted share plan, to ensure this simplicity. Incentive 
awards are capped so that the maximum potential award under each plan 
is transparent.

Our policy has improved the ability of participants, employees and 
shareholders to understand executive pay arrangements.

Additionally, the Company continues to make more remuneration analysis 
and information available to both employees and shareholders, via both 
UK and Spanish disclosures.

The design of our policy also ensures independent control over 
remuneration outcomes, with all executive variable pay being awarded on a 
discretionary basis and subject to malus and clawback provisions. Our 
corporate governance structure provides for a crossover in Board 
Committee membership between the Remuneration Committee and the 
Audit and Compliance Committee. This ensures a joined-up view between 
emerging or crystallised risks and remuneration outcomes. 

Our policy identifies the maximum opportunity for each component of 
executive remuneration and also illustrates potential total remuneration 
outcomes in various performance scenarios. These disclosures provide 
transparency around overall opportunities.

Our executive remuneration performance measures and targets are 
transparently disclosed where awards are made, detailing the relationship 
between the performance achieved and the delivery of our long-term 
strategy and the creation of sustainable shareholder value. The transparency 
of this approach supports proportionate remuneration outcomes relative to 
company and individual performance measures, as well as the wider 
performance environment.

The selection and balance of financial and non-financial measures for both 
short- and long-term incentives is designed to reinforce the values and 
behaviours that support the delivery of long-term sustainable returns to 
shareholders. In particular, the RSP, and overall proportion of deferred 
executive pay, enable a focus on transformation and long-term success.

180

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Remuneration Report

Introduction
The Remuneration Committee takes responsibility for the 
preparation of the Report of the Remuneration Committee, 
which is approved by the Board.

The Company’s current policy on Directors’ remuneration was 
approved by shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 
17 June 2021, and amended at the 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting, 
following close consultation with major shareholders.

In line with the three-year cycle in UK and Spanish 
remuneration regulations we will be submitting a new Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy which will be put forward for shareholder 
approval at the 2024 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The 
proposed policy can be found later in this report.

As a Spanish incorporated company, IAG is subject to Spanish 
corporate law. The Spanish legal regime regarding Directors’ 
remuneration is substantially parallel to that of the UK as far as 
Directors' remuneration disclosure and approval requirements 
are concerned.

The Company welcomed the opportunity provided by the 
Spanish CNMV allowing companies to prepare free-format 
reports. Therefore IAG is presenting a consolidated report 
responding to Spanish and UK disclosure requirements. This 
report will be accompanied by a duly completed document 
which is required by the CNMV covering some relevant data. 
This is prepared in accordance with Spanish legislation and is 
available on the Company’s and the CNMV’s respective 
websites.

It is the Company’s intention once again to comply voluntarily 
with all reporting aspects of the UK legislation of 2018, The 
Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations (SI 
2018/860) and The Companies (Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report) Regulations 2019, and to 
follow UK standards of best practice.

In addition to the Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement, 
this Directors’ Remuneration Report contains the Annual 
Report on Remuneration, which covers the information on 
Directors’ remuneration paid in the reported year.

Annual Remuneration Report 
The Annual Remuneration Report sets out how the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy (as approved by shareholders at the 
Shareholders’ Meeting on 17 June 2021 and amended at the 
Shareholders’ Meeting held on 16 June 2022) was implemented 
in 2023 and how our proposed 2024 Directors' Remuneration 
Policy will be implemented in 2024.

The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is regulated by article 32 of the 
IAG Board Regulations and by its own Regulations approved on 
25 February 2021. A copy of these Regulations is available on 
the Company’s website.

Beyond executive directors, the Committee oversees the 
general application of the Remuneration Policy for the 
members of the IAG Management Committee (and considers 
remuneration matters related to other senior managers and the 
broader workforce across the Group).

Article 32 of the Board Regulations ensures that the 
Remuneration Committee shall be made up of no fewer than 
three independent non-executive directors, with the dedication, 
capacity and experience necessary to carry out their function. 
Heather Ann McSharry chairs the Committee and also holds 
Senior Independent Director responsibility. None of the 
Committee members has any personal financial interest, other 
than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided.

In accordance with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Remuneration Committee also has responsibility to review 
workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment 
of incentives and rewards with culture.

Statement of voting
The table below shows the consultative vote on the 2022 Annual Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2023 Shareholders’ Meeting, 
the binding vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Amendments at the 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting and the Directors' 
Remuneration Policy approval at the 2021 Shareholders' Meeting:

2022 Annual Directors’ 
Remuneration Report

Number of votes cast

For

2,287,118,202

2,060,520,717

(100%)

(90.09%)

Against

99,190,323

(4.34%)

2021 Directors’ Remuneration Policy

2,574,695,497

2,407,953,176

149,433,203

(100%)

(93.53%)

(5.80%)

Abstentions

127,407,162

(5.57%)

17,309,118

(0.67%)

2021 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
Amendments

2,048,314,538

1,525,324,299

364,183,944

158,806,295

(100%)

(74.47%)

(17.78%)

(7.75%)

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

181

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportAdvisers to the Committee
The Committee appointed Deloitte as its external adviser 
in September 2016. Deloitte reports directly to the Committee. 
The fees paid to Deloitte for advice provided to the 
Remuneration Committee during 2023 were £111,574 (€128,154), 
charged on a time and materials basis. Deloitte is a member of 
the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to the 
voluntary UK Code of Conduct. As well as advising the 
Remuneration Committee, other Deloitte teams provided 
advisory services to other parts of the Group in 2023. The 
Committee has reviewed the remuneration advice provided by 
Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been 
objective and independent.

In addition to Deloitte providing the Remuneration Committee 
with market updates on pay themes, the Committee also 
received market data and insights from other specialist 
consultants such as Aon, PwC and Willis Towers Watson 
in 2023.

Report of the Remuneration Committee continued

The Committee’s activities during the year
In 2023, the Committee met five times (four scheduled 
meetings and an extraordinary meeting held in early July 
focused on reviewing the Remuneration Policy) and discussed, 
amongst others, the following matters:

Meeting

Agenda items discussed

January

•  Review of the feedback from the investors’ 

engagement process

•  2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report and 

Non-Financial Information Statements

•  2022 Annual Incentive Plan update
•  Management Committee pay benchmarking 

review

•  IAG CEO 2023 base salary review
•  Approval of grants under the Restricted Share 

Plan (RSP)

•  Share ownership update: Review of executive 
holdings, share awards authority and dilution 
limits

February

•  Review of the 2022 Annual incentive outturn
•  Vesting outcome of the 2020 Performance 

Share Plan (PSP) award

•  Approval of the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration 

Report

•  Approval of the 2023 Annual Incentive Plan
•  2023 Management Committee role-specific 

objectives

•  Approval of share awards for senior executives 
and delegation of authority for future awards

May

•  2023 Annual Incentive Plan update
•  Approval of remuneration for a new 
Management Committee member

•  Authorisation for the allotment of shares for IAG 

share plans

July

•  Review of market trends and feedback from 

investors after the 2023 AGM

•  Initial review of IAG executive directors’ 

Remuneration Policy

•  IAG CEO compensation benchmarking review
•  Approval of remuneration for new IAG 

Management Committee members

October

•  Market update on executive remuneration 

trends

•  2023 Annual Incentive Plan update
•  Workforce remuneration update
•  Remuneration strategy for 2024
•  IAG executive directors’ Remuneration Policy 

proposal for consultation

•  Review of non-executive director fees

182

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Single total figure of remuneration for the Executive Director
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration breakdown for the IAG CEO, who was the only executive director 
during 2023. An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.

Base salary

Benefits

Pension

Total fixed

Annual incentive

Cash

Deferred into shares for three years

Long-term incentive2

Total variable

Single figure

CEO: Luis Gallego

£’0001

€’0001

2023

853

64

107

1,024

1,414

707

707

632

2,046

3,070

2022

820

285

103

1,208

1,369

685

685

-

1,369

2,577

2023

980

74

122

1,176

1,624

812

812

726

2,350

3,526

2022

963

334

121

1,418

1,608

804

804

-

1,608

3,026

1  Remuneration is paid to the Executive Director in pound sterling and expressed in euro for information purposes only.
2  2023 Long-term incentive: the value shown in this table represents the estimated value of the 2021 RSP award granted in June 2021, which is 

expected to vest in full in June 2024. The estimate is based on a three-month average share price from 1 October 2023 to 31 December 2023 of 152 
pence. Note that the value shown in this table differs from the value shown in the CNMV Statistical Annex accompanied to this report, as the 
reporting criteria established by the CNMV differ from those used in this table.

Additional explanations in respect of the single total figure table for 2023
Only the current IAG CEO, Luis Gallego, served as an executive director in 2023. As the sole executive director, the IAG CEO 
has confirmed in writing that he has not received any other items in the nature of remuneration other than those already disclosed 
in the table above.

Base salary
The values shown represent the actual salary paid to the IAG CEO for each performance year. 

January 2022 marked the first point at which the IAG CEO received full contractual salary of £820,000 since appointment, following 
COVID-19 pandemic related salary reductions made since he assumed the CEO role, demonstrating the significant length of time pay 
reductions were in place.

For 2023, an increase of 4% was awarded, the first increase since appointment in 2020 and below the average increase for the wider 
workforce, which was more than 6%.

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include the provision of a company car, a fuel allowance, executive support services and private health insurances.

As disclosed in our 2022 Directors’ remuneration report, from January 2021 until December 2022 the IAG CEO was eligible for a 
transitionary allowance of £250,000 p.a. (gross), to reflect that as a result of his role he and his family now live in the UK. This 
allowance provided a two-year fixed period of transitionary support and considered that the IAG CEO continued to personally 
maintain a base in Madrid given the Company’s significant operations and business in Spain. The value of the transitionary allowance 
was not included in the calculation of any pension, incentive or other benefit values. Payment of the transitionary allowance ceased 
in December 2022.

Pension-related benefits
Employer’s contribution to pension scheme and/or cash in lieu of pension contribution.

Annual Incentive Plan
For our 2023 bonus, our scorecard was weighted to the following measures: 60% Operating profit (before exceptional items), 20% 
customer NPS, 10% carbon efficiency and 10% personal and strategic objectives.

Under those scorecard measures, the bonus outcome was 82.9% of maximum. The outcomes of the performance conditions which 
determined the award are described in detail later in the report. 

Under the current policy, 50% of any Annual Incentive award for executive directors is made in deferred shares under the Executive 
Share Plan. Under this plan, shares are deferred for three years from date of grant.

For 2022, the bonus outcome was 83.5% of maximum. Half of the annual incentive was deferred into shares for three years; these will 
vest in March 2026. 

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

183

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Remuneration Committee continued

Long-term incentive vesting
In 2021 the existing performance share plan was replaced with a Restricted Share Plan (RSP). The first award was made to the IAG 
CEO in June 2021 and is due to vest in June 2024.

The Committee undertook an assessment of the performance underpin attached to the restricted share awards made in 2021 and 
agreed that, based on this assessment, the conditions set out in the underpin had been satisfied. As a result it is expected that the 
award will vest in full in June 2024.

More detail on the Committee's assessment can be found later on in the report.

Share price appreciation and depreciation
There is no value attributable to share price appreciation.

The Committee has not exercised any discretion as a result of share price appreciation or depreciation for any of the remuneration in 
the above table.

Life insurance
The Company provides life insurance and accidental death cover for executive directors. For the year ended 31 December 2023 the 
Company paid life insurance premium contributions of €17,050 (2022: €14,493).

Exchange rate for 2023
For the year to 31 December 2023, £:€ exchange rate applied is 1.1486 (2022: 1.1744).

Variable pay outcomes 
2023 Annual Incentive Plan
The IAG Annual Incentive Plan supports the business strategy through incentivising the delivery of identified priorities within the 
reporting period. The composition of measures selected reflects the most important priorities for the Group for the year to deliver 
long-term sustainable returns. For 2023, the Board at the beginning of the year, following a recommendation by the Committee, set 
the following measures:

Weighting

60% Financial 

20% Customer 

KPI

Description

IAG Operating profit (before 
exceptional items)

Group Net Promoter Score by 
relevance (NPS)

For 2023 it was considered that Operating profit continued to 
be the most appropriate financial KPI in aligning shareholder 
interest with the Company

NPS is used to gauge the loyalty and experience of the Group’s 
customer relationships. It is calculated based on survey 
responses to the likelihood to recommend, by subtracting the 
percentage of customers who are ‘Detractors’ from the 
percentage of customers who are ‘Promoters’

The weighting of each airline towards the overall NPS score 
reflects the Group's areas of focus for 2023

This measure reflects our progress towards our Flightpath Net 
Zero 2050 commitment; it measures the fuel efficiency of our 
flight operations, taking account of our network, aircraft mix 
and passenger load factors

10% IAG-specific carbon 
efficiency measure

Group grammes of CO2 per 
passenger kilometre (gCO2/ 
pKm)

10% Strategic and personal

Recover capacity

Ensure IAG is able to operate closer to 2019 capacity

Recover profitability

Transform IAG

Growth in shareholder value

Procurement

People

Sustainability

Government affairs

Ensure IAG delivers improved profitability and drives operating 
margin improvements

Define and implement key projects that transform cost, 
customer experience and culture

Define medium-term strategic plan that creates shareholder 
value, strengthen’s IAG’s position in key markets and improves 
IAG’s capital position

Leverage Group’s scale to drive right long-term strategic 
partnerships and supplier value

Build culture and capability to underpin the Group’s long-term 
success, ensuring IAG can attract, retain and engage diverse 
talent

Enable IAG to lead the aviation industry on sustainability, and 
secure access to alternative fuels to support our net zero 
ambitions

Work with governments, industry associations, and other 
stakeholders to ensure the right foundations are in place to 
enable IAG to deliver its strategic goals

184

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

IAG CEO annual incentive plan – performance against targets
Under the policy, the IAG CEO has a maximum annual incentive opportunity of 200% of contractual salary. The below table details 
the approved 2023 performance measures and the Board's assessment of both company and individual IAG CEO performance: 

Threshold

Target

At which 
payments 
begin (20% 
pay-out)

(50% 
pay-out)

Stretch

Max 
pay-out 
(100% 
pay-out)

1,469

2,098

2,727

Performance 
delivered

Payout % of 
maximum 
for each 
measure

Weighted 
Payout %

CEO 
incentive 
outcome 
(£’000)

Category

Measure 

type Weighting

Operating 
profit before 
exceptional 
items 
(€m)

Financial 
measures 2023

60%

3,507

100%

60%

£1,023

Description of performance
In 2023, the Group benefited from its high-quality and increasingly diverse revenue stream, with recovery seen in all our businesses 
and with particular strength in Spain and the North and South Atlantic. Passenger capacity operated across the year was close to 
the levels operated in 2019 before the COVID-19 pandemic and we were able to generate higher unit revenues than in 2019, which 
offset higher fuel costs and supplier cost inflation. The results was a strong operating profit before exceptional items for the year of 
€3,507 million, versus a target of €2,098 million. 

16.0

24.0

30.0

Customer 

2023

NPS1

20%

16.57

22%

4.4%

£75

Description of performance
The outcome for 2023 was 16.57 vs a target of 24.0. Disruptions, stemming from diverse factors such as air traffic control failures, strikes, 
adverse weather events, supply chain challenges, and baggage issues across key airports impacted negatively our NPS. To mitigate this 
impact our airlines responded proactively to these challenges through initiatives and transformation plans aimed at improving on-time 
performance and all baggage-related processes, among others. Positive impacts to our NPS can be attributed to substantial investment 
in our cabins and cabin product, the enhancement of food and drink offering, the effort to digitalise the customer journey, and the 
improvements in customer care. NPS continues to be a key area of focus for both management team and the Board.

1  For the purpose of the annual incentive award, the weighting of each airline towards the overall NPS score reflects the Group's areas of focus for 2023. 

83.5

82.0

80.5

Carbon 

2023

gCO2/pKm

10%

80.5

100%

10%

£171

Description of performance
The outcome for 2023 was 80.5 vs a target of 82.0. IAG is targeting net zero emissions by 2050 across its Scope 1, 2, and 3 
emissions. IAG’s interim targets are an 11% improvement in fuel efficiency 2019-2025, a 20% drop in net Scope 1 and 3 emissions 
2019-30, and 10% SAF in 2030.

IAG is on track to deliver its 2025, 2030 and 2050 climate targets by carrying out emission reduction initiatives, working in 
collaboration with key stakeholders and proactively advocating for supportive government policy and technology development. 
Key measures to reduce emissions are fleet modernisation, sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), market-based measures including the 
UK and EU ETS and CORSIA, and carbon removals. 

Strategic 
and 
personal 
objectives

As described in 
the table in the 
previous page 

10%

Low 
(0% to 
40%)

Good 
to high 
(45% to 
65%)

Exceptional 
(70% to 
100%)

Exceptional

85%

8.5%

£145

Description of performance
The Committee and the Board considered the CEO’s performance against the KPIs set out on the previous page and assessed his 
performance against each of those indicators. The IAG CEO has led the group’s recovery with passenger capacity close to pre-
pandemic levels and with strong operating profits. He has led the transformation of IAG, strengthening IAG’s position in core 
markets, delivering world-class operating margins and returns on invested capital. This result led to strong cash generation in the 
year, strengthening our balance sheet and with a clear plan and delivery against key transformation initiatives. This is a significant 
achievement particularly given the continued economic uncertainty and challenges faced across the year. The IAG CEO has also 
driven progress across the ESG agenda, increasing diversity and bench-strength of IAG’s senior leadership, and making significant 
progress towards its 2025 carbon efficiency target.

Total

100%

82.9%

£1,414

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

185

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic Report 
 
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued

Half of the overall outcome of the annual incentive detailed above is payable in deferred shares in the Company vesting after three 
years (under the Executive Share Plan).

For all measures, there was a straight-line sliding scale between the threshold level and the on-target level, and between the 
on-target level and the stretch target level.

2023 CEO performance annual incentive award outcome

Formulaic scorecard 
outcome
82.9%
% of Maximum

Remuneration 
Committee judgement
–
No adjustment

Final scorecard outcome 
as % of maximum

Maximum bonus opportunity 
(% of base pay)

Base pay (£’000)

82.9%

X

200%

X

£853

=

2023 Annual Incentive Award 
(£’000 shown in single 
figure table)

£1,414
€1,624

IAG Restricted Share Plan (RSP) awards
The RSP was introduced from 2021 to increase the alignment of both interests and outcomes between the Group’s senior 
management and shareholders through the build-up and maintenance of senior management shareholdings and an increased focus 
on the long-term, sustainable performance of the Company. The simplified structure and transparency of the RSP in comparison to 
the Performance Share Plan, also provided a better basis to attract and retain senior management talent.

A three-year vesting period and further two-year holding period applies to RSP awards for executive directors, with vesting being 
dependent upon a satisfactory review of the discretionary underpin by the Remuneration Committee. 

Malus and clawback provisions apply to RSP awards enabling the reduction of awards so far as nil value to further ensure that 
corporate or individual failure is not rewarded under the plan.

186

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2021 Restricted Share Plan (RSP) award vesting
The first restricted share award was made in June 2021 and is due to vest in June 2024. In advance of the award vesting, the 
Committee undertook an assessment of the performance underpin which applies to the restricted share award and considers IAG’s 
overall financial and non-financial performance.

As part of this process, the Committee was presented with a framework to assess whether the underpin had been satisfied, taking 
into account the overall performance for the financial years 2021, 2022, and 2023. The different elements considered included:

•  The overall financial results for the period including IAG’s recovery from the pandemic. The Committee’s assessment took into 

account overall profitability, operating margins (including against comparable airlines), revenue, cash generation, return on capital 
and the Company’s investment in fleet, customer and transformation. The Committee was satisfied that the conditions of the 
underpin in this regard had been satisfied.

•  The Group's performance against key non-financial and operational performance measures, including progress towards IAG's 

sustainability ambitions and its broader social agenda (including diversity and inclusion). The Committee was satisfied that the 
conditions of the underpin in this regard had been satisfied.

•  IAG’s risk context, where the Group’s overall performance has been fundamentally in line with its approved risk appetite and 

internal control framework and no material issues have been identified.

•  The Group’s wider stakeholder experience in the period, which does not give rise to any material concerns.

The purpose of the framework was to ensure that the RSP outcome can be justified and to guard against payment for failure. 
The Committee agreed that, based on this assessment, the conditions set out in the underpin had been satisfied. As a result, 
it is expected that the 2021 RSP award will vest in full in June 2024. The award is subject to a two-year holding period.

2021 RSP (number of shares awarded)

Estimated share price1

Award shown in the single figure table (£’000)

414,954

x

£1.5223

=

£632
€726

1  Value shown represents the estimated value of the 2021 RSP award. The estimate is based on the award vesting in full in June 2024 and on a 

three-month average share price from 1 October 2023 to 31 December 2023.

Scheme interests awarded during the financial year 2023 Restricted Share Plan (RSP)

Type of award

Company shares 

Basis of determination 
of the size of award

Awards only made to consistently high-performing executives within key roles who have the potential to 
take on greater organisational responsibility and whom the Company wishes to retain for the long term.

Executive Director 
award face value

Date of grant

Grant price 

Vesting period

Holding period

Discretionary underpin 
description

IAG CEO (Luis Gallego) – 150% of base salary

13 March 2023

£1.53

Three years: 13 March 2023 to 13 March 2026

Two years: 13 March 2026 to 13 March 2028 

No performance measures are associated with the awards. Vesting will be contingent on the satisfaction of 
a discretionary underpin, normally assessed over three financial years commencing from the financial year 
in which the award was granted. In assessing the underpin, the Committee will consider the Company’s 
overall performance, including financial and non-financial performance measures, as well as any material 
risk or regulatory failures identified. Financial performance may include elements such as revenue, 
profitability, cash generation, return on capital and benchmarked with comparable airlines. Non-financial 
performance may include a range of operational and strategic measures critical to the Company’s long-
term sustainable success. This assessment will ensure any value delivered to executive directors is fair and 
appropriate in the context of the performance of the business and experience of our stakeholders and that 
corporate or individual failure is not rewarded. In the case of significant failure on the part of the Company 
or the individual, vesting may be reduced, including to nil. Full disclosure of the Remuneration Committee’s 
considerations in assessing the underpin will be disclosed in the relevant Directors’ Remuneration Report.

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

187

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Remuneration Committee continued

Total pension entitlements
Luis Gallego is not a member of the Company’s pension scheme and the Company, therefore, did not pay any contributions in his 
time as an executive director during the reporting period (1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023). He received cash in lieu of 
contributions of £106,600. This value is equivalent to 12.5% of base salary paid during the financial year and is comparable to the rate 
for the majority of the UK workforce.

Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests
In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, executive directors are required to build up and maintain a 
minimum personal shareholding in the Company.

Under the Group’s shareholding guidelines, the IAG CEO is required to build up and maintain a shareholding of 350% of salary and 
other executive directors are required to build up and maintain a shareholding of 200% of basic salary.

In addition, executive directors are required to retain all shares received via incentive plans until 100% of their shareholding 
requirement is attained.

The Committee has reviewed the IAG CEO’s progress against the requirement and notes that he is compliant with the policy 
requirement.

CEO, Luis Gallego

Policy requirement

3.5 times salary

Actual

5.18 times salary (1,475,751 shares)

Shares which qualify towards the Policy include shares already held by the executive, vested and exercised shares, vested and 
unexercised shares including those in the performance share plan holding period, vested shares in the restricted share plan holding 
period and unvested deferred annual incentive shares.

The chart and table below summarise current executive directors’ interests as of 31 December 2023:

Shareholding %
of Base Salary

85%

293%

97%

43%

518%

Shareholding requirement

Shares owned
Shares already vested, or in the holding period, from performance share plans
Shares already vested from deferred annual incentive plans
Vested shares from restricted share plan
Unvested shares from deferred annual incentive plans

Executive 
Director

Shareholding 
requirement

Shares 
owned

Shares already 
vested, or in the 
holding period, 
from performance 
share plans

Shares already 
vested from 
deferred annual 
incentive plans

Vested 
shares from 
restricted 
share plan

Unvested shares 
from deferred 
annual incentive 
plans

Luis 
Gallego

350% 
of salary

403,834

557,207

277,619

0

237,091

Total  

qualifying
shares held1

1,475,751 
(518% of 
salary)

Consequence 
of a +/- €0.5 
share price 
change (€)

737,875

1  In accordance with the Policy, the share price used to calculate the percentage of salary guideline is either the share price on the date of award or on 

the date of vesting/exercise.

On departure, executive directors will be required to hold the number of shares in line with their in-employment shareholding 
requirement (or the number of shares that they own at departure if lower) for two years from their date of termination from the 
Group. Shares will normally be retained in the nominee account administered by the Company to ensure this.

188

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

External non-executive directorship
The Company’s consent is required before an executive director can accept an external non-executive appointment and permission 
is only given in appropriate circumstances. The current executive director has no external non-executive appointments.

IAG CEO remuneration history 
The table below shows the IAG CEO single total figure of remuneration for the latest ten-year rolling period:

2014 Willie Walsh

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020 Willie Walsh

Luis Gallego

Luis Gallego

2021

2022

2023

IAG CEO – total single 
figure of remuneration

Annual incentive payment as a 
percentage of the maximum

Long-term incentive vesting as a 
percentage of the maximum

£6,390,000

£6,455,000

£2,462,000

£3,954,000

£3,030,000

£3,198,000

£662,000

£301,000

£1,110,000

£2,577,000

£3,070,000

97.78% of maximum

80.00% of maximum

33.33% of maximum

92.92% of maximum

61.85% of maximum

51.97% of maximum

85.00% of maximum

100.00% of maximum

50.00% of maximum

66.67% of maximum

46.19% of maximum

72.11% of maximum

No annual incentive payment

Zero vesting of long–term incentives

No annual incentive payment

Zero vesting of long–term incentives

No annual incentive payment

Zero vesting of long–term incentives

83.5% of maximum

82.9% of maximum

Zero vesting of long–term incentives
-1

1  2023 Long-Term incentive: from 2021, restricted share awards were granted to the IAG CEO which have no performance conditions and vest subject 
to the satisfaction of performance underpins. The value of the restricted share awards are included in the single total figure table in the relevant year

Single total figure of remuneration includes basic salary, taxable benefits, pension-related benefits, Annual Incentive Award and 
Long-Term incentive vesting. 

IAG’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance compared to the FTSE 100
The chart below shows the value by 31 December 2023 of a hypothetical £100 invested in IAG shares on listing compared with the 
value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 index over the same period. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial 
year ends. A spot share price has been taken on the date of listing, and a three-month average has been taken prior to the year ends.

The FTSE 100 was selected because it is a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent, and the index is widely 
recognised.

300

250

200

150

100

50

0
Jan 2014

Dec 2014

Dec 2015

Dec 2016

Dec 2017

Dec 2018

Dec 2019

Dec 2020

Dec 2021

Dec 2022

Dec 2023

IAG

FTSE 100

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

189

Financial StatementsCorporate GovernanceStrategic ReportReport of the Remuneration Committee continued

Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are paid a flat fee each year, as per the following table. 

Role

Non-executive Chairman

Non-executive directors

2023 Fee

2024 Fee

€645,000

€645,000

€120,000

€120,000

Additional fee for holding the Chair of the Audit and Compliance Committee and of the Remuneration 
Committee

€20,000

€30,000

Additional fee for holding the Chair of the Nominations Committee and of the Safety, Environment 
and Corporate Responsibility Committee

Additional fee for Senior Independent Director

€20,000

€30,000

€20,000

€30,000

The fees for non-executive directors were reviewed in October 2023. The fees for the position of non-executive director will remain 
unchanged for 2024, as they have been since 2011.

However, the Board, with the favourable report from the Remuneration Committee, agreed that the additional fee for holding the 
Chair of a Committee would increase to €30,000, with effect from 1 January 2024, for the Chair of the Audit and Compliance 
Committee and of the Remuneration Committee. This more closely reflects the complexity and time commitment of these roles.

Single total figure of remuneration for each non-executive director
The total remuneration of each of the non-executive directors for the years ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 is set 
out in the table below.

Director (€'000)

Javier Ferrán1
Heather Ann McSharry1

Giles Agutter

Peggy Bruzelius

Eva Castillo

Margaret Ewing

Maurice Lam

Robin Phillips

Emilio Saracho

Nicola Shaw

Alberto Terol

Total (€’000)

2023

Taxable 
benefits

8

3

0

4

2

4

9

18

11

4

-

63

Fees

645

170

120

120

120

140

120

120

120

140

-

1,815

Total

653

173

120

124

122

144

129

138

131

144

-

2022

Taxable 
benefits

5

6

0

0

2

3

12

4

11

12

17

Fees

645

147

120

120

120

140

120

120

120

140

79

Total

650

153

120

120

122

143

132

124

131

152

96

1,878

1,871

72

1,943

1  Heather Ann McSharry was appointed Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair in June 2022.
2  Alberto Terol stepped down from the Board in June 2022 and his fees reflect a part year of service. Received no fees in 2023.

Additional explanations in respect of the single total figure table for each non-executive director
Each non-executive director has confirmed in writing that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration 
other than those already disclosed in the table above.

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits for non-executive directors relate to personal travel benefits.

Exchange rates
For the year to 31 December 2023, £:€ exchange rate applied is 1.1486 (2022: 1.1744).

190

International Airlines Group | Annual Report and Accounts 2023

