S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Board of Directors and Company Secretary continued

C. Steven Boyes
Chief Operating Officer 
and Deputy Chief 
Executive 

H   S   W
Appointed:
Steven joined the Board as an 
Executive Director in July 2001, 
Chief Operating Officer in July 
2012 and Deputy Chief 
Executive in February 2016. He 
is responsible for the Group’s 
housebuilding operations and 
the newly acquired land 
promotion business, Gladman 
Developments Limited.

Skills and 
qualifications:
Steven has over 40 years’ 
experience in the housebuilding 
industry, having joined as a 
junior quantity surveyor in 
1978. He progressed through 
the business to assume the 
roles of Technical Director and 
Managing Director of Barratt 
York, before being appointed 
Regional Director for Barratt 
Northern in 1999. Steven was 
previously a Trustee of the UK 
Green Building Council.

External 
appointments:
Steven holds no 
external appointments.

A. Caroline Silver
Chair 

B. David Thomas
Chief Executive 

D   S   W
Appointed:
David joined the Board as an 
Executive Director and Group 
Finance Director in July 2009, 
and was appointed Chief 
Executive in July 2015. 

Skills and 
qualifications:
David brings significant 
leadership and finance 
experience acquired over 
several years in senior 
positions, and is an Associate 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and 
Wales. He was previously Group 
Finance Director and Deputy 
Chief Executive of The GAME 
Group plc, and Group Finance 
Director at Millennium and 
Copthorne Hotels plc. He has 
also held senior financial roles 
with House of Fraser plc and 
Forte plc. David stepped down 
as a trustee of the Barratt 
Developments PLC Charitable 
Foundation in April 2023.

External 
appointments:
David is a Non-Executive 
Director of the HBF, Chair 
of the Future Homes Hub, 
a representative on the Green 
Jobs Delivery Group, a member 
of the Net Zero Buildings 
Council and a Senior Adviser 
to the Construction 
Leadership Council.

N   R
Appointed:
Caroline joined the Board on 
1 June 2023, succeeding John 
Allan as Non-Executive Chair 
on 30 June 2023. She became 
Designated Non-Executive 
Director for Workforce 
Engagement in July 2023.

Skills and 
qualifications:
Caroline brings a wealth of 
knowledge and experience 
to the Board across a number 
of commercial, financial, 
investment banking, 
governance and board 
leadership roles. Caroline was 
Chair of PZ Cussons PLC until 
31 March 2023 and was 
Non-Executive Director of 
Meggitt PLC and M&G PLC. She 
served on the Board of the 
London Ambulance Service 
NHS Trust and as a trustee 
of the Victoria and Albert 
Museum. She spent over 
30 years in the investment 
banking sector, holding senior 
corporate finance and M&A 
positions at Morgan Stanley 
and Merrill Lynch, and until 
2020, was a partner and 
managing director at Moelis & 
Company. Caroline started her 
career as a Chartered 
Accountant at PwC.

External 
appointments:
Caroline is currently a 
Non-Executive Director 
at Tesco PLC, BUPA and 
Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. 
She is also a member of the 
International Advisory Board 
of Adobe Inc, a member of the 
V&A Foundation, and Chair 
of the Audit Committee of the 
National Film and 
Television School.

D. Mike Scott
Chief Financial Officer 

E. Katie Bickerstaffe
Non-Executive Director 

F. Jasi Halai
Non-Executive Director 

G. Jock Lennox
Senior Independent 
Director 

H. Chris Weston
Non-Executive Director 

I. Tina Bains
Company Secretary 

D  
Appointed: 
Mike joined the Board as 
an Executive Director and 
Chief Financial Officer in 
December 2021.

Skills and 
qualifications: 
Mike has extensive experience 
in the housebuilding sector and 
is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales. He was 
previously Chief Financial 
Officer of Countryside 
Properties PLC, having joined 
as Group Financial Controller 
in 2014. Prior to this, Mike held 
a number of senior finance 
roles at J. Sainsbury Plc, 
including latterly as Head of 
Investor Relations, and spent 
11 years at PwC. 

External 
appointments:
Mike holds no 
external appointments.

A   N   R   S  
Appointed: 
Katie joined the Board as 
a Non-Executive Director on 
1 March 2021 and took over 
as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee with effect from 
4 May 2021.

Skills and 
qualifications: 
Katie brings extensive business 
transformation experience 
together with considerable 
digital expertise. She was a 
Non-Executive Director at 
Marks and Spencer Group PLC, 
and previously Executive Chair 
of SSE Energy Services, where 
she led its separation from SSE 
plc and subsequent sale to OVO 
Group Ltd. She was also a 
Non-Executive Director of SSE 
Plc and Chair of its 
Remuneration Committee until 
2018. Prior to this, she worked 
in a variety of general 
management roles in retail 
and manufacturing businesses.

External 
appointments:
Katie was appointed as 
Co-Chief Executive of Marks 
and Spencer Group PLC in May 
2022 and is also a Non-
Executive Director of the 
England and Wales Cricket 
Board, where she was 
appointed the Senior 
Independent Director 
in May 2023.

D   S  
Appointed: 
Tina was appointed to the 
role of Company Secretary 
in January 2016.

Skills and 
qualifications: 
Tina joined the Group in 
2008 as Assistant Company 
Secretary, and was promoted to 
the role of Deputy Company 
Secretary in 2011. Prior to this, 
Tina held various Company 
Secretarial positions within the 
private and professional 
services sectors including TMF 
Corporate Secretarial Services 
Limited and Ernst & Young LLP. 
Tina is a Fellow of the 
Corporate Governance Institute.

External 
appointments:
Tina is a Trustee of the 
Barratt Developments PLC 
Charitable Foundation.

A   N   R   S  
Appointed:
Jasi joined the Board 
on 1 January 2023.

Skills and 
qualifications: 
Jasi brings considerable 
financial and business skills 
and experience which 
complement those of other 
Board members. She is a 
Chartered Management 
Accountant and holds an MSc 
in investment management 
from the CASS Business 
School. Before being appointed 
to the Board of 3i Group plc, 
she held a variety of posts 
there, most recently as Group 
Financial Controller. She was 
also a Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit 
Committee at Porvair Plc until 
January 2023.

External 
appointments
Jasi is currently Chief 
Operating Officer and an 
Executive Director of 3i Group 
plc, and is also a member of 
the 3i Executive, Investment, 
Group Risk and 
ESG Committees.

A   N   R   S  
Appointed: 
Jock joined the Board as 
a Non-Executive Director in 
July 2016 and became Senior 
Independent Director on 
4 May 2021.

Skills and 
qualifications: 
Jock, a Chartered Accountant, 
brings significant business and 
finance experience to the 
Board. He was Chairman of Hill 
and Smith Holdings plc and 
Enquest plc, stepping down 
from both positions in 2019. 
Jock was previously Senior 
Independent Director of Oxford 
Instruments plc and 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit 
Committees of Dixons 
Carphone plc and A&J Mucklow 
Group plc. He spent 30 years 
with Ernst & Young LLP, 
holding several leadership 
positions in the UK and 
globally, including 20 years 
as a partner.

External 
appointments:
Jock was appointed Chairman 
of Johnson Service Group PLC 
in May 2021. He is also 
currently Chair of the Audit 
Committee Chairs’ Independent 
Forum, and has indicated his 
intention to step down from this 
role during September 2023.

A   N   R   H  
Appointed:
Chris joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director on 
1 March 2021 and took over as 
Chair of the Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee with 
effect from 4 May 2021.

Skills and 
qualifications: 
Chris brings to the Board 
considerable commercial 
experience, driving 
performance and growth, 
including as former Chief 
Executive Officer at Aggreko 
Limited and as Managing 
Director, International 
Downstream at Centrica plc. 
Chris joined Centrica after a 
successful career in the 
telecoms industry working for 
Cable & Wireless Plc and One.
Tel. Until June 2023, Chris was 
also a Non-Executive Director 
on the board of the Royal Navy.

External 
appointments:
Chris was appointed a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Sportquest Holidays Ltd in 
August 2023.

A

N

Audit Committee

Nomination 

Committee

R

Remuneration 

Committee

D

Disclosure 

Committee

H

Safety, Health 

and Environment 

Committee

S

Sustainability 

Committee

W

Workforce 

Forum

Chair of 

Committee

Other Directors who served during FY23
John Allan
Non-Executive Chairman 

N   R
John joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in 
August 2014 and became 
Chairman in November 2014. 
He stepped down as Chairman 
and as a Non-Executive 
Director on 30 June 2023, 
having served nine years on 
the Board.

104

John brought significant 
board, business and retail 
experience gained from both 
the commercial and financial 
sectors. John was Chairman of 
Tesco PLC until 16 June 2023, 
President of the CBI from 2018 
to 2020, stepping down to 
become Vice President until 
October 2021. He was CEO 
of Exel PLC and, when it was 
acquired by Deutsche Post 

in 2005, he joined the board of 
Deutsche Post, becoming CFO 
in 2007 until his retirement in 
2009. John was also chair of 
Dixons Retail plc and, following 
its merger with Carphone 
Warehouse, was deputy chair 
and senior independent 
director of Dixons Carphone 
until 2015. He had previously 
held a number of other 
non-executive directorships

of Worldpay Group PLC 
(where he was previously 
Chair), National Grid plc, the 
UK Home Office Supervisory 
Board, 3i plc, PHS Group plc, 
Connell plc, Royal Mail plc, 
Wolseley plc and Hamleys plc, 
and chair of London First. John 
is currently Chair of the Council 
at Imperial College.

Nina Bibby
Non-Executive Director 

A   N   R  
Nina joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in 
December 2012 and did not 
stand for re-election at the 
2022 AGM. 

Nina brought a wealth of 
marketing experience to the 
Board. She was formerly 
Chief Marketing Officer at O2 
(Telefonica UK) until July 2021, 
and Global Chief Marketing 

Sharon White
Non-Executive Director 

A   N   R   W  
Sharon joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in 
January 2018 and became 
Designated Non-Executive 
Director for Workforce 
Engagement in May 2021. 
She stepped down from these 
positions on 30 June 2023.

Sharon brought to the Board 
over 25 years’ experience in the 
public sector, combined with

Officer at Barclaycard, the 
payments subsidiary of 
Barclays plc, until 2013. 
Previously Nina had been 
Senior Vice President, Global 
Brand Management at 
InterContinental Hotels Group 
plc, and Commercial Strategy 
Director at Diageo plc. Nina is 
currently Senior Vice President 
of Consumer Segment 
Marketing at Verizon.

Policy Unit, the World Bank 
and various Government 
departments including the 
Department for International 
Development, the Department 
of Work and Pensions and the 
Ministry of Justice. 

strong employee stakeholder 
experience, as Chairman of the 
John Lewis Partnership, the 
UK’s largest employee-owned 
business. Her previous roles 
included Chief Executive of 
Ofcom and Director General, 
Public Spending and Second 
Permanent Secretary to HM 
Treasury. She had also held 
roles at the British Embassy 
in Washington, the No 10

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

105

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Executive Committee

Regional Managing Directors

A

B

C

Executive Committee
The Executive Committee currently comprises of: 

David Thomas
Chief Executive

Steven Boyes
Chief Operating Officer and Deputy 
Chief Executive

Mike Scott
Chief Financial Officer 

Tina Bains
Company Secretary

Bukky Bird
Group Sustainability Director

Tim Collins
Group Corporate Affairs Director

Jeremy Hipkiss
Group Customer and Change Director

Biographies for David, Steven, Mike 
and Tina can be found on pages 104 
and 105.

The biographies for Bukky, Tim 
and Jeremy are as follows:

A. Tim Collins 
Group Corporate Affairs Director 

B. Bukky Bird 
Group Sustainability Director 

C. Jeremy Hipkiss 
Group Customer and Change Director

Tim is responsible for the Group’s internal and external 
communications and public affairs. He is also a Trustee 
of the Barratt Developments PLC Charitable Foundation. 

Bukky is responsible for the Group’s sustainability 
strategy and its delivery. She is a member of the 
Sustainability Committee.

Career and experience: 
Tim joined the Group in 2014 as a regional Head of 
Communications, before becoming Group Head of 
Corporate Communications in 2016. He was appointed 
to his current role and joined the Executive Committee 
in September 2022. Tim brings significant political and 
industry experience, having held the roles of Deputy 
Director of Communications at the Conservative Party, 
Chief of Staff to the Shadow Housing Minister and 
Deputy Director External Affairs at the HBF. Tim has 
a Law degree from University College London.

Career and experience: 
Bukky joined the Group in 2020 and was appointed 
to the Executive Committee in September 2022. 
She brings a breadth of experience acquired from 
leadership roles in strategy, sustainability, business 
transformation, engineering, construction and retail 
operations. She was previously Chief of Staff to the 
Group CEO at Tesco PLC, as well as the Engineering 
and Sustainability Director, and before that she worked 
at WSP Group PLC where she held senior commercial 
and technical roles. Bukky is a qualified Mechanical 
Engineer and also holds a Master’s degree in Environmental 
Design and Engineering, both from UCL.

Jeremy is responsible for the Group’s customer 
journey, including sales, marketing and customer 
experience strategy and delivery. In addition, Jeremy 
has executive responsibility for IT and business change. 
He is also a member of the Sustainability Committee 
and a Trustee of the Barratt Developments PLC 
Charitable Foundation.

Career and experience: 
Jeremy joined the Group in 2008 and has wide 
experience in customer experience, marketing and 
retail operations, having held a similar role at the Spirit 
Group. Prior to that, Jeremy worked for Allied Domecq 
PLC and Marston’s PLC, having graduated in economics 
from the University of Leeds. 

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

The Group operates through six geographic housebuilding regions, along with a commercial division, Wilson Bowden Developments, and a land promoter Gladman 
Developments. The Regional Managing Directors, Managing Director of Wilson Bowden Developments and Managing Director of Gladman Developments are as follows:

A. Doug McLeod 
Regional Managing Director – 
Scotland 

B. Mike Roberts 
Regional Managing Director – 
Northern 

C. David Hesson 
Regional Managing Director – 
Central 

D. Mark Bailey 
Regional Managing Director - 
East 

Doug is responsible for the Group’s 
operations in the Scotland Region, 
which consists of three divisions and 
our timber frame operation at Oregon. 

Career and experience: 
Doug joined the Group in January 1974. 
Formerly Regional Director of Barratt 
Scotland and Managing Director of 
Barratt North Scotland, he was 
appointed to his current role in 
January 2017.

Mike is responsible for the Group’s 
operations in the Northern Region, 
which consists of five divisions. He 
is also responsible for the Group’s 
commercial function. 

Career and experience: 
Mike joined the Group in June 2004. 
Formerly Managing Director of Barratt 
North East, he was appointed to his 
current role in January 2017.

David is responsible for the Group’s 
operations in the Central Region, which 
consists of five divisions. From July 
2022, he took over responsibility for 
Barratt Partnerships and is also 
responsible for Group Major Projects.

Mark has assumed responsibility for the 
Group’s operations in the East Region 
following Richard Brooke’s retirement 
on 31 December 2022. The region 
consists of six divisions and BD Living, 
our wardrobe manufacturing factory.

Career and experience: 
David joined the Group in March 2020 as 
Regional Director, and was appointed to 
his current position in April 2021.

Career and experience: 
Mark joined the Group in 2012 as 
Managing Director for the Kent Division, 
having previously worked at Redeham 
Homes which he owned and where he 
was Managing Director. He was 
appointed Regional Director of the 
Southern Region in October 2016 and 
then Group Projects Managing Director 
in July 2022. Mark was appointed as 
Regional Managing Director – East in 
January 2023. 

E. Victoria Hesson 
Managing Director – 
Gladman Developments  

F. Russell Glimstead 
Regional Managing Director – 
West  

G. Gary Ennis 
Regional Managing Director – 
London and Southern 

H. Nick Richardson 
Managing Director – 
Wilson Bowden Developments 

Vicky joined Barratt on the acquisition 
of Gladman Developments, the land 
promotion business acquired by Barratt 
in January 2022. In addition to Gladman, 
she also provides advice on the Group’s 
wider strategic land holdings.

Career and experience: 
Vicky has over 20 years’ experience 
in the housebuilding industry and has 
held various roles within other 
housebuilders prior to joining Gladman 
in 2013. She has a degree in Architecture 
and a Master’s degree in Town and 
Regional Planning and is a Chartered 
Member of the Royal Town 
Planning Institute.

Russell is responsible for the Group’s West 
Region, which consists of four divisions.

Career and experience: 
Russell joined the Group in 2007 
following the acquisition of Wilson 
Bowden plc. Formerly Managing 
Director of Barratt Bristol, he was 
appointed to his current role of Regional 
Managing Director for the West Region 
in July 2022.

Gary is currently responsible for the 
Group’s operations in the London and 
Southern Regions, consisting of six 
divisions (two in London and four 
in Southern). 

Career and experience: 
Gary joined the Group in 1995. Formerly 
Managing Director of Barratt North 
London, he was appointed Regional 
Managing Director of Southern in 
January 2006 and of London in 
October 2016.

Nick is responsible for the Group’s 
commercial business, Wilson 
Bowden Developments.

Career and experience: 
Nick joined Wilson Bowden plc in 1991 
and was appointed to his current role 
in 1999. Nick joined the Group in 
2007 following the acquisition of 
Wilson Bowden plc. Nick is a 
Chartered Surveyor.

106

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

107

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
S

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Corporate Governance Report
Introduction and overview

Governance at a glance

Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance
The Company is subject to the Code, which was issued by the 
FRC in 2018. The Code can be found on the FRC’s website,  
www.frc.org.uk. The Board confirms that, throughout the year 
ended 30 June 2023, and as at the date of this report, the 
Company has applied all of the principles and complied with all 
relevant provisions set out in the Code, except for Provision 38 
(Executive Directors’ pension contributions). As set out on page 
138 the Company complied with this provision with effect from 
1 January 2023 and is therefore now fully compliant. This 
report, together with the reports from the Nomination, Audit, 
SHE and Remuneration Committees and the other statutory 
disclosures, provides details of how the Company has applied 
the principles of the Code (pages 102 to 171). The Company has 
also complied with the relevant requirements of the FCA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the FCA’s Listing Rules, 
BEIS’s Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations and 
Narrative Reporting Regulations and the FRC’s Guidance on 
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting. The Company’s Board diversity statement 
and associated data is included in the Nomination Committee 
Report on page 120. 

Highlights

During the year, the Board:

 ∙ agreed the recruitment of a new Chair and Non-Executive 

Director;

 ∙  agreed a 604 unit private rental transaction with CITRA Living;

 ∙ established a new purpose and values for launch in FY24;

 ∙ reviewed capital structure and completed a share 

buyback programme;

 ∙ monitored progress on the Diversity and Inclusion strategy; and 

 ∙ signed the Building Safety Long Form Agreement 

and the Scottish Safer Buildings Accord.

Caroline Silver
Chair

Key stats

Gender diversity

62+

 Male 
 Female 

Independence

T 13+

62.5%
37.5%

Board tenure

T 62+

12.5%
37.5%

 0-3 years 
 3-6 years 
  6+ years 

 Chair 
 Executive Directors 
  Independent  
Non-Executive Directors 50.0%

62.5%
0.0%
37.5%

Board and Committee attendance 
During FY23 the Board held ten meetings. Attendance by each Director while they were a member is set out in the table below. 
The Board, led by Jock Lennox as Senior Independent Director, also attended three additional meetings during the year to discuss 
the acceleration of the planned Chair Succession1. Attendance at each of the Board Committee meetings is shown on page 116 
(Nomination Committee), page 124 (Audit Committee), page 133 (SHE Committee) and page 137 (Remuneration Committee).

 Attended 

 Did not attend

Board

John Allan – Chair

Caroline Silver2 – Chair

David Thomas – Chief Executive

Steven Boyes – Chief Operating Officer and Deputy Chief Executive

Mike Scott – Chief Financial Officer

Katie Bickerstaffe – Non-Executive Director

Jasi Halai3 – Non-Executive Director

Jock Lennox – Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 

Chris Weston3 – Non-Executive Director

Nina Bibby4 – Non-Executive Director

Sharon White5 – Non-Executive Director

1   John Allan did not attend any meetings or parts thereof at which his succession was being discussed and stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2023.

2   Caroline Silver joined the Board on 1 June 2023 and took over as Chair on 30 June 2023.

3   Jasi Halai (who was appointed on 1 January 2023) and Chris Weston were unable to attend the January Board meeting due to a prior commitment. Prior to 
the meeting, Jasi and Chris provided their views on the meeting agenda which were shared with the other Board members during the meeting. Following 
the meeting they were briefed on the business of the meeting and any decisions taken.

 4   Nina Bibby did not offer herself for re-election and stepped down from the Board at the AGM in October 2022.

5   Sharon White stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2023. Sharon was unable to attend the June meeting due to another commitment. Prior to the 

meeting Sharon provided her views on the meeting agenda which were shared with the other Board members during the meeting. Following the meeting 
Sharon was briefed on the business of the meeting and any decisions taken.

108

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

109

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38
+
37
+
50
+
0
+
38
+
T
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Corporate Governance Report continued

Strategic priorities

Strategic principles

Implementation of the Code
Section of the Code

Board leadership and company purpose

The Board:

i. 

 is responsible for the long-term sustainable 
success of the Company, determines 
purpose, values and strategy and models the 
Group’s culture;

ii. 

 ensures the necessary resources are available 
to the Group; and

iii. 

 engages with stakeholders to inform its decisions.

Division of responsibilities

The Chair leads the Board, the Executive Directors 
manage the business on a day-to-day basis, and 
the Non-Executive Directors provide constructive 
challenge and strategic guidance.

Board policies and processes are in place to ensure 
that the Board functions effectively and efficiently.

Composition, succession and evaluation

The Board regularly reviews its composition to 
ensure it remains balanced. 

Board appointments are subject to a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure, and an effective 
succession plan is maintained for the Board and 
Senior Management. 

The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its 
own effectiveness, that of its committees and of 
individual Directors. 

Audit, risk and internal control

The Board is mindful of the risk environment in 
which it operates when making any decisions and 
has established formal and transparent policies 
and procedures to ensure independence and 
effectiveness of internal and external audit functions. 

The Board satisfies itself on the integrity of the 
financial and narrative statements, and that they 
present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. 

It maintains sound risk management and internal 
control systems and regularly reviews the principal 
and emerging risks impacting the business. 

The Board assesses the appropriate appetite for risk 
in striving to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives.

Remuneration

The Board, through its Remuneration Committee, 
determines Director and Senior Management 
remuneration policy and practice in a way 
that supports the successful delivery of the 
Group’s strategy and promotes its long-term 
sustainable success.

The Board ensures Executive remuneration 
is aligned to the Group’s purpose and values.

110

How we have applied the Code

Further information

This section details the main activities and outcomes of the Board 
in FY23 and how governance contributes to strategy.

The Nomination Committee Report describes management 
of conflicts of interest.

The Group’s purpose, strategy, Section 172 Statement and 
information on stakeholder engagement (including engagement 
with shareholders and employees) are set out in the Strategic 
Report. The Group’s culture and values are set out in this report.

 Pages 111  

 Page 118 

 Pages 2 to 70

 Page 112

This section outlines:

 ∙ Board balance, the division of responsibilities and 

delegations; and 

 Pages 113 to 114 

 ∙ Chair and Non-Executive Director independence.

 Page 115

Membership of and attendance at the Board is given in Governance 
at a glance, and for the committees in the introductions to each 
of the relevant committee reports.

  Pages 109, 116, 
124.133 and 137

This section details:

 ∙ the main activities of the Nomination Committee and 

their outcomes;

 Page 116 

 ∙ the process for Board appointments, succession planning 

and promotion of diversity and inclusion; and

 Pages 117 to 121 

 ∙ Board and committee evaluation actions and outcomes.

Information on the composition of the Board can be found in 
Governance at a glance and the Nomination Committee Report.

 Pages 122 to 123

 Pages 109 and 116

This section summarises:

 ∙ the main activities of the Audit Committee and their outcomes;

 Page 127

 ∙ the significant issues the Audit Committee considered regarding 

 Page 127 and 128 

the Financial Statements and how they were addressed;

 ∙ systems for risk management and internal control and the 

 Pages 129 and 130 

Audit Committee’s review of their effectiveness; and

 ∙ the Audit Committee’s assessment of the independence and 

 Pages 130 to 132 

effectiveness of the external audit process and the reappointment 
of the external auditor. 

The Directors’ Statement of Responsibility for a fair, balanced and 
understandable Annual Report and Accounts can be found at the 
end of the Directors’ Report. 

 Page 171 

The Board’s assessment of the Group’s emerging and principal 
risks and information on how these are being managed, together 
with the Viability and Going Concern Statements, can be found 
in the Strategic Report.

 Pages 71 to 100 

This section sets out:

 ∙ information on the Group’s remuneration policy; 

 ∙ how it was operated during FY23, including performance-
based remuneration outcomes, and how independent 
judgement and discretion, if any, was applied; and

 Pages 142 to 154

  Pages 159 to 163

 ∙ how the remuneration policy will be applied in FY24.

  Pages 156 to 158

Great places

Investing in our people

Leading construction

Customer first

1  Keeping people safe

4  Safeguarding the environment 

2   Being a trusted partner

5   Ensuring the financial health 

3   Building strong community 

of the business

relationships

Main activities undertaken during the financial year
The Board follows an annual agenda to ensure that all key matters are allocated adequate time for discussion. The routine 
duties of the Board are detailed in the schedule of matters reserved to the Board (which can be found on the Company’s website 
at www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance). A description of the key non-routine activities of the 
Board during the year and how these contributed to the delivery of strategy are as follows:

Key activities and discussions in FY23 and outcomes

Purpose, 
strategy, values 
and culture
Link to strategic priorities  
and principles:

1

2

5

Link to risk:

C

J

Considered and approved proposals for a new Purpose and Values for the Group for launch in FY24. 

Reinstated regional visits following COVID and attended sites within the London and Central regions. The Board met 
with Senior Management and site and sales office employees who provided an overview of the regional, divisional and 
site operations respectively. This enabled the Board to gain a better understanding of how culture is embedded in the 
business, and the challenges they face on a day-to-day basis. 

Considered the outcome of a review of its Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, approved the 
statement for publication and requested further work was undertaken to obtain positive confirmation the policies 
were being adhered to across the Group. The statement can be found on the home page of the Barratt website at 
www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk. 

Considered progress on diversity and inclusion within the business and discussed ways in which this can be further 
embedded in the business including establishing challenging targets for executive and senior management remuneration.

As part of its discussions on driving sales within the current market conditions, the Board explored opportunities 
within the private rental sector. Accordingly, it agreed a contract to sell 604 homes to Citra Living, a subsidiary of 
Lloyds Bank, see page 26 for further details.

Business 
performance 
and resourcing
Link to strategic priorities  
and principles:

1

2

4

5

Link to risk:

A

B

D

F

K

Approved multiple investments in land. Further information can be found on pages 26 and 27.

Monitored the progress of the Sustainability Committee in embedding sustainability in the Group’s culture and strategy.

Reviewed business resilience in light of the uncertain market conditions and agreed a number of mitigating activities 
(further information can be found on page 53.

Reviewed the SHE plan of work, enforcement agency interventions, site monitoring, and IIR. Key areas of future focus 
were agreed and are set out on pages 133 to 136. 

Discussed Non-Executive Director succession, and the acceleration of the planned Chair succession. Approved the 
appointment of a new Non-Executive Director and Chair Designate, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.

Reviewed the existing Revolving Credit Facility and agreed to extend it to 2025, linked to internal sustainability targets.

Discussed the allocation of capital and dividend policy and agreed and completed a share buyback programme 
to return up to £200m of surplus capital to shareholders. 

Risk management 
and internal 
controls
Link to strategic priorities  
and principles:

Reviewed the Company’s appetite for risk, identified emerging risks and reassessed the impact and likelihood 
of principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business. 

Agreed for management to co-operate with the CMA on their market study into land banking and planning, and 
to attend four deep dive sessions to provide the CMA with a better insight into the areas of land banks, planning, 
competition and management companies. 

Following signature of the Building Safety Pledge to address fire safety issues on buildings 11 metres and above 
in FY22, carefully considered the implications of entering into the Building Safety Pledge – Long Form Agreement 
and determined that it was in the best interests of the Company and its stakeholders to do so. 

Signed up to the Scottish Safer Building Accord, committing to remediate life-critical fire safety works in buildings 
over 11 metres that we have developed or refurbished over the last 30 years in Scotland.

1

2

3

5

Link to risk:

F

G

I

Stakeholder 
engagement
Link to strategic priorities  
and principles:

Reviewed relationships with stakeholders and their views and focus for engagement going forward. 

Reviewed the customer journey and suggested a number of elements for possible change.

Considered how to support employees through the cost of living crisis and agreed monetary support 
for all employees below senior leadership level to the end of June 2023.

Undertook a corporate broker tender, and appointed UBS as joint corporate broker with Credit Suisse Group AG. 
Following the merger of our joint brokers later in the year, appointed Barclays Bank PLC as joint broker in June 2023.

Further details of engagement with our key stakeholders can be found on pages 54 to 65.

1

2

5

Link to risk:

C

E

H

Principal risks
A   Economic environment 

E   Supply chain resilience

B   Land and planning

F   Legacy properties

C  

 Government regulation 
and political risk

D   Construction quality and innovation

G   Safety, health and environment

H  

 Attracting and retaining high-
calibre employees

I

J  

Information technology

 Environmental, social 
and governance 

K   Business resilience and continuity 

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

111

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Corporate Governance Report continued
Board leadership and company purpose

Culture in the workplace 

The Board sets the culture and tone from the top. It is responsible for ensuring that the right culture is embedded throughout the 
business, including in our dealings with stakeholders. It derives from our Vision and Purpose, which has been undergoing a review 
with the outcome due to be announced later in FY24. A strong culture that furthers our purpose, and is firmly embedded across the 
workforce, underpins our success through the following values agreed by the Board.

Our culture

Do the right thing
Ensure what we do is in line with 
our policies and procedures, and 
in the interests of our stakeholders.

Customer focus
Strive to meet the expectations 
and needs of our customers, 
both internal and external. 

Resilience and adaptability
Look for innovative ways to 
improve efficiencies across the 
organisation and recognise there 
is always room for improvement. 
Be willing to change the way we do 
things to meet the requirements 
of stakeholders and those set by 
legislation or regulation. 

Pride in what we do
Aim to operate in a way that 
satisfies the expectations of 
our stakeholders particularly 
in terms of quality and service. 

Culture in action: We have always believed leaseholders should not have to pay for necessary 
remediation to fix building safety issues, caused by the design, construction or refurbishment 
of their buildings. Following our signing last year of the Building Safety Pledge, we joined the 
first wave of developers to sign the Scottish Safer Buildings Accord developer commitment 
letter, further details of which can be found on pages 68 and 221. We have developed a model 
with the government to support the resettlement of Afghan refugees with 19 homes identified in 
tranche 1, and tranche 2 launched since the end of FY23. We are discussing ways to encourage 
other housebuilders to participate in the model. Further information on how we look after the 
interests of our stakeholders can be found on pages 57 and 58.

Culture in action: During FY23, we continued to monitor the impact of rising mortgage rates 
on our customers. Consequently, we adjusted the level of incentives on offer in order to better 
serve customers facing cost of living challenges. We also relaunched the Key Worker Deposit 
Contribution scheme, which was due to come to an end this year. We continue to engage with 
mortgage providers on Green mortgages, which would reward customers for purchasing our 
houses which are all EPC rated B or above. We have recently announced an agreement with 
Citra to develop a further 604 much needed high quality sustainable homes for private rental 
Further details can be found on page 26.

Culture in action: Customer demand for housing declined during FY23, and after satisfying 
the forward order book in the first half of the year, our teams switched their focus to carefully 
managing build cost inflation and maintaining disciplined investment in work in progress 
to match the fall in market demand. 

Culture in action: We have won multiple awards throughout FY23 for quality and service, 
including an HBF 5 star rating for the 14th consecutive year, and 96 NHBC Pride in the Job 
awards. These are detailed on page 15. We are particularly proud to be leading the industry 
in sustainability, including participation in the eHome2 project researching and testing new 
methods of construction to sustainably mitigate the effects of climate change.

How the Board measures and assesses culture
The Board measures and assesses culture using both 
internal and external KPIs, as follows:

 ∙ Safety, health and the environment – there is zero tolerance 
towards breaches relating to the health and safety of our 
employees, suppliers, sub-contractors and the general public. 
The Group is also conscious of the impact that its operations 
have on the environment. The Board is updated regularly on 
health, safety and environmental matters, and on any new or 
ongoing investigations and their outcomes. The SHE Audit 
compliance KPI, which underpins the quality and service annual 
bonus performance measure, is set out on page 17, and other 
environmental and safety targets are detailed on pages 16 and 
17. 

 ∙ Customer satisfaction – this is assessed using customer care 
survey responses and recommendation scores (KPIs can 
be found on page 16), which form part of the annual bonus 
performance measures for Executive Directors, and awards 
such as the HBF 5 star rating and NHBC Pride in the Job 
awards (details of which can be found on page 15), all of 
which are regularly reported to the Board. 

 ∙ Employee engagement survey – a survey is conducted annually 
to assess how the business is meeting the expectations of its 
employees. It also contains several culture-related questions, 
to monitor and assess how well the culture is embedded. The 
results of the survey are reviewed by the Executive Committee 
and Senior Management team, as well as by the local teams, 
with key findings reported to the Board. The outcome of our 
latest employee engagement survey is detailed on page 35.

 ∙ Employee retention – our employees are our greatest asset. 

It is important that we do everything that we can to retain them, 
and this is one of the pillars of our people strategy. The Board 
monitors employee leaver numbers and reasons, and the steps 
being taken to attract, recruit and retain employees. 

 ∙ Policies and procedures compliance – core governance 

policies are reviewed annually by the Board with employees 
required to regularly complete a variety of e-learning modules. 
Completion levels are reported to the Board. Business policies, 
processes and procedures are reviewed regularly. Our internal 
audit team conduct regular reviews of compliance with policies, 
processes and procedures, and test that they remain up to date. 
The team’s findings are reported to the Audit Committee and 
ultimately to the Board. The internal audit team also provides 
updates to the Audit Committee on any matters raised via the 
Group’s whistleblowing procedure (see page 130).

Board balance

Board roles and their responsibilities

Chair 
Caroline Silver
 ∙ Leads the Board in the achievement of its objectives, sets its 

agenda and chairs its meetings.

 ∙ Shapes the culture in the Boardroom.

 ∙ Responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and its 

governance.

Senior Independent Director
Jock Lennox
The following are in addition to his role and responsibilities 
as an Independent Non-Executive Director.

 ∙ Available to shareholders, when required, to address any 
material issues or concerns which the Chair and/or Chief 
Executive have failed to resolve. 

 ∙ Facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors 

and constructive relations between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors.

 ∙ Available to shareholders, when required, to listen to their 
views to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and 
concerns.

 ∙ Ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.

 ∙ Responsible for arranging inductions and continued 

development for the Directors.

 ∙ Evaluates the performance of the Chair, at least annually, with 

the Non-Executive Directors, and leads the process for 
the Chair’s succession.

 ∙ Ensures effective communication with shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and participates in corporate relations activities.

 ∙ Acts as a sounding board for the Chair and, if necessary, 

an intermediary for the other Directors.

Chief Financial Officer 
Mike Scott 
 ∙ Develops and implements the Group’s 

financial strategy and policies.

 ∙ Responsible for the management 
of the finance, tax, internal audit, 
treasury and investor relations 
functions.

 ∙ Supports the Chief Executive with his 
corporate relations responsibilities 
with shareholders and other 
stakeholders.

 ∙ Manages the Group’s relationship with 

the external auditor.

 ∙ Manages the Group’s relationships 

with its lending banks.

 ∙ Chairs the Risk Committee.

 ∙ Co-chairs the Workforce Forum.

Chief Executive
David Thomas
 ∙ Develops the Group’s strategy for the 

enhancement of long-term shareholder 
return taking into account the needs of 
the Group’s stakeholders.

 ∙ Leads the implementation of the Group’s 

strategy approved by the Board.

 ∙ Responsible for the day-to-day 

leadership and management of the 
operational activities of the Group in 
accordance with overall strategy and 
policy as determined by the Board.

 ∙ Chairs the Executive Committee through 

which he carries out his duties.

 ∙ Oversees corporate relations with 

shareholders and other stakeholders.

 ∙ Responsible to the Board for 

sustainability policies and practices 
of the Group.

 ∙ Co-chairs the Workforce Forum.

Chief Operating Officer and 
Deputy Chief Executive 
Steven Boyes
 ∙ Responsible for the Group’s 

operations.

 ∙ Day-to-day responsibility for safety, 
health and environment issues, 
promoting the well-being of 
employees.

 ∙ Responsible for our procurement 
function and our land promoter 
business.

 ∙ Responsible for ensuring stakeholder 

requirements are appropriately 
addressed.

 ∙ Chairs the Operations Committee 

meetings, the other members of which 
include the Regional Managing 
Directors.

 ∙ Co-chairs the Workforce Forum.

Independent Non-Executive Directors 
Katie Bickerstaffe, Jasi Halai, Jock Lennox and Chris Weston1
 ∙ Provide an appropriate level of scrutiny, and constructively 
challenge the Executive Directors, holding management to 
account and ensuring the needs of stakeholders are 
appropriately considered.

 ∙ Using the broad range of their experience and external 

perspective, provide specialist advice and an independent 
perspective in developing strategy.

 ∙ Monitor the implementation of the Group’s strategy within 
its risk and control framework and ensure the integrity of 
financial reporting.

 ∙ Ensure that recruitment and succession planning is appropriate 

and mindful of diversity and balance.

 ∙ Review and refresh Remuneration Policy in the context of 

stakeholder interests, and ensure it is implemented appropriately.

1   Nina Bibby and Sharon White were Independent Non-Executive Directors 
during the year but stepped down on 17 October 2022 and 30 June 2023 
respectively. Caroline Silver was an Independent Non-Executive Director 
from 1 June 2023 to 30 June 2023 when she succeeded John Allan as Chair.

Company Secretary 
Tina Bains
 ∙ Supports the Chair and Chief Executive in fulfilling their 
duties especially in respect of induction, training and 
Board and Committee effectiveness evaluations.

 ∙ Available to all Directors for advice and support.

 ∙ Keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters 

and best practice.

 ∙ Ensures Group policies and procedures are maintained 

and updated on a regular basis.

 ∙ Attends and maintains a record of the matters discussed 

and approved at Board and Committee meetings.

112

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

113

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Corporate Governance Report continued
Division of responsibilities

Decisions, matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities
The Board makes decisions on strategy and on items set out in the matters reserved for it. It also delegates various operational decisions to 
several Board and management committees (see below). The schedule of matters reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of the 
Board Committees are available on the Company’s website at www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance. As sustainability 
is integral to the strategy of the business, details of the Sustainability Committee including members, attendance and actions, can be found in the 
Strategic Report on page 42.

Board Committee

Group Management Committee

Audit Committee
 ∙ Monitors the integrity of the Group’s 
Financial Statements and formal 
announcements on its financial 
performance, including reviewing 
financial reporting judgements 
contained within them. 

 ∙ Advises the Board on whether 
the Group’s Annual Report and 
Accounts are fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business 
model and strategy.

 ∙ Provides oversight of non-financial 
information, including sustainability.

 ∙ Reviews the Group’s internal 

financial controls and its systems 
for internal control and risk 
management.

 ∙ Monitors and reviews the 

independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness of the external auditor 
and the internal audit function, and 
reviews and recommends to the 
Board the reappointment, 
remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor.

 ∙ Develops and implements the 

Group’s policy on the engagement 
of the external auditor to supply 
non-audit services.

Remuneration Committee
 ∙ Designs and implements the 
Group’s overall remuneration 
strategy and policy, ensuring 
alignment with purpose 
and strategy.

 ∙ Sets the remuneration and 

determines the outcomes for the 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Management.

 ∙ Monitors performance of long and 
short-term incentive schemes 
against both financial and 
non-financial targets. 

 ∙ Considers the remuneration and 
related policies, of the wider 
workforce when determining 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Management’s remuneration 
and incentives.

Nomination Committee
 ∙ Monitors the composition of the 

Board and its Committees to ensure 
a balance of skills, experience and 
knowledge, and their progressive 
refreshment.

 ∙ Reviews succession plans for Board 
and Senior Management to ensure 
there is a diverse pipeline.

 ∙ Promotes diversity of Board 

Directors and Senior Management.

 ∙ Undertakes annual effectiveness 

evaluations of the Board, its 
committees and individual 
Directors. 

Disclosure Committee
 ∙ Comprising any two of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the 

Company Secretary, meets as required to ensure that the Company remains 
compliant with the requirements of the UK Market Abuse Regime.

Safety, Health and Environment Committee 
 ∙ Focuses on the prevention and mitigation of key operational risks relating 

to SHE.

 ∙ Monitors compliance with the SHE management system.

 ∙ Oversees direction and implementation of SHE policies and procedures.

Sustainability Committee 
 ∙  Reviews and scrutinises 

sustainability strategy and its 
implementation by the business.

 ∙ Reviews and approves plans by the 
business to mitigate risks and 
leverage opportunities relating to 
sustainability and climate changes.

 ∙  Develops and implements ESG 

policies and monitors compliance 
against these.

 ∙ Scrutinises sustainability 

performance incentives for 
consideration by the Remuneration 
Committee.

 ∙ Advises the Board on the appetite 
and tolerance with respect to ESG 
risks.

 ∙ Oversees carbon emission 
science-based targets and 
recommends changes 
where necessary.

Risk Committee
 ∙ Reviews the effectiveness of the 

Group’s internal control policies and 
procedures for the identification, 
assessment and reporting of risks.

 ∙ Assesses individual key risks on a 

rolling basis (including the 
identification of the Group’s principal 
and emerging risks) together with the 
appropriateness of any mitigations.

Land Committee
 ∙ Reviews and approves all land 

acquisition and disposal proposals 
across the Group.

 ∙ Refers proposals to the Board for 

approval depending on the value of the 
land acquisition or its complexity, e.g. 
joint venture arrangements.

Treasury Operating 
Committee
 ∙ Reviews the Group’s treasury 

arrangements and approval of changes 
to debt facilities.

 ∙ Obtains Board approval for certain 

types of facility and where the facility 
is above the levels delegated to the 
Treasury Operating Committee.

Allotment Committee
 ∙ Approves the allotment of shares 

within dilution limits and within the 
authorities obtained from 
shareholders.

Operations Committee
 ∙ Manages operational performance.

Safety, Health and 
Environment Operations 
Committee 
 ∙ Develops the SHE strategy 

for the Group. 

 ∙ Ensures that SHE policies and 
procedures are adequately 
implemented and adhered to.

 ∙ Monitors the effectiveness of 
the Group’s SHE systems.

 ∙ Keeps up to date with changes in 

legislation surrounding SHE matters.

Board

Chief 
Executive

Executive 
Committee

Chief 
Operating 
Officer

Board independence
All of our Non-Executive Directors were independent in 
character and judgement during the financial year, which is 
vital for them in carrying out their respective roles effectively. 
Caroline Silver was considered to be independent on 
appointment to the Board and on taking the role of Chair. 

This year’s review of Directors’ conflicts of interest confirmed 
that none of the Non-Executive Directors have any business or 
other relationship with the Group (or other outside interests) 
that might influence their independence or judgement. None of 
the Non-Executive Directors, or the Chair, has been an employee 
of any Group company or had a material business relationship 
with them. None of them has close family ties with any of the 
Company’s advisers, Directors or senior employees, or holds 
cross-directorships or has significant links with other 
Directors. None of them represents a significant shareholder. 

The Board meets the Code requirement for at least half the Board 
(excluding the Chair), to be independent (as defined by the Code) 
Non-Executive Directors. A breakdown of the independence of 
the Board members is shown on page 109.

The Chair and each of the Non-Executive Directors have 
demonstrated their commitment to the business during the 
year, through their attendance at several unscheduled Board 
calls convened at short notice to discuss a variety of issues 
requiring decisions outside the normal scheduled meetings. 
The Chair and the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly 
without the Executive Directors being present, usually prior 
to or immediately following Committee meetings, and five 
of these meetings have been held during the financial year.

Internal controls and risk management
The Board monitors and regularly reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems, 
including controls related to the material financial, operational 
and compliance performance (see the Audit Committee Report 
on pages 124 to 132). 

The internal audit team has developed a risk framework for 
all business functions, which has been approved by the Audit 
Committee. This framework forms the basis of the internal 
control audit plan for the year ahead, which tests if key controls 
are being applied effectively in each operating division. Material 
issues identified during internal audits and follow-up action 
plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board. 
Any necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any 
significant failings in the internal control system. Further 
details of the work undertaken by internal audit can be found 
on page 130.

The Group’s system of internal control is designed to manage 
risks that may impede the achievement of the Group’s business 
objectives, and identify and appropriately manage activities 
where there is a high risk of corruption (including bribery) 
amongst employees, partners or intermediaries, rather than 
to eliminate those risks entirely. The system of internal control 
therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The system of internal 
control does, however, provide reasonable assurance that 
potential issues can be identified promptly and appropriate 
remedial action taken. Further details can be found in the risk 
management section of the Strategic Report (pages 71 to 100). 

The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Group’s 
Financial Statements are reconciled to the underlying financial 
ledgers. A review of the consolidated accounts and Financial 
Statements is completed by management to ensure that the 
financial position and results of the Group are 
appropriately reflected.

The Board has not identified, nor been advised of, any failings or 
weaknesses that it has determined to be significant. Therefore, 
a confirmation of necessary actions has not been 
considered appropriate. 

Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board has considered and reflected on whether the Annual 
Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable. 
As part of its considerations, the Board has:

 ∙ reflected on the feedback shareholders provided on our 

2022 Annual Report and Accounts;

 ∙ set aside adequate time to review and discuss significant 
areas of the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, assessing 
its tone, balance and language, while being mindful of the 
requirements of the Code and the need for consistency 
between the narrative section of the Annual Report and 
the Financial Statements; and

 ∙ considered the recommendation from the Audit Committee 
that the report was “fair, balanced and understandable”. The 
process undertaken by the Audit Committee to support the 
Board’s assessment can be found on page 129.

The Board endorses the recommendation of the Audit Committee 
that the FY23 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced 
and understandable, and its formal statement on this is 
contained within the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on 
page 171. 

On behalf of the Board

Caroline Silver 
Chair
5 September 2023

114

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

115

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Nomination Committee Report
Board composition, succession and evaluation

Our approach to Board and 
Committee appointments, 
succession and evaluation

Committee membership and attendance1
There were three meetings held during the year ended 30 June 2023. The table 
below shows the attendance of each Director whilst a member of the committee.

 Attended 

 Did not attend

Meetings attended

Committee members

Caroline Silver1

John Allan2  

Katie Bickerstaffe  

Jasi Halai3 

Jock Lennox  

Chris Weston3 

Nina Bibby4 

Sharon White5 

Caroline Silver
Chair of the Nomination Committee

Focus in the reporting year

 ∙ Undertook a robust recruitment process for the 

appointments of both Jasi Halai and Caroline Silver. 

 ∙ Assessed the skills and diversity on the Board 

and its Committees.

 ∙ Reviewed the succession plans for the Executive Directors 

and Senior Management.

Priorities for FY24

 ∙ To further assess the composition (including size and 

diversity) of the Board and its Committees. 

 ∙ Ensure completion of Caroline Silver’s induction process.

1   Caroline Silver joined the Board and the Committee on 1 June 2023 

and took over as Chair of the Committee with effect from 30 June 2023, 
and no Committee meetings have taken place since then.

2   John Allan did not attend any meetings or parts thereof where his 

succession was being discussed.

3   Jasi Halai (who was appointed on 1 January 2023) and Chris Weston were 
unable to attend the January meeting due to a prior commitment. Prior to 
the meeting, Jasi and Chris provided their views on the meeting agenda 
which were shared with the other Committee members during the 
meeting. Following the meeting they were briefed on the business of the 
meeting and any decisions taken.

 4   Nina Bibby did not offer herself for re-election and stepped down from 

the Board at the AGM in October 2022.

5   Sharon White stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2023.

Statement from the Chair of 
the Nomination Committee
I am pleased to present my first Nomination Committee Report 
having taken over as Chair from John Allan on 30 June 2023. 
It has been a busy year for the Nomination Committee with a 
number of changes taking place with the composition of the 
Board. I would like to thank John Allan and Jock Lennox for 
steering the Committee through each of these. Full details 
of the recruitment processes can be found on pages 119 
and are summarised below.

The Nomination Committee has throughout FY23 acted 
in accordance with its Terms of Reference (see page 118) 
as delegated to it by the Board. The responsibilities of the 
Nomination Committee are summarised on page 118. 

Board changes and succession planning
Following a thorough recruitment process the Nomination 
Committee appointed Jasi Halai as a Non-Executive Director 
with effect from 1 January 2023. Jasi succeeds Nina Bibby who, 
having completed nine years of service, stepped down from the 
Board at the AGM in October 2022. In addition, the Nomination 
Committee undertook a robust recruitment process to appoint 
me as a Non-Executive Director and Chair to take over from 
John Allan, who stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2023. 
This search was led by Jock Lennox, and John Allan did not 
attend any meetings whilst his succession was being discussed.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank Jock for chairing 
the additional meetings held to discuss and come to a decision 
on the acceleration of the planned Chair’s succession and for 
guiding Board members through the process seamlessly.

As announced in January 2023, Sharon White stepped down earlier 
than expected as a Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2023, in 
order to reduce her non-executive commitments. Sharon made a 
significant contribution to the Board during her five years with us, 
including in the last few years as the Designated Non-Executive 
Director for Workforce Engagement. I will be taking over as the 
Designated Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement. 

We are pleased that Nigel Webb has agreed to join the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 October 2023. Nigel 
brings a wealth of experience and knowledge in property, 
construction and land which complement the existing skills on the 
Board and address some of the skills gaps identified.

The Nomination Committee will continue to undertake detailed 
work on succession planning at Board, Senior Management and 
junior levels to ensure we have a sufficiently diverse pipeline 
and the right skills and experience to drive our strategy forward.

Skills and experience of the Board 
As part of the recruitment process for the new Non-Executive 
Director and the new Chair, the Nomination Committee reviewed 
the composition, skills, experience and diversity of the Board 
and its Committees. This highlighted the need to identify candidates 
with skills in, amongst other areas, financial experience to 
support the Chair of the Audit Committee, which both Jasi Halai 
and I possess. A further review of skills was carried out during 
FY23, and it was agreed that any further recruitment would 
focus on land/construction, which will be addressed with the 
appointment of Nigel Webb. 

and experience but also female and ethnic representation. 
The Nomination Committee and the Board were therefore 
disappointed when more than 20% percent of votes were cast 
against the re-election of John Allan at the 2022 AGM. Having 
engaged with those shareholders who voted against, it was evident 
that this was due to the fall in the level of female representation on 
the Board following Nina Bibby’s departure. They did however 
acknowledge that had they been aware of the recruitment process 
ongoing at the time, the shortlist for which consisted entirely of 
female candidates, they would have voted in favour of the resolution. 

As set out earlier in my statement, since the October 2022 AGM, 
various changes have been made to the composition of the 
Board. With my appointment as Chair and of Jasi Halai as a 
Non-Executive Director, we meet the recommendations to have 
a woman in a senior Board position (Chair, CEO, CFO or SID) 
and to have at least one member on the Board from a minority 
ethnic background (as defined by the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review and the Parker Review). Our female representation 
reached 40% on 1 June 2023, when I joined the Board. As a 
result of the early departures of Sharon White and John Allan, 
our female representation on the Board is currently at 37.5%. 
At the point of making an offer to Nigel Webb to join as a Non-
Executive Director, the Nomination Committee was conscious 
that female representation on the Board would fall to 33.33%. The 
Nomination Committee, and subsequently the Board, decided 
that Nigel was the best candidate for the role given that he 
possesses the skills, knowledge and experience in property, 
construction and land which complement those of the existing 
Board members. We are however fully committed to meeting 
the recommendation to have at least 40% female representation 
on the Board by the end of 2025. This is a key priority for the 
Nomination Committee and the Board. 

Information on the Board’s diversity targets as required by the 
UK Listing Rules, together with accompanying numerical data, 
is set out on page 120. In addition, the Nomination Committee 
has reviewed its Board diversity policy, which applies to the 
Board and its committees, to ensure it remains fit for purpose. 

The Nomination Committee also ensured that the Board 
considered whether diversity and inclusion across the wider 
business was being progressed satisfactorily. This review included 
talent succession and attraction, and the business’ credentials as 
a diverse and inclusive employer. Further information on the 
Company’s progress on diversity and inclusion initiatives can be 
found on pages 120 and 121 and in the Strategic Report on pages 35  
and 36.

FY24 priorities
Our key priorities for FY24 are the continued focus on succession 
planning and training, particularly given the recent changes 
to the Board. From FY24 onwards, it has been agreed that 
diversity and inclusion at all levels across the business will be a 
matter for the Board to monitor directly rather than through the 
Nomination Committee. The respective Terms of Reference 
have been updated accordingly.

Further details of the work undertaken by the Nomination 
Committee during the year are set out on the following pages.

Diversity and inclusion
The Nomination Committee fully understands the importance 
of having diversity on the Board, not only in terms of skills 

Caroline Silver
Chair of the Nomination Committee
5 September 2023

116

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

117

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Nomination Committee Report continued

Nomination Committee role and activity FY23
Membership and attendance at meetings 
The membership of the Nomination Committee and the attendance at each of its scheduled meetings is set out on page 116. 
The majority of Committee members are considered independent by the Company and in accordance with the Code. Their 
biographies and qualifications are shown on pages 104 and 105.

Role and main activities undertaken by the Committee during the financial year
The Nomination Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference, which can be found on the Company’s website 
at www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance. In addition to its annual tasks, such as the review of its 
Terms of Reference, effectiveness and approval of this report, the Committee carried out the following work during the year:

Priorities

Governance

Work carried out and outcomes

Reviewed the need for training and development in areas identified by Board members including, 
but not limited to, digital security and technology, Government relations, ESG/Climate. 

Composition and Succession Considered candidates and proposed the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director 

and Chair designate.

Considered succession plans for Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors, Executive 
Committee and Regional Managing Directors, taking into account the need for diversity. 
Further information can be found above.

Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Board has authorised the Nomination Committee to oversee 
the process for reviewing and making recommendations to the 
Board concerning any actual or potential conflicts of interest 
that may arise for any Board member, including details of any 
terms and conditions that it deems necessary to impose on any 
authorisation given. Throughout FY23, the Company Secretary 
maintained a register of Directors’ conflicts of interest. A 
summary of this register was reviewed at each Board meeting 
so that it continues to remain accurate and current. The full 
register is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee, and 
recommendations are made to the Board regarding any changes 
to the authorisations that may be required. The Board, when 
authorising any conflict or possible conflict of interest, does 
not count in the quorum the Director whose conflict or possible 
conflict is being discussed and reserves the right to exclude a 
Director from a meeting whilst a conflict or possible conflict 
is being considered. The Board may revoke or vary any 
authorisation at any time. The procedures have operated 
effectively during the year.

Board changes and succession planning 
Succession planning is a live topic at Board and Nomination 
Committee meetings. All appointments and succession plans 
are objective, based on merit and the need to promote diversity.

For Non-Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee annually 
reviews the length of service for each, to determine if a new 
appointment needs to be made. The Nomination Committee 
takes into account the cyclicality of the business, as lessons 
gained through one property cycle can be useful during the next. 

For Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee will 
annually discuss the succession plans for the other Executive 
Directors and Senior Management below Board level with 
the Chief Executive. This process helps to identify suitable 
individuals who could be able to fill senior managerial or Board 
positions in the future and to determine and address their 
development needs. As part of their development, senior 
managers are invited to attend part of a Board meeting to 
present on their specialist area. This also enables the Board 
to assess the quality of internal talent, and the individual to 
get a greater understanding of the workings of the Board. 

Succession plans are in place across the business for the wider 
workforce and our work on developing our employees is set out 
in the Strategic Report on pages 35 to 39. When considering 
succession plans, the Board remains cognisant of the need to 
ensure that there is a diverse range of individuals included in 
the plan. The business continues to promote diversity and 
inclusion from within, and further details of the work that has 
been undertaken in this area can be found on pages 35 to 39.

Board appointment process

Stage 1 

Stage 2 

Stage 3 

Stage 4 

Stage 5 

The Nomination Committee 
reviewed the length of tenure 
of each Non-Executive Director, 
determined the gaps in experience 
and considered the existing 
balance of gender, ethnicity and 
social backgrounds on the Board 
to help identify the need to recruit. 
With Nina Bibby stepping down in 
October 2022 and John Allan due 
to complete nine years’ service 
in August 2023, the Nomination 
Committee agreed to continue the 
process to identify and appoint at 
least one Non-Executive Director 
and a new Chair. 

The Nomination Committee 
reviewed and approved 
an outline brief and role 
specification, and appointed 
Russell Reynolds1, to 
identify suitable candidates 
from a diverse pool of 
individuals. The Nomination 
Committee delegated 
authority to two sub-
committees to select 
candidates for a shortlist. 
The first was led by John 
Allan (for the Non-Executive 
Director) and the second by 
Jock Lennox (for the Chair).

The short-listed 
candidates met 
with the respective 
sub-committee of 
the Nomination 
Committee, with the 
preferred candidates 
going on to meet the 
remaining members 
of the Board. 

The Nomination 
Committee agreed 
the preferred 
candidates for each 
position, based on 
the range of skills, 
experience and 
knowledge that 
complemented 
those of the existing 
Board members and 
recommended the 
same to the Board.

The Board considered 
each candidate 
on their merits 
and approved the 
appointment of Jasi 
Halai as a Non-
Executive Director 
with effect from 
1 January 2023 and 
Caroline Silver as a 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chair Designate 
with effect from 
1 June 2023. 

1   Russell Reynolds Associates are occasionally requested to assist the Company with searches for senior management positions. They have no other 
connection with the individual Directors or the Company. Russell Reynolds Associates is accredited by the Enhanced Voluntary Code of Conduct for 
Executive Firms for its support to FTSE 350 Boards in increasing gender diversity. It is also a Co-Founder of The 30% Club, an advocate for improved 
gender balance on boards. Specific guidance was given to Russell Reynolds Associates to ensure diversity within the candidate long and short lists 
whilst identifying candidates who had the relevant skills and experience required on the Board. 

Induction 
Jasi Halai has been through a detailed 
induction process and Caroline Silver is 
part way through hers. The induction 
process was designed to give each of 
them a good understanding of the 
business and how it operates to help 
them fulfil their respective roles 
effectively. As part of this, they received 
a comprehensive induction pack, and 
had meetings with each of: 

 ∙ the other Board members; 

 ∙ the Company Secretary;

 ∙ members of the Executive Committee;

 ∙ the Regional Managing Directors and 

teams (at the Regional offices); 

 ∙ heads of key Group functions; 

 ∙ key external corporate advisers; and 

 ∙ the external auditor. 

Their inductions also included site visits, 
and details of other opportunities available 
as part of the induction process. John 
Allan met with Jasi Halai to listen to her 
views and feedback on the induction 
process, which was seen to be 
comprehensive and well structured. Jock 
Lennox and/or the Company Secretary will 
meet with Caroline Silver to gain her views 
on her induction process once completed. 

Q&A with Caroline Silver - Chair and Jasi Halai - Non-Executive Director
We asked both Caroline Silver and Jasi Halai about their experience of joining Barratt. 

What skills and experience do you 
bring to the role?
Caroline: I have considerable experience 
in chairing boards to obtain the best 
from colleagues, working together in 
a challenging yet supportive way. I am 
experienced in helping shape strategy 
and vision and my financial background 
is helpful. I bring lots of experience in 
working with investors.

Jasi: I bring particular expertise in finance 
and accounting, with financial planning 
and analysis to the role. 

How have you found the 
induction process?
Caroline: It is well organised. I am 
spending time with every member of 
the leadership team and am enjoying 
getting out and about across the 
business, meeting colleagues and better 
understanding the culture of the business 
and the challenges they face. 

Jasi: Extremely welcoming, insightful and 
effective. I have been pleasantly surprised 
by how Barratt delivers. Its people take 
pride in what they do and this has been 
very evident not only through the Board 
and Committee meetings I have attended 
but also through the site visits I have conducted.

What were your first impressions 
of the business when you were 
approached?
Caroline: When I was first approached 
for the role, I knew very little about 
housebuilders. As I looked, I saw a 
company that leads the industry, in terms 
of quality, customer and sustainability and 
is operationally and financially strong.

Jasi: I was impressed by Barratt’s 60-
year history, and its focus on innovation 
in construction. I was also interested 
in Barratt’s commitment to building 
sustainably for people, nature and places, 
whilst providing sustainable financial returns 
for shareholders.

What made you decide to join 
the business?
Caroline: I was impressed with the 
diversity of background and experience on 
the Board and the Non-Executive Directors’ 
understanding and involvement. It was 
clear the executive team are professional, 
experienced, purpose driven with high 
integrity and committed to the long-term 
success of the Company. This was key 
for me. The key advisers I met endorsed 
the impression I had of a financially and 
operationally sound company, with a great 
team and plenty of ambition. 

Jasi: Barratt’s vision and impact, its 
contribution to the UK economy and the 
communities in which it operates. Barratt 
creates great places to live, leaving a 
legacy in every project it delivers, and its 
regeneration projects are commendable.

118

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

119

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Nomination Committee Report continued

Reappointment and re-election of Directors 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for up to 
three three-year terms subject to annual shareholder re-election 
and a particularly rigorous review prior to a third term being 
agreed. Non-Executive Directors will normally step down from 
their position on the Board and its Committees at the AGM 
following their ninth anniversary. The length of tenure of Board 
members is shown on page 109. Each of the Directors has been 
subject to a formal performance evaluation process during the 
year, as set out on page 123. The Nomination Committee and 
the Board are satisfied that each Director continues to be 
effective in, and demonstrates commitment to, their respective 
roles. All Directors will be standing for election or re-election at 
the forthcoming AGM. Biographical details of each of the 
Directors are set out on pages 104 to 105 of this report, along 
with reasons why their contribution is, and continues to be, 
valuable to the Company’s long-term sustainable success, and 
can also be found in the Notice of the 2023 AGM. 

Diversity and inclusion
Board diversity 
During the year, the Board reviewed its policy on diversity and 
inclusion. The objective of the policy is to ensure that diversity 
is reflected within the composition of the Board and throughout 
the business in its broadest sense, including gender, ethnicity, 
age, disability, religious belief, sexuality, social class, education 

experience and ways of thinking. The policy aims for continuous 
improvement at Board and Senior Management level on all 
these elements of diversity and to identify the most suitable 
candidate to join the Board having regard to the individual’s 
skills, experience and knowledge. It also seeks to ensure that, 
in managing any senior appointment and in succession planning 
more broadly, the Nomination Committee has regard to the 
recommendations of the Parker and the McGregor-Smith 
reviews on ethnicity and race and the benefits of diversity, 
including gender, ethnicity, social background and cognitive 
and personal strengths. A copy of our Board diversity policy can 
be found at: www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/sustainability/
our-policies. 

A full explanation of the diversity on the Board and the steps 
being taken to improve our position are set out in the Nomination 
Committee Chair’s report on page 117. In accordance with the 
Listing Rules, the following tables detail the diversity profile of 
the Board and the Executive Committee as at 30 June 2023. 
This data was collated from our HR database which has been 
populated using information provided by each individual 
employee, including Non-Executive Directors. Individuals are 
asked to select from a series of options on both sex/gender and 
ethnicity including the below options. Diversity information for 
employees below the Executive Committee can be found on 
pages 35 to 39. 

Reporting table on sex/gender representation as at 30 June 20231

Men
Women

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number
 of Board
 members

Percentage
 of the Board

Number of senior
 positions on the
 Board (CEO, CFO,
 SID and Chair)

Number
 in executive
 management

Percentage
 of executive
 management

5
3

0

62.5
37.5

0

3
1

0

5
2

0

71.4
28.6

0%

Reporting table on ethnicity representation as at 30 June 20231

White British or other White  
(including minority-white groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number
 of Board
 members

Percentage
 of the Board

Number of senior
 positions on the
 Board (CEO, CFO,
 SID and Chair)

Number
 in executive
 management

Percentage
 of executive
 management

7
0
1
0
0

0

87.5
0
12.5
0
0

0

4
0
0
0
0

0

5
0
1
1
0

0

71.4
0
14.3
14.3
0

0

1  A full explanation regarding diversity is provided in the Chair’s Statement on page 117 of this report.

Diversity and inclusion throughout the business 
The Nomination Committee and the Board recognise the importance of a diverse workforce, at all levels of seniority. Promoting 
diversity at Senior Management level, and more generally across the workforce, remains an objective for David Thomas, our 
Chief Executive. David, together with the new Group HR Director, will continue to support the Group Head of Diversity and Inclusion, 
to drive the agenda forward in this area and undertake a full review of the overall strategy for 2025. The Group’s aim is for its 
employee profile to mirror that of the communities in which it operates and provide an inclusive culture, where everyone can thrive. 
Further information on the Group’s progress on diversity and inclusion can be found on pages 35 to 39. The main objectives, how 
they are implemented and progress towards them are set out below.

Objectives

Implementation

Progress

Talent: HR processes that 
support a wide range of 
skills and backgrounds 

Ensure we have a detailed 
understanding of our people

Review the HR lifecycle 
activity and ensure it 
is inclusive

Tailored support 
programmes and 
early careers

Leadership: Role 
models & allies – 
leading the change

Leading inclusivity 
workshops

Support difference – 
Employee network 
sponsorship 

Reverse mentoring 

A deep dive of data has been undertaken to identify our levels of 
representation by grade, role and function for all divisions and Group 
Service Centre teams. This is reported monthly and reviewed in a 
quarterly scorecard to track change. We also review HR lifecycle data 
by gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability, from application 
through employee engagement and exit interview data, to ensure a full 
understanding of the employee experience for all.

Across the HR lifecycle we have made changes to ensure a more 
inclusive approach, including a review of our preferred supplier list 
for resourcing agencies, embedding Dignity & Respect into all our 
talent and early career programmes, a review and update of family 
friendly policies and externally delivered exit interviews.

Catalyst, a female support programme, has run for another successful 
year and has been joined by Spotlight our support programme for ethnic 
minority colleagues. Employees are encouraged to self nominate and 
the sessions are externally facilitated. 

All Regional and Managing Directors have received face-to-face 
workshops, with external facilitation on creating Dignity and 
Respect for all and how they create psychological safety.

Each of our Employee Networks has an Executive Committee 
member as their sponsor, who supports the activities and 
objectives of the respective group.

Both our gender and ethnicity support programmes include 
mentoring, which is an opportunity for both our leadership mentors 
and the programme mentees to share and learn.

We were delighted to take part in the inaugural 30% Club, Change 
the Race Ratio programme, which includes cross-organisational 
mentoring for high potential talent by the Chief Executive.

Shift attitudes: 
Support our people’s 
understanding to create 
the right experience 
for all

Hear the employee voice

Role models and celebrations

Zero tolerance on lack 
of dignity & respect 

We have five Employee Network groups, offering a range of 
activities from webinars, leading discussions, marking of key 
events and signposting support – Gender, Ethnicity & Religion, 
Disability, Families (including Carers) and LGBT+. Each network 
is sponsored by a member of the Executive Committee.

We have updated our policy, embedding zero tolerance and shared 
this through the business via a range of communication channels. 

Please refer to pages 51 and 55 to 56 for more information on the 
workforce forum. 

120

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

121

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Nomination Committee Report continued

Board and Committee evaluation 
Each year, the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and 
individual Directors. Every three years, the Board undertakes an externally facilitated evaluation. The last one was carried out in 
2022. This year’s evaluation was carried out internally by the Company Secretary. The next external evaluation is scheduled to be 
carried out for FY25.

Progress on FY22 evaluation
Progress made against the outcomes of the internal Board evaluation undertaken in FY22 is set out below:

The Board

FY22 
outcomes

Strategy

Diversity and inclusion

Board papers

To hold a strategy day for Directors.  To further embed Diversity 

and Inclusion throughout 
the organisation.

To further shorten and standardise 
papers for Board and 
Committee meetings.

Progress 
made in FY23

The format for a strategy day has 
been agreed. However, due to the 
change in Chair this will take place 
in FY24.

Agreed our Diversity and Inclusion 
strategy to 2025, and supported its 
rollout across the Group. Requested 
annual updates on the progress 
being made as well as regular 
review of the strategy to ensure it 
remains fit for purpose. 

The Company Secretary, with 
support from the Chief Executive 
and the Chair, has worked with paper 
authors to streamline content and 
make better use of Executive 
summaries. This process will 
continue to evolve during FY24.

FY23 Board effectiveness evaluation outcomes
Overall, the results of the evaluation were positive and showed that the Board continues to be run effectively. It is seen as being 
cohesive and comprising the appropriate balance of experience, skills and knowledge to implement the Group’s strategy over the 
short term. Board meetings operate in a spirit of openness, fostered by the Chairman, in which Directors are able to challenge 
and discuss openly ideas of importance to the Group, its strategy and risk.

Key areas of improvement for the Board
Board composition

FY23 
outcomes

Actions for 
FY24

To ensure that the Board continues 
to have the appropriate skills, 
experience and diversity to help 
drive the Group’s strategy forward.

To continue to work closely with the 
Nomination Committee in assessing 
the skills, experience and diversity 
required on the Board.

Strategy

Diversity & Inclusion

To review the existing strategy, 
market evolution and future 
direction of the business.

The Board to re-consider strategy 
and future direction on an ongoing 
basis as the market evolves.

Focus on further developing the 
Group’s Diversity & Inclusion agenda 
and increasing diversity on the 
Board and throughout the business.

Support the Group Head of Diversity 
and Inclusion to drive the Diversity & 
Inclusion agenda through setting 
challenging yet achievable targets 
which will promote engagement and 
focus on this area across the business.

The Committees

Nomination Committee

Audit Committee

Remuneration Committee

Audit Committee

Remuneration Committee

FY23 
outcomes

Continue to focus on Board, 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Management succession.

Key areas of improvement for the Committees
Nomination Committee

FY22 
outcomes

Succession for all Directors, but in 
particular the Executive Directors, 
and members of Senior Management 
remains a key priority.

Progress 
made in FY23

Established an action plan 
and allocated more time to 
succession planning.

Consider increasing the number of 
Audit Committee meetings held 
during the year.

Consider increasing the number of 
private meetings with the Chief 
Financial Officer (who is relatively 
new to the business and whose 
agenda is evolving), and with the 
Head of Internal Audit due to the 
increased level work being undertaken 
around internal controls and 
assurance in readiness for the 
implementation of the audit reform 
recommendations.

Kept under review the time allocated 
to agenda items to ensure that the 
Committee had adequate time to 
consider and discuss each item 
appropriately.

Increased the number of private 
meetings with each of the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Head of 
Internal Audit to two per financial year.

Consider if there are any ways 
in which the Committee could 
change their overall approach to 
remuneration to better support 
the long-term sustainability of 
the business.

During the year, with support from 
PwC, the Committee has continually 
considered how to improve its 
approach to remuneration, in 
particular, how it can best support 
and retain employees within this 
cyclical business.

Board and Committee evaluation process for FY23 

Online questionnaires issued to Board and Committee members, and also to those who attend Committee meetings 
on a regular basis. 

The Company Secretary reviewed the responses received and prepared a consolidated report for each of the Board 
and its Committees to consider.

The reports were shared with each of the respective chairs.

Results were presented and discussed at the June or August Board and Committee meetings.

Actions for improvement were agreed for the next financial year, as set out below.

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5

122

To hold additional deep dive and 
training sessions to support the 
Committee’s understanding of 
current and emerging topics, 
including the impact of potential 
changes to the various governance 
and audit landscape.

To continue to consider the structure 
of meetings to ensure that there is 
sufficient time allocated to address 
changes that may be required to the 
Committee’s remit in response to the 
implementation of any governance and 
audit proposals during FY24 or beyond.

To determine an agenda of deep dive 
and training sessions for FY24.

To review the annual agenda taking 
into account potential changes to the 
Committee’s remit that may be 
required and determine if the current 
structure remains fit for purpose.

Consider ways to streamline the 
metrics used for short and long-
term incentive schemes.

To revisit the rationale for including the 
metrics within the short and long-term 
incentive schemes and ensure that they 
continue to align to the Group’s strategy 
and ultimately remain fit for purpose. 
Any changes to the metrics for 
Executive Directors’ incentive schemes 
to be discussed with shareholders and 
voting proxy agencies prior to the 
change being put into effect.

Actions for 
FY24

To continue to assess the skills and 
experience required on the Board 
and its Committees and make 
changes to their composition as 
deemed appropriate, being mindful 
of the requirements for diversity 
on the Board. To continue with the 
succession planning meetings 
with the Chief Executive. 

Evaluation of individual Directors
The evaluation of the effectiveness of John Allan as Chairman was conducted by the Senior Independent Director with assistance 
from the Company Secretary in May 2023. John was seen as being supportive but challenging, managing meetings with professionalism 
and ensuring each Director had the opportunity to express their views. Despite his other commitments, John was seen to be available 
and flexible, maintaining a high level of engagement with the Company, management and members of the Board. During FY23, the 
Chairman held one-to-one meetings with each Director to assess the effectiveness of their contributions, the appropriateness of 
their experience and the effectiveness with which they utilised that experience in furthering the Company’s strategy. Any areas of 
improvement or training and development were agreed. There were no issues of any substance arising from these meetings.

This report forms part of the Corporate Governance Report and is signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee by:

Caroline Silver
Chair of the Nomination Committee
5 September 2023

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

123

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Audit Committee Report
Audit, risk and internal control

Our approach to 
managing risk

Committee membership and attendance
There were four Audit Committee meetings held during the year 
ended 30 June 2023. The table below shows the attendance of 
each Director whilst a member of the Committee.

 Attended 

 Did not attend

Meetings attended

Committee members

Jock Lennox  

Katie Bickerstaffe  

Jasi Halai1 

Chris Weston  

Nina Bibby2 

Sharon White3 

1   Jasi Halai was appointed on 1 January 2023, and was unable to attend the 

January Committee meeting due to a prior commitment. Prior to the 
meeting, Jasi provided her views on the meeting agenda which were 
shared with the other Board members during the meeting. Following 
the meeting, she was briefed on the business of the meeting and any 
decisions taken.

2   Nina Bibby did not offer herself for re-election and stepped down from 

the Board at the AGM in October 2022.

3   Sharon White was unable to attend the June meeting due to another 
commitment. Prior to the meeting Sharon provided her views on the 
meeting agenda which were shared with the other Committee members 
during the meeting. Following the meeting Sharon was briefed on the 
business of the meeting and any decisions taken.

Jock Lennox
Chair of the Audit Committee

Focus in the reporting year

 ∙ Further strengthened our approach to risk management and 

internal control.

 ∙ Continued to assess the impact of the changing business 

environment.

 ∙ Monitored and assessed the accounting for and control 

over provisions for legacy buildings.

Priorities for FY24 

 ∙ Review the annual cycle of work for the Committee in view of 

the extending reporting requirements. 

 ∙ Continue to scrutinise control and provisions for legacy 

buildings.

 ∙ Continue to consider the implications of any changes in the 

housing market.

Statement from the Chair of the Audit Committee
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee’s report for the 
year ended 30 June 2023. This sets out our work and how our 
responsibilities in relation to audit, risk and internal control 
have been implemented. In performing our duties, we have 
complied with the requirements of the Code and followed FRC 
best practice guidance. We work closely with our finance and 
internal audit teams, and with Deloitte LLP, our external auditor, 
which helps us to ensure that our internal control processes 
remain robust and continue to adapt, our financial reporting 
remains clear, and our critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty are appropriate.

Areas of focus FY23 
In last year’s report, I set out our priorities for this year and 
I am pleased to update these as follows:

Risk management and internal control 
During the year, the Committee continued to support the Chief 
Financial Officer, Mike Scott, in embedding the Group’s risk 
management strategy, including a reassessment of the Group’s 
principal risks, details of which can be found on pages 71 to 77. 

We have continued to monitor the rollout of the Group’s Risk & 
Internal Control framework (BRICk), as well as further projects 
to improve the internal control environment and business 
continuity planning and develop further the risk management 
process. This included updating our Group & Operational 
Finance Policy and BRICk, to further enhance our Internal 
Controls over Financial Reporting (ICoFR). 

The linkage of principal risks with mitigating controls and related 
assurance mapping is now a key foundation to the work of the 
Committee and the reporting undertaken on risk and control.

Restoring Trust in Audit and Corporate Governance
The Committee has continued to monitor the developments in 
the debate around Corporate Reporting and Audit Reform. The 
debate’s progress has been slow, nevertheless we have kept an 
eye on the potential for change and sought to build constructive 
ideas into the reporting and work of the Committee. Our draft 
Audit and Assurance Policy continues to evolve and the 
principles are guiding our approach to assurance on 
sustainability and non-financial statement reporting. The 
potential for further developments will be kept under review.

Legacy Properties
At each meeting management has updated the Committee on its 
assessment of the Group’s exposure to the risks derived from 
both fire safety relating to external wall systems (EWS) and the 
remediation required to reinforced concrete frames. In 
particular, careful consideration was given to whether any of the 
increased costs recorded in the year should have been 
recognised in the prior year, following which the Committee 
concluded that they all related to FY23.  Further, in view of the 
identification of new developments requiring investigation relating 
to reinforced concrete frames, the Committee received a report 
from management on the associated cause and costs. The 
Committee agreed the scope of an assessment of the controls in 
this area to be undertaken in the coming months. Estimating the 
cost to remediate EWS and reinforced concrete frames continues 
to be a highly judgemental and complex area as the Group undertakes 
to fulfil its commitment to do the right thing. The Committee’s 
priority is to ensure that the level and use of the relevant 
provisions and the related disclosures, including being classified 
as adjusted items, remain appropriate. 

Key areas of focus for FY24
We will continue to monitor and assess the potential impact 
of the changes for Governance and Audit emanating from the 
Audit Reform debate. We welcome the consultation on the changes 
proposed to the UK Corporate Governance Code and will be 
considering the cost of implementing these as we comment. 

We will continue to assess the provisions for legacy properties, 
in particular the judgements underpinning the provisions and 
their utilisation. We will receive the report from management 
on their further assessment of controls relating to reinforced 
concrete frames and consider any recommendations for 
improvement.

In light of the continuing increase in reporting and scrutiny over 
reporting on financial performance, risk, controls and, 
sustainability, we will review the annual cycle of the Committee 
and consider whether any enhancements or adaptations would 
be beneficial.

Jock Lennox
Chair of the Audit Committee
5 September 2023 

124

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

125

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Audit Committee Report continued

Role and activity of the Audit Committee 
Membership and attendance at meetings 
Details of the members and attendance at each of the 
Committee’s scheduled meetings is shown on page 124, and the 
biographies and qualifications of the members are shown on 
pages 104 and 105. In compliance with the Code, the Committee 
is comprised exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, and each 
member is considered to be independent by the Company. 
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Audit 
Committee. The Board is satisfied that Jock Lennox and Jasi 
Halai have recent and relevant financial experience. Jock is a 
Chartered Accountant who has previously chaired several other 
listed companies’ audit committees. He has also been the Chair 
of the Audit Committee Chairs’ Independent Forum since 2016. 
Jasi Halai, Chief Operating Officer and an Executive Director at 
3i Group plc, whom we have recently welcomed to the Audit 
Committee, is a Chartered Management Accountant and has 
held a variety of posts at 3i, most recently as Group Financial 
Controller. She was also a NED and Chair of the Audit 
Committee at Porvair plc. As part of the effectiveness review, 
details of which can be found on page 123, the Nomination 
Committee was satisfied that the Audit Committee has the 
appropriate skills and experience relevant to the sector in which 
the Group operates. 

In addition, the Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit, Group 
Director of Finance, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive, Chief 
Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and representatives 
from our external auditor, attended each of the Committee 
meetings. Other Executives and senior managers attended 
when appropriate for specific agenda items.

After each meeting, the Chair of the Committee reported to the 
Board on the business undertaken by the Committee and made 
recommendations to the Board as appropriate. The Committee 
met the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and the 
external auditor separately and independently of management. 
In addition, the Chair of the Committee separately meets with the 
external auditor and key management and senior financial 
managers outside formal meetings.

Role and main activities undertaken by the Committee 
during the financial year 
The main role of the Committee is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its governance obligations relating to the Group’s 
financial and non-financial reporting practices and its internal 
control and risk management framework. It follows an annual 
work programme to ensure that its roles and responsibilities 
are completed throughout the year. In agreeing the annual 
programme, the Committee considers the external 
environment, internal operation of the business and regulatory 
changes to ensure that all the main priorities are included. 

The Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its Terms of 
Reference, which can be found on the Company’s website at  
www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/corporate-
governance. In addition to the tasks it carries out annually, the 
Committee carried out the following work during the year:

Priorities

Work carried out and outcomes

Integrity of 
Financial 
Statements and 
announcements

Considered management’s analysis of the costs associated with legacy properties and their presentation in the 
Financial Statements, concluding that they remain appropriately provided and disclosed. This included matters 
in relation to EWS; in England following the signing of the LFA in March 2023, in Scotland following the signing 
of Scottish Accord in May 2023, and also our commitments in Wales, each with differing commitments affecting 
their presentation in the accounts. In addition, matters in relation to the reinforced concrete frame review were 
considered and scrutinised. Particular consideration was given to management’s analysis that the increased 
costs appropriately relate to the current year, with which the Committee agreed.

Considered the carrying value of goodwill and concluded that no impairment was required.

Reviewed the level of third party assurance over the Group’s non-financial published information, including 
TCFD and certain climate-related information, and confirmed that it was appropriate. 

Reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it appropriately messages the performance of the 
business. Ensured the style and messaging is an appropriate evolution from the prior Financial Statements 
and announcements, whilst being in line with the wider Board strategies & communications and the Group’s 
statutory requirements. 

Considered the use of APMs to ensure they properly reflected the underlying trading performance of the Group 
during the year and concluded that the APMs and the associated disclosures were appropriate.

Risk 
management 
and Internal 
control systems

Monitored improvements to the Group’s Risk Management Framework to strengthen the Risk Committee. 
This included the reassessment of the Group’s Principal Risks as set out on pages 71 to 77.

Monitored the progress of a Controls Optimisation Project to optimise, rationalise and improve our internal 
control framework and key internal controls across the business. 

Considered the new Group & Operational Finance Policy and BRICk and the ongoing programme of work 
to develop and enhance our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting (ICoFR). 

Received a report from management on the cause and cost of the recent experience related to reinforced 
concrete frames and agreed the scope of an assessment of the controls in this area to be undertaken in the 
coming months.

In light of uncertainties in the housing market during FY23, reviewed sensitivity analyses on a range of possible 
outcomes, including in sales rates and average selling prices and their impacts on the business as a going 
concern, its viability, and reviews of goodwill, land and work in progress for potential impairment.

Internal audit

Following the IIA assessment last year, the Committee reviewed progress against the recommendations, and 
reviewed the internal quality self-assessment carried out by the internal audit function against IIA standards 
for FY23, and concluded that the internal audit function continues to be effective. 

Challenged how the methodology for delivering significant business change projects should be assessed and 
how it was being applied, resulting in a review of the broader business change strategy and relevant roles and 
responsibilities. 

Approved the annual review and updates to the Risk Assurance Map setting out the assurance provided by each 
of the three lines of defence over the effective management of the Group’s principal risks. Reviewed the output 
of the annual fraud risk assessment including management controls in place to mitigate the risks identified.

External audit

Reviewed the outcome of the Group’s external audit quality indicator assessment. 

Oversaw the induction of the new Deloitte lead audit partner.

The Chair of the Audit Committee met with the Deloitte audit team to discuss their audit plan and risk 
assessment. 

Governance

Reviewed an update to the finance strategy presented by the Chief Financial Officer, advising on improvement 
options. The Committee will continue to monitor the finance strategy as it evolves.

Reviewed the new Document Retention Policy, including piloting the implementation of software to facilitate 
the identification of data which could be at risk of being outside policy.

FY23 Financial Statements 
Significant issues considered during the financial year 
The issues considered by the Committee to be the most significant (due to their potential impact on the performance of the Group’s 
activities) in relation to the Financial Statements during the financial year are set out below. 

126

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

127

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Audit Committee Report continued

FY23 Financial Statements continued
Significant issues considered during the financial year continued
1.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 

estimation uncertainty

These are set out in the table below and on the following page.

2.  Going concern
The Committee: 

 ∙ concurred with management’s conclusion, and recommended 
to the Board, that the Company and the Group continue to be 
a going concern and that the Financial Statements should 
be prepared on a going concern basis;

 ∙ using the Group’s business plan, assessed the Group’s 
available facilities, headroom and banking covenants;

 ∙ reviewed management’s detailed analysis, which included 

forecasts, scenarios and sensitivities;

 ∙ considered the going concern requirements of the Code 

to ensure compliance; and

 ∙ continued to monitor market conditions to ensure any 

appropriate adjustments are reflected. 

The Committee also reviewed management’s viability 
assessment of the Group and agreed that it was appropriate.

Further details on the Group’s going concern and viability 
assessments can be found in note 1 on pages 188 and 189, 
and the Group’s Going Concern and Viability Statements can 
be found on pages 99 and 100.

3. Financial reporting
The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements 
of the Group and the Company, and all formal announcements 
relating to the Group and Company’s financial performance. 
This process included the assessment of the following primary 
areas of judgement and took into account the views of our 
external auditor. 

Significant issues considered by the Committee relating to the Financial Statements for FY23 comprise:

Issue

External auditor challenge  Management response

The external auditor 
attended valuation 
meetings, performed 
Group-level analytical 
reviews, and undertook 
other audit procedures 
to challenge the margin 
recognised for the year. 

Margin recognition
Development costs are 
allocated, on a site by site 
basis, between homes built in 
the current and future years. 
The Group’s site valuation 
process determines the profit 
margin for each site. This 
requires the estimation of 
future sales prices and costs 
to complete. Further detail is 
given in note 3 on page 191. 

The Committee considered: 

 ∙ feedback from senior management regarding 
their attendance at valuation meetings and 
their assurances on the efficiency and 
consistency of the approach on valuation 
throughout the business;

 ∙ management’s assumptions and estimates 
in the assessment of margin recognition 
based on site performance, in particular, 
sales prices and build cost, given the 
dynamic inflationary environment;

 ∙ ongoing enhancements made to the 

valuation internal control process following 
completion of the rollout of the new 
commercial valuation system and also 
BRICk internal controls framework; and

 ∙ the results of the Group’s internal audit 

reviews across the business.

Audit Committee comments

Based on this, the 
Committee was 
comfortable with the 
process and controls 
adopted by management 
around the estimation of 
future income and costs 
to complete, and thus the 
process by which the 
Group’s inventory is 
valued and the 
margin recognised.

Costs associated with 
legacy properties 
Estimations of cost provisions 
relating to remedial work 
associated with EWS and 
reinforced concrete frames, 
on legacy buildings, have been 
appropriately provided for 
and disclosed.

This is against the backdrop 
of Government guidance, 
industry regulation, and 
interpretation thereof, 
continuing to evolve, requiring 
the Group to adjust its 
response, similarly as the 
Group’s experience of the 
scope and cost of remediation 
also evolves. 

Further detail is given in note 4 
on page 192 and note 20 on 
pages 212 to 214.

128

The external auditor 
challenged the 
completeness of the 
basis for the estimated 
costs, the scope of 
buildings, contingency, 
assumptions relating to 
cost inflation, estimated 
timing of spend and 
discount rate.

Following the inclusion of further costs 
associated with EWS legacy properties as an 
adjusted item in the FY23 Income Statement, 
the Committee has reviewed and challenged 
the provision, assessing its utilisation and 
continued adequacy, and has agreed that 
the increase has been appropriately judged, 
recorded in the correct period, and that 
accompanying financial and contingent 
liability disclosures fairly reflect the 
associated risks and opportunities.

Based on this, the 
Committee was 
comfortable with the 
process and controls 
adopted by management 
around the disclosures 
and estimation of costs 
and provisions associated 
with legacy properties.

The Managing Director of the Building Safety 
Unit attended the Audit Committee at both 
half and full year end to further appraise the 
Committee, whilst also allowing the Committee 
to question and scrutinise as necessary.

Following the recognition of further reinforced 
concrete costs, the Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the costs recognised and 
the related disclosure, and whether such 
costs had been recognised in the appropriate 
financial year.

Fair, balanced and understandable considerations 
and conclusions
The Committee received a draft of the Annual Report and Accounts 
prior to its August 2023 meeting, together with supporting 
material from management and the external auditor. At the 
meeting, it considered and assessed the process undertaken 
in drafting the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts to determine 
whether it was fair, balanced and understandable.

 ∙ financial and management reporting systems under which 
financial and operating performance is planned on a three-
year basis and budgeted annually. Financial and operating 
performance is consistently reviewed against budget and 
forecasts at divisional, regional and Group levels on a monthly 
basis, variances are explored and, where appropriate, changes 
made; and the information is used in the preparation of the 
Annual Report and Accounts;

Considerations 
 ∙ Feedback provided by shareholders on the FY22 Annual 

Report and Accounts.

 ∙ Assurances provided in respect of the financial and non-financial 

management information. 

 ∙ The balance between statutory and adjusted performance 

measures. 

 ∙ The internal processes underpinning the Group’s reporting 
governance framework and the reviews and findings of the 
Group’s external legal advisers and external auditor. 

 ∙ A report from the Company Secretary, which confirmed that: 
i) the process involved collaboration between various parts 
of the Group, including the Group Finance team, Company 
Secretariat, Group Communications, Investor Relations and 
the Sustainability team; ii) the Annual Report and Accounts 
had been reviewed by the Executive Directors; and iii) the 
Company had received confirmation from its external 
advisers that the Annual Report and Accounts adhered to the 
requirements of the Companies Act, the Code, the Listing 
Rules and other relevant regulations and guidance.

Conclusions 
The Committee concluded that the  Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 June 2023:

 ∙ clearly, comprehensively and accurately reflect the Group and 

Company’s performance in the year under review; 

 ∙ contain an accurate description of the business model;

 ∙ appropriately reflect the Group and Company’s purpose, 

strategy and culture;

 ∙ includes consistent messaging and clear linkage between 

each of its sections; and

 ∙ includes KPIs, which are consistent with the business plan 

and remuneration strategy. 

Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that 
the FY23 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and 
understandable. The Board’s formal statement on the Annual 
Report and Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable 
is contained within the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
on page 171.

Internal controls and the risk management process 
The Committee monitors the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems, including their effectiveness, on 
behalf of the Board. The key aspects are as follows:

 ∙ a clear organisational structure with defined levels of 

authority and responsibility at all levels of the business;

 ∙ identification and review of principal operational risk areas to 
ensure they are embedded in the Group’s monthly management 
reporting system as routine aspects of managerial responsibility. 
Details of the risk management system and the principal 
risks are set out on pages 71 to 77; 

 ∙ assessment of compliance with internal control and risk 

management systems, including a consideration of controls 
over non-financial risks. This assessment is supported by the 
Group’s internal audit team, which is responsible for undertaking 
a risk-assessed annual audit plan, ad hoc audits and reporting 
to the Committee, and, if necessary, the Board, on the operation 
and effectiveness of those systems and any material failings. 
Following the recognition of additional reinforced concrete 
frame provisions, the Committee will review the control 
environment over complex building design in FY24;

 ∙ mapping of assurance procedures to the Group’s principal 
risks, to ensure that the mitigating controls are sufficiently 
robust; and

 ∙ consideration and approval of the Group’s tax position 

and strategy.

The Group’s operations and financing arrangements expose it to 
a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in 
borrowing and debt profiles, Government policy, market prices, 
credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates. There is a regular, 
detailed system for the reporting of daily cash balances and 
forecast cash flows from operations to Senior Management, 
including Executive Directors, to ensure that risks are promptly 
identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken. These 
forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level on a regular 
basis. In addition, the Group has in place a risk management 
programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other 
risks on its financial performance, for example limiting its 
exposure to institutions with high credit ratings. Financing 
activities are delegated by the Board to a centralised Treasury 
Operating Committee. Group Treasury operates according to 
treasury policies that are approved by the Board and the 
Treasury Operating Committee.

Development of an Audit and Assurance Policy
The Committee and the Board support the publication of an 
Audit and Assurance Policy in order to bring greater transparency to 
the assurance it receives in order to gain comfort over the 
Group’s management of risks, and over the accuracy of its 
reporting of both financial and non-financial information. 

During the year, the Committee reviewed a number of items 
which support our Audit and Assurance Policy. These included:

 ∙ a risk assurance map setting out assurance already in place, 
using the three lines of defence model, to identify any gaps or 
areas where improvement in assurance is required;

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

129

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Audit Committee Report continued

Development of an Audit and Assurance Policy 
continued
 ∙ assurance mapping over the Group’s published financial and 
non-financial information which was reviewed and updated 
during the year. The Board made the decision to again appoint 
Deloitte to provide additional independent assurance over 
certain aspects of the Group’s climate-related disclosures, 
including TCFD and certain other non-financial information; and

 ∙ the completion of the annual detailed fraud risk assessment 
exercise to identify, consider, and assess fraud risks in place 
across the Group and the associated controls and assurance 
in place to mitigate and manage these. 

The Committee will continue to monitor the development and 
formalisation of the assurance in place across the Group’s risks, 
key internal controls over financial reporting and financial and 
non-financial published information, with the view to publishing the 
Audit and Assurance policy in due course. 

Whistleblowing 
The Group has a clear whistleblowing policy and procedure, 
which is communicated to the workforce. Concerns can be 
raised by employees with managers, or can be reported by 
anyone, anonymously if necessary, to a confidential and 
independent hotline. The hotline is available 24 hours a day, 
with any matters raised being notified to internal audit 
immediately by email. Matters requiring urgent attention 
(including corruption, human rights abuse and personal safety) 
are notified to the Head of Internal Audit by phone immediately, 
including outside business hours. The Head of Internal Audit 
reviews matters raised, and ensures each matter is investigated 
or refers them to other relevant functions across the business, 
such as the Safety, Health and Environment or HR teams, to 
investigate as appropriate. Any substantive issues are raised 
with the Chair of the Audit Committee as they arise. The Head 
of Internal Audit also updates the Committee on all significant 
whistleblowing incidents at each of its meetings. The 
Committee reviews the overall procedure, investigations and 
outcomes, as well as the availability and frequency of use of the 
whistleblowing hotline. The Chair of the Committee updates the 
Board on whistleblowing reports and investigations on a 
regular basis, and the Board reviews the whistleblowing 
arrangements and discusses the most significant issues 
as appropriate.

Internal audit 
Information regarding internal audit matters considered by 
the Committee are set out in the table of work carried out 
on page 127.

During the year, the Head of Internal Audit completed all 
recommendations and improvements from the IIA EQA which 
was undertaken during the previous year. This included the pilot 
of a guest auditor programme which allowed individuals from 
across the business to support the internal audit team with 
specialist technical knowledge and expertise in auditing certain 
areas of the business. The trial of the programme was successful, 
providing additional insight and knowledge to support assurance, 
and the programme will therefore continue to operate for the 
next year. The Head of Internal Audit conducted a self-assessment 
during the year in order to assess the effectiveness of the 
function against the required IIA standards and governance 
requirements and reported the results to the Committee, who 
concluded that the function continued to operate effectively.

The Committee again considered the reporting line of the Head 
of Internal Audit, and confirmed that it continued to be 
comfortable with the existing reporting line to the Chief 
Financial Officer given that the Head of Internal Audit had 
regular formal meetings with the Chief Executive and any 
issues are reported to the Chief Executive in a timely manner. 
They were also comfortable with the independent relationship 
between the Head of Internal Audit, the Chair of the Committee 
and the wider Committee. The Committee confirmed that they 
would continue to keep this reporting line under review.

External audit 
Audit performance and effectiveness
The Committee annually reviews the external audit plan and 
process. This year it again approved the audit of key risk areas 
earlier in the year to reduce pressure on the busy financial 
reporting period after year end. 

In FY22 Deloitte was appointed, after a thorough tender and 
interview process, to provide assurance over our TCFD and 
certain non-financial disclosures. The appointment and fees 
associated with this work are in accordance with our Auditor 
Independence and Non-Audit Fees Policy.

In forming its conclusion on performance and effectiveness of 
the external audit, the Committee reviewed amongst other 
matters:

Feedback from all stakeholders on the external audit. 

The external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed audit plan 
for FY23.

Reports highlighting the material issues and critical 
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty that arose during the conduct of the audit. 

The external auditor’s objectivity and independence during 
the process, including its own representation about its 
internal independence processes.

The challenges raised by the external auditor during 
the audit.

The Chair of the Committee met with the leaders of the external 
audit team to assess their experience and understanding of 
Barratt, which were considered appropriate.

In assessing the effectiveness and performance of the external 
auditor, the Committee also approved the Group’s approach to 
assessing audit quality. As in FY22, a questionnaire was 
circulated covering five significant audit areas. A wide range of 
internal stakeholders were included across the Group’s senior 
leadership. All areas were rated as good, with some challenges 
identified in project management. The Deloitte team expect to 
address the highlighted areas of focus in FY24. 

During the audit, the external auditor challenged management’s 
judgements and assertions on the following matters in particular: 

 ∙ margin recognition;

 ∙ valuation and completeness of provisions related to legacy 
developments (EWS and reinforced concrete frames); and

 ∙ valuation and completeness of completed development provisions.

The Committee’s response to these can be found in the relevant 
section of the table of significant issues considered by the Committee 
relating to the Financial Statements on page 128.

The FY21 audit was subject to an Audit Quality Review, the 
progress of which was regularly reported to the Chair of the 
Committee, and has now been completed. The Chair of the 
Committee received a full copy of the findings of the AQR team 
and has discussed these with Deloitte. Some matters were 
identified as requiring improvement and the Committee has 
agreed an action plan with Deloitte to ensure these have been 
addressed in the audit of the Company’s FY23 Financial 
Statements.

The Committee concluded that the external audit process as a 
whole had been conducted robustly, the external audit team 
selected to undertake the audit had done so thoroughly and 
professionally, and the external auditor had applied sufficient 
experience and understanding of the housebuilding industry, 
consulted with experts as necessary, and is of sufficient size 
to conduct the audit. Deloitte’s performance as external auditor 
to the Group during FY23 was therefore considered to be 
satisfactory.

In addition, the Committee was satisfied that management had 
provided the external auditor with appropriate access to 
Barratt’s own people, systems, records and supporting 
information, whilst acting professionally and with appropriate 
challenge, enabling the audit to be conducted effectively.

Auditor independence and non-audit fees 
The Company’s Policy on auditor independence and non-audit 
fees is available at www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/
corporate-governance. With effect from 1 July 2021, the policy 
caps non-audit fees at 70% of the average audit fees over the 
previous three years. The Committee continually monitors the 
ratio of non-audit to audit fees to ensure that it does not exceed 
this cap. For FY23, non-audit fees (including audit-related 
assurance services) for the Company and its subsidiaries and 
JV’s were £230k, representing 24.3% of the total audit fee. 
Non-audit fees based on the average of the previous three 
years’ audit fees were 26.5%. Further details of the audit and 
non-audit fees incurred by the Group can be found in note 3 
on page 192. The non-audit fees were for work undertaken by 
the external auditor for the review of the half year report and 

also assurance provided over TCFD and certain non-financial 
disclosures included in our FY23 results.

This Policy also sets out the duties of the Committee relating to 
the protection of the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor. The pre-approval levels and conditions required for 
different non-audit services that might be required from the 
external auditor, together with prohibited services, are detailed 
in the Policy. It also sets out restrictions on the recruitment of 
employees from the external auditor. The Policy was reviewed 
and updated in 2023, and is in line with the auditor 
independence rules of the FRC’s Revised Ethical Standard 2019 
and includes the FRC’s whitelist of permitted non-audit 
services. There are no conflicts of interest between the 
members of the Committee and the external auditor.

The Committee requires written confirmation annually from 
the external auditor that it remains independent. For FY23, 
the external auditor provided a comprehensive report to the 
Committee verifying that it had performed its audit and 
audit-related services in line with independence requirements 
and explaining why it believed that it remained independent 
within the requirements of the applicable regulations and its 
own professional standards. The report also explained why the 
ratio of audit to non-audit fees, and the extent and type of 
non-audit services provided, was appropriate. The Committee 
conducted its own review and endorsed the external auditor’s 
conclusions on compliance with the Policy and independence 
of the external auditor.

Accordingly, the Committee was satisfied that both the work 
performed by the external auditor, given its knowledge of 
the Group, and the level of non-audit fees paid to it, were 
appropriate and did not raise any concerns in terms of 
our external auditor’s independence. 

Total audit and non-audit fees
FY23 (£000)

£1,311

43

186

230

FY22 (£000)

£1,189

852

680

37

262

210

FY21 (£000)

£751

35

—

411

305

130

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

131

 Company audit  

 Subsidiaries audit 

 Audit related services 

 Other services

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

F

Audit Committee Report continued

Safety, Health and Environment Committee Report

Auditor rotation timeline

2007 
Deloitte appointed

2017 
Deloitte reappointed 
following competitive 
tender

2027 
Competitive tender unless 
particular circumstances 
require an earlier tender

Our approach to 
managing safety, health 
and the environment

External audit continued
External audit tender 
Deloitte was first appointed as external auditor to the Group in 
2007, and was reappointed following a competitive tender in FY17. 
The Company has therefore complied with the provisions of the 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 issued by the CMA on 
26 September 2014. Jacqueline Holden replaced Claire Faulkner 
as lead audit partner with effect from the FY23 audit following a 
period of transition. Jacqueline was selected after an interview 
process involving the Chair of the Committee, supported by the 
then acting Chief Financial Officer. The external audit team’s 
second audit partner was rotated for the FY20 audit and remains 
in place.

Under current regulations, the Company is not due to re-tender 
its audit until 2027. Given the continuing effectiveness of 
Deloitte in its role as external auditor, the Committee currently 
believes it is in the best interests of shareholders for Deloitte to 
remain in role and for a competitive tender process to be 
completed in time for the FY27 audit. The Committee will, 
however, continue to monitor Deloitte’s performance as 
external auditor and make recommendations accordingly. 

The Group has appointed UHY Hacker Young LLP as the auditor 
for certain of its subsidiaries and JVs with effect from the FY23 
audit. This appointment followed a rigorous tender process. The 
timing of this audit work follows completion of the Group audit 
and therefore has no bearing on the scope of Deloitte’s audit. As 

well as realising some efficiency, this step provides the 
opportunity for one of the so called challenger audit firms to 
gain experience.

Assessment of the external auditor

Having considered the external auditor’s performance, the 
Committee recommended to the Board that the external auditor 
remains independent, objective and effective in its role and 
therefore should be reappointed for a further year. On the 
recommendation of the Committee, the Board is putting 
forward a resolution at this year’s AGM to reappoint Deloitte as 
external auditor for a further year. The recommendation of 
reappointment of Deloitte is free from influence by a third party 
and no contractual term of the kind mentioned in Article 16(6) of 
the Audit Regulation has been imposed on the Company 
whereby there would be a restriction on the choice to certain 
categories or lists of auditors.

This report forms part of the Corporate Governance Report 
and is signed on behalf of the Audit Committee by:

Jock Lennox
Chair of the Audit Committee
5 September 2023

Committee membership and attendance 
There were two meetings held during the year ended 30 June 2023. 
The table below shows the attendance of each Director whilst 
a member of the committee.

 Attended 

 Did not attend

Meetings attended

Committee members

Chris Weston 

Steven Boyes 

Vince Coyle1 

1  Vince Coyle is Group Safety, Health and Environmental Director.

Chris Weston
Chair of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee

Focus in the reporting year

 ∙ Continued to monitor IIR and launched a further campaign 

focusing on the prevention of slips, trips and falls.

 ∙ Considered enhancements to existing safe systems of  
work such as working at height and activities involving 
ground workers.

 ∙ Assessed the SHE culture within our business via a SHE 

Climate survey.

Priorities for FY24

 ∙ Continue to take action to improve our IIR. 

 ∙ Further enhance activities around mental well-being and 

occupational health.

 ∙ Keep under review the requirements of the Building Safety 

Act and adapt accordingly.

 ∙ Continue to review our impact on the environment and how 

we mitigate against this.

132

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

133

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Safety, Health and Environment Committee Report continued

insufficient pedestrian/plant segregation being available at the 
location where the incident occurred. We were fined £8,000 and 
the sub-contractor £32,000. We took immediate action after the 
incident to address the circumstances that led to the breaches 
identified, including reinforcing our policy on site induction, and 
ensuring that contractors take appropriate steps to segregate 
workers from their plant movements. We continue to monitor 
these on a regular basis.

We recognise the importance of ensuring all who work on 
our sites have an effective induction and hold the relevant 
competencies for the role they are undertaking. Therefore 
this year we have further developed our successful Induction 
Manager App to enhance the process. This has proved effective 
in ensuring all individuals attending our sites are clear on what 
we will provide and do, and what is expected from them. We 
have also continued with our positive engagement with key 
members of our supply chain in reviewing safe systems of work 
and developing enhanced controls for their work activities.

During FY23 we further assessed the SHE culture within 
our business via a SHE Climate survey sent to employees, 
sub-contractors and suppliers, which was created by the 
Health and Safety Laboratories for the purposes of benchmarking 
Health and Safety culture in comparison with organisations 
across a number of sectors. The overall results were encouraging. 
We scored above the benchmark (compared with 130 companies 
in all sectors) in all eight categories, which placed us in the top 
5% of comparator companies. A particular strength that was 
noted, was health and safety communication and Management’s 
commitment to always act on safety concerns which is very 
encouraging. Detailed action plans are now being developed 
across the business to address those areas where there is 
room for further improvement with progress being monitored 
by the Committee. We intend to repeat the survey bi-annually 
going forward, and will endeavour to increase the participation 
from our supply chain in further surveys.

FY24 key priorities
Injury prevention remains a key area of focus for the business, 
with the aim of improving our IIR. There are further changes 
that we will be looking to make in terms of mental wellbeing and 
managing occupational health, and we are working with the HR 
team to improve business knowledge and awareness. The new 
Building Safety Act encompasses wide-ranging statutory 
requirements for high risk buildings and other elements of the 
built environment and we are looking closely at the detailed 
competency requirements included already and those arising 
from the anticipated secondary legislation. We are also 
committed to minimise the risks to the environment and so in 
FY24 a key focus area will be continuing to review and enhance 
our silt water management controls to ensure that 
contamination events are prevented.

I would like to thank the SHE team, our employees and 
sub-contractors for the great work that they undertake 
each day to keep our people safe.

Chris Weston
Chair of the SHE Committee
5 September 2023

Role and activities of the SHE Committee
Membership and attendance at SHE Committee meetings
The membership of the SHE Committee and the attendance at each of its scheduled meetings is set out on page 133.

Only members of the SHE Committee have the right to attend meetings, however, other individuals may be invited, at the request 
of the Chair, to attend all or part of any meeting where it is deemed appropriate.

Role and main activities undertaken by the Committee during the financial year
The SHE Committee’s activities continue to remain focused on the prevention and mitigation of the key operational risks relating to 
health and safety, and the protection of the environment. By receiving reports and challenging those tasked with SHE performance 
where necessary, the SHE Committee helps the business to improve its SHE standards. It supports and oversees the direction and 
implementation of SHE Policy and procedures which encourage efficient working practices, prevention of injury and illness, and 
support our continuous improvement strategy and ongoing sustainability of the Group. 

The SHE Committee continues to work closely with the SHE Operations Committee, which is responsible for the implementation and 
oversight of the Group’s overall SHE improvement strategy on a day-to-day basis. The SHE Operations Committee reports directly 
to the SHE Committee. The Group Construction and SHE Director presents SHE update reports to each of these Committees and to 
the Board. The SHE Committee has at least one joint meeting with the SHE Operations Committee each financial year. In addition, 
the SHE Committee Chair is now invited to attend all SHE Operations Committee meetings. This enables the Committee and its Chair 
to enhance its understanding of the operational issues faced by the workforce, and to discuss them, and ways to improve them, 
directly with those responsible for day-to-day SHE management. 

The SHE Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference, which can be found on the Company’s website at 
www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance. In addition to the tasks carried out annually, such as a review 
of its Terms of Reference and approval of this report, the SHE Committee carried out the following work during the year: 

Priorities

Work carried out and outcomes

IIR

Continued to monitor SHE performance targets, key performance indicators and IIR, all of which are available 
on pages 17 and 24. 

Launched the campaign for increased Near Miss reporting in January 2023, to enable the business to have 
greater depth of insight into emerging risks and trends.

Considered, developed and launched a new SHE campaign to focus on slip, trip and fall incidents.

SHE training 
and compliance

Reviewed the outcome of a benchmarking exercise with HBF members on our Drugs and Alcohol Policy and 
approach to testing, which showed our Policy was robust compared to others in the industry, and agreed 
a number of changes on testing.

Considered and approved the detailed plan of work for the integration of Oregon and Gladman into Barratt 
SHE management.

Considered the outcome of the HSE Safety Climate survey, and agreed the actions arising from it.

Reviewed the new Health and Wellbeing strategy and requested a review of how to measure its effectiveness.

Considered and agreed a new policy on the arrangements in place for the security and protection of our 
construction sites.

Sponsored a review of the documentation site managers are required to complete during the lifecycle 
of a project and agreed a number of efficiencies which were implemented in FY23.

SHE management system
Our SHE management system continues to be accredited to the 
international standards ISO 14001 and 45001. We have reviewed 
the processes which site management are required to 
undertake and have received considerable feedback from site 
teams. Where possible, we have either enhanced the practical 
use of apps or amended forms. 

We are focused on having an effective process for near miss 
reporting. It is essential in our view to consider incidents that 
may not have caused injury or damage but had the potential to 
do so. This helps us to ensure that mitigations are in place to try 
and prevent these incidents from occurring again and from 
becoming an injury or causing damage.

Health and Safety Climate survey
The Health and Safety Climate survey was undertaken during 
the year with over 1,600 surveys completed and over 8,000 
individual comments captured. Our health and safety culture 
in particular was considered to be very strong, with positive 
comments regarding health and safety leadership and the 
strength of poster campaigns on site. Areas for improvement 
included simplifying the format and presentation of our SHE 
procedures and control forms, and ensuring that all members 
of the workforce pay enough attention to health and safety 
matters. Additional actions arising from the survey included 
reviewing our pre-start processes to ensure health and safety 
continues to be embedded from commencement and that we 
continue to learn from incidents through an effective 
communications process. Specific Regional action plans are 
also being developed and progress is being tracked through 
the SHE Operations Committee.

Statement from the Chair of the SHE Committee
I am pleased to present this report as Chair of the SHE Committee. 
The health and safety of our workforce, customers and the 
public, and the protection of the environment around our 
developments, remain a fundamental priority for the Group and 
is embedded within the day-to-day operations of the business. 
Overall, our site teams continue to be recognised for achieving 
high standards of health and safety. Our culture and approach 
has been further verified by achieving champion status as part 
of an assessment by Building Safer Futures, a non-profit 
organisation set up as part of the drive for improvements 
to building safety in the construction industry.

FY23 areas of focus
Injury and ill health prevention has remained a key area of focus 
for the business throughout the year. Following the reduction in 
the Group IIR in FY22, and despite the ongoing action plan for 
continuous improvement, the IIR has unfortunately increased 
this year from 262 per 100,000 persons in FY22 to 289 in FY23. 
Our analysis indicates that the primary contributing factor is 
slips and trips, which is reflected industry wide, and a further 
campaign has been put in place which is described below.

We have continued to review all working practices and 
considered enhancements to existing safe systems of work, 
especially around working at height and those activities 
involving ground workers. With effect from 1 July 2022, all 
ride-on dumpers of six tonnes or more operating on our sites 
were required to have an enclosed cab to protect the operator. 
We have worked closely with our sub-contractors to ensure that 
this new requirement can be adhered to.

During the year, a hearing took place in relation to an incident 
involving an employee of one of our sub-contractors that occurred 
within our West Scotland division in 2017. A dumper collided at 
low speed with the sub-contractor’s employee. The sub-contractor 
had not presented their employee to our site team for an induction 
on their first day, but based on strict liability and the fact the 
individual had not been inducted, we accepted responsibility as 
the Principal Contractor for this technical breach. In addition, 
both Barratt and the sub-contractor pleaded guilty to 

134

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

135

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Safety, Health and Environment Committee Report continued

Remuneration Report
Annual Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Corporate Governance

Integration of Oregon and Gladman
Having consistent Health and Safety Standards across all of our 
Group Companies is very important. We have therefore worked 
with both the Oregon and Gladman teams on their Health and 
Safety integration which was completed for both organisations 
in FY23. Both organisations have now implemented SHE 
training requirements which are consistent with the rest of 
Group; they are capturing incident and near miss information 
using the incident app and are also being audited through the 
annual Divisional audit programme. They also both took part 
in the recent Safety Climate Survey.

Health and Safety training
We continue to develop our e-learning packages to support our 
existing training provision. The number of slips and trips has 
been a primary contributing factor to the IIR and a number of 
these have involved employees in sales roles. We have therefore, 
this year, launched a Sales e-learning module to ensure new 
sales team colleagues are familiar with our controls and that 
the sales environment is safe for colleagues and customers. 
The majority of slip incidents continue to be in construction. In 
co-ordination with other housebuilders, we are introducing a 
campaign on prevention of slip/trip injuries given that there has 
been an industry-wide trend in an increase in these types of 
incidents and therefore a common goal to improve.

Induction is a key control, and it is a mandatory requirement for 
individuals to complete the induction process and for a record 
to be maintained on our platform. Based on feedback from our 
site teams, we launched a new two-stage site induction process, 
requiring site workers to review a video highlighting our 
expectations of them and what they should expect from us. 
Competency cards are increasingly using smart technology, 
verifiable against the scheme database. Accessibility to the 
assessment at the end of the induction has been increased 
through the use of sub-titles and translations for those whose 
primary language is not English.

A full programme of Board visits and site visits by individual 
Board Directors has recommenced, with two sites visited by the 
full Board. The aim is for each Director to visit at least one site 
a year.

It is also important to us that we are engaging with our high risk 
contractors. Ongoing work with groundworkers includes SHE 
seminars in each division every six months, and we have now 
extended this to include our scaffolding contractors.

Occupational health and wellbeing 
The Group continues to promote occupational and mental health 
for all employees and others working on our sites. With support 
from the Group HR team, employees were given access to a 
variety of webinars, e-learning modules and newsletters, all of 
which contained guidance on staying healthy both physically and 
mentally. Further details of our health and wellbeing initiatives 
are given on page 38.

Environmental protection
We have a management system in place that is compliant with 
environmental standards. Prior to commencing on site, we 
undertake an assessment of the local environment and put 
plans in place to prevent contamination of any adjacent watercourses. 
These plans and controls are reviewed monthly and action is 
taken where enhancements or maintenance of the controls are 
required. We are also committed to further minimise the risks 
to the environment and so a key focus area will be to enhance 
our policies and procedures, in particular our surface water 
management plans, whilst continuing to ensure that they are 
effective and are closely monitored by our Operational teams. 

This report forms part of the Corporate Governance Report 
and is signed on behalf of the SHE Committee by:

Chris Weston 
Chair of the SHE Committee
5 September 2023

Our approach to 
remuneration

Committee membership and attendance 
There were four meetings held during the year ended 30 June 2023. 
The table below shows the attendance of each Director whilst 
a member of the committee.

 Attended 

 Did not attend

Meetings attended

Committee members

Katie Bickerstaffe  

John Allan 

Caroline Silver1 

Jasi Halai2 

Jock Lennox  

Chris Weston  

Nina Bibby3 

Sharon White4 

1   Caroline Silver was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 June 2023.

2  Jasi Halai was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 January 2023.

 3   Nina Bibby did not offer herself for re-election and stepped down at the AGM 

in October 2022.

4   Sharon White was unable to attend the June 2023 Committee meeting due to 
a prior commitment. Prior to the meeting, Sharon provided her views on the 
meeting agenda which were shared with the other Board members during 
the meeting. Following the meeting Sharon was briefed on the business of 
the meeting and any decisions taken.

Katie Bickerstaffe
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Focus in the reporting year

 ∙ Deferred bonus alignment with best practice 

and shareholder expectations.

 ∙ Review of Remuneration Policy.

 ∙ Remuneration outcomes for FY23.

 ∙ Remuneration targets for FY24.

Priorities for FY24

 ∙ Monitor Executive Directors’ and Senior Management’s 

performance against targets.

 ∙ Keep metrics used for short- and long-term incentives 

under review.

 ∙ Induct new Group HR Director to the workings of 

the Committee.

136

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

137

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Annual Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee continued

Statement from the Chair of the Committee
I am pleased to present my report to you as Chair of 
the Committee. 

When considering the FY24 remuneration outcomes for the 
Executive Directors and in considering the targets for FY24, 
the Committee took into account, amongst other factors, the 
performance of the Group in FY23 and the market conditions in 
which the Group has operated (as explained in the Chief Executive’s 
Statement on page 23, and the Marketplace section on pages 20 
and 21).

Remuneration Policy 
Our existing remuneration policy was approved for a period of 
three years at our 2020 AGM and expires this year. As such, we will 
be presenting a slightly revised policy to shareholders for approval 
at our 2023 AGM. During the year, the Committee undertook an 
in-depth review of the current policy considering a number of 
factors including the expected economic environment over the 
next policy period, our strategy, and our experience with the 
current policy. Following discussions, the Committee believes that 
overall the policy remains broadly fit for purpose. It is therefore 
proposing that the only significant change to the policy, as 
previously communicated, will be with regards to bonus deferral 
for Executive Directors and Senior Management.

Currently, under the rules of the existing DBP, any bonus earned in 
excess of 100% of salary is deferred into shares. To bring the policy 
in line with shareholder expectations and best practice we will, 
from the date of the 2023 AGM, defer a fixed percentage of any 
bonus earned. Accordingly, for FY24, we have agreed that 
one-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares. This is 
in line with current arrangements under which an individual who is 
able to earn a bonus equivalent to 150% of salary defers one-third 
of their bonus at maximum. Our proposal therefore ensures that 
the same proportion of the annual bonus continues to be deferred 
when maximum opportunity is achieved, but also ensures that 
one-third of any bonus earned will be deferred for achievement 
below maximum. The rules of a new DBP which will be used 
to implement this new approach to deferral will be presented 
to shareholders at the 2023 AGM for approval.

Other minor amendments have been made to the policy to provide 
further clarity in respect of potential performance metrics used 
within the annual bonus and to ensure that the policy remains in 
line with best practice.

We believe that with these changes, the Remuneration Policy is fit 
for purpose and aligns the interests of our Executive Directors with 
those of our shareholders and with our business strategy. It also 
continues to drive appropriate behaviours for the long-term 
success of the Company. Details of these changes can be found 
on page 142.

FY23 performance and reward
The business has continued to deliver a strong operational and a 
good financial performance throughout the year. In particular, we 
achieved 17,206 total home completions (FY22: 17,908), despite the 
challenges posed by the increase in interest and mortgage rates 
and the continuing significant cost of living pressures faced by our 
customers. The Board is extremely grateful for the hard work and 
dedication of our teams and partners over the past year, despite 
these challenges. The outcome for the FY23 annual bonus scheme 
was 40.1% of maximum, with no bonus earned in respect of the 
adjusted PBT performance target. The 2020 LTPP award will vest 
at 19.6%. Further details can be found on page 161. 

The Committee carefully considered the incentive outcomes within 
the context of the underlying performance of the business, and 
ultimately decided that the outcomes were reflective of business 
performance. As a result, the Committee has not used any 
discretion to determine these outcomes and it has not adjusted any 
of the performance targets during the year.

2022 LTPP 
As highlighted in last year’s report, the Committee was mindful 
of the view of shareholders and proxy voting agencies that 
remuneration committees should seek to reduce the number of 
shares granted under a long-term performance award, where the 
Company’s share price has fallen substantially since the previous 
grant, to avoid potential windfall gains for Executive Directors. As 
such, at the time of grant of the 2022 LTPP, the Committee agreed 
to apply a reduction of 15% to the normal level of the award to avoid 
windfall gains given the decline in the Company’s share price since 
the previous grant in October 2021.

Pensions
With effect from 1 January 2023 the cash supplements in lieu of 
pension paid to David Thomas and Steven Boyes were reduced 
from 25% of base salary to a level equivalent to the wider 
workforce (currently 10% of base salary), in line with our 
previous commitments and the guidance from the IA. Mike Scott’s 
cash supplement was set at 10% of base salary from the date 
of his appointment.

FY24 remuneration
Cost of living support
We remain conscious that the cost of living continues to be high 
and is impacting our employees. In January 2023, we decided to 
pay a further £1,000 salary supplement, in equal monthly 
instalments to each of our employees below our senior leadership 
team (95% of our employees) for the six months to 30 June 2023. 
With effect from 1 July 2023, we ceased the salary supplement but 
applied a 4% inflationary increase for all employees below Board 
level, with a tiered additional increase, up to 6%, for those who 
received the salary supplement, meaning that on average a 5.3% 
salary increase was awarded to the wider workforce.

FY24 salary 
Having regard to the changes implemented for employees as set 
out above, and to the benchmarking data provided by PwC, the 
Committee decided to increase Executive Directors’ salaries by 
4%, which is lower than the average increase of 5.3% awarded to 
the wider workforce. The Committee believes that this increase 
is justified given the continued strength of our operational and 
financial performance, the ongoing competitive landscape we 
face across the sector, and to ensure alignment between the 
Executive Directors and the wider workforce. The Committee 
further believes that this level of increase is appropriate given 
the current economic circumstances in which we are operating. 
Furthermore, the Committee is comfortable that salary levels 
remain in line with peers. 

During the year, a committee of the Board comprising the 
Chair and the Executive Directors reviewed the Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees and concluded that an increase of 4% should 
also apply to the Non-Executive Directors’ base fee, and to their 
fees as members and chairs of the relevant committees. An 
increase of 4% was also applied to Caroline Silver’s fee as Chair 
to reflect that she took over as Chair earlier than anticipated 
and to ensure that her fee remained in line with that of John 
Allan’s. These increases are in line with those made to the base 
salaries of the Executive Directors and below that applied to the 
base salaries of the wider workforce.

FY24 annual bonus and 2023 LTPP
The performance measures for the FY24 annual bonus scheme 
are set out on page 156 together with the rationale for selecting 
them. The key change is the introduction of a Diversity & Inclusion 
target to reflect our business focus in this area. This target replaces 
the Trading Outlets measure. The Committee is of the view that the 
actual targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and 
will therefore disclose these with performance against them, in 
the FY24 Remuneration Report, in line with market practice.

The 2023 LTPP will be awarded to all eligible participants, 
including the Executive Directors, later this year. Under our 
Remuneration Policy, the Committee can make awards of up to 
200% of salary to Executive Directors. The Committee continues 
to believe that TSR, Absolute Adjusted EPS, Underlying ROCE and 
GHG Emissions Reduction remain the most appropriate measures 
to align the Group’s performance with strategy and the interests 
of stakeholders. Due to the continued uncertainty in market 
conditions at the time of approving this Remuneration Report, the 
Committee has not been able to finalise the financial targets for its 
incentive schemes. We anticipate that the financial targets will be 
agreed by no later than the end of November 2023. The details of 
the non-financial targets for the 2023 LTPP can be found on page 157 
and the strategic KPIs for each can be found on pages 16 to 17. 

The rules of the LTPP are due to expire in November 2023 having 
been in place for a period of ten years. A new set of rules will 
therefore be presented for shareholder approval at the 2023 AGM.

Shareholder engagement 
I wrote to our 20 largest institutional investors and the proxy voting 
agencies in May 2023 to gain feedback on the proposed changes to 
the Remuneration Policy, the remuneration outcomes for FY23 and 
our proposals for FY24. We received feedback from shareholders 
representing 10.3% of our issued share capital. 

The key topic of discussion was the introduction of the Diversity 
and Inclusion targets, whereby shareholders recommended that 
we ensure that these targets are measurable and aligned to the 
Group’s strategy in this area. The Committee confirms that this 
feedback has been taken into account when setting the specific 
Diversity and Inclusion targets and in determining how performance 
will be assessed. All shareholders who responded were very 
supportive of the FY23 outcomes, the FY24 remuneration proposals 
and the changes proposed to the Policy.

Employees and remuneration
Our 2022 Gender Pay Gap report was published in December 2022, 
along with our first Ethnicity Pay Gap report which we chose to 
publish voluntarily as part of our commitment to becoming a more 
diverse and inclusive business. Details of the reports, where to 
find them on our website and our work on improving diversity and 
reducing these pay gaps can be found on pages 37 to 39. 

We continue to seek the views of our Workforce Forum on our 
approach to pay for employees and Executive Directors during the 
year. Further details on the Workforce Forum and the matters it 
discussed during the year can be found on page 55. We continue 
to make an annual award of Barratt shares to employees below 
Senior Management to recognise their dedication, commitment 
and loyalty. Further details can be found on page 37. 

Reporting
Our Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2023 
comprises three parts: this Annual Statement, our full 
Remuneration Policy, and the Annual Report on remuneration. 
Details of how we have applied the relevant requirements of the 
Code can be found throughout this Remuneration Report. 

Conclusion
Throughout the year, the Remuneration Policy operated as 
intended in terms of Company performance and quantum, 
and in line with the Code.

The Committee believes that the decisions it has taken in respect 
of FY23 pay outcomes and its proposed approach to remuneration 
for FY24 are in the best interests of its shareholders, align with the 
Group’s strategy, reflect the wider business and economic 
environment and are fair, reasonable and appropriate. I therefore 
hope that you will support the updated Remuneration Policy and 
the Annual Report on Remuneration, which will be proposed at the 
AGM in October 2023. On behalf of the Committee and the Board, 
I would like to thank you for your continued support of our 
remuneration framework.

Katie Bickerstaffe
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
5 September 2023

Our remuneration strategy 
It is the motivation and engagement of our employees which 
makes our business operationally and financially strong. It is 
therefore imperative that our remuneration strategy appropriately 
rewards our employees for their performance against the Group’s 
key performance indicators, whilst delivering sustainable 
shareholder value. Our Remuneration Policy therefore aims to:

 ∙ promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company 

and be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives 
of the Group to enhance shareholder value; 

 ∙ attract, retain, motivate and competitively reward Executive 

Directors and Senior Management with the requisite experience, 
skills and ability to support the achievement of the Group’s key 
strategic objectives in any financial year;

 ∙ take account of pay and employment conditions of employees 

across the Group whilst reflecting the interests and expectations 
of shareholders and other stakeholders;

 ∙ reward the delivery of profit and the achievement of the return on 
capital employed target, whilst ensuring that Executive Directors 
and Senior Management adopt a level of risk which is in line with 
the risk profile of the business as approved by the Board;

 ∙ ensure that there is no reward for failure and that termination 

payments (if any) are limited to those that the Executive Director 
(or member of Senior Management) is legally entitled to; and 

 ∙ ensure that in exercising its discretion, the Committee robustly 

applies the aims above.

In developing its Remuneration Policy, the Committee has regard to:

 ∙ the Group’s purpose and strategic priorities, and ensuring that 

targets support the achievement of these;

 ∙ the performance, roles and responsibilities of each Executive 

Director and members of Senior Management;

 ∙ arrangements that apply across the wider workforce, including 

average base salary increases and pension contributions;

 ∙ information and surveys from internal and independent sources; 

and

 ∙ the economic environment and underlying financial 

performance of the Group.

138

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

139

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration overview

LTPP vesting outcome
Further details, including the share price used to calculate the estimated value, any value of share price increases and the value 
of dividend equivalents, are set out in Table 12 on page 162 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.

David Thomas
Steven Boyes

Mike Scott

Shares 
awarded
Number

282,004
223,183

67,681

Percentage of award vesting

EPS
0%
0%

0%

ROCE
13%
13%

13%

TSR
6.6%
6.6%

6.6%

Total
19.6%
19.6%

19.6%

Shares 
vesting 
Number

55,272
43,743

13,265

Estimated 
value 
£000

299
237

69

Alignment of FY23 incentive performance measures with strategy

Strategic priorities

Customer first

Great places 

Leading construction

Investing in our people

Anticipate our customers’ 
evolving needs by 
continuously improving the 
homes and places we build.

Secure good value land 
and planning consents 
where people aspire to live.

Deliver highest quality 
homes, focus on excellence, 
embrace MMC.

Attract and retain the 
best people, invest in 
their development.

Annual 
bonus

How our incentive structures are aligned to delivering the strategic priorities

 ∙ Customer service

 ∙ Adjusted PBT 

 ∙ Adjusted PBT 

 ∙ Adjusted PBT 

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ Capital Employed 

 ∙ Capital Employed 

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ Customer service 

 ∙ Customer service

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ Diversity & inclusion

LTPP

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ ROCE 

 ∙ ROCE 

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ Adjusted EPS 

 ∙ TSR 

 ∙ Sustainability

 ∙ Adjusted EPS 

 ∙ Sustainability

The overview below outlines the remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors for FY23, together with the minimum, on-target 
and maximum (with and without share price growth) opportunities for FY24, the FY23 targets set for variable remuneration and our 
performance against them, and the alignment of our FY23 incentive performance measures with strategy. Full details can be found 
in the Annual Report on remuneration on pages 155 to 168. Details of Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements and whether 
they have been met are given in Table 16 on page 164. 

Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy scenarios for FY24, and FY23 single figure outcomes 

£
5,000

4,500

4,000

3,500

3,000

2,500

2,000

1,500

1,000

949

4,708

53%

3,873

43%

2,411

35%

26%

1,756

32%

27%

1,950

35%

26%

771

3,804

53%

3,130

43%

2,897

53%

2,383

43%

1,418

32%

27%

1,483

35%

26%

583

32%

27%

928

500

0

100%

39%

24%

20%

100%

40%

25%

20%

100%

39%

24%

20%

Minimum

Chief Executive

On-target  Maximum  Maximum
plus 50% 
share price 
growth

Single figure 
FY23

Minimum

Chief Operating Officer and 
Deputy Chief Executive

On-target  Maximum  Maximum
plus 50% 
share price 
growth

Single figure 
FY23

Minimum

Chief Financial Officer

On-target  Maximum  Maximum
plus 50% 
share price 
growth

Single figure 
FY23

  Fixed pay 

  Annual bonus 

  LTIP

Notes:

Minimum pay is fixed pay only (i.e. salary + benefits + pension). 

On-target pay includes fixed pay, 50% of the maximum bonus (equal to 75% of salary) and 50% vesting of the LTPP awards (with grant levels of 200% of salary).

Maximum pay includes fixed pay and assumes 100% vesting of both the annual bonus and the LTPP awards.

Maximum pay plus 50% share price growth is the same as maximum pay for fixed pay and annual bonus but assumes a 50% increase in the share price over 
the performance period for the LTPP.

All amounts have been rounded to the nearest £1,000. Salary levels (which are the base on which other elements of the package are calculated) are based on 
salaries as at 1 July 2023. The value of taxable benefits is the cost of providing those benefits in the year ended 30 June 2023. The Executive Directors are also 
permitted to participate in HMRC tax advantaged all-employee share plans, on the same terms as other eligible employees, but they have been excluded from 
the above graph for simplicity. The LTPP awards allow participants to receive dividend equivalents but these are excluded from the scenario chart, other than 
for the single figure bar.

The CFO’s replacement LTPP awards that are due to vest in October 2023 are included as LTPP in the FY23 remuneration. Dividend equivalents have been 
included for the LTPP single figure bar.

FY23 performance pay outcomes
Annual bonus outcome 
Further details are set out on pages 160 and 161 in the Annual Report on Remuneration.

Target

Profit before tax and 
adjusted items

Capital employed

Quality and service (with 
health and safety underpin)

Threshold

£1,015m

Target

£1,090m

Maximum

£1,165m

Actual £884m

£1,815m

£1,815m

£1,715m

Actual £1,733m

(i) Number of divisions achieving minimum 94% SHE monitoring 
inspections gate on a rolling 12 months’ performance basis, (ii) 
For 75% of this element, divisions achieving minimum 90% for 
the HBF 8-week National New Homes Customer Satisfaction 
survey; and (iii) for the remaining 25% of this element, number 
of divisions achieving minimum 82% for NHBC 9-month 
Customer Satisfaction Survey.

Divisions achieving 90% 8 week score: 23
Divisions achieving 82% 9 month score 16

Weighting

Outcome achieved

82.5%

15%

0%

13.6%

22.5%

16.5%

Reduction of total waste 
generated (waste intensity) 

4.87 tonnes

4.82 tonnes

4.77 tonnes

Actual 4.31 tonnes per 100m2 legally completed build area

Trading outlet openings

98 openings

103 openings

108 openings

15%

15%

15%

15%

Actual 130 openings

140

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

141

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy

The Company’s current Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the “2020 Policy”), was approved by shareholders at the 2020 AGM. 
A new Remuneration Policy will therefore be presented for approval by shareholders at the AGM in October 2023 (the “2023 
Policy”). We consulted with our major shareholders and the main institutional voting agencies on the proposed minor changes to 
our Remuneration Policy and its proposed implementation for FY24. If approved by shareholders, the 2023 Policy will take effect 
from the date of the 2023 AGM and remain in force for three years unless changes are required. 

The full version of the 2020 Policy can be found on pages 127 to 130 of the 2020 Annual Report and Accounts, which is available on 
our website at www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors. A description of how the Company implemented the 2020 Policy in FY23 
can be found on pages 159 to 163.

Changes to Remuneration Policy
The Committee is only proposing minor changes to the Remuneration Policy, with all other aspects remaining unchanged. 
The minor amendments are to reflect best practice and governance requirements only. The table below summarises these changes. 

Area of policy

Changes to 2023 Remuneration Policy from the 2020 Remuneration Policy

Annual bonus

Underlying policy is unchanged, however minor drafting changes have been made to provide further clarity 
in respect of potential performance metrics.

DBP

Under the 2020 Policy, bonuses up to 100% of base salary are paid in cash with any bonus earned in excess 
of this (up to a maximum of 50% of base salary) deferred into shares under the DBP. To bring the policy in 
line with shareholder expectations and best practice it is proposed that, with effect from FY24, a fixed 
portion of at least one-third of any bonus earned by Executive Directors will instead be deferred into shares 
for a period of three years.

Shareholding 
requirements

Underlying policy is unchanged, however minor wording changes have been made to bring this policy in line 
with best practice.

Policy table
The proposed 2023 Policy is set out below. Details of how the proposed 2023 Policy will be applied for FY24 are set out on 
pages 156 to 158.

Purpose and link to 
Company’s strategy

Base salary

How operated in practice

Maximum opportunity

Description of 
performance metrics

To help promote the 
long-term success of the 
Company.

Normally reviewed annually and fixed for 
12 months with any increases usually 
effective from 1 July.

To reward individuals 
based on the scope of 
the role.

The Committee considers:

 ∙ individual responsibilities, skills, 
experience and performance;

To attract and retain high 
calibre Executive Directors 
to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.

To provide a competitive 
salary relative to 
comparable companies 
in terms of size 
and complexity.

 ∙ the level of pay increases awarded 

across the Group (with the exception 
of promotions);

 ∙ the size and responsibility of the role;

 ∙ economic and market conditions; and

 ∙ the performance of the Group.

The Committee, when setting salaries, 
takes into account salary levels for 
similar positions in the housebuilding 
sector and within companies of a similar 
size to the Group.

The Committee has the discretion to vary 
salaries in the event there are changes 
to any of the above within the 12-month 
period for which salaries have been fixed.

Salaries are paid monthly in arrears.

There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase. 

N/A

The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the broader 
UK employee population but on 
occasions may need to recognise 
changes in the role and/or duties 
of a Director; movement in 
comparator salaries; and salary 
progression for newly appointed 
Directors. 

The Committee retains the right 
to approve a higher increase in 
exceptional cases, such as major 
changes to the Executive 
Director’s role/duties; new 
recruits; or internal promotions to 
the position of Executive Director 
whose salary was set lower than 
the market level for such a role 
and a higher increase is justified 
as the individual becomes more 
established in the role. In these 
circumstances a full explanation 
of the increases awarded will be 
provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.

Purpose and link to Company’s 
strategy

Benefits (taxable)

To help promote the 
long-term success of 
the Company.

How operated in practice

Maximum opportunity

Description of 
performance metrics

Benefits normally include:

 ∙ company car;

There is no formal maximum. 
Benefits are provided based 
on market rates.

N/A

To attract and retain high 
calibre Executive Directors.

 ∙ private medical insurance;

 ∙ some telephone costs; and

To remain competitive 
in the marketplace.

 ∙ contributions towards obtaining 
independent financial, tax and 
legal advice.

Other benefits offered to the wider 
workforce will also be offered to 
Executive Directors on the same basis. 

The Committee does have the discretion 
to offer other benefits it deems 
appropriate to secure the appointment 
of a new Executive Director or retain an 
Executive Director (including relocation 
benefits) and to ensure that the benefits 
package for existing Executive Directors 
remains competitive in the UK market.

Pension

To help promote the 
long-term success of 
the Company.

In accordance with legislation, Executive 
Directors are enrolled into a 
workplace pension.

To attract and retain 
high-calibre Executive 
Directors.

If Executive Directors choose to opt out 
of the workplace pension they can elect 
to either:

To remain competitive 
in the marketplace.

 ∙ participate in the Company’s money 

purchase pension plan; or

 ∙ receive a salary supplement.

Executive Directors are also eligible to 
receive an insured lump sum of up to five 
times pensionable salary on death in 
service.

Steven Boyes remains a deferred member 
of the defined benefit section of the 
Group’s pension scheme, which closed to 
new entrants in 2001 and future accrual 
of defined benefits for current members 
ceased to be offered on 30 June 2009. The 
scheme was bought out by an insurer 
during FY21.

N/A

Defined contribution scheme or 
salary supplement not exceeding 
the Company’s contribution rate 
available to the majority of the 
wider workforce, currently 10% 
of base salary. 

Legacy: Steven Boyes participated 
in the defined benefit scheme: 
1/60 accrual rate and a retirement 
age of 65.

142

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

143

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Policy table continued
Purpose and link to 
Company’s strategy

How operated in practice

Maximum opportunity

Description of performance metrics

The potential annual 
maximum bonus is 150% 
of base salary. 

The level of bonus 
payable at threshold is 
set annually but 
will not exceed 20% of 
potential maximum 
bonus (30% of salary).

50% of the potential 
maximum bonus (75% 
of salary) is payable  
for achievement of 
on-target performance.

Annual bonus

To motivate and 
reward Executive 
Directors for the 
achievement of 
demanding financial 
and non-financial 
objectives and 
key strategic 
measures over the 
financial year.

Variable 
remuneration allows 
the Group to manage 
its cost base by 
giving it the 
flexibility to react 
to changes in the 
market and any 
unforeseen events.

The Committee has absolute discretion as 
to whether or not to award a bonus and as 
to the level of bonus to be awarded up to 
the prescribed maximum.

The Committee annually sets financial 
and non-financial performance targets 
by taking account of the Company’s goals 
and budget for the relevant financial year. 

Group and individual performance against 
these targets is measured at the end of 
the financial year and the level of bonus 
payable is calculated at that point. This 
also takes into account the underlying 
financial and operational performance of 
the business relative to the sector (as 
noted in the column to the right). 

Up to two-thirds of any bonus earned is 
paid in cash and at least one-third of any 
bonus earned is deferred into shares under 
the DBP for a period of three years.

The Committee retains the discretion to 
decide whether or not to pay an annual 
bonus to an Executive Director who has 
handed in their notice and to determine, 
in respect of any employee who is a “good 
leaver”, whether any annual bonus earned 
should be paid in cash and not deferred 
into shares. 

Where the Committee believes that 
performance does not warrant the level of 
bonus determined, it may use its discretion 
to reduce the award (possibly to nil) as it 
deems appropriate. 

No Executive Director has any contractual 
right to receive a bonus. 

Annual bonus is not pensionable. 

The performance targets set are 
stretching whilst having regard to 
the nature and risk profile of the 
Company, its strategy and the 
interests of its shareholders. 

When setting bonus targets, 
the Committee considers the effect of 
corporate performance on ESG risks 
and sustainability issues generally 
to ensure that remuneration 
structures do not inadvertently 
motivate irresponsible behaviour.

The focus of the performance targets 
is to deliver profit growth and to 
ensure that the Company has an 
adequate land bank acquired within 
the constraints of its Balance Sheet 
commitments.

Performance measures may include, 
but are not limited to: 

 ∙ financial items (e.g. profit before 

tax, margin growth, net debt/land 
creditors; and land commitment), 
with a weighting greater than 
or equal to 50%; and

 ∙ non-financial items (e.g. quality 
and service, health and safety, 
diversity and inclusion objectives; 
and personal objectives). 

The Committee has the discretion to:

 ∙ choose appropriate measures for 

each award;

 ∙ vary the elements of each of these 
items, including targets, and the 
weightings of each component 
on an annual basis; and

 ∙ ensure that they remain aligned 

to the strategy of the business and 
to market conditions.

Purpose and link to 
Company’s strategy

DBP

At least one-third of 
any annual bonus 
earned is deferred 
into shares and held 
in this plan for a 
period of three years 
and is normally 
subject to a continued 
employment 
condition.

The aim is to 
encourage long-term 
focus and to 
further align 
interests with those 
of shareholders and 
discourage excessive 
risk taking.

LTPP

To motivate and 
reward Executive 
Directors and Senior 
Management for the 
delivery of the 
long-term 
performance of the 
Group.

To facilitate share 
ownership by 
Executive Directors 
to align their 
interests with those 
of our shareholders.

How operated in practice

Maximum opportunity

Description of performance metrics

No performance conditions apply to 
the vesting of awards other than a 
continued employment condition.

Deferred shares are normally granted in 
the form of a conditional award (but may 
also be granted as nil or nominal cost 
options or forfeitable awards in 
accordance with the rules of the DBP).

Deferred shares will normally accrue 
dividend equivalents in cash or shares, 
which may be on a reinvestment basis, 
and which are subject to the same terms, 
including vesting date, as the deferred 
share award. 

Malus and clawback can be applied 
in certain circumstances to both the 
cash and deferred element of the bonus. 
For full details see pages 148 and 149.

At least one-third of any 
bonus paid is deferred 
into an award over 
shares under the DBP, 
unless the Committee 
determines otherwise 
in the case of a “good 
leaver”. 

The Committee retains 
the discretion to adjust 
the proportion of bonus 
deferred in exceptional 
circumstances.

In accordance with the 
rules of the LTPP, the 
Committee has the 
discretion to grant an 
award up to 200% of 
base salary to each of 
the Executive Directors 
in respect of any 
financial year of the 
Company.

LTPP awards: 

 ∙ are normally granted annually in the 

form of conditional awards or nil-cost 
options at no cost to the Executive 
Director (but may also be granted as 
nominal cost options or forfeitable 
awards in accordance with the rules 
of the LTPP); 

 ∙ are at the discretion of the Committee, 

taking into account individual 
performance and the overall 
performance of the Group; 

 ∙ are subject to the achievement of 

stretching performance conditions 
measured over three financial years 
with a subsequent two-year post-vesting 
holding period. Awards may therefore 
only be realised on conclusion of the 
five-year combined period; and 

 ∙ may, at the discretion of the Committee, 
accrue dividend equivalents in cash or 
shares, which may be on a reinvestment 
basis, and which are subject to the same 
terms, including vesting date and 
holding period, as the LTPP award. 
Any accrued dividend equivalent will 
be pro-rated, depending on the level 
of award vesting.

Malus and clawback can be applied in 
certain circumstances to the LTPP award. 
For full details see pages 148 and 149.

Any LTPP awards are subject to 
performance conditions, which are 
stretching and aligned with the 
Group’s strategy and the interests 
of shareholders. 

Financial performance conditions 
will have a weighting of at least 50%.

The performance conditions are 
set on the basis that they: 

 ∙ are realistic and attainable; 

 ∙ are for the long-term benefit 

of the Group; and 

 ∙ do not encourage inappropriate 

business risks.

The Committee has the discretion 
to determine the weighting of each 
performance condition on the grant 
of an LTPP award. 

No more than 25% of an award will 
vest at threshold performance (0% 
will vest below the threshold level) 
increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting 
for maximum performance.

Overall, the Committee must be 
satisfied that the underlying financial 
and non-financial performance of the 
Group over the performance period 
warrants the level of vesting 
as determined by applying the 
above targets. 

If the Committee is not of this view, 
then it is empowered to reduce the 
level of vesting (potentially to nil).

144

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

145

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Policy table continued
Purpose and link to 
Company’s strategy

How operated in practice

Maximum opportunity

Sharesave

To promote long-
term share 
ownership amongst 
all employees of 
the Group in a 
tax-efficient way.

To link employee 
benefits to the 
performance of 
the Group.

To aid retention 
of employees.

Under the standard terms, employees 
must have completed the requisite length 
of service as at the invitation date to be 
eligible to participate in the Sharesave.

Save up to the maximum monthly 
amount as specified by legislation 
or HMRC and as approved by the 
Committee and the Board. 

The Committee reserves the right to 
amend contribution levels to reflect 
changes made by HMRC or the 
Government from time to time.

Employees can elect to save between a 
minimum of £5 and the maximum monthly 
savings limit as approved by the 
Committee and the Board within the limits 
prescribed by legislation and HMRC, 
for a period of three or five years.

Subject to the rules of the Sharesave, at 
the end of the savings period the employee 
has six months in which to exercise 
their option.

Shareholding requirements

Description of 
performance metrics

Continued 
employment for 
the duration of the 
scheme and “good” 
and “bad” leaver 
provisions in line 
with the rules of 
the Sharesave.

N/A

N/A

To further align the 
interests of 
Executive Directors 
to those 
of shareholders.

Executive Directors are required to build 
and retain a shareholding equivalent to 
200% of base salary in the Company’s 
shares within five years of the 
shareholding requirement coming into 
force or the Executive Director being 
appointed to the Board, whichever is the 
later. The share price used for the 
purposes of determining the value of the 
shares is that prevailing on 30 June of the 
given year. 

The Committee reserves the right to 
amend the percentage holding required by 
the Chief Executive and the other Executive 
Directors depending on market conditions 
and best practice guidance. 

Executive Directors are also subject to a 
post-cessation shareholding requirement 
of 200% of their salary or their actual level 
of shareholding at cessation of 
employment if lower (based on their salary 
and the share price at the date of cessation 
of employment). The Committee has 
implemented suitable measures to ensure 
continued enforcement of the shareholding 
requirement during the post-cessation 
shareholding period. The Committee 
retains the discretion to waive the post-
cessation shareholding requirement in 
exceptional circumstances.

Details of the Executive Directors’ 
shareholdings can be found in Table 16 
on page 164.

Purpose and link to 
Company’s strategy

How operated in practice

Maximum opportunity

Description of 
performance metrics

Non-Executive Directors’ fees (including the Chair)

To attract and 
retain high quality 
and experienced 
Non-Executive 
Directors (including 
the Chair).

The remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors is set by the Board on the 
recommendation of a committee 
comprising the Chair and the 
Executive Directors. 

The Board sets the remuneration of 
the Chair.

Non-Executive Director fees must 
remain within the aggregate limit 
approved by shareholders from time 
to time.

N/A

The current aggregate limit 
is £1,000,000.

The Chair and the Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees are reviewed annually and 
are normally set by reference to the level 
of fees paid to the Chairs and Non-
Executive Directors serving on boards of 
similarly sized, UK-listed companies, 
taking into account the size, responsibility 
and time commitment required of the role.

The Chair’s and Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees are paid in cash, monthly in arrears.

Neither the Chair nor the Non-Executive 
Directors participate in any performance-
related schemes (e.g. annual bonus or 
incentive schemes) nor do they receive any 
pension or private medical insurance or 
taxable benefits other than the potential to 
receive gifts at the end of a long-standing 
term of appointment.

Expenses incurred by the Chair and the 
Non-Executive Directors in the 
performance of their duties for the 
Company (including taxable travel and 
accommodation benefits in connection 
with travelling to a permanent workplace) 
may be reimbursed or paid for directly by 
the Company, as appropriate.

Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of 
the Audit, the Remuneration and the SHE 
Committees, the Senior Independent 
Director, the Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement and for 
membership of Board Committees. 
Additional fees may be paid where, in 
exceptional circumstances, the normal 
time commitment is significantly exceeded.

146

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

147

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Performance conditions and target setting
The Committee annually reviews the performance measures 
and targets taking into consideration a number of factors 
including the performance of the Group throughout the previous 
financial year, internal and external forecasts and consensus 
figures for the performance period and the Group’s strategy. 

The annual bonus scheme is measured against key financial 
(Adjusted PBT and Capital Employed) and non-financial metrics 
(quality and service, health and safety, and diversity and 
inclusion). Both the financial and non-financial measures are 
aligned to our strategy, and allow individuals to focus on the key 
factors that will help drive short and long-term operational and 
financial success of the business. 

The LTPP is assessed against measures that, focus on delivering 
attractive cash returns to our shareholders, align the Group’s 
performance with strategy and the interests of stakeholders and 
encourage efficiency throughout the business. 

Value delivered to shareholders is recognised through relative 
TSR, which is measured against both the 50+/50- FTSE group and 
a housebuilder index. This ensures that strong returns are delivered 
against an appropriate size group of companies and an index of 
our peers. Adjusted EPS and underlying ROCE ensure that we are 
efficiently and effectively managing the business, whilst aligning 
the Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders. GHG 
emissions reduction targets ensure we remain on track to achieve 
our published sustainability commitments.

Targets are set within the context of both internal and external 
forecasts and are designed to be appropriate within the context 
of the Group’s strategic objectives and historical and expected 
performance levels. The performance targets are designed to 
be sufficiently stretching in order to ensure that maximum 
payout is only achieved for delivering exceptional performance.

Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure
In line with the IA’s Guidelines on Responsible Investment 
Disclosure, the Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure 
and targets for Executive Directors do not raise any ESG risks 
by inadvertently motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour. 
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration 
package will encourage inappropriate risk taking within 
the Company.

Committee discretion
The areas of the Policy over which the Committee has discretion 
are included in the policy table set out on pages 142 to 147. 
However, we have summarised the key discretions below:

 ∙ amendment of salary or the award of higher increases in 

exceptional circumstances;

 ∙ variation of benefits offered to secure new appointments or 

retain existing Executive Directors;

 ∙ whether or not to make a bonus award and whether payment 
should be made to anyone who has handed in their notice 
to leave the business;

 ∙ what performance conditions should be attached to annual 

bonus and LTPP awards and the weighting of each to be applied;

 ∙ determining the timing of awards and/or payments, including 

grant, vesting or release dates;

 ∙ determining the quantum of awards and/or payments 

(within the limits set out in the policy table on pages 142 to 147);

 ∙ determining the application of dividend equivalents, whether 
they should be issued in shares, including on a re-investment 
basis, or cash and retaining the ability to adjust the amount paid; 

 ∙ determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of 
performance or such other factors as it considers appropriate;

 ∙ the settlement of any share awards in cash in exceptional 

circumstances;

 ∙ making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 
circumstances (e.g. change of control, rights issues, 
corporate restructuring events, and special dividends);

 ∙ determining “good leaver” status for incentive plan purposes 
and applying the appropriate treatment, including the timing 
of any vesting;

 ∙ determining the extent to which malus and/or clawback 

should apply to any award;

 ∙ determining the level of post-cessation shareholding the 

Executive Directors need to hold; and

 ∙ determining the exceptional circumstances under which the 
post-cessation shareholding requirements can be waived.

If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or 
LTPP performance conditions and/or targets being deemed no 
longer appropriate (e.g. a material acquisition, divestment or 
wider market or economic circumstances that the Committee 
deem relevant), then the Committee will have the ability to 
adjust appropriately the measures and/or targets, and/or to 
alter the weighting of the measures. The Committee also has 
the discretion to increase or decrease any annual bonus or 
LTPP awards (potentially reducing them to nil) in the event that 
the formulaic outcome is not reflective of overall Company 
performance or aligned with the underlying financial and/or 
non-financial performance of the Group, or where 
environmental incidents, health and safety incidents or other 
wider economic or market circumstances warrant an adjustment 
to the final outcome in order to determine a reasonable and 
appropriate result. The Committee also retains discretion to 
adjust LTPP vesting outcomes to avoid windfall gains in the 
event the share price has fallen materially before a given award 
is made. Any exercise of discretion will be fully explained 
in the corresponding year’s Remuneration Report.

Malus and clawback 
Malus and clawback is applicable to any annual bonus paid 
or deferred for a period of three years beginning on the date of 
the award and to any share awards granted under the LTPP for 
a period of five years beginning on the date of the award. 

In the case of malus, the Committee may, at any time prior to the 
payment of any bonus or any deferred or LTPP shares becoming 
vested shares, decide to reduce the amount of bonus to be paid 
and/or reduce the number of deferred or LTPP shares (including 
to nil) on such basis as it considers to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate where, in the opinion of the Committee, there 
are exceptional circumstances.

In the case of clawback, the Committee may decide that the 
individual to whom the payment was made and/or deferred  
and/or LTPP shares were granted shall be subject to clawback, 
on such basis as it considers to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate, if in relation to the bonus paid and/or the 
deferred or LTPP shares that have vested, in the opinion of 
the Committee there are exceptional circumstances.

148

Exceptional circumstances include (without limitation):

a. 

b. 

c. 

 a material misstatement in the published results of 
the Company or Group or any member of the Group;

 an error in assessing any applicable performance 
conditions or the amount of bonus to be paid and/or the 
number of deferred or LTPP shares subject to an award;

 the assessment of any applicable performance conditions 
and/or the amount of bonus to be paid and/or the number 
of deferred or LTPP shares subject to an award being based 
on inaccurate or misleading information;

d. 

 serious misconduct on the part of an individual(s);

e. 

f.  

 a breach by the individual of any restrictive, confidentiality, or 
non-disparagement covenants or other similar undertakings, 
whether contained in the individual’s employment contract 
and/or settlement agreement and/or any other agreement 
between the individual and any member of the Group;

 where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, 
the Committee determines that an individual(s) has caused 
wholly or in part a material financial loss for the Group as 
a result of:

− 

− 

 reckless, negligent or wilful actions or omissions; or

 inappropriate values or behaviour;

g. 

 material breach of health and safety or 
environmental regulations;

h. 

 material failure of risk management;

i. 

j. 

 a member of the Group is censured by a regulatory body 
or suffers, in the Committee’s opinion, a significant 
detrimental impact on its reputation, provided that the 
Committee determines that, following an appropriate review 
of accountability, an individual(s) was responsible for, or had 
management oversight over, the actions, omissions or 
behaviour that gave rise to that censure or detrimental 
impact; or

 the Company or entities representing a material proportion of 
the Group become insolvent or otherwise suffer a corporate 
failure so that ordinary shares in the Company cease to have 
material value, provided that the Committee determines, 
following an appropriate review of accountability, that an 
individual(s) should be held responsible (in whole or in part) 
for that insolvency or failure.

Where clawback is to be applied, the Committee may 
determine that:

 ∙ any bonus will be retrospectively recalculated and, if bonus 
monies have been paid, the relevant individual(s) will be 
required to reimburse the Company for an amount up to the 
total amount of the original net bonus paid less any bonus 
that the Committee determines would have been paid 
regardless of the event in question; 

 ∙ that the number of deferred or LTPP shares be 

retrospectively recalculated. If the deferred or LTPP shares 
have been granted, the number of shares awarded will be 
reduced accordingly. If the deferred or LTPP shares have 
vested and shares have been issued or transferred to the 
individual(s), they will be required to repay the value of the 
relevant number of shares based on the Company’s closing 
share price as at the date the shares were issued; and

 ∙ malus will be applied to an alternative unvested award to 
satisfy a clawback event on a vested/released award.

Recruitment of Executive Directors 
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is 
to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the 
appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role. The 
remuneration package for any new recruit will take into account 
the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for a 
candidate of that experience and the importance of securing the 
relevant individual. Internal pay relativities and the terms and 
conditions of employment of the new and existing Executive 
Directors will be considered to ensure fairness between them. 
The Committee will determine the remuneration for any new 
Executive Directors in accordance with the Remuneration Policy 
then in force and will take into consideration each of the 
following elements:

Salary and benefits – the Committee will take into account 
market data for the scope of the job, the remuneration for the 
relevant role, the salaries of and benefits provided to existing 
Executive Directors, the new Executive Director’s experience, 
location and current base salary and benefits package. In the 
event an Executive Director is recruited at below market levels, 
their base salary may be re-aligned over a period of time (e.g. 
two to three years) subject to their performance in the role. The 
Committee may also agree to cover relocation costs if it 
deems it appropriate. 

Pension – Executive Directors will be auto-enrolled from the 
date of recruitment unless they opt out. If an Executive Director 
chooses to opt out they may elect to receive a pension 
supplement in cash. The Committee has discretion to determine 
the level of pension supplement to be awarded to the Executive 
Director, up to a maximum which is equivalent to the percentage 
normally offered to the wider workforce. Alternatively, the 
Executive Director may choose to join the defined contribution 
money purchase pension plan provided they meet all of the 
eligibility criteria. The Executive Director also has the option to 
receive some of their pension entitlement in cash and have the 
remainder contributed to the defined contribution money 
purchase pension plan, provided this does not, in aggregate, 
exceed the agreed percentage. 

Annual bonus and LTPP – new Executive Directors may be able 
to participate in the annual bonus scheme and the LTPP on 
terms to be considered by the Committee on a case by case 
basis. Any award made to a new Executive Director will usually 
be on the same terms as set out in the policy table on pages 144 
and 145. The level of the award will be no greater than that made to 
existing Executive Directors (150% of salary for the annual 
bonus and 200% of salary for the LTPP) and will be pro-rated 
based on the number of weeks remaining outstanding of the 
relevant performance period. 

Buyout of existing entitlements – the Committee may also 
consider buying out existing entitlements that an individual 
would forfeit on leaving their current employer, again this would 
be reviewed on a case by case basis. In determining any 
potential awards to be granted to a new recruit, the Committee 
will consider the relative levels of certainty and balance of fixed 
to variable compensation in the forfeited package in totality, 
including salary, benefits and other components. The Committee 
would however in all cases seek validation of the value of any 
potential entitlement that is being forfeited and take into 
account the proportion of any performance period remaining 
of the award, the type of award (i.e. cash or shares) and the 
performance achieved (or likely to be achieved). Replacement 
share awards, if any, will seek to reflect (to the extent possible) 
the value, degree of conditionality and form of award of the 
entitlement forgone. 

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

149

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Recruitment of Executive Directors continued
In structuring any buyouts, existing arrangements will be used 
where possible, however, the Company may also make use of 
the flexibility provided by the UKLA Listing Rules to make 
awards without prior shareholder approval. Buyouts may 
therefore fall outside normal policy maximum levels.

Where an individual is recruited internally to the position 
of Executive Director, the Company will seek to honour any 
pre-existing contractual commitments, taking into account 
the remuneration of the existing Executive Directors.

Executive Directors’ service contracts 
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are 
included in Table 1 below and their remuneration for FY23 
is shown in Table 7 on page 159. The Company’s policy is for 

Table 1 – Executive Directors’ service contracts

all Executive Directors’ (including new appointments) service 
contracts to be for a rolling 12-month period, which can be 
terminated by 12 months’ notice given by either the Company or 
by the Executive Director at any time. The service contract 
normally entitles an Executive Director to the provision of a 
company car, annual medical screening, permanent health 
insurance, private medical insurance, some telephone costs, 
contributions to the cost of obtaining independent financial 
and tax advice and payment of legal fees on cessation of 
employment. The Committee regularly reviews contractual 
terms for Executive Directors to ensure that they continue 
to reflect best practice.

All Executive Directors’ appointments and subsequent 
reappointments are subject to election and annual re-election 
by shareholders at the Company’s AGM.

Executive Director

David Thomas
Steven Boyes
Mike Scott

Service contract date

16 January 2013
21 February 2013
28 June 2021

Date of appointment

21 July 2009
1 July 2001
6 December 2021

Notice period

12 months
12 months
12 months

The service contracts for Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Company’s registered office during 
normal office hours and on the Company’s website: www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors.

Executive Directors’ policy on payment on loss of office
There are no specific provisions for compensation on early 
termination (except for payment in lieu of holidays accrued but 
untaken) or loss of office due to a change of ownership of the 
Company. The Committee reserves the right to make additional 
payments where such payments are made in good faith: (a) in 
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages 
for breach of such an obligation); or (b) by way of settlement 
or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the 
termination of an Executive Director’s office or employment. The 
Committee may also provide a contribution towards reasonable 
legal costs and the provision of outplacement services. 
The Committee will apply mitigation against any contractual 
obligations as it deems fair and reasonable and will seek 
legal advice on the Company’s liability to pay compensation. 
The Committee may also seek to reduce the level of any 
compensation payable and will take into account, amongst other 
factors, the individual’s and the Group’s performance; 
the Director’s obligation to mitigate their own loss; and the 
Director’s length of service when calculating termination 
payments. The Committee reserves the right to phase any such 
payments if it deems that it is appropriate to do so. Any amount 
that the Committee decides to pay an Executive Director will be 
based on the main elements of executive remuneration namely, 
base salary, annual bonus and LTPP (subject to the Committee’s 
discretion), benefits and pension. Regarding salary, benefits 
and pension, there will be no compensation in the event of 
termination by the Company due to gross misconduct. In other 
circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive 
notice pay or payment in lieu of notice. The Committee also 
takes into account the rules of the annual bonus and LTPP 
schemes when determining any payments for loss of office 
as follows: 

Annual bonus – in accordance with the provisions contained 
within the service contracts, Executive Directors are not usually 
entitled to any bonus payments (other than in circumstances 
where they are deemed by the Committee as a “good leaver”, 
which includes, but is not limited to, redundancy, retirement, ill 
health, disability, death or any other circumstances which the 
Committee may decide), unless they remain employed and are 
not under notice as at the payment date. The default position 
will be that such payment will be pro-rated depending on the 
proportion of the bonus period worked by the relevant individual 
unless the Committee decides otherwise. Any bonus payment to 
the leaving Executive Director will normally be paid entirely in 
cash. The Committee retains the ultimate discretion to make 
bonus payments and determine the basis on which they are 
made and their value, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the departure, the treatment of other 
incentive awards and the performance of the individual.

Deferred bonus – if the Executive Director is deemed to be a 
“good leaver” (as defined above), their deferred share awards 
will vest on the normal vesting dates unless the Committee, in 
its discretion, determines that they will vest on an earlier date 
(other than in the case of death when deferred share awards 
will vest immediately, unless the Committee, in its discretion, 
determines that they will vest on the normal vesting dates). 
In all other cases, the award of deferred shares will lapse 
immediately on the date that the Executive Director’s employment 
with the Company ends and there is no entitlement to any 
compensation for the loss of shares. In the case of vested 
nil-cost options, any leaver, other than an employee who has 
been summarily dismissed) may exercise their option within 
12 months of their cessation date.

 ∙ Executive Directors and some members of Senior 

Management may opt to receive a cash supplement in lieu 
of pension. The cash supplement or employer’s contribution 
rate for all Executive Directors will be at the maximum rate 
of employer’s contribution for the wider workforce, currently 10%; 

 ∙ Executive Directors are able to participate in the LTPP. A number 
of select employees at Senior Management level may also be 
invited to participate in the LTPP at the Committee’s discretion, 
with grants based on a combination of performance share 
awards and restricted share awards; and

 ∙ in July 2023, and over the previous five financial years, 

employees below Senior Management have been awarded 
a smaller number of shares under an employee long-term 
incentive plan. This award was not available to Senior 
Management or Executive Directors.

In general, these differences arise from the development of 
remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the 
various categories of individuals. They also reflect the greater 
emphasis placed on performance-related pay for 
Executive Directors.

Performance scenario charts
Performance scenario charts setting out policy minimum, 
on-target, maximum and maximum plus 50% share price 
growth for FY24, are shown on page 140, along with the single 
figure outcome for FY23. The figures are split by the different 
elements of pay.

Non-Executive directorships 
Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted 
to accept one Non-Executive directorship outside the Company 
and retain any fees received from such a position. Board 
approval will not be given for any Non-Executive position where 
such appointment would lead to a material conflict of interest or 
would have an effect on the Director’s ability to perform their 
duties to the Company.

Chair and Non-Executive Directors’ letters 
of appointment
The Chair and each of the Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial three-year term under terms set out in a 
letter of appointment. Their appointments can be terminated by 
the Board without compensation for loss of office subject to the 
notice periods in their respective letters of appointment. The 
notice periods, applicable from either party, are three months 
for the Chair and one month for each of the Non-Executive 
Directors. The Chair and each of the Non-Executive Directors 
usually serve a second three-year term subject to performance 
review and can serve a further term of three years subject to 
rigorous review by the Chair and the Nomination Committee. 

LTPP – under the rules of the LTPP, unless the Executive Director 
is deemed by the Committee to be a “good leaver” (as defined on 
page 150) any unvested LTPP awards held by them will lapse on 
cessation of their employment. For “good leavers”, the Committee 
would normally pro-rate the number of awards for time, 
measuring performance over the original performance period 
and vesting shares at the end of the vesting period. The Committee 
has discretion to test performance at an earlier date, shorten 
the vesting period and/or disapply time pro-rating. Any exercise 
of discretion would be explained in full to shareholders in the 
following year’s Remuneration Report. Following the vesting of 
each award, the normal post-vesting holding period will apply, 
unless the Committee determines otherwise.

Corporate events
In the event of a change of control of the Company, 
the Committee may determine that:

 ∙ annual bonus awards for the year during which the change of 
control occurred may either continue to be determined on the 
basis of the whole year or may be pro-rated to the date of the 
change of control;

 ∙ unvested deferred bonus awards will vest on the change of 
control, unless the Committee agrees with the acquiring 
company that they will be exchanged or replaced with 
equivalent awards over shares in another company, 
continuing to their normal vesting date; and

 ∙ unvested LTPP awards will vest on the date of the change 

of control, subject to time pro-rating (unless the Committee 
considers it appropriate to disapply time pro-rating) and 
the Committee’s assessment of the extent to which the 
performance conditions have been achieved on such basis as 
it may determine, unless the Committee agrees with the 
acquiring company that they will be exchanged or replaced 
with equivalent awards over shares in another company, 
continuing to their normal vesting date and subject to the 
same or equivalent performance conditions.

In the event of a demerger, distribution (other than an ordinary 
dividend) or other transaction which would affect the current or 
future value of any award, the Committee may allow awards to 
vest on the same basis as for a change of control described 
above. Alternatively, an adjustment may be made to the number 
of shares if considered appropriate.

Differences between Executive Directors’ and 
employees’ remuneration
The following differences exist between the Company’s Policy 
for Executive Directors’ remuneration as set out in the Policy 
table on pages 142 to 147 and its approach to the payment of 
employees generally:

 ∙ a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity may 

apply to employees other than the Executive Directors. All 
employees, including Executive Directors, are subject to 
similar performance targets; however, the weightings against 
the various targets may vary;

 ∙ for the Executive Directors and some members of Senior 

Management, up to two-thirds of any bonus earned is paid 
in cash and the remainder is deferred into shares under 
the DBP for a period of three years;

150

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

151

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Chair and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment continued
Details of the letters of appointment for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors being proposed for election or re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in Table 2 below. Their letters of appointment are available for inspection by any 
person at the Company’s registered office during normal office hours and are available on the Company’s website:  
www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors.

Table 2 – Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment

Non-Executive Director

Katie Bickerstaffe
Jasi Halai
Jock Lennox
Caroline Silver

Chris Weston

Date elected/
re-elected at AGM

17 October 2022
N/A
17 October 2022
N/A

17 October 2022

Date first appointed 
to the Board

Date last reappointed 
to the Board

Unexpired term at
30 June 2023

1 March 2021
 1 January 2023
1 July 2016
1 June 2023

1 March 2021

N/A
N/A 
1 July 2022
N/A

N/A

8 months
30 months
24 months
35 months

8 months

Gifts to Directors on leaving employment 
The Committee reserves the discretion to approve gifts to long-serving Directors who are retiring or who are “good leavers” e.g. 
those leaving office for any reason other than dismissal or misconduct. The value of the gift for any one Director shall be limited to 
a maximum of £5,000 (excluding any tax or VAT liability). Where a tax or VAT liability is incurred on such a gift, the Committee has 
the discretion to bear the cost of such liability on behalf of the Director in addition to the maximum limit. 

Legacy arrangements 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and/or payments for loss of office (and to exercise any 
discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the 2023 Policy set out 
above where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the date the Company’s first remuneration policy came into effect; (ii) 
before the 2023 Policy came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the remuneration policy in 
force at the time they were agreed; or (iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director and, in the opinion of the 
Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming or having been a Director of the Company. For these 
purposes “payments” includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, 
the terms of the payment are “agreed” at the time the award is granted.

Process for determining the Remuneration Policy
The process used to formulate the remuneration policy was as follows:

Stage 1
Remuneration consultant benchmarks best practice to help the Committee determine areas of focus.

Stage 2
Remuneration consultant and management provide detailed insight into the areas of focus to determine how the policy might 
be amended and implemented annually over its life.

Stage 3
Committee discusses and approves the proposed policy, taking into account the remuneration of the wider workforce.

Stage 4
Chair of the Committee consults with shareholders and main investor representative bodies to obtain their views.

Stage 5
Feedback from the consultation is considered by the Committee and a final updated policy is approved.

Stage 6
Final policy is disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts and presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM.

As part of this process, the Committee considers the budgeted salary increases and other remuneration arrangements 
and employment conditions for all employees when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors.

It is expected that future salary increases for the Executive Directors will be no more than that given to the wider workforce, except 
in exceptional circumstances, such as where a recently appointed Executive Director’s salary is increased to reflect their growth in 
the role over time or where significant additional responsibilities are added to the role.

As a key principle, management provides the Committee with visibility of the potential impact of proposed changes to the Executive 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy on the wider employee population.

How the Committee has addressed the requirements of the Code in determining Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
and practices

Code requirement

Clarity – remuneration arrangements should be transparent 
and promote effective engagement with shareholders and 
the workforce. 

Simplicity – remuneration structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation should be easy to understand. 

Variable remuneration for any year is set out clearly in the prior 
year’s Annual Report, together with performance targets (unless 
they are deemed to be commercially sensitive). Outcomes are 
aligned with strategic objectives through the use of appropriate 
performance targets, which align them with shareholder 
interests and the Group’s strategy and provide for the long-term 
success of the Company, in the interest of the workforce and 
other stakeholders. 

The Company operates a UK market standard approach to 
remuneration which is familiar to stakeholders. Performance 
targets are readily understandable and published as part of the 
year-end results.

Risk – remuneration arrangements should ensure reputational 
and other risks from excessive rewards, and behavioural risks 
that can arise from target-based incentive plans, are identified 
and mitigated.

The Committee has discretion to ensure that variable pay 
outcomes are in line with Company and individual performance. 
Share awards are subject to post vesting holding periods, and 
malus and clawback as set out on pages 148 and 149.

Predictability – the range of possible values of rewards to 
individual Directors and any other limits or discretions should 
be identified and explained at the time of approving the policy.

Proportionality – the link between individual awards, the 
delivery of strategy and the long-term performance of the 
company should be clear. Outcomes should not reward 
poor performance.

Alignment with culture – incentive schemes should drive 
behaviours consistent with company purpose, values 
and strategy. 

Minimum, on-target and maximum outcomes for Directors are 
shown annually in this report (see page 140). Limits and 
discretions for each type of reward are explained in the policy 
table which can be found on pages 142 to 147. 

The Company’s incentive plans reward the successful 
implementation of strategy through the alignment of 
performance targets with strategic KPIs. The performance 
underpin which applies to both the annual bonus and LTPP 
outcomes ensures that poor performance is not rewarded. The 
Committee also has discretion to override formulaic outcomes.

Our remuneration strategy ensures that performance targets do 
not encourage inappropriate behaviours. The targets that are 
selected help align the interests of the workforce with those of 
the Company’s purpose and strategy as illustrated on page 141. 

Statement of consideration of pay and employment conditions elsewhere across the Group
The level for all employees’ salaries is determined with reference to the rate of inflation, salaries for similar positions throughout 
the industry and general themes and trends in respect of remunerating employees. In determining the Policy for Executive 
Directors’ remuneration, and in determining the annual increase in base salary, the Committee takes into consideration the pay 
and employment conditions of all employees across the Group. While the Company did not explicitly consult with employees when 
drawing up the Policy, during the year, the Workforce Forum discussed remuneration strategy, including executive reward strategy, 
and was asked for feedback for management. 

The Company also operates a Sharesave scheme and makes conditional awards of shares to all employees. This enables all 
employees to become shareholders in the Company, and to comment on the Group’s Policy in the same way as all of our 
other shareholders. 

To build the Committee’s understanding of reward arrangements applicable to the wider workforce, it is provided with data on 
the remuneration structure for senior management levels below the Executive Directors, as well as corresponding comparison 
benchmarking information for each role. In addition, the Group provides a number of ways in which employees can ask questions 
and give feedback on such matters should they so wish. This includes the Employee Communications mailbox, personal 
development reviews, the Workforce Forum, a dedicated Workforce Forum email address and an email address for employees 
to directly contact the Designated Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement. Details of engagement with the workforce, 
including on executive remuneration are provided in the Stakeholder engagement section of the Strategic Report on page 55. The 
Committee reviews this feedback, which provides further context in relation to pay and conditions throughout the organisation. 
These valuable insights were considered when the Committee developed the 2023 Policy.

152

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

153

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Statement of consideration of shareholder views
Each year we update our major shareholders on the Committee’s 
application of the Policy and our performance in advance of the 
publication of our Annual Report and Accounts. The Committee 
takes into account shareholder feedback received from this 
exercise and any additional feedback received during any 
meetings from time to time, as part of the Company’s annual 
review of the Policy. In addition, the Committee will seek to 
engage directly with major shareholders and their representative 
bodies should any material changes be proposed to the Policy. 
In May 2023, we consulted with our major shareholders and 
the main institutional voting agencies over the proposed minor 
changes to the Policy, and no areas of concern were raised. Details 
of the votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last year’s 
Remuneration Report can be found in Table 22 on page 168.

Annual Report on Remuneration

In this section, we provide an overview of the Committee and its advisers, as well as how the proposed Policy will be applied 
in FY24 and how the current Policy has been implemented throughout FY23, together with the resulting payments to Directors. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2023 AGM.

Membership and attendance at Committee meetings
Membership of the Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors, and attendance at each of its scheduled meetings during 
the year is set out on page 137. The Committee is chaired by Katie Bickerstaffe. The Executive Directors are not members of the 
Committee and no Director or senior manager is present at the Committee’s meetings when their own remuneration is being considered.

Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
In carrying out its principal responsibilities, the Committee has the authority to obtain the advice of external independent remuneration 
consultants and is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination. In line with best practice, the Committee 
assesses annually whether the appointment remains appropriate or if it should be put out to tender. The last such tender took place 
in 2017, resulting in PwC being appointed as the advisers to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2018. PwC is a signatory to 
the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct. As part of the annual review and reappointment process, the Committee 
satisfied itself that PwC remained objective and independent during the year.
In addition to remuneration advice, PwC also provides taxation, consultancy, corporate finance and internal audit services to the 
Group. PwC is also currently the independent adviser to the Sustainability Committee and advises our Business Safety Unit. PwC 
has no current connections with the Company (save as described in this section) nor with any individual Directors.
During the year, the Committee has taken advice from PwC on best practice in executive remuneration and benchmarking. The Chair 
of the Committee also sought advice from PwC, independent of management, on various matters to be discussed at committee 
meetings particularly regarding the review of Policy. The fees payable to PwC are based on an annual fixed fee for a specified 
service with anything outside this scope being charged on a time and disbursement basis. PwC’s fees for services provided to 
the Committee during the year under review were £189,567 (FY22: £130,200).
The Committee also receives input into its decision making from the Chief Executive, the Company Secretary, and the Group HR 
Director, none of whom were present at any time when their own remuneration was being considered.

Role and main activities undertaken by the Committee during the financial year 
The Committee’s role is to determine and agree the Policy for Executive Directors and Senior Management whilst taking into 
account the remuneration of the wider workforce. It follows an annual work programme which was fully completed during the year. 
The Committee’s responsibilities, as delegated by the Board, are formally set out in its written Terms of Reference, which are 
available from our website at www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance. Details of the annual evaluation 
of the Committee’s performance can be found on page 123 and key activities undertaken in the year are set out in the table below:

Priorities

Work carried out and outcomes

Executive Directors’ 
remuneration

With assistance from its remuneration consultants, the Committee reviewed the Policy approved by 
Shareholders at the 2020 AGM, discussed and agreed a number of proposed changes (see page 142).

Considered salaries of Executive Directors and Senior Management for FY24 in the context of the 
remuneration of the wider workforce. The outcome of this review is set out on page 156.

Considered and agreed amendments to the structure of the bonus scheme for FY24; considered the 
structure of the 2023 LTPP and determined it remained appropriate (see pages 156 to 158 for 
further details).

Discussed future performance measures and targets for both the annual bonus and LTPP plans 
and agreed to introduce a Diversity & Inclusion measure for the FY24 annual bonus. 

Discussed and approved publication of the 2022 Gender and Ethnicity pay gap reports.

Considered whether the Group’s current remuneration structures remained appropriate and support 
the future strategy of the business, including the potential introduction of a restricted share plan, which 
was agreed for Senior Management below Board level. 

Governance

Undertook benchmarking for the new Chair’s fees, prior to her appointment. The Committee revisited 
the new Chair’s fee in June 2023 and agreed an increase (see page 158) to reflect the acceleration of 
her succession to the position of Chair.

Considered severance agreements in relation to a member of senior management. 

154

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

155

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy for FY24
Executive Directors’ remuneration for FY24 will be based on the Remuneration Policy to be proposed at the October 2023 AGM, 
subject to approval by shareholders. This is set out on pages 142 to 154. 

Base salary
The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors in June 2023, taking into account their individual performance during the year, 
the annual salary review for other employees in the Group where average salary increases were at 5.3%, and the multiplier effect of an increase 
in base salary on the Directors’ package as a whole. The Committee also took into account the performance of the Company and ensured that 
after any increase the salaries would remain within the range for similar sized companies and the housebuilding sector. Accordingly, the 
Committee believed that it was justified in awarding a salary increase of 4% for each of the Executive Directors, which is below the average 
salary increase awarded to the wider workforce. The Executive Directors’ salaries with effect from 1 July 2023 will therefore be: 

Table 3 – Executive Directors’ salaries

Executive Director

David Thomas
Steven Boyes

Mike Scott

Salary with effect
 from 1 July 2023
£000

Salary with effect
 from 1 July 2022
£000

836
674

514

803
648

494

Pension
Each of the Executive Directors will continue to receive a pension contribution (or cash supplement) which is in line with the wider 
workforce, currently 10% of base salary.

Annual bonus
Executive Directors and Senior Management will participate in the Group’s annual bonus scheme in accordance with the Policy. 

The Committee has agreed to include a new Diversity & Inclusion measure for FY24. Diversity & Inclusion is a key strategic priority 
for the business. The Committee and the Board recognise the need for the business to reflect the communities within which 
it operates. Whilst steps have been taken to improve diversity & inclusion within the Company, the Committee believes that further 
focus is required to drive this agenda forward. A key area that can help us to do this, is to ensure that we are attracting, and 
recruiting from, a diverse range of candidates. 

The Committee is of the view that the individual annual bonus performance targets are commercially sensitive. Therefore, 
in line with market practice, these will be disclosed, with performance against them, in next year’s Remuneration Report. 

The performance measures, their reasons for selection and the maximum bonus payment against each of them expressed 
as a percentage of salary for FY24 will be: 

Table 4 – FY24 annual bonus performance measures

Financial  
Performance measures

Definition

Reason for selecting

Adjusted profit 
before tax 

Capital employed

Non-financial 
performance measures

Quality and service 
(with a health & 
safety underpin)

Profit after all finance costs/income and the Group’s 
share of the profits from its joint ventures, excluding 
adjusted items. 

Rewards outperformance against 
stretching targets and is a key 
measure of our performance.

Average net assets calculated by a three point average 
excluding goodwill and intangibles, tax, net cash/(debt), 
retirement benefit assets/obligations, derivative 
financial instruments, land, land creditors, trade 
payables and legacy property provisions.

Ensures efficient use of 
available capital.

A three stage assessment is applied:
(i) A Division must achieve a minimum SHE monitoring 
inspections gate on a rolling 12 months’ performance basis, 
to be considered for the customer service element; 
(ii) To earn any bonus for this element, the Division must 
achieve a minimum score for the HBF 8-week National 
New Homes Customer Satisfaction survey; and
(iii) If the minimum score for the 8 weeks survey is achieved, 
the Division will be considered for a further proportion of 
this element if they achieve the minimum score for the 
NHBC 9-month Customer Satisfaction survey.

Ensures a focus on quality and 
service to our customers without 
compromising the health and safety 
of our employees, customers, 
suppliers, sub-contractors and 
members of the public.

Weighting 
(% of salary
 maximum)

82.5

15.0

22.5

Diversity and 
inclusion

To change our attraction and recruitment process 
to ensure that we have more diverse pools of talent 
to recruit from which results in enhanced diversity 
being recruited into the business.

Reduction of waste

Reduction of site waste (tonnes of waste for every 100m2 
of legally completed build area). 

Total bonus achievable as a % of salary

To focus individuals on ensuring that, 
as part of any recruitment process, 
they identify a shortlist of candidates 
which will help further improve 
diversity within the business.

Focus individuals on reducing 
the amount of construction waste 
intensity, which is a key element of 
our overall carbon reduction and 
sustainability strategy.

15.0

15.0

150.0 1

1  One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares and held in the DBP. Dividend equivalents will accrue against any shares deferred into the DBP.

The Committee will continue to have an overriding discretion in respect of any bonus payment in accordance with its Policy. 
In addition, any bonus awarded for FY24 will be subject to the malus and clawback provisions set out in detail on pages 148 and 149. 

LTPP
The Committee intends to grant an LTPP award to Executive Directors later this year (“2023 LTPP”). Under the Remuneration Policy 
and the rules of the LTPP, the award can be up to 200% of base salary. The Committee remains mindful of the need to avoid windfall 
gains for Executive Directors, as evidenced by its decision to reduce the quantum of the 2022 LTPP award grant. There has been little 
movement in the share price since October 2022 and therefore the Committee is minded to grant an award of up to 200% of base 
salary. The Committee will however monitor the share price up until the day before the grant to determine the final quantum of the 
2023 LTPP. In addition, the Committee recognises that the 2023 LTPP award should be subject to performance targets which are 
stretching and challenging whilst aligned with the short and long-term performance of the Group and its strategy, as well as the 
interests of shareholders. During the financial year, the Committee agreed the performance conditions and their respective weightings 
for the 2023 LTPP. These are set out in the table below. Having discussed potential target ranges for each of the financial performance 
conditions, the Committee agreed that, due to the continuing uncertain market conditions at the time of approving the Remuneration 
report, it would be prudent to defer the finalisation of the financial targets until later in the year. The Committee anticipates that this 
will be by no later than December 2023. The non-financial targets are set out in the table below. Full details for the targets for each 
performance condition will be announced at the time of granting the 2023 LTPP, and in next year’s Remuneration Report.

Table 5 – 2023 LTPP performance measures

Performance condition and definition

Reason selected

Weighting 
(of total award)

15%

Below 
Threshold (0% 
Vesting)

Below 
median

Threshold
(25% Vesting)

Maximum
(100% Vesting)

Median

Upper 
Quartile

To ensure that the 
comparator group remains 
current and relevant whilst 
factoring in the continued 
movement in the 
Company’s market 
capitalisation.

To ensure rewards are 
linked to outperformance 
of our peers.

15% Below Index
average of 
peer group

Index 
average of 
peer group

Index 
average
+8% per 
annum

To ensure efficient and 
effective management 
of our business and align 
interests with those of 
shareholders.

15%

TBC

TBC

TBC

TSR against the FTSE: 
The Company’s TSR over the Performance 
Period must be at least at the median of a 
ranking of the Total Shareholder Return of 
each of the members ranking 50 above and 
50 below the Company in the FTSE Index at 
the start of the Performance Period (1 July 
2023 to 30 June 2026) based on market 
capitalisation as at the day before the start 
of the Performance Period.

TSR against a housebuilder index1: 
The Company’s TSR over the Performance 
Period must be at least the Index average 
of the Housebuilder Index over the 
same period.

Absolute Adjusted EPS for the financial 
year ending 20262: 
Calculated by dividing the adjusted profit 
after tax for the year attributable to 
ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during FY26, excluding those held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust which are treated 
as cancelled.

156

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

157

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy for FY24 continued
LTPP continued
Table 5 – 2023 LTPP performance measures continued

Performance condition and definition

Reason selected

To ensure efficient and 
effective management 
of our business and align 
interests with those 
of shareholders.

Underlying ROCE for the financial year 
ending 20262: 

Calculated as earnings before 
amortisation, interest, tax, operating 
charges relating to the defined benefit 
pension scheme and adjusted items, 
divided by average net assets adjusted for 
goodwill, intangibles and land payables, 
tax, cash, loans and borrowings, retirement 
benefit assets/obligations, derivative financial 
instruments and legacy property provisions.

GHG emissions reduction3: 

Reduction of our absolute scope 1 and 2 
(operational) GHG emissions by 29% by 
2025 (from 2018 levels) and to net zero 
by 2040.

To ensure we focus on 
reducing our emissions by 
meeting our science-based 
target of a 29% reduction 
in absolute scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions.

Weighting 
(of total award)

Below 
Threshold (0% 
Vesting)

Threshold
(25% Vesting)

Maximum
(100% Vesting)

40%

TBC

TBC

 TBC

15%

29% 
reduction

33%
reduction

38% 
reduction

1   The housebuilder index will comprise: Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Crest Nicholson, Persimmon, Redrow, Taylor Wimpey and Vistry Group. 

2  Targets will be based on current corporation tax rates.

3   Further information on scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions can be found in the Strategic Report, pages 97 and 98. 

For the TSR, EPS and Underlying ROCE performance targets, vesting will be on a straight-line basis between threshold and 
maximum. For the GHG performance target, vesting will be on a straight-line basis between 29% and 33% reduction, and on a 
straight-line basis between 33% and 38% reduction. In addition, all LTPP awards are subject to a two-year post-vesting holding 
period and an overriding Committee discretion, as set out in the Policy table on page 146. The Committee retains discretion to 
adjust the number of shares vesting from the 2023 LTPP award to mitigate against any potential windfall gains. The 2023 LTPP 
will also be subject to the malus and clawback provisions summarised on pages 148 and 149.

Non-Executive Directors’ fees
During the year, a committee of the Board comprising the Chair and the Executive Directors reviewed Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees and concluded that an increase of 4% should apply to all fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors. This increase is in line with 
the salary increase awarded to the Executive Directors and lower than the salary increase awarded to the wider workforce. 
Caroline Silver became Chair on 30 June 2023 on a fee of £350,000, broadly in line with that paid to John Allan at that time, and also 
received a 4% increase from 1 July 2023 to reflect her taking on the role as Chair earlier than previously anticipated. The annual 
fees payable to the Chair and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2023 will therefore be:

Table 6 – Non-Executive Directors’ fees

Role

Chair1
Non-Executive Director base fee
Committee membership (per committee)
Chair of Audit Committee 
Chair of Remuneration Committee
Chair of Safety, Health and Environmental Committee
Senior Independent Director

Designated NED for Workforce Engagement2

Fee as at 
1 July 2023
£000

Fee as at 
1 July 2022
£000

364
70
3
18
18
18
18

0

353 
67
3
17
17
17
17

10

1    The Chair’s fee as at 1 July 2022 is that of John Allan, and as at 1 July 2023 is Caroline Silver’s.  

2   Sharon White received £10,000 in respect of her work as Designated Non-Executive Director up until 30 June 2023 when she stepped down from the Board. 

Caroline Silver took over this role on 1 July 2023 and will not receive any additional fees for this position.

Directors’ remuneration outcomes for the year ended 30 June 2023
Single figure of remuneration
The total remuneration for each of the Directors who served during the financial year ended 30 June 2023 is set out in Tables 7 
and 8. The salary for all Directors is the amount received in the year. 

Table 7 – Executive Directors’ single figure of remuneration (audited)

Base 
Salary 
£000

Benefits
(taxable)2 
£000

Annual 
bonus 3
£000

LTPP 
£000

Sharesave 6
£000

Pension
benefits 
£000

Replacement
Award 7
£000 

Total8
remuneration
£000

Total8
fixed
remuneration
£000

Total8 
variable 
remuneration
£000

2022/23

2021/22 2022/23

2021/22 2022/23

2021/22 2022/23 4

2021/22 5 2022/23

2021/22  2022/23

2021/22 2022/23

2021/22  2022/23

2021/22 2022/23

2021/22 2022/23

2021/22

David 
Thomas
Steven 
Boyes

Mike Scott1

6

5

803

780

29

28

483 1,151 300  578  —

141

195 — — 1,756 2,738

973 1,003

783 1,735

648

494

629

277

31

9

390

297

928 237  458  —

113

157 — — 1,418 2,208

402

69 

53  — — 49

28 — 160

928

929

791

561

817

314

627 1,391

366

615

Total

1,945 1,686

68 1,170 2,481 606  1,089  — 11  303

380 — 160 4,102 5,875 2,325 2,134 1,776 3,741

30

18

77

1  Mike Scott was appointed a Director on 6 December 2021, and his remuneration for 2021/22 therefore reflects only a partial year.

2   Benefits (taxable) include the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, some telephone costs and contributions towards 

obtaining independent financial and tax advice, and are provided based on market rates. 

3   Annual bonus for 2021/22 includes amounts deferred for David Thomas and Steven Boyes (see Table 10 on page 161). 

4   Performance conditions for the LTPP were tested after 30 June 2023. 19.6% of the award granted to each of the Executive Directors is due to vest in 

October 2023 (see Tables 11 and 12 on pages 161 and 162 for further details). The market price of the shares has been calculated based on an average 
market value over the three months to 30 June 2023 £4.71 per share). None of the value of the award is attributable to share price growth. 

5    In accordance with regulatory requirements, the values in this column have been re-calculated using a share price of £3.56 per share being the market 
value of the shares on the vesting date, 24 October 2022, as opposed to the market price of £4.94 per share calculated based on an average market value 
over the three months to 30 June 2022 disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report.

6   The Sharesave shares granted in 2016 for David Thomas and 2018 for Steven Boyes, which matured on 1 July 2021, were subject to a continued 

employment condition and completion of a savings contract. There are no performance conditions for Sharesave shares. The value is calculated using the 
difference between the exercise price and the mid-market closing price of a share on the date of maturity. The relevant prices were £4.82 and £6.792 for 
David Thomas’ options, and £4.49 and £7.112 for Steven Boyes’ options.

7    Details of Mike Scott’s Replacement Awards were shown on page 120 of the 2022 Annual Report. The value shown in the Replacement Award column 
relates to the Deferred Bonus shares which vested in December 2022. The value of the replacement LTPP awards vested in October 2022 and vesting 
in October 2023 are included in the relevant LTPP columns.

8   The total remuneration figures in the last three columns of the above table may not add up to the sum of the component parts, due to rounding.

Table 8 – Non-Executive Directors’ single figure of remuneration (audited)

John Allan1
Caroline Silver2
Nina Bibby2
Katie Bickerstaffe
Jasi Halai2
Jock Lennox
Chris Weston

Sharon White

Total

Fees
£000

Benefits (taxable)
£000

Total
£000

2022/23

2021/22

2022/23 3

2021/22 4

2022/23

2021/22

405
7
22
93
40
110
93

86

856

343
—
75
92
—
109
92

85

796

1
—
4
—
—
—
—

—

5

2
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

2

406
7
26
93
40
110
93

86

861

345
—
75
92
—
109
92

85

798

1  John Allan’s Fees include £52,470 paid in lieu of notice after he stepped down from the Board with effect from 30 June 2023.

2   Caroline Silver and Jasi Halai were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June and 1 January 2023 respectively, and Nina Bibby stepped down on 

17 October 2022. Their fees therefore reflect a partial year.

3   Benefits (taxable) for 2022/23 for John Allan include £1,068 expenses incurred in attending the Company’s main corporate office and for Nina Bibby relate 

to gifts, including tax payable on them, presented to her on leaving the business.

4   Benefits (taxable) for 2021/22 include expenses incurred in attending the Company’s main corporate office of £1,648 for John Allan.

158

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

159

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023S

Corporate Governance

F

S

Corporate Governance

F

Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Directors’ remuneration outcomes for the year ended 30 June 2023 continued
Annual bonus
For FY23, the business was focused on managing costs, with a strong emphasis on building sustainably whilst maintaining high customer 
service levels. The bonus measures were set accordingly. Financial targets were set taking into consideration internal and external 
consensus forecasts. Further information on how we measure progress against the waste reduction target is set out on page 17.

As in previous years, Executive Directors had the potential to earn an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary based on the attainment of 
Group performance targets which are linked directly to the Group’s strategy, part of which is deferred into shares (see page 161). The Group 
performance targets and performance against them for FY23 are set out in Table 9 below. The Committee considers that the outcome 
reflects a fair, reasonable and appropriate level of reward, and the overall performance of the Group during FY23, and therefore no discretion 
was exercised in relation to the bonus outcomes. It is also aligned to the bonus outcomes for the wider workforce below Senior Management.

Table 9 – Annual bonus (audited)

Bonus target

Strategic objective

Targets

Adjusted profit 
before tax1

To support profitability.

Threshold: £1,015m

Capital  
employed1

To incentivise improvement 
of capital management.

Quality 
and Service 
(with health and 
safety underpin)

To ensure a focus on 
quality and service to 
our customers without 
compromising the health 
and safety of our employees 
and other stakeholders.

Target: £1,090m

Maximum: £1,165m

Minimum and
Target: £1,815m
Maximum: £1,715m

A three stage assessment 
is applied:

(i) A Division must achieve SHE 
audit monitoring inspections 
gate on a rolling 12 months’ 
performance basis of 94%, to 
be considered for the customer 
service element; 

(ii) To earn 75% of this bonus 
element, the Division must achieve 
90% or higher “recommend” score 
for the HBF 8-week National New 
Homes Customer Satisfaction 
survey; and

(iii) To earn the remaining 25% of 
this bonus element, the division 
must achieve 82% or higher score 
for the NHBC 9-month Customer 
Satisfaction survey.

Construction  
Waste Reduction

To reduce construction waste 
intensity compared with 
FY22. (Measured in tonnes 
of waste for every 100m2 of 
legally completed build area).

Threshold: 4.87 tonnes

Target: 4.82 tonnes

Maximum: 4.77 tonnes

Trading outlets

Total outcome

To open the optimum number 
of trading outlets to ensure 
growth and delivery of our 
business plan.

Threshold: 98

Target: 103

Maximum: 108

1   See definitions in Table 4 on page 156.

Potential bonus 
weighting % 
of salary

Actual 
performance 
achievement

Bonus 
achieved % 
of salary

Bonus 
outcome % 
of maximum

16.5%

41.25%

82.5%

7.5%

15%

22.5%

£884m

0%

0%

£1,733m

13.6%

9.1%

16.5%

11.0%

SHE gate: 
29/29 divisions

8-week score:
23/29 divisions

9-month score: 
16/29 divisions

3%

4.31 tonnes

15.0%

10.0%

7.5%

15%

3%

130 outlets

15.0%

10.0%

7.5%

15%

Executive Directors’ deferred bonus 
For FY23 there was no bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary there will be no deferral into shares. See Table 10 below for details 
of the FY23 bonus earned. When any bonus is earned in excess of 100% of salary, the number of shares that will be awarded will be 
calculated based on the average closing share price for the first five dealing days following the date on which the Group publishes 
its annual results, and will be announced via the Regulatory Information Service when the shares are awarded. Deferred shares 
are held for a period of three years from the date they are awarded, subject normally to continued employment. 

Table 10 – Executive Directors’ deferred bonus (audited)

FY23 deferred bonus

FY22 deferred bonus

Salary 
payable
%

60.1
60.1

60.1

Annual 
bonus
£000 

% of salary
paid in cash
%

Bonus paid 
in cash
£000

483
390

297

60.1
60.1

60.1

483
390

297

% of salary
 deferred 
into shares 
%

Bonus
 deferred 
into shares 
£000

% of salary
deferred 
into shares
%

Bonus 
deferred 
into shares
£000

0
0

0

0
0

0

47.5
47.5

0 2

371
299

0

Number of 
shares 1

88,632
71,495

0

David Thomas
Steven Boyes

Mike Scott

1   The number of conditional shares awarded during the year was calculated at a share price of £4.1802, being the average of the mid-market closing prices 

of the shares for the first five dealing days following the date of the final FY22 results announcement for the Company.

2   For the FY22 bonus, Mike Scott was appointed a Director of the Company part way through the year. Mike’s percentage bonus outcome was 147.5%. 

This was applied to his annual base salary for FY22 and pro-rated to the number of calendar days he was employed in the year. The value of his bonus 
outcome did not exceed 100% of his annual base salary and therefore none of his bonus was deferred into shares.

Long-Term Performance Plans
Vesting of 2020 LTPP (included in FY23 single figure of remuneration)
The 2020 LTPP award was based on a three-year performance period to 30 June 2023 and will vest in October 2023. The award 
is subject to three performance conditions, 20% EPS, 40% ROCE and 40% TSR (half of which is measured against a 50+/50- FTSE 
comparator group and the other half against a housebuilder index). The resulting vesting levels are as follows:

Table 11 – Vesting of 2020 LTPP (audited)

Metric

EPS (20%)

Performance condition

EPS growth for the financial year ended 
30 June 2023.

Underlying ROCE (40%) To increase underlying ROCE for the financial 

year ended 30 June 2023.

Threshold 
(25% vesting)

Maximum
(100% vesting)

76p

19%

Actual

56.3p1

Portion of 
award vesting

0%

19.3%

13.0%

TSR (FTSE) (20%)

TSR against the 50 companies above and 
below the Company in the FTSE index 
measured over three financial years with 
a three-month average at the start and end 
of the performance period. 

Median
ranking of 
47.0 
(TSR of 
24.1%)

TSR (Housebuilder)2 
(20%)

TSR of at least the Index average of a 
housebuilder Index measured over three 
financial years with a three-month average at 
the start and end of the performance period. 

Unweighted
Index 
average
(TSR of 7.8%)

Total level of award 
vesting

88p

22%

Upper 
quartile 
ranking 
of 24.0
(TSR of 
49.6%)

Rank of 55.5 
(TSR of 
10.6%)

Unweighted
Index 
average 
+ 8% p.a.
(TSR of 
33.7%)

Between 
Threshold 
and 
Maximum 
(TSR of 
10.6%)

0%

6.6%

19.6%

60.1%

40.1%

1   The basic EPS of 53.2 pence has been re-based using the same rate of corporation tax and number of shares as was used in setting the 2020 LTPP targets. 

The re-based basic EPS used for the purpose of determining vesting, which is directly comparable to the 2020 targets, is 56.3 pence.

2   The Housebuilder Index comprises: Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Countryside Partnerships, Crest Nicholson, Persimmon, Redrow, Taylor Wimpey 

and Vistry Group. On 11 November 2022, Countryside Partnerships was acquired by Vistry Group. At the time, both companies were members of the 
Housebuilder Index Comparator Group. The TSR performance for Countryside Partnerships has therefore been calculated based on the performance 
of Countryside Partnerships up to the date of the merger and then by tracking Vistry Group’s performance thereafter.

The Committee considered the underlying financial performance of the Group and was satisfied that given the continued strong 
performance in the Group’s financial results, the level of vesting was justified. There was no share price appreciation, and no 
discretion was exercised in relation to the share price. The Committee believes that the vesting level achieved is fair, reasonable 
and appropriate. No Committee discretion was exercised in relation to the LTPP vesting outcome. The 2020 LTPP has accrued 
dividend equivalents in accordance with the rules of the scheme. The amount of dividend equivalent to be paid, in cash, on vesting 
will be pro-rated in line with the number of shares that vest. The gross number of shares to be released to each of the Executive 
Directors and the gross value of the dividend equivalents are as follows:

160

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023

161

Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2023