Embracing 
change

Capita plc Annua l Rep ort  and  A cc o unt s  2 0 23

Capita is a leading provider of business 
process services, driven by data, technology 
and people.
We operate in the UK, Europe, India and South Africa – and across two core divisions: 
Capita Public Service and Capita Experience.

Every day our 43,000 colleagues touch the lives of millions of people, by delivering 
innovative, digitally enabled solutions to transform and simplify the connections between 
government and citizens, businesses and customers.

Under new leadership our priorities for 2024 and onwards will be to:

• Define and refine Capita’s formula for winning in its markets;
• Ensure we deliver efficiently and effectively for our customers each and every time;
• Capture greater economic value from our core business;
• Deliver sustainable free cash flow and improving shareholder returns; and
• Rally our leadership team, motivate our colleagues and reset our culture.

We will embrace the changes we need to deliver on our objectives.

Contents

Strategic report

Corporate governance

Financial statements

66 Chairman’s report 

68 Governance at a glance

70 Board members

72 Corporate governance report

79 Nomination Committee report

84 ESG Committee report

125 Independent Auditor’s Report

147 Consolidated financial statements 

153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements

218 Company financial statements

220 Notes to the Company financial statements

229 Additional information

87 Audit and Risk Committee report

230 Alternative performance measures (APMs)

96 Directors’ remuneration report

119 Directors’ report

2 Financial and non-financial highlights

4 Capita at a glance

5 Investment case

6 Chairman’s statement

8 Chief Executive Officer’s review

13 Our markets

14 Operating review

14 Public Service 

19 Experience

22 Chief Financial Officer’s review

29 Responsible business

30 At a glance

32 Our people

38 Community

40 Planet

43 Operating responsibly

45 Engaging with our stakeholders

49 NFSIS

50 TCFD

57 Risk management and internal control

64 Viability statement

This Annual Report, other corporate publications, our 
latest news and announcements, and more information 
about us is available on our website, www.capita.com

Read our CEO review on pages 8 to 13

Read more about our approach to being a responsible 
business on pages 29 to 56

CEO’s review

Responsible business

Cautionary statement
The directors present the Annual Report for the year ended 
31 December 2023, which includes the strategic report, 
corporate governance reports and audited accounts for 
the year. Pages 1 to 123 of this Annual Report comprise 
a report of the directors which has been drawn up and 
presented in accordance with English company law, and 
the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report 
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided 
by such law. Where the directors’ report refers to other 
reports or material such as a website address, this has 
been done to direct the reader to other sources of Capita 
plc information which may be of interest. Such additional 
materials do not form part of this report.

1

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportHighlights 

  Financial

Reviewing our performance

The Group delivered further progress in 2023 in terms of adjusted revenue and profit growth and new contract wins/
extensions. These were supported by positive customer and employee feedback as measured by cNPS and eNPS, 
respectively. The Group’s balance sheet has been strengthened by the final disposals under the portfolio programme 
but, with a substantial cash outflow in 2023 and a further, albeit smaller, outflow expected in 2024, significant cost 
saving programmes are being implemented to underpin the goal of sustainable positive free cash flow generation.

2023 financial highlights and KPIs

Reported revenue

Reported (loss)/profit before tax

Adjusted profit before tax1

Free cash flow3

£2,814.6m

£(106.6)m

£56.5m

(2022: £3,014.6m)

(2022: £61.4m)

(2022: £49.8m)

£(154.9)m

(2022: £(31.5)m)

Adjusted revenue1 

£2,642.1m

(2022: £2,609.0m)

Read more in the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 22 to 28

Reported basic earnings/(loss)  
per share

(10.60)p

(2022: 4.47p)

Adjusted basic earnings per share2  

1.70p

(2022: 2.64p)

Free cash flow before the impact of 
business exits3

£(115.5)m

(2022: £(42.4)m)

1. Capita reports results on an adjusted basis to aid understanding of business performance. Refer to alternative performance measures (APMs) on pages 230 to 233.
2. Refer to note 2.7 to the consolidated financial statements.
3. Refer to note 2.9 to the consolidated financial statements.

2

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportHighlights 

  Non-financial

2023 non-financial highlights and KPIs

Employee net promoter score

Customer net promoter score4

Suppliers paid within 60 days5

Total shareholder return (TSR)

-4pts

(2022: -9pts)

+16pts

(2022: +26pts)

99%

(2022: 99%)

(9.3)%

(2022: (33.5)%)

Employee engagement index 

Diversity: gender F/M/other and did 
not disclose

Reduction in carbon footprint7 
(location-based)

CO2 emissions (location-based)  
Scope 1, 2 and 3 (tCO2e)

67%

(2022: 65%)

50:49:1%

(2022: 49:51%)

37%

(2022: 47%)

40,456

(2022: 39,287)

Voluntary employee turnover 

Diversity: ethnicity6 

24%

(2022: 30%)

37:22%

(2022: 37:24%)

Reduction in carbon footprint8 
(market-based)

58%

(2022: 65%)

Read more in the Responsible business section on pages 29 to 56

4. 2022 comparative restated to exclude the disposed of Portfolio businesses.
5. Data includes invoices paid through Capita UK companies.
6. White:Black, Asian and minority ethnic. 41% of people chose not to respond or not to specify.
7. Reduction in carbon footprint based on emissions per headcount from 2019 baseline. See pages 40 to 42 for more information.
8. Scope 3 for business travel only. See pages 40 to 42 for more information.

3

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportAt a glance

Understanding Capita today

Striving to create better outcomes for all our stakeholders.

Capita Public Service

2023 progress
•  Strong delivery in our chosen 

market verticals

•  Focus on partnering and 

customer centricity

•  Maintained our operational delivery 

with average KPI performance of 94%

•  Won total contract value of £1,924m, 

an increase of 57% from 2022

•  Established second client advisory 

board in Central Government vertical

•  Customer net promoter score +27

2024 strategic priorities
•  Maintaining our consistent delivery 

to clients

•  Partnering effectively with customers

•  Building on growth momentum

•  Improving margin achievement with 

efficient delivery

•  Right-sizing of business and reduction 

in overhead costs

Adjusted revenue1 contribution:

55%

2022: 56%

1. Refer to alternative performance 
measures (APMs) on pages 230  
to 233.

Key growth levers

Technology and  
digital innovation

Effective customer delivery 
and strong relationships

Talent and  
market expertise

Capita Group

Our purpose

Individual structural growth markets

Capita Public Service

Capita Experience

Public Service is the number one2 
strategic supplier of software and 
IT services (SITS) and business 
process services (BPS) to the 
UK Government.
2. TechMarketView

Experience is one of Europe’s 
leading customer experience 
businesses. It is the market leader 
in the UK 3 and ranks fourth in 
Germany3 and Europe3.
3. NelsonHall

Group governance, support services and risk management

Capita Experience

2023 progress
•  Experience is recognised by 

Everest Group at the top of the 
Major Contenders group in their 
2023 EMEA Customer Experience 
Management Services PEAK Matrix

•  Reduced annual voluntary employee 

attrition by 5%

•  Operational delivery consistently 

high with average KPI performance 
of 94%, excluding the pensions 
administration business. 82% 
including pensions

•  Won total contract value of £1,112m, 

a decrease of 19% from 2022

•  Customer net promoter score +10

2024 strategic priorities
•  Right-sizing cost base

•  Expanding our geographical footprint 

in Europe

•  Continuing to partner with technology 

providers to deliver effective IT 
transformations for customers

Adjusted revenue1 contribution:

45%

2022: 44%

1. Refer to alternative performance 
measures (APMs) on pages 230 
to 233.

4

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportInvestment case

Driving change to create value

Creating a compelling investment case to deliver value for all our stakeholders. 

How we will create value

Better stakeholder outcomes

How we measure outcomes

1

2

We will 
create value 
by embracing 
change through:

Clear growth 
strategy; defining 
and refining Capita’s 
formula for winning 
in its markets

Ensuring we deliver 
efficiently and 
effectively for our 
customers each 
and every time

3

4

5

Leveraging our 
expertise and 
relationships with 
our broad, deep and 
loyal customer base

Capturing greater 
economic value from 
the business

Embracing digital 
solutions and 
turbocharging 
relationships with 
technology partners

6

7

8

Rallying our 
leadership team, 
motivating our 
colleagues and 
resetting our culture

Continuing our 
disciplined approach 
to corporate 
governance and 
risk management

Strengthening 
commitment to 
achieve sustainable 
positive free 
cash flow

Our people

by providing an environment in which  
they can thrive and develop.

Investors

by delivering sustainable positive free 
cash flow and improving returns.

Clients and customers

by delivering efficient and effective solutions, 
transforming businesses and services 
through expertise and technology.

Suppliers and partners

by treating them fairly and working 
in partnership to deliver.

Society

by acting as a responsible business  
for the communities we serve.

For more on our performance see highlights and KPIs on pages 2 and 3

For more on how we engaged with our stakeholders see pages 45 to 48

Employee net promoter score (eNPS)

-4

2022: -9

Free cash flow before the impact of 
business exits

£(115.5)m

2022: £(42.4)m

Customer net promoter score (cNPS)

+16

2022: +26*

Supplier payment compliance in 2023

99%

2022: 99%

Penta score 90-day average at 
31 December 2023

+37

2022: +60

 * 2022 comparative restated to exclude 
the disposed of Portfolio businesses

5

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChairman’s statement

Committed to delivering value

Overview
In 2023, Capita continued on its journey to 
delivering the medium-term priorities that were 
outlined in 2022.

I am pleased to note a number of positive 
achievements this year. The total value of new 
contracts won has continued to grow strongly, 
up by 17%. Top line revenue growth was positive 
but impacted by contract award delays and some 
specific contract losses. We are delivering for our 
clients and their customers, and we have an 
engaged and talented workforce.

The cyber incident in March was a very 
challenging period for the Group and some  
of our customers, although the majority were 
unaffected. The Group’s management team 
acted swiftly during this period and we continue 
to bolster defences and governance in this area.

In July, Jon Lewis announced his intention 
to retire from Capita. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to express our sincere thanks to Jon 
and pay tribute to his significant commitment and 
achievements at Capita over the past six years. 
I’d also like to commend him for his leadership 
throughout the period following the cyber incident 
in March, during which he decided to delay his 
possible retirement.

In early 2024, we welcomed Adolfo Hernandez 
as the CEO of the Group and to the Board. 
Adolfo has a strong track record in accelerating 
revenue growth driven by digital services over his  
c.30-year career, which has included senior 
leadership roles at Amazon Web Services (AWS) 
and SDL plc. His appointment is testament to the 
exciting potential for the Group.

As with all organisations, in 2023 we were faced 
with a difficult macroeconomic backdrop of high 
inflation and tight labour markets, particularly at 
the start of the year. While the Group has managed 
these challenges, there is still more to do to 
ensure that we maximise our revenues, minimise 
costs and reduce employee attrition to ensure 
we can continue to deliver for our clients.

We recognise that our financial performance is not 
where it needs to be and our investors have not 
yet seen improved returns and financial benefit 
from the strengthened Group. We appreciate the 
patience and support of all shareholders, and we 
remain committed to delivering long-term value 
creation for all our stakeholders.

I’d like to thank our colleagues across the entire 
organisation for their professionalism and 
dedication throughout a challenging year.

2023 performance
Capita is focused on putting clients first, and 
despite wider challenges in 2023 we continued 
to deliver for our clients. The Group’s customer 
net promoter score (cNPS) remains competitive 
at +16.

While we saw modest adjusted revenue1 growth 
and a step up in adjusted profit before tax1, we 
continue to lag behind our peers in revenue 
growth and profit margins. Our free cash flow 
performance was disappointing and we are 
focused on improving the Group’s financial 
performance and delivering sustainable positive 
free cash flow.

In November 2023, we announced an employee 
redundancy programme to underpin delivery of 
sustainable positive free cash flow. This phase 
was finalised in early 2024 and will result in 
annualised savings of £60m from Q1 2024. 
While this process involved a number of difficult 
decisions, it will help deliver a leaner organisation 
which will improve margin performance. In the 
December trading update, we also noted that 
we were continuing to evaluate additional cost 
saving opportunities to underpin our margin 
improvement plans and we have identified 
further efficiency opportunities as outlined 
in Adolfo’s review.

Importantly, the maturity profile of the Group’s 
funding position was enhanced in the year, with 
the extension of the revolving credit facility to 
2026 in June and issuance of private placement 
notes in July. We have now completed our 
Portfolio disposal programme with completion 
of the People, Software, Business Solutions and 
Travel pillars in 2023 and Fera in January 2024.

In November 2023, the Group reached agreement 
with the Trustees of its main defined benefit 
pension scheme in respect of the March 2023 
triennial funding review. Given the improved 
funding position of the scheme, we have 
agreed with the Trustees that no further deficit 
contributions will be required other than the £21m 
already committed to be paid in 2024 under the 
2020 funding agreement. With effect from 2025 
onwards the Group will no longer be required to 
pay substantial pension deficit contributions.

The delivery of our cost efficiency plans, together 
with the cessation of pension deficit contributions 
from 2025 onwards, are key enablers of the 
Group’s journey to sustainable positive free 
cash flow generation.

6

“ We appreciate the 
patience and support 
of all shareholders, and 
we remain committed 
to delivering long-term 
value creation for all 
our stakeholders”

David Lowden, Chairman

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChairman’s statement continued

“ The Board and 
management team are 
committed to delivering on 
the Group’s priorities, and 
ensuring our progress 
generates returns”

In December, following a review of the Board’s 
constitution, it was agreed that employee 
non-executive director Janine Goodchild would 
step down from the Board at the end of 2023.

I’d like to thank Janine for her contribution 
since joining the Board earlier in the year. 
Nneka Abulokwe will take the lead role in 
employee engagement through our Board 
ESG Committee to ensure we maintain our high 
level of workforce engagement going forward.

Culture and responsible business
Being a responsible business is key for the 
Group. I’m pleased with the improvement made 
in our gender pay gap and our improving diversity 
and inclusion trend, which continued this year.

We continue to run a virtual-first working model, 
offering employees hybrid working, which is 
extremely important to us and has helped to 
create a more engaged and motivated workforce.

It was pleasing to see employee engagement 
improve a further 2% in 2023 to 67% and 
employee NPS increase by a further five points.

Looking forward
In the short term, the Board’s priority is to ensure 
Adolfo is successfully onboarded and embedded 
within the Capita Group. It is natural to expect 
that 2024 will be somewhat of a transitional year 
as Adolfo builds on what has been achieved over 
the past few years and as he leads the final stage 
of Capita’s turnaround, implementing his strategic 
priorities to underpin the long-term success of 
the business.

The Board and management team are committed 
to delivering on the Group’s priorities, and 
ensuring our progress generates returns to 
our shareholders as well as delivering for all 
stakeholders. I am confident we have the 
foundations and team in place to do so.

David Lowden
Chairman

Cyber incident
In March, the Group experienced a cyber 
incident, which affected some client services, 
particularly in the pension administration 
business, although the majority of clients 
and customers were unaffected.

We have naturally taken the opportunity to 
bolster our defences and our governance in this 
area. We are continuing to invest in our systems 
and processes. This has enabled us to improve 
the Group’s cyber maturity as measured by 
reference to the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology cyber security framework.

This cyber incident, and the management of 
its consequences, was a challenging experience 
for Capita, but I’d like to thank our customers for 
their patience and support as well as the Group’s 
management team and colleagues across the 
business for their professionalism and dedication 
throughout the period.

The Board and governance
2023 was my first full year in role, and it is 
my privilege to be Chairman of Capita.

As previously announced, in March 2023, 
non-executive director John Cresswell stepped 
down from the Board and in December, non-
executive director Claire Miles announced she 
would be stepping down, following appointment 
to the Board in May, due to her executive role at 
Stagecoach which she was offered shortly after 
appointment to the Capita Board. I’d like to thank 
John and Claire for the valuable contribution they 
both made during their time on the Board.

7

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Executive Officer’s review

Getting the basics right

Q&A

Introduction
I am delighted to have joined Capita in the middle 
of January 2024. Capita plays an essential role 
in underpinning how millions of people’s lives 
operate – every single day – and I am honoured 
to have been appointed as leader of this business.

Much has been achieved in the transformation 
of the Group under Jon Lewis’s leadership, with 
improvements in client satisfaction and contract 
delivery, the simplification of the business, with 
multiple unfocused business units reduced to 
two market-focused divisions, and significant debt 
reduction. This has created a solid foundation to 
build on. We are now refocusing our operations 
and strengthening our execution capabilities, 
defining our future strategy and transforming 
into a more agile, client centric business, that will 
ultimately deliver profitable cash-backed growth.

Over the last few weeks, I have spent time 
embedding myself within the organisation, 
meeting with stakeholders, the leadership 
team and colleagues around the world to better 
understand the strengths of Capita today and 
where there are opportunities to create value 
in the future.

It is clear that Capita is at an exciting point in its 
journey with attractive offerings in many segments, 
client satisfaction scores we can be proud of and 
a very talented and diverse workforce. Capita has 
a rich client base with multifaceted and deep 
relationships. I’m pleased to see that we have 
high quality people across the organisation who 
understand how to deliver complex services and 
are passionate and committed to our clients and 
their needs.

The evolving digital landscape (automation and 
generative AI) pose both a challenge and an 
opportunity that we intend to take advantage of 
in order to deliver better, more efficient services 

to our clients. Through our partnership with 
technology hyperscalers we will co-create and 
innovate solutions that solve our clients’ needs 
for today and the future.

As we take the company to the next stage of 
its evolution, we have challenges we need to 
tackle. Our immediate focus is to deliver a rapid 
improvement in the financial performance of the 
business and, in particular, to realise our goal of 
sustainable positive free cash flow generation.

To win in our marketplace, we must ensure: 
our cost base is appropriate for the size of our 
business; our clients are advocates for Capita; 
we deliver and execute with precision; and, 
importantly, our colleagues throughout the 
Group are aligned with our vision, can grow 
their careers with Capita and are proud to  
be part of our organisation.

We need to grow our revenue by acquiring new 
clients and expanding our relationships with 
existing clients. But this revenue growth must 
generate an appropriate cash-backed financial 
return. Key to this is maintaining our contract 
bidding discipline and ensuring we execute 
for our clients with precision when it comes to 
delivery. We recognise that we will also need to 
curtail some existing activities that do not deliver 
this objective. To this end, we are conducting 
a review of our operations to help us identify 
these particular activities and an implementation 
plan to ensure continuity for our clients and 
their customers.

Over the next few months, I will work with the 
Board, my leadership team and our colleagues 
across the organisation to develop a clear 
roadmap to:

•   Define and refine Capita’s formula for winning 

in its markets;

•  Ensure we deliver efficiently and effectively 

for our clients each and every time;

What made you want to join Capita?
Capita has a client base that is second to 
none, with longstanding trusted relationships. 
The market is moving at pace, and our clients 
will demand a shift where our human-to-
human interactions are augmented by 
technology, to deliver more efficient services. 
There is a huge opportunity to take advantage 
of this and Capita is well placed to be a 
winner in this space.

As a new CEO, what are 
your priorities?
My focus is on accelerating profitable, 
cash-backed growth. We need to get leaner 
and more agile as a prerequisite for growth. 
To do that, we will need to be clear on our 
areas of focus, leverage technology and 
partnerships with the hyperscalers, manage 
our cost base more effectively, execute and 
deliver for our clients with precision, and 
create and embed a culture that drives the 
right behaviours and empowers and motivates 
our people.

What is your outlook for the 
year ahead?
We are focused on developing our medium-
term strategy which will enable us to grow and 
win in the future. My intention is for 2024 to 
be a year of stability where we move Capita 
in the direction of becoming a business that 
grows, generates cash-backed profits, with 
good and improving customer relationships, 
and where people are proud to work for our 
organisation – and importantly where our 
shareholders see an improving return on 
their investment.

8

“ It is clear that Capita is at an 
exciting point in its journey 
with attractive offerings 
in many segments, client 
satisfaction scores we 
can be proud of and 
a very talented and 
diverse workforce”

Adolfo Hernandez, Chief Executive Officer

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Executive Officer’s review continued

•  Expand our current services to capture greater 

economic value from our core business;

•  Identify opportunities where we can work with 
partners to develop and deliver technology 
solutions that will create cost efficiencies 
and a better customer experience;

•  Enhance productivity through standardisation, 
replication and better use of tools and data;

•  Rally our leadership team, motivate our 
colleagues and evolve our culture, see 
page 32; and

•  Embrace the changes we need to deliver on 

our objectives.

I am planning to set out our vision, strategy 
and associated medium-term financial and 
non-financial targets in detail at a Capital 
Markets Day in June 2024.

The rest of this CEO review summarises what 
has been achieved across the business in 2023. 
I’d like to thank my new colleagues for their hard 
work, dedication and professionalism through 
what has been a challenging year for many.  
I am very much looking forward to leading 
Capita on the next stage of its journey.

Summary of achievements in 2023
As a Group, we continue to put our clients and 
their customers first. Our customer net promoter 
score (cNPS) remains strong at +16 (+25, excluding 
the pensions administration business where a 
number of clients were impacted by the cyber 
incident in March 2023). While this is a ten-point 
reduction from 2022, it remains a creditable 
performance bearing in mind the impact of 
the cyber incident.

During 2023, we focused on creating a 
compelling working environment and meaningful 
careers for our colleagues across every geography 
and saw positive improvements in employee 
engagement, inclusion and wellbeing scores.

Our financial performance for the year was not 
where it needed to be. Revenue growth, profit 
margins and free cash flow remain behind our 
peers. We are committed to delivering a financial 
performance that enables us to achieve our goal 
of delivering sustainable positive free cash flow 
over the medium term.

Despite significant rationalisation over the 
past few years, our cost base is too high. 
In November 2023, the Group announced 
that it had launched a significant cost reduction 
programme expected to deliver annualised cost 
savings of £60m from Q1 2024. We have identified 
further material efficiency improvements which 
are essential to ensuring our competitive position 
in the market and during the remainder of 2024 
we will be taking steps to realise a further 
£100m of annualised cost savings by mid 2025. 
A proportion of these further savings will be 
reinvested in the business to develop the 
Group’s technology, service delivery and pricing. 
We expect to provide further detail about this 
at our Capital Markets Day in June 2024.

During 2023, the Group significantly extended 
its funding maturity profile. In June we extended 
our revolving credit facility to 2026 and in July we 
issued £101.9m of US private placement notes 
with a mixture of three and five-year maturities. 
We finalised our c.£500m Portfolio disposal 
programme with the announcement of the 
sale of Fera in December, a transaction 
that completed in January 2024.

The Group’s contract growth momentum across 
2023 remained strong. We won contracts with 
a total contract value (TCV) of £3,036m, up by 
£443m from £2,593m in 2022, and saw a major 
improvement in the Group’s win rate for new 
scopes of work and expansions of existing 
scopes to 70%, up from 32% in 2022.

Our people
During 2023, we focused on creating a compelling 
working environment and meaningful careers for 
our colleagues across every geography and saw 
positive employee engagement, inclusion and 
wellbeing scores.

In 2023, we saw a major improvement in the 
Group’s voluntary employee attrition rate which 
on a rolling 12-month basis reduced from 30% 
at the start of the year to 24% by year end. We 
implemented specific Group and local measures 
to reduce attrition including a Capita-wide 
induction programme to improve the employee 
onboarding process and a global line manager 
training programme to ensure consistent 
induction experiences. At a divisional level, we 
increased communications with all employees 
via newsletters and divisional town hall events 
to improve employees’ sense of belonging.

Our hybrid, virtual-first organisation continues to 
be an important factor in our ability to attract and 
retain talent, including in locations where we do 
not have a physical office location. In our annual 
people survey, 88% of respondents who work 
from home stated that the flexible working 
arrangements are a key motivator for them 
to stay with Capita.

At the end of 2023, we took the difficult decision 
to withdraw from the UK’s real living wage. Since 
2020, the Group has increased the salaries of our 
lowest earners by 22% and the 2024 real living 
wage increase of 10.1% was not something we 
could commit to given the need for Capita to 
remain cost competitive and that this is not 
a cost we are able to pass on to our clients.  
We continue to apply global fair pay principles 
across all geographies to ensure we are able 
to attract and retain the colleagues we need to 
deliver our business commitments. In the UK, 
those paid a real living wage previously will 

9

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Executive Officer’s review continued

continue to be paid higher than the national 
minimum wage.

We have supported colleagues through the 
cost-of-living challenges which each of our 
geographies has faced this year. In our annual 
salary review at the start of 2023, we prioritised 
salary increases to our lower earning colleagues 
with our highest earners asked to forgo a 
pay increase.

Diversity remains a key focus for the Group and 
at year end we had 40% female senior leadership 
(globally) and 14% ethnic diversity. At year end 
our Board was 56% female and our Executive 
Team at year end was 29% female, rising to 
44% in early 2024. At year end, our Board and 
Executive Team were 22% and 14% ethnically 
diverse respectively.

In October, Capita was recognised as one of the 
top companies for women by Forbes, ranking 18 
out of 400 global companies. This is a testament 
to our commitment to diversity, inclusion and 
equality in our workplace.

We continued with our roll out and embedding of 
the career path framework (CPF) in 2023, helping 

employees across every level and geography in 
the organisation build a meaningful, long-lasting 
career with Capita. CPF provides clarity about 
the skills and experience required for roles 
across the organisation – and ensures salaries 
are benchmarked to appropriate market rates.

subscription to Identity Plus, a monitoring 
service provided by UK credit reference agency 
Experian. Our investigation is now complete and 
all affected clients, suppliers and employees are 
in the process of being contacted and we continue 
to support those whose data was exfiltrated.

We are building advocacy in Capita and are 
focused on ensuring that our people are proud 
to work for the organisation. This was evidenced 
in our annual people survey, where 84% of 
respondents said they can be themselves at 
work, higher than the global average, while 63% 
stated they feel proud to work for Capita, lower 
than the global average and something we are 
working to improve.

We continue to support community initiatives to 
help the most disadvantaged and vulnerable in 
society. Globally, colleagues completed nearly 
21,000 hours of volunteering, almost three times 
the hours completed last year. We were pleased 
to retain our status as a gold award employer 
under the Armed Forces Covenant.

Cyber incident
In March 2023, a threat actor gained 
unauthorised access to certain of our systems 
which caused disruption to client services in 
some parts of our business. We worked closely 
and at speed with specialist advisers and forensic 
experts to investigate and resolve the incident.

Based on the forensic work performed, we 
confirmed that some data had been exfiltrated 
during the incident. Consequently, we took 
extensive steps in the immediate period after 
the incident to recover and secure the exfiltrated 
data. We continue to monitor the dark web and 
can confirm that we have seen no evidence, 
subsequent to our recovery activities, that any 
of the exfiltrated data is in circulation there 
or elsewhere in the online environment. As a 
precautionary measure, we offered a 12 month 

As a result of the incident, we incurred net costs 
of £25.3m, comprising specialist professional 
fees, recovery and remediation costs and 
investment to reinforce Capita’s cyber security 
environment.

We have accelerated our previously planned 
investment to improve our cyber security maturity 
which has improved and is subject to external 
audit with reference to the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology cyber 
security framework.

The incident was a challenging experience for 
the Group, and we have taken steps to share 
our experience and learnings with our clients, 
suppliers and other companies and plan to 
continue this good practice in the future. Since 
the incident we have continued to see good 
contract growth momentum with a 17% 
increase in TCV secured in 2023.

Growth
The Group’s contract growth momentum across 
2023 remained strong. We won contracts with 
a TCV of £3,036m, up £443m from £2,593m in 
2022. There was a particularly strong performance 
in Public Service, where a number of deals 
previously scheduled to close in 2022 were 
delayed into 2023. While a number of these 
contracts have now been signed, the delays 
affected the division’s revenue growth in 2023.

The book to bill ratio for the Group remains 
above 1.0x at 1.1x, with 1.3x in Public Service 
and 0.9x in Experience. As we look to build our 
revenue growth, maintaining this metric above 
1.0x is a priority.

We saw a major improvement in the Group’s win 
rate for new scopes of work and expansions of 
existing scopes to 70%, up from 32% in 2022. 
Significant new scopes of work in Experience 
include: the Civil Service Pension Scheme, which 
will start in 2025; the City of London Police, 
which will begin later in 2024; and the National 
Transport Authority of Ireland and Santander, 
which have now commenced. In Public Service, 
the Group won material expanded scopes of 
work with the Department for Work and Pensions 
to deliver Functional Assessment Service (FAS) 
and the Department for Education delivering 
Disabled Students Allowance (DSA).

Despite our strong TCV performance, revenue 
growth continues to be impacted by previously 
announced contract losses, particularly in Local 
Public Service and the Co-operative Bank. In 
addition, consistent with our drive to ensure all 
contracts are bid at an appropriate margin, we 
saw a reduction in the Group’s contract renewal 
rate to 52% from 96% in 2022. This decrease 
reflected the loss of the administration of the 
Teachers’ Pension Scheme contract in Experience 
and the Electronic Monitoring Service and 
Standards and Testing Agency (STA) contracts 
in Public Service, all of which were lost on price 
and which will have a dampening impact on 
revenue growth. Material renewals secured in 
2023 include Virgin Media O2 and the extension 
of the Recruiting Partnering Project (RPP) 
contract with the British Army.

Reflecting the strong TCV performance 
across 2023 and increased rigour across the 
qualification process, the unweighted pipeline for 
2024 is at a lower level than at the start of 2023, 
with a total unweighted pipeline of £10,381m. 
Material contracts within the pipeline include 
opportunities with the Department for Work and 
Pensions, the Ministry of Defence, and a number 
of contracts within our International Markets 
in Experience.

10

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Executive Officer’s review continued

Operational delivery
Throughout 2023, we continued to maintain 
our focus on operational delivery for clients. By 
striving to deliver well for our clients and getting 
it right first time, we should reduce excess cost 
and avoid financial penalties. While we have 
made progress in this area, there is still work 
to do. We will be building on what has been 
achieved to date through strengthening and 
standardising our operational processes.

Our cNPS remains strong at +16 (+25, excluding 
the pensions administration business where a 
number of clients were impacted by the cyber 
incident in March).

Within the cNPS survey, our promoters spoke 
highly of our employees, citing the knowledge 
and relationships with the teams they work with 
at Capita and the quality of services delivered. 
However, we also received feedback from some 
clients around project delay and delivery issues 
and comments suggesting that certain teams 
could be more agile in service delivery. We will 
focus on improving in these areas in 2024, in line 
with our goal of ensuring we deliver efficiently and 
effectively for our clients each and every time.

Our KPI performance across 2023 remained 
above 90% in both divisions. Where KPI 
performance was not met at any point over the 
year, for example in respect of the particularly 
challenging 99.7% of exam scripts marked 
and returned in our contract for the STA, 
and recruitment targets in the RPP, we are 
implementing specific remediation action to 
ensure we meet the high standards Capita 
expects to deliver.

Notable achievements across the contract 
portfolio in 2023, included:

•  Within Public Service, on our Royal Navy 

training contract, we met our final milestones 

as set out in the original contract, concluding 
the transition of multiple legacy contracts.

•  On the Job Entry Target Support contract in 
Scotland, we completed more than 200% of 
the targeted number of job starts across the 
contract period.

•  Within the Experience division, on our Virgin 

Media O2 contract, we significantly increased 
the size of our offshore delivery team, with 
1,000 full-time employees added, providing 
additional optionality to the client to service 
customers with digital enablement.

•  Within the Energy & Utilities vertical of 

Experience, we successfully delivered a 
significant step up in available hours around 
peak demand in Q4 to ensure efficient 
outcomes for clients and their customers.

As we move into 2024, we are focused on 
delivering the complex transition and mobilisation 
requirements of our new contracts with the 
City of London Police, DSA and National 
Transport Authority Ireland.

Consistently delivering for our clients is the 
cornerstone of our success. Effective, efficient 
client delivery and getting it right first time, reduce 
excess cost and allow us to grow revenue.

Digital transformation and 
artificial intelligence
We are taking a measured approach to artificial 
intelligence (AI) and generative AI (gen AI), 
working with our clients and partners to deliver 
effective and efficient solutions as the technology 
continues to evolve. We expect that gen AI will 
allow us to be more productive and offer our 
clients superior solutions.

We plan to turbocharge our relationships with a 
number of trusted hyperscale partners, including 
Microsoft, AWS, Salesforce and ServiceNow. 
We also plan to partner to develop and deliver 

solutions across a wider span, creating a more 
digital Capita, delivering an efficient and higher 
quality service and experience for our clients 
and their customers.

We have already integrated digital and AI 
solutions into a range of clients. For example 
in the Public Service division, we have utilised a 
new Metaverse virtual reality tool for submarine 
qualification training within the Royal Navy. 
This modernised solution improves the learning 
experience and enables better trained 
submariners to be on the front line faster.

Within the Experience division, AI and gen AI will 
augment our agents, upskill our people, provide 
critical information quickly, and enable our people 
to be more competent and capable, which will 
in turn deliver better customer experiences. AI 
has been implemented in the division across a 
number of contracts in four key capability areas: 
chatbot/conversation AI; conversation analysis; 
data observatory and analytics; and 
correspondence digitisation.

We are continuing to develop further AI and gen 
AI pilots across both divisions, for example on 
our BBC and Transport for London contracts.

Cost efficiency
In November 2023, the Group announced it had 
commenced employee redundancy programmes 
expected to deliver an annualised £60m of 
cost savings from Q1 2024. The organisational 
changes that we have implemented primarily 
affected around 900 indirect support function 
and overhead roles.

We have identified further material efficiency 
improvements which are essential to ensuring 
our competitive position in the market and during 
the remainder of 2024 we will be taking steps 
to realise a further £100m of annualised cost 
savings by mid 2025, which will be partially 
reinvested in growth.

11

In February 2024, Experience secured an 
extension and expansion with an existing client in 
the European telecoms business worth £220m.

At 31 December 2023, the Group’s order 
book was £5,883m, an increase of £77m from 
31 December 2022 with £2,417m order book 
additions, indexation and scope changes, offset 
by £2,101m revenue recognised and a £239m 
reduction from business disposals and 
contract terminations.

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Executive Officer’s review continued

“ We significantly extended 
our funding maturity 
profile in 2023 through the 
extension of the Group’s 
revolving credit facility to 
2026 and issuance of 
£101.9m equivalent of US 
private placement notes”

We expect to provide further detail about this at 
our Capital Markets Day in June 2024.

Our property footprint continues to reduce as 
we benefit from our virtual first working model. 
We are targeting savings by managing capacity 
around demand for office spaces across our 
geographies. We permanently closed 19 properties 
and consolidated a further 14 during 2023. This 
year we reduced the square footage of our total 
property portfolio by a further 9%.

The total footprint of the Group’s property 
portfolio has now reduced by 31% in the last 
three years. The IFRS 16 lease liability associated 
with our property portfolio reduced by £30m 
across 2023, reflecting the continued reduction 
in our leased property estate.

Financial results – revenue and results 
before tax
Adjusted revenue1 growth for the year was 
1.3% with adjusted revenue of £2,642.1m 
(2022: £2,609.0m). This reflects underlying growth 
in contracts such as Personal Independence 
Payments, benefit from indexation and a 

commercial settlement in the closed book Life & 
Pensions business in Experience. This was partially 
offset by contract losses including the Co-operative 
Bank in Experience and in our Local Public Service 
business in the Public Service division.

The free cash outflow1,2 for the Group was 
£154.9m (2022 outflow: £31.5m), reflecting the 
in-year cash impact of businesses exited or being 
exited of £23.1m and £16.3m of pension deficit 
contributions triggered by disposals.

Reported revenue declined by 7% to £2,814.6m 
as core business growth was more than offset 
by the disposal of non-core businesses.

Adjusted profit before tax1 improved by £6.7m 
to £56.5m (2022: £49.8m). Profit benefited from 
revenue growth, in particular the commercial 
settlement in Experience noted above and a 
reduction in bonuses and variable pay, offset 
by increased financing costs.

The reported loss before tax was £106.6m as a 
result of the £38.8m loss incurred on business exits 
during the year, the goodwill impairment of £42.2m 
(recognised in respect of businesses in the Portfolio 
disposal programme), the expense associated 
with the Group’s cost reduction programme 
with £23.3m incurred in respect of employee 
consultation programmes, £31.1m of associated 
property related charges, and £25.3m of costs 
incurred in respect of the March 2023 
cyber incident.

Financial results – free cash flow and 
net debt
The free cash outflow1,2, before the impact of 
business exits was £115.5m, (2022 outflow: 
£42.4m). The 2023 outflow was driven by an 
increased working capital outflow, principally 
reflecting a reduction in the in-period usage of 
the Group’s non-recourse invoice discounting 
facility and the non-cash nature of the commercial 
settlement in Experience. There were additional 
outflows reflecting the cash cost of the cyber 
incident and the expected increase in capital 
expenditure on technology investment across 
the Group.

We have now completed our c.£500m Portfolio 
non-core business disposal programme. In 2023 
we completed the disposal of our People, 
Software, Business Solutions and Travel pillars 
realising net proceeds of £63.4m in the year. In 
December 2023, we announced the sale of Fera, 
our joint venture with DEFRA which completed in 
January 2024, realising gross proceeds of £62m 
(£51m net proceeds, after cash held by Fera at 
completion and disposal costs).

Net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) was £182.1m 
(2022: £84.9m) reflecting the free cash outflow, 
which more than offset the net proceeds 
realised on disposals. Proforma net financial 
debt (pre-IFRS 16) including the Fera net cash 
proceeds at 31 December 2023 would have 
been £132.0m, resulting in a year-end leverage 
of 0.9x1 had the sale been completed in 2023.

Net debt, including the impact of property leases 
accounted for under IFRS 16 was £545.5m in 
2023 (2022: £482.4), reflecting the free cash 
outflow across the year. Our IFRS 16 lease 
liability has reduced to £363.4m from £397.5m, 
as we continue to optimise our property footprint.

We significantly extended our funding maturity 
profile in 2023 through the extension of the 
Group’s revolving credit facility to 2026 and 
issuance of £101.9m equivalent of US private 
placement notes with a mixture of three and 
five-year maturities.

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital 

element of lease payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

Outlook
Capita has a significant impact on the lives of 
citizens and we understand the importance of 
our impact on society. While we still have work 
to do to complete the turnaround of the Group, 
we have made progress over the last few years 
and are committed to improving our operations 
across the board in 2024 and beyond.

We will develop our offerings and drive 
operating efficiency by leveraging technology and 
through the cost reduction programmes being 
implemented in 2024. Through rigorous project 
management we will be focused on delivering 
complex client requirements on time and budget.

For 2024 as a whole, on an adjusted basis, we 
currently expect that revenue will be broadly in 
line with 2023, and that operating profit margin 
and free cash flow will show modest 
improvement year on year.

We expect the Public Service division to deliver 
revenue growth in 2024 reflecting the significant 
contracts won in 2023 moving into their 
operational phase later this year whereas 
we expect the Experience division to show 
a reduction in revenue reflecting the non-
recurrence of 2023’s closed book Life & 
Pensions commercial settlement coupled 
with ongoing revenue attrition in the rest  
of the Life & Pensions business.

Notwithstanding our revenue expectations, the 
cost reduction programmes being implemented 
in 2024 are expected to result in a modest 
improvement in adjusted operating profit margins 
and free cash flow, albeit in the latter case, the 
cash flow benefit in the year will be reduced as a 
result of the redundancy and other costs required 
to deliver the cost reduction programmes.

We will be setting out our vision, strategy and 
associated medium-term targets in detail at a 
Capital Markets Day in June 2024.

Adolfo Hernandez
Group Chief Executive Officer

12

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportOverview of our markets

Our markets

Capita operates in markets with 
attractive structural growth trends. 
Enterprises and governments will 
increasingly need more services 
to manage complex outcomes. 
Numerous enterprises have shifted 
their priorities and investment to 
areas where they believe they can 
be distinctive and many government 
departments are looking at how they 
can augment their delivery capability.

So whether we consider telecom 
companies, energy companies, 
financial institutions or government 
agencies, the demand for having 
a trusted partner to deliver these 
complex outcomes is only going to 
grow. That demand is also shifting 
from ‘human only’ to ‘human, 
augmented by technology’. This 
means there is a huge opportunity 
for the companies that can intercept 
those trends and are able to 
introduce digital transformation 
in the delivery of those outcomes.

Core addressable SITS market2

£15bn

European customer experience market3

$33bn

Market growth across both markets per annum

c.4%

Number one2 strategic 
supplier of Software 
and IT Services (SITS) 
and business process 
services (BPS) to the 
UK Government

One of Europe’s leading 
customer experience 
businesses – market 
leader in the UK3 and 
ranks fourth in Germany3 
and Europe3

2. TechMarketView

3. NelsonHall

We have been awarded a 
Silver EcoVadis medal for our 
sustainability performance, 
reaching the 92nd percentile 
in 2023; Gold medal is 
95th percentile

We were recognised for 
leadership in corporate 
transparency and performance 
on climate change by CDP, 
securing a place on its annual 
‘A List’. Only 346 companies 
scored an A out of 21,000 
disclosures

13

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportOperating review 

  Public Service overview 

Capita Public Service

Public Service is the number one2 strategic supplier of Software 
and IT Services (SITS) and business process services (BPS) to 
the UK Government .

Financial performance

Divisional financial summary

Adjusted revenue1 (£m)

Adjusted operating profit1 (£m)

Adjusted operating margin1 (%)

Adjusted EBITDA1 (£m)

Operating cash flow excluding business exits1 (£m)
Order book (£m)

Total contract value secured (£m)

2023

2022

Change %

1,458.6

1,454.8

89.3

6.1

93.7

6.4

133.3

131.9

107.1
3,546.0

102.3
2,985.0

1,923.8

1,222.5

0.3

(4.7)

1.1

4.7
18.8

57.4

2023 overview

Business units (new split from 2024)

Major contract wins and renewals

 – Local Public Service
 – Central Government
 – Defence, Fire, Security & Learning

Employees
 – 12,000

Client distribution

 – UK

Competitors
 – Atos
 – G4S
 – Sopra Steria
 – CGI
 – Tata Consultancy 

Services

 – Cognizant
 – Accenture
 – Serco
 – Maximus

 – £565m across two five-year contracts with 
the DWP to deliver Functional Assessment 
Service (FAS) across the Midlands and Wales

 – A two-year extension on the Recruiting 

Partnering Project working with the British 
Army worth £172m

 – Two of four lots to deliver the Disabled 

Students Allowance services with the student 
loans company which is expected to be worth 
£250m over five years

 – A new contract with the City of London 

Police on the action fraud contact centre for 
potential victims of fraud worth £50m over 
the initial five-year contract period

Adjusted revenue1

Adjusted revenue by type 

Revenue by market3 

£1,458.6m

(2022: £1,454.8m)

3

2

4

1

2

Adjusted operating profit1

£89.3m

(2022: £93.7m)

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
2. TechMarketView.
3. Revenue by market refers to the 2023 business split.

1

3

1. Long-term contractual
2. Short-term contractual
3. Transactional

83%
13%
4%

1. Health & Welfare
2. Justice, Central Government 

18%
23% 

& Transport

3. Local Public Services
4. Defence, Fire, Security & 

24%
35%

Learning

14

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportOperating review 

  Public Service continued

Markets and growth drivers
In 2024, the division changed its structure to 
focus on three market verticals: Local Public 
Service; Central Government; and Defence, Fire, 
Security & Learning with these market verticals 
delivering to their respective client groups.

Public Service operates within a highly 
fragmented market. Across the varied services 
that it delivers we operate against a number of 
other providers including, but not limited to: Atos, 
G4S, Sopra Steria, CGI, TCS, Serco, Accenture 
and Maximus.

Our current core addressable SITS market is 
c.£15bn2, growing at approximately 4%2 per 
annum. Digital BPS is a fast-growing area, 
while traditional business process outsourcing 
(BPO) is currently shrinking, reflecting the UK 
Government’s focus on digital enablement, as 
it looks to ensure the delivery of high-quality, 
cost-effective services to its citizens.

In 2022, the UK Government published the 
Roadmap for Digital and Data outlining its 
intention to spend up to an additional £8bn by 
2025 to accelerate digital, data and technology 
transformation so that it can better respond to 
future macroeconomic challenges.

Strategy and digital transformation
Public Service is seen as a trusted delivery 
partner by its clients, with a high-quality offering 
and deep sector process knowledge in our 
chosen market verticals.

The division is focused on working with trusted 
technology partners such as Microsoft and AWS 
to harness digital ways of working and accelerate 
the transformation of our services, leveraging AI 
alongside the skills and capabilities of our people. 
We develop solutions around client needs and are 
progressing a number of digital proof of concepts 
where we’ve aligned digital transformation to 
future growth opportunities.

We have continued to simplify our operating 
model, removing organisational layers to improve 
efficiency and effectiveness across the division. 
We launched a second client advisory board in 
the Central Government sector, in addition to 
the previously established Defence client advisory 
board, to improve our understanding of Government 
bid processes and delivery priorities to help us 
become an even more effective service provider.

We continue to invest in our coverage of 
Government frameworks, through which 
companies are able to bid for Government 
contracts. We are included on a wide range of 
frameworks representing market access of up 
to £9.5bn including frameworks with the Crown 
Commercial Service, the Department for Work 
and Pensions and the NHS.

Looking forward, there is a significant growth 
opportunity to be the partner of choice – to drive 
efficiency, where the UK Government requires 
more cost-effective and efficient delivery solutions 
as the Public Sector invests more widely in digital, 
data and technology transformation.

“ The division is focused 
on working with trusted 
technology partners such 
as Microsoft and AWS to 
harness digital ways 
of working”

Total contract value secured

£1,924m

(2022: £1,223m)

Book to bill

1.3x

(2022: 0.8x)

Average KPI performance

94%

(2022: 94%)

2. TechMarketView.

15

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportOperating review 

  Public Service continued

Operational excellence and 
cost efficiency
The division’s operational delivery across the year 
has been good, with an average in-month KPI 
performance of 94%. The division’s standalone 
cNPS decreased six points to an overall score 
of +27, which remains competitive.

Operational highlights across the year included:

•  Delivery of the remaining service 

commencement dates on the Royal Navy 
training contract. We have now delivered 
all milestones under the original contract and 
continue to expand our scope on this contract;

•  Completion of more than 200% of the targeted 
number of job starts across the contract period 
on the Job Entry Target Support contract 
in Scotland;

•  Supporting major events in London, including 
the King’s coronation, the London Marathon 
and London Pride, as part of our Transport 
for London contract; and

•  In our Electranet business, more than 1,000 

projects were delivered across 2023, including 
defence secure wi-fi infrastructure across 
130 military sites.

Our consistent delivery performance continues to 
drive expansions of existing scopes with clients 
such as with the Department for Work and 
Pensions, Transport for London and the 
Royal Navy.

Financial performance
Adjusted revenue1 at £1,458.6m was marginally 
up on 2022 reflecting price indexation across 
the contract portfolio, growth in the Royal Navy 
training contract and additional volumes on the 
Personal Independence Payments contract offset 
by contract losses and hand-backs in Local Public 
Services, with this vertical 14% down year on year.

Adjusted operating profit1 decreased by 4.7% to 
£89.3m reflecting contract losses in Local Public 
Service offset by the flow through of revenue 
growth across the wider contract portfolio as 
noted above.

Operating cash flow excluding business exits1 
increased by 4.7% to £107.1m reflecting the 
contract performance noted above and tight 
working capital management.

Outlook
Reflecting the strong TCV performance in 2023, 
we expect low to mid-single digit percentage 
revenue growth in 2024, as the division begins 
delivery of the FAS and DSA contracts. This growth 
is despite the continued revenue reductions in 
Local Public Service from previously announced 
contract losses.

We expect improvements in margin performance 
in 2024 and the medium term, as the division 
captures greater economic value from its 
business through economies of scale from 
revenue growth, curtailing low margin work 
and our ongoing efficiency programmes.

Growth performance and key wins
Public Service won contracts with a TCV of 
£1,924m in 2023 (2022: £1,223m), a year-on-
year increase of 57%. The TCV performance 
was in part driven by a small number of material 
contracts where award dates moved from 2022 
into 2023, following a number of changes within 
the UK Government in 2022. The book to bill 
ratio for the year was 1.3x.

At 31 December 2023, the total unweighted 
pipeline for the division was £7,525m, a decrease 
of £333m from 2022 reflecting the anomalously 
high balance at the end of 2022 resulting from 
the award slippages noted above. The year end 
weighted pipeline was £1,266m (2022: £1,652m).

The division saw an improved win rate on new 
and expanded scopes at 78% from 53% in 2022. 
New scopes of work include City of London 
Police and expansions include those with the 
Department for Work and Pensions to deliver 
Functional Assessment Service (FAS) and the 
Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) contract 
for the Department for Education.

The renewal rate for the division reduced to 41% 
in the year from 91%, principally reflecting the 
loss of the Electronic Monitoring and Standards 
and Testing Agency contracts as the division 
maintained its pricing discipline. Material 
renewals in the year included with the British Army 
on the Recruiting Partnering Project. Across all 
opportunities bid for, the win rate was 65% 
(2022: 66%).

The order book at 31 December 2023 was 
£3,546.0m, an increase of £561.0m since 
31 December 2022 reflecting the strong 
TCV performance in the year.

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.

“ We expect improvements 
in margin performance in 
2024 and the medium term, 
as the division captures 
greater economic value 
from its business through 
economies of scale”

16

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportOptimising technology

Capita expanded its longstanding collaboration with 
Microsoft to build upon existing digital and AI capabilities 
and further improve services for clients and colleagues.

The agreement is centred on creating better outcomes for 
clients and their customers by combining Microsoft’s cloud and AI 
services with Capita’s operational customer and delivery know-how. 
This includes the use of gen AI to support agents in summarising 
disparate customer information at a significantly faster pace.

The integration of automation and gen AI-driven processes will 
increase productivity and efficiency. Clients can expect faster 
service delivery turnaround times, improved accuracy, and a 
smoother end-to-end experience.

Capita’s expanded collaboration with Microsoft is already delivering 
value for its customers and will help to accelerate opportunities for 
growth through the creation of joint propositions for public sector 
and customer experience clients, particularly in financial services. 
These centre on providing simplified operations and experiences 
for Capita and its customers.

17

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Building strong client 
relationships

Capita signed two contracts to deliver functional assessment 
service (FAS) assessments in the Midlands and Wales for the 
Department for Work and Pensions, and in Northern Ireland 
for the Department for Communities.

The two contracts are worth a combined £565m and will run for five 
years from 2024, with an option to extend for a further two years.

FAS is a new service that will bring together existing assessment 
services, for disabled people and people with health conditions, 
under a single provider in each geographical region. This will make 
accessing support simpler and easier for some of society’s most 
vulnerable people.

Capita will deliver assessments for Personal Independence Payment 
(PIP), Employment and Support Allowance and Universal Credit, as 
well as a number of specialist benefits including Child Disability 
Living Allowance and Veterans UK assessments.

Capita has been delivering PIP assessments in the Midlands 
and Wales since 2013, and in Northern Ireland since 2016.

18

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Operating review 

  Experience overview

Capita Experience

Experience is one of Europe’s leading customer experience 
businesses. It is the market leader in the UK4 and ranks fourth 
in Germany 4 and Europe4

Financial performance

Divisional financial summary

Adjusted revenue1 (£m)

Adjusted operating profit1 (£m)

Adjusted operating margin1 (%)

Adjusted EBITDA1 (£m)

Operating cash flow excluding business exits1 (£m)

Order book (£m)

Total contract value secured (£m)

2023

2022

Change %

1,183.5

1,154.2

50.9

4.3

111.3

32.7

35.7

3.1

109.9

36.1

2,299.4

2,526.7

2.5

42.6

1.3

(9.4)

(9.0)

1,112.3

1,370.6

(18.8)

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
4. NelsonHall.

Major contract wins and renewals

 – A five-year renewal with Virgin Media O2, 

worth £366m, with services delivered across 
a number of Capita geographies

 – £239m over ten years on a new contract to 

administer the Civil Service Pension Scheme, 
one of the largest public sector pension 
schemes in the UK

 – A new contract with the National Transport 

Authority of Ireland worth £35m over 
ten years

2023 overview

Business units

 – Financial Services
 – Telecoms, Media & Technology
 – Energy & Utilities
 – Retail (including charities)

Employees
 – 27,000

Client distribution

 – UK
 – Ireland

Competitors
 – Atento
 – Teleperformance
 – Accenture
 – Concentrix & 
Webhelp
 – Foundever

 – Germany
 – Switzerland

 – TTEC
 – Tech Mahindra
 – Firstsource
 – Tata Consultancy 

Services
 – In-sourced

Adjusted revenue1

Adjusted revenue by type 

Revenue by market

£1,183.5m

(2022: £1,154.2m)

3

2

4

3

1

Adjusted operating profit1

£50.9m

(2022: £35.7m)

1

2

1. Long-term contractual
2. Short-term contractual
3. Transactional

74%
24%
2%

1. Telecoms, Media & 

Technology

2. Financial Services
3. Energy & Utilities
4. Retail (including charities)

39% 

41%
11%
9%

19

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportOperating review 

  Experience continued

Markets and growth trends
The division is structured around four market 
sectors: Financial Services; Telecoms, Media 
& Technology; Energy & Utilities; and Retail 
(including charities). We have strong industry 
expertise and presence, with clients in the UK, 
Ireland, Germany and Switzerland, and services 
delivered across these geographies and in India, 
South Africa, Poland and Bulgaria. We operate in 
markets where we have a strong track record 
and where we see potential for growth.

The European customer experience market is 
worth $33bn4 a year and the market is expected 
to grow at approximately 4% per annum. The 
outsourced element of the global customer 
experience market represents around 30%4 
of the overall market.

We are the largest provider of customer 
experience services in the UK and Ireland, with 
a market share of around 13%. Our competitors 
are mostly global and include entities such as 
Teleperformance, Concentrix & Webhelp, 
Tata Consulting Services and Foundever.

The customer experience market is trending to 
self-service with increasing levels of automation 
for less complex services. Increasingly clients are 
looking to use omnichannel offerings in a number 
of languages with agents working in onshore, 
nearshore and offshore locations.

Strategy and digital transformation
The Experience division is a customer experience 
business driven by data and technology powered 
by people, delivering services through a client 
centric environment. We operate as a leading 
regional player with global quality standards, and 
an ambition to become the partner of choice for 
companies in our chosen geographies.

The division’s core activity is the provision of 
cost-effective customer experience contact 
centres, delivering services including voice and 
non voice; end-to-end customer management; 
collections; and sales and retention. Our services 
are supported by a wide range of capabilities, 
including conversational AI and real time 
feedback and automation to ensure customers 
get the best outcomes, efficiently. 

4. NelsonHall.

We equip and empower our colleagues across all 
our geographies to deliver to the highest level of 
service for our clients and their customers.

Within the customer experience market, as 
technology plays a bigger role in delivery, we 
have seen an increase in volumes through our 
automated delivery methods such as chat bots. 
We are leveraging technology to enhance the 
effectiveness and efficiency of our customer 
facing colleagues, particularly for complex 
customer experience activities such as  
sales as a service.

We operate in a number of geographies which 
offer service delivery optionality to suit client 
needs. In 2023, we expanded our capability in 
South Africa, India and Poland, which together 
enable us to offer flexible 24/7 delivery to our 
clients, across their chosen delivery methods. 
We also expanded our Bulgarian operations, 
particularly in support of the Telecoms, Media 
& Technology vertical. In 2024, we will further 
expand our operations in Bulgaria and Poland, 
opening additional offices in both geographies, 
expanding our multilingual capabilities and 
offerings to clients.

We are exploring opportunities in other nearshore 
international locations to underpin our growth 
ambitions and expansion of our existing client base. 
This allows flexibility to use onshore, nearshore 
or offshore delivery models when it comes to 
delivering our clients’ service requirements.

“ We are leveraging 
technology to enhance 
the effectiveness and 
efficiency of our contact 
centre operatives, 
particularly for complex 
customer experience 
activities such as sales 
as a service”

Total contract value secured

£1,112m

(2022: £1,371m)

Book to bill

0.9x

(2022: 1.2x)

Average KPI performance

94%*

(2022: 93*%)

 * excluding pensions administration

20

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report“ In 2023, we focused on 
cost efficiency and right 
sizing of the business and 
are continuing to drive this 
efficiency programme as 
we progress into 2024”

Operating review 

  Experience continued

Growth performance and key wins
In 2023, the division won TCV of £1,112m, a 
decrease of £258m from 2022. The division’s 
book to bill ratio was 0.9x. Material wins in the 
year included contracts for the Civil Service 
Pension Scheme, National Transport Authority 
Ireland, and Santander, as well as a key renewal 
with Virgin Media O2.

At 31 December 2023, the division’s unweighted 
pipeline was £2,856m, a decrease of £1,226m 
from 2022. The weighted pipeline at 31 December 
2023 stood at £560m (2022: £1,114m) and, 
following the sales success achieved in 2023, we 
are devoting significant resources to growing our 
pipeline of opportunities, particularly for new and 
expanded scopes of work.

The renewal win rate reduced to 61% from 99% 
in the prior year principally reflecting the outcome 
of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme contract 
tender process where we continued to maintain 
our commercial discipline. Our win rate for the 
division across all opportunities was 57%, up 
from 51% in 2022.

At the start of 2024, the division secured an 
extension and expansion with an existing client in 
the European telecoms business worth £220m.

The order book at year end was £2,299m, a 
decrease of £227m since 31 December 2022, 
reflecting the fact that the Virgin Media O2 
contract is a framework agreement not meeting 
the accounting criteria for order book recognition.

Operational excellence and 
cost efficiency
Across the year, Experience has continued 
to deliver well operationally for clients with 
an average KPI delivery of 94%, excluding the 
pensions administration business. The average 
KPI delivery including the pensions administration 
business was 82%. The division’s cNPS decreased 
by 11 points to +10 with the reduction largely in 
the pensions administration business which was 
heavily impacted by the cyber incident. Excluding 
the pensions administration business, the division’s 
cNPS was +24, a three-point reduction from 
2022 with a strong performance in account 
management and subject matter expertise.

In 2023, we focused on cost efficiency and right 
sizing of the business and are continuing to drive 
this efficiency programme as we progress 
into 2024.

In the Telecoms, Media & Technology vertical, 
we saw success in the year selling the services 
of our customers through peak sales periods. 
For one client, Capita employees sold more 
during Black Friday trading promotions than 
the telecoms provider’s own employees. Within 
the Energy & Utilities vertical, we successfully 
delivered a significant step up in available hours 
around peak demand in Q4 to ensure efficient 
outcomes for clients and their customers.

Elsewhere, in the European Telecoms business we 
were selected as sole provider of one of our key 
client’s customer experience activities reflecting 
our consistently strong operational delivery.

As expected, we have seen volume attrition 
within our closed book Life & Pensions business 
in the Financial Services vertical. We maintain our 
strong operational delivery in respect of these 

closed book contracts, but are actively engaged 
in discussions to resolve the challenges in this 
area with a view to mitigating the ongoing cash 
cost from the business.

Financial performance
Adjusted revenue1 grew by 2.5% to £1,183.5m, 
benefiting from the one-off effect of a commercial 
settlement in our closed book Life & Pensions 
business. There were wins within the division’s 
international markets which offset contract losses 
and volume attrition in the Financial Services 
vertical, including the previously announced 
loss of our contract with the Co-operative Bank.

Adjusted operating profit1 rose to £50.9m 
(2022: £35.7m). The division benefited from 
the profit impact of the commercial settlement 
noted above and higher interest receipts in 
the pensions business, which more than offset 
contract losses and continued attrition in the 
remaining closed book Life & Pensions business.

Operating cash flow excluding business exits1 
decreased by 9.4% to £32.7m, reflecting the 
non-cash nature of the commercial settlement, 
partially offset by timing of payments on the 
Virgin Media O2 contract.

Outlook
We expect a low to mid-single digit percentage 
revenue reduction in 2024 reflecting the non-
repeat of the one-off revenue benefit in 2023 
and ongoing attrition in the closed book Life 
& Pensions business.

We expect operating margins in 2024 to be 
broadly flat year on year as cost efficiencies 
offset the non-recurrence of the profit benefit 
from 2023’s commercial settlement.

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.

21

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review

Delivering efficiency and improved funding

Overview
Adjusted revenue1 growth of 1.3% reflected 
underlying growth on contracts such as the 
Personal Independence Payments contract 
in Public Service, increases in indexation, and 
the one-off benefit relating to a commercial 
settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions 
business in Experience, partly offset by the 
impact of a number of contract losses.

Public Service revenue growth was underpinned 
by indexation, scope increases on the Royal Navy 
Training contract and increased volumes on the 
Personal Independence Payments contract, 
offset by contract hand-backs and losses 
in Local Public Services and a step down in 
revenues in Northern Ireland, which in 2022 
benefited from the teachers’ laptop contract. 
Experience revenue growth was driven by 
improved trading in its international business, 
indexation and the one-off benefit relating to a 
commercial settlement in the closed book Life 
& Pensions business, partly offset by contract 
losses including with the Co-operative Bank.

The 13.5% step-up in adjusted profit before 
tax1 reflected the revenue trends noted above, 
in particular the commercial settlement in 
Experience, and a reduction in bonuses and 
variable pay, offset by increased financing costs.

Adjusted basic earnings per share1 reduced to 
1.70p (2022: 2.64p) as the increase in adjusted 
profit before tax1 was offset by an increase 
in the adjusted current tax charge to £30.4m 
(2022: £6.4m). The adjusted current tax charge

“ The steps taken to 
improve the Group’s 
funding position and the 
efficiency programme 
launched at the start of 
2024 are key underpins 
for Capita’s future”

Tim Weller, Chief Financial Officer

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital 

element of lease payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

Summary of financial performance

Financial highlights

Reported results

Adjusted1 results

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

Reported 
YoY change

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

Adjusted1 
YoY change

Revenue

£2,814.6m £3,014.6m

(6.6)% £2,642.1m £2,609.0m

Operating (loss)/profit

EBITDA

£(52.0)m £(79.6)m

£144.5m £235.7m

(Loss)/profit before tax

£(106.6)m

£61.4m

Basic (loss)/earnings per share

(10.60p)

4.47p

35%

(39)%

n/a

n/a

£106.5m

£78.0m

£214.6m £204.4m

£56.5m

£49.8m

1.70p

2.64p

£81.2m £156.4m

(48)%

£97.4m £128.4m

1.3%

37%

5%

14%

(36)%

(24)%

Operating cash flow*
Cash generated from 
operations*

Free cash flow*,2

Net debt

£8.7m £117.8m

(93)%

£41.2m

£98.4m

(58)%

£(154.9)m £(31.5)m (392)% £(115.5)m £(42.4)m (172)%

£(545.5)m £(482.4)m £(63.1)m £(545.5)m £(482.4)m £(63.1)m

Net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) £(182.1)m £(84.9)m £(97.2)m £(182.1)m £(84.9)m £(97.2)m

 * Adjusted operating cash flow, cash generated from operations and free cash flow exclude the impact of business exits 

(refer to note 2.9) 

in 2023 reflects an £18.1m charge mainly in 
respect of losses not recognised for tax purposes 
which is shown in the income statement. There is 
an offsetting current tax credit arising on pension 
deficit contributions which is recognised in other 
comprehensive income rather than the income 
statement. While the adjusted earnings per share 
are impacted by a particularly high effective tax 
rate in 2023’s income statement, the underlying 
rate of cash tax for the Group is much lower 
and we anticipate cash tax payments in 2024 
of less than £10m.

The reported loss before tax of £106.6m 
(2022: profit £61.4m), reflects exceptional 
costs incurred in resolving the March 2023 cyber 
incident (£25.3m), costs incurred to deliver the 
significant cost reduction programme announced 
in November 2023 (£54.4m) and lower gains on 
the sale of businesses (2023: loss £2.4m; 2022: 
gain £166.9m). These negative year-on-year 
impacts were partially offset by the increase 
in adjusted profit before tax1 (£6.7m) and 
lower goodwill impairment (2023: £42.2m; 
2022: £169.0m).

22

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review continued

The reduction from reported basic earnings per 
share to a reported loss per share reflects the 
reduction in reported profit before tax noted 
above, compounded by the swing from a 
reported income tax credit to an income tax 
charge. The reported income tax charge in 2023 
reflects changes in the accounting estimate of 
recognised deferred tax assets, unrecognised 
current year tax losses and non-deductible 
goodwill impairment. The reported tax credit 
in the prior period reflected an increase in the 
recognised deferred tax asset.

Cash generated from operations excluding 
business exits1 decreased, as expected, from 
£98.4m to £41.2m, driven by the cash costs of 
the cyber incident and higher working capital 
outflows partly offset by reduced outflows in 
respect of provisions.

Free cash flow excluding business exits1,2 in the 
year ended 31 December 2023 was an outflow 
of £115.5m (2022: outflow £42.4m). This reflects 
the reduction in cash generated from operations 
and increased capital expenditure from 
technology investment across the Group.

The decrease in free cash flow1,2 reflects the 
above reduction in free cash flow excluding 
business exits1,2, a cash outflow from business 
exits, and an increase in pension deficit 
contributions triggered by disposals.

As part of our drive for simplification of the 
business, and strengthening the balance sheet, 
we have continued to dispose of non-core 
businesses. During 2023 we completed the 
disposal of the Resourcing, Security Watchdog, 
PageOne, Enforcement, Software, and Travel 
businesses, realising total proceeds net of 
disposal costs of £96.8m (including settlement 

of intercompany balances on completion) with 
net cash proceeds of £63.4m reflecting the cash 
held in the disposed entities on completion. On 
4 December 2023, we announced the disposal 
of the Group’s 75% shareholding in Fera Science 
Limited (Fera), realising gross proceeds of £62m. 
The Group received net cash proceeds of £51m 
reflecting the total proceeds less cash held in 
the entity when the disposal completed on 
17 January 2024, and disposal costs.

These disposals completed the Board-approved 
Portfolio c.£500m business disposal programme. 
The Group is using the proceeds from this 
disposal programme to repay debt, to make 
further deficit reduction contributions to the 
Group’s defined benefit pension scheme and 
to invest in driving growth in the remaining core 
businesses. In 2023, we repaid £112.5m of 
private placement loan notes and made pension 
deficit contributions of £46.3m (£30.0m regular 
contributions and £16.3m acceleration of agreed 
contributions triggered by disposals).

We have incurred costs associated with the 
cyber incident detailed in the Chief Executive 
Officer’s review. These costs comprise specialist 
professional fees, recovery and remediation 
costs and acceleration of investment to reinforce 
Capita’s cyber security environment. A charge of 
£25.3m has been recognised in the year ended 
31 December 2023 and has been excluded 
from adjusted profit. This excludes any potential 
insurance recovery as this had not yet met the 
criteria for recognition at the year end. The cash 
outflow in respect of the cyber incident in the 
year was £20.1m which is included within free 
cash flow and cash generated from operations 
excluding business exits1.

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital 

element of lease payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

We announced the implementation of a cost 
reduction programme in November 2023 which 
is expected to deliver annualised efficiencies 
of £60m from Q1 2024. Following the 
announcement, we commenced employee 
consultation programmes, and exited a number 
of leased properties. As a result, a charge of 
£54.4m has been recognised in the year ended 
31 December 2023. As noted in November 2023, 
we have continued to evaluate additional cost 
saving opportunities and have identified further 
efficiency actions which we intend to take and 
which are expected to deliver an additional 
£100m of annualised cost savings by mid 2025. 
We expect to reinvest a proportion of these 
further savings back into the business to enhance 
the Group’s technology, service delivery and 
pricing proposition.

The Group’s committed bank facilities provide 
liquidity for the cash fluctuations of the business 
cycle and an allowance for contingencies. In 
June 2023, the Group’s revolving credit facility 
(RCF) was extended to 31 December 2026 at 
£284m, reducing to £250m by 1 January 2025 
as a consequence of specified transactions. As 
such at 31 December 2023 the RCF commitment 
had been reduced to £260.7m (2022: £288.4m) 
and was subsequently reduced to £250.0m on 
23 January 2024 following receipt of proceeds 
from the Fera disposal. The RCF was not drawn 
upon at 31 December 2023 (2022: undrawn).

In July 2023 the Group issued £101.9m equivalent 
of US private placement loan notes across three 
tranches: £50m maturing 25 July 2026, USD45m 
maturing 25 July 2026 and USD23m maturing 
25 July 2028.

The RCF extension and private placement 
loan note issuance are a demonstration of debt 
providers’ confidence in Capita and have enabled 
us to extend significantly the average maturity of 
our debt funding.

“ The RCF extension 
and private placement 
loan note issuance are 
a demonstration of debt 
providers’ confidence in 
Capita and have enabled 
us to extend significantly 
the average maturity of 
our debt funding”

The Group reached agreement with the Trustees 
of the Group’s main pension scheme (the Scheme), 
in respect of the March 2023 triennial funding 
review. Given the healthy funding position of the 
Scheme, the 2023 agreement does not require 
any further deficit contributions from the Group 
other than those already committed as part of 
the 2020 triennial valuation. In accordance with 
the 2020 agreement, we have paid £30.0m 
of regular deficit contributions and £16.3m of 
contributions triggered by business disposals in 
2023 and will pay a further £21m of contributions 
in 2024, with no further deficit contributions in 
2025 and beyond.

Summary of financial performance

Adjusted results

Capita reports results on an adjusted basis 
to aid understanding of business performance. 
The Board has adopted a policy of disclosing 
separately those items that it considers are 
outside the underlying operating results for the 
particular period under review and against which 
the Group’s performance is assessed internally. 
In the directors’ judgement, these items need to 
be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, 

23

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review continued

size and/or incidence for users of the financial 
statements to obtain an understanding of the 
financial information and the underlying in-period 
performance of the business. In general, the Board 
believes that alternative performance measures 
(APMs) are useful for investors because they 
provide further clarity and transparency of the 
Group’s financial performance and are closely 
monitored by management to evaluate the 
Group’s operating performance to facilitate 
financial, strategic and operating decisions.

Following feedback from investors, the Board has 
revised its definition of free cash flow1 and free 
cash flow excluding business exits1 alternative 
performance measures. From 1 January 2023, 
both these metrics have been presented after 
deducting the capital element of lease payments 
and receipts, as this provides a more relevant 
and comparable measure of the cash generated 
by the Group’s operations and available to fund 
operations, capital expenditure, non-lease debt 
obligations, and potential dividends. Comparative 
amounts have been re-presented.

In accordance with the above policy, the 
trading results of business exits, along with 
the non-trading expenses (including the income 
statement charges in respect of major cost 
reduction programmes) and gain or loss on 
disposals, have been excluded from adjusted 
results. To enable a like-for-like comparison of 
adjusted results, the 2022 comparatives have 
been re-presented to exclude 2023 business 
exits. As at 31 December 2023, the following 
businesses met this threshold and were classified 
as business exits and therefore excluded from 
adjusted results in both 2023 and 2022: AMT 
Sybex, Secure Solutions and Services, the 

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.

Speciality Insurance business, Trustmarque, Real 
Estate and Infrastructure Consultancy, Optima 
Legal Services, Pay360, Capita Translation and 
Interpreting, Resourcing, Security Watchdog, 
PageOne, Software, Enforcement, Travel and Fera.

Reconciliations between adjusted and reported 
operating profit, profit before tax and free cash 
flow before business exits are provided on 
the following pages and in the notes to the 
financial statements.

Adjusted revenue

Adjusted revenue1 growth was 1.3% year-on-
year. The adjusted revenue1 was impacted by 
the following:

•  Public Service (0.3% growth): growth was 
underpinned by indexation, scope increases 
and improved trading on a number of contracts 
including the Royal Navy Training contract and 
the Personal Independence Payments contract. 
This was offset by contract hand-backs and 
losses in Local Public Services and non-
recurrence of the contract to provide laptops 
to teachers in Northern Ireland in 2022; and

•  Experience (2.5% growth): growth was driven 
by improved international trading, indexation, 
and the one-off benefit relating to a commercial 
settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions 
business, partly offset by contract losses, 
primarily the loss of the Co-operative 
Bank contract.

Order book

The Group’s consolidated order book 
was £5,882.6m at 31 December 2023 
(2022: £5,805.2m). Additions from contract wins, 
scope changes and indexation in 2023 totalled 
£2,417.5m. This includes in Experience new wins 
with the Civil Service Pension Scheme and the 
National Transport Authority of Ireland, as well 
as the renewal with Vattenfall. Public Service 

Adjusted revenue1 bridge by division

Year ended 31 December 2022
Net growth
Year ended 31 December 2023

Public Service 
£m
1,454.8
3.8
1,458.6

Experience 
£m
1,154.2
29.3
1,183.5

Total 
£m
2,609.0
33.1
2,642.1

Adjusted profit before tax1 bridge by division

Year ended 31 December 2022
Net growth/(reduction)
Year ended 31 December 2023

Public Service 
£m
93.7
(4.4)
89.3

Experience  

Capita plc  

£m
35.7
15.2
50.9

£m
(79.6)
(4.1)
(83.7)

Total  
£m
49.8
6.7
56.5

won new contracts including the Functional 
Assessment Service for the Department of Work 
and Pensions and a significant contract with the 
City of London Police, as well as an extension to 
the Recruiting Partnering Project with the British 
Army and expanded scope on the Transport for 
London contract.

These additions were offset by the reduction 
from revenue recognised in the year (£2,101.0m), 
contract terminations (£174.7m) and business 
disposals (£64.4m).

The Group’s order book does not include those 
contracts which are framework agreements such 
as the new Virgin Media O2 contract as these 
do not meet the accounting criteria for order 
book recognition.

Adjusted profit before tax

Adjusted profit before tax1 increased in 2023.  
The adjusted profit before tax1 was driven by 
the following:

•  Public Service: the beneficial impact of the 
scope increases and improved trading on 
a number of contracts discussed above, 
offset by the impact of contract exits in 
Local Public Service;

•  Experience: the flow through of the revenue 
benefits noted above, in particular the closed 
book Life & Pensions contract settlement, as 
well as higher interest receipts in our pension 
business partly offset by flow through of prior 
year contract losses in particular the Co-
operative Bank and continued attrition in 
the remaining Life & Pensions business; and

•  Capita plc: the impact of the reallocation of 
central costs previously allocated to Capita 
Portfolio to Capita plc in 2022, increased 
financing cost and the non-recurrence of 
gains on investments in 2022.

24

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review continued

Adjusted tax charge/(credit)

The adjusted income tax charge for the year 
was £31.1m (2022: £4.4m) including £30.4m 
of current tax (2022: £6.4m). There is a current 
tax credit arising on pension deficit contributions 
recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI) 
rather than the income statement. If the current 
tax that is flowing through OCI is taken into 
account, the total current charge is more closely 
aligned to the current tax payable in respect of 
the year.

Cash generated from operations and free 
cash flow

Adjusted operating cash conversion1 decreased 
to 45% (2022: 63%), driven by:

•  the reduction in working capital, which reflects 
the £28.0m benefit in 2022 of a step-up in the 
usage of the Group’s non-recourse facilities 
in 2022 whereas in 2023 there was a £9.3m 
reduction in usage, a reduction in the accrual 
for management bonuses and variable pay, 
and the non-cash nature of the commercial 
settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions 
business in Experience; and

•  the lower outflow related to provisions in 2023 
reflected in the movement in non-cash and 
other adjustments.

Cash generated from operations excluding 
business exits1 reflects the above and the direct 
cash flow impact of the cyber incident (£20.1m). 
The £30.0m of pension deficit contributions are in 
line with the deficit funding contribution schedule 
previously agreed with the scheme trustees as 
part of the 2020 triennial valuation.

Free cash flow before business exits1,2 for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 was an outflow 
of £115.5m (2022: outflow £42.4m). This reflects 

the reduction in cash generated from operations 
and increased capital expenditure on technology 
across the Group.

Reported results

Adjusted to reported profit

As noted above, to aid understanding of our 
underlying performance, adjusted operating profit1 
and adjusted profit before tax1 exclude a number 
of specific items, including the amortisation and 
impairment of acquired intangibles and goodwill, 
the impact of business exits, and, in 2023, 
the impacts of the cyber incident and cost 
reduction programme.

Impairment of goodwill

In preparing its half yearly condensed 
consolidated financial statements at 30 June 2023, 
and these consolidated financial statements at 
31 December 2023, the Group undertook 
detailed impairment reviews.

At 30 June 2023 a goodwill impairment of 
£42.2m was recognised. This comprised:

•  £35.3m: in respect of CGUs in the Group’s 

Portfolio division where the disposal processes 
of the businesses aligned to these CGUs 
were sufficiently advanced that the Board’s 
judgement was that for impairment testing 
purposes the value in use of these CGUs 
should be determined based on the future 
cash flows of the CGUs from continuing use, 
up to the estimated date of disposal, plus 
an estimate of the sale proceeds less cost 
of disposal. The impairments arose primarily 
due to the expectation of acquirers factoring in 
additional investment and costs required to run 
the businesses outside the Group, and general 
macroeconomic conditions; and

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital 

element of lease payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

Adjusted operating profit to free cash flow excluding business exits1,2

Adjusted operating profit1
Add: depreciation/amortisation and impairment of property, plant and 
equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible assets
Adjusted EBITDA1
Working capital
Non-cash and other adjustments
Operating cash flow excluding business exits1
Adjusted operating cash conversion1
Pension deficit contributions
Cyber incident
Cost reduction programme
Cash generated from operations excluding business exits1
Net capital expenditure
Interest/tax paid
Net capital lease payments
Free cash flow excluding business exits1,2

2023  
£m
106.5

108.1
214.6
(110.7)
(6.5)
97.4
45%
(30.0)
(20.1)
(6.1)
41.2
(58.9)
(45.1)
(52.7)
(115.5)

2022  
£m
78.0

126.4
204.4
(30.7)
(45.3)
128.4
63%
(30.0)
–
–
98.4
(38.0)
(47.5)
(55.3)
(42.4)

Adjusted1 to reported results bridge

Operating (loss)/profit

(Loss)/profit before tax

Adjusted1 
Amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles
Impairment of goodwill
Net finance costs/(income)
Business exits
Cyber incident
Cost reduction programme
Reported

2023  
£m
106.5

(0.2)
(42.2)
–
(36.4)
(25.3)
(54.4)
(52.0)

2022  
£m
78.0

(5.1)
(169.0)
–
16.5
–
–
(79.6)

2023  
£m
56.5

(0.2)
(42.2)
(2.2)
(38.8)
(25.3)
(54.4)
(106.6)

2022  
£m
49.8

(5.1)
(169.0)
3.4
182.3
–
–
61.4

25

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review continued

•  £6.9m: in respect of a business in the Business 

Cyber incident

Solutions group of CGUs in Portfolio. The 
impairment arose primarily due to a negotiated 
exit of an end customer, which has negatively 
impacted the forecast financial performance of 
the business.

At 31 December 2023, no further goodwill 
impairment was identified.

Refer to note 3.4 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further details.

Business exits

Business exits include the effects of businesses 
that have been disposed of or exited during the 
period and the results of businesses held for sale 
at the balance sheet date.

In accordance with our policy, the trading results 
of these businesses, along with the non-trading 
expenses and gains/(losses) recognised on 
business disposals, were classified as business 
exits and therefore excluded from adjusted 
results. To enable a like-for-like comparison 
of adjusted results, the 2022 comparatives 
have been re-presented to exclude the 2023 
business exits.

In addition to the disposals set out in the table to 
the right, the Group decided to exit a small 
business in Public Service in the second half of 
the year, and the trading result and non-trading 
expenses of this business have been excluded 
from adjusted results.

The Group has incurred exceptional costs 
associated with the cyber incident, reflecting the 
complexity of the forensic analysis of exfiltrated 
data. These costs comprise specialist professional 
fees, recovery and remediation costs and 
investment to reinforce Capita’s cyber security 
environment. A charge of £25.3m has been 
recognised in the year ended 31 December 
2023. This charge excludes any potential 
insurance recovery, as this had not yet met 
the criteria for recognition at the end of the year, 
and no provision has been made for any costs in 
respect of potential claims or regulatory penalties 
in respect of the incident as it is not possible, 
at this stage, to reliably estimate their value.

Further detail of the specific items charged in 
arriving at reported operating profit and profit 
before tax for 2023 is provided in note 2.4 to 
the consolidated financial statements.

Cost reduction programme

We announced the implementation of a major cost 
reduction programme in November 2023 which is 
expected to deliver annualised efficiencies of £60m 
from Q1 2024. Following this announcement, we 
commenced employee consultation programmes 
and exited a number of leased properties. 
The organisational changes primarily impacted 
indirect support function and overhead roles.

At 31 December 2023 business exits primarily comprised the following 
business disposals:
Business
Resourcing
Security Watchdog
Page One
Software
Enforcement
Travel
Fera

Disposal completed on
31 May 2023
31 May 2023
31 July 2023
31 July 2023
31 July 2023
14 November 2023
17 January 2024

A charge of £54.4m has been recognised in 
the year ended 31 December 2023, comprising 
£23.3m of redundancy and other costs, and 
impairments of right-of-use assets and property, 
plant and equipment, and provisions of 
unavoidable running costs in respect of the 
property exits totalling £31.1m. The cash outflow 
in 2023 in respect of the cost reduction 
programme was £6.1m which is included within 
free cash flow and cash generated from 
operations excluding business exits1. The Group 
continues to evaluate additional cost saving 
opportunities and expects to implement further 
cost reduction initiatives expected to deliver 
annualised efficiencies of £100m by the middle 
of 2025. These further cost reduction initiatives 
are expected to result in a step up in cost 
reduction programme cash costs in 2024 from 
£21m arising from the programme announced in 
November 2023 to an estimated £50m for the 
overall programme.

Net finance costs

Net finance costs increased by £20.5m to 
£52.2m (2022: £31.7m), primarily attributable 
to the higher interest rate environment and 
run-off of low-coupon debt.

Reported tax charge/(credit)

The reported income tax charge for the 
year of £74.0m (2022: credit £14.6m) reflects 
the changes in the accounting estimate of 
recognised deferred tax assets, unrecognised 
current year tax losses and non-deductible 
goodwill impairment. The prior period credit 
reflected an increase in the recognised 
deferred tax asset.

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.

26

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review continued

Free cash flow to free cash flow excluding 
business exits

Free cash flow1,2 was lower than free cash flow 
excluding business exits1,2 reflecting free cash 
outflows generated by business exits, and 
pension deficit contributions triggered by the 
disposal of Pay360 and Capita Translation 
and Interpreting in the second half of 2022 
and Resourcing in 2023.

Movements in net debt
Net debt at 31 December 2023 was £545.5m 
(2022: £482.4m). The increase in net debt over 
the year ended 31 December 2023 reflects the 
free cash outflow noted above offset by the 
continued reduction in our leased property 
estate. Net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) at 
31 December 2023 was £182.1m 
(2022: £84.9m).

Net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) increased by 
£97.2m to £182.1m at 31 December 2023, 
resulting in a net financial debt to adjusted 
EBITDA1 (both pre-IFRS 16) ratio of 1.2x. 
Over the medium term the Group is targeting 
a net financial debt to adjusted EBITDA1 (both 
pre-IFRS 16) ratio of ≤1.0x. If the sale of the 
Group’s investment in Fera had completed 
at 31 December 2023, the ratio would have 
been 0.9x1.

The Group was compliant with all debt covenants 
at 31 December 2023.

The Group’s committed bank facilities provide 
liquidity for the cash fluctuations of the business 
cycle and an allowance for contingencies. In June 
2023, the RCF was extended to 31 December 
2026 at £284m, reducing to £250m by 1 January 
2025 as a consequence of specified transactions. 
As such at 31 December 2023 the RCF 
commitment had been reduced to £260.7m 
(2022: £288.4m) and was subsequently reduced 
to £250m on 23 January 2024 following 
receipt of proceeds from the Fera disposal.

Free cash flow1,2 to free cash flow excluding business exits1

Free cash flow1,2
Business exits
Pension deficit contributions triggered by disposals
Free cash flow excluding business exits1,2

The RCF was not drawn upon at 31 December 
2023 (2022: undrawn).

Net debt

In addition, the Group has in place non-recourse 
trade receivable financing, utilisation of which 
has become economically more favourable than 
drawing under the RCF as prevailing interest 
rates have increased. As such, the Group has 
continued its use of the facility across the year 
with the value of invoices sold under the facility 
at 31 December 2023 of £35.2m (2022: £44.4m).

In July 2023 the Group issued £101.9m 
equivalent of US private placement loan notes 
across three tranches: £50m maturing 25 July 
2026, USD45m maturing 25 July 2026 and 
USD23m maturing 25 July 2028.

In 2023, the Group repaid £112.5m of private 
placement loan notes including £30.3m of 
Euro private placement loan notes which were 
originally due in 2027, following which the next 
debt maturity is January 2025.

Opening net debt
Cash movement in net debt
Non-cash movements
Closing net debt
Remove closing IFRS 16 impact
Net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16)
Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts
Financial debt net of swaps
Net financial debt/adjusted EBITDA1 (both pre-IFRS 16)
Net debt (post-IFRS 16)/adjusted EBITDA1

Available liquidity1

Revolving credit facility (RCF)
Less: drawing on committed facilities
Undrawn committed facilities
Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts
Less: restricted cash
Available liquidity1

Capital and financial risk management
Liquidity remains an area of focus for the Group. 
Financial instruments used to fund operations 
and to manage liquidity comprise US private 
placement loan notes, RCF and overdrafts.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had £67.6m 
(2022: £177.2m) of cash and cash equivalents 
net of overdrafts, and £262.5m (2022: £285.5m) 
of private placement loan notes and fixed-rate 
bearer notes.

1. Refer to APMs on pages 230 to 233.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital 

element of lease payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

2023  
£m
(154.9)
23.1
16.3
(115.5)

2023  
£m
(482.4)
(9.0)
(54.1)
(545.5)
363.4
(182.1)
67.6
(249.7)
1.2x
2.4x

2023  
£m
260.7
–
260.7
67.6
(46.0)
282.3

2022  
£m
(31.5)
(19.5)
8.6
(42.4)

2022  
£m
(879.8)
438.2
(40.8)
(482.4)
397.5
(84.9)
177.2
(262.1)
0.5x
2.0x

2022  
£m
288.4
–
288.4
177.2
(60.4)
405.2

27

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportChief Financial Officer’s review continued

Going concern
The Board closely monitors the Group’s 
funding position throughout the year, including 
compliance with covenants and available facilities 
to ensure it has sufficient headroom to fund 
operations. In addition, to support the going 
concern assumption, the Board conducts a 
robust assessment of the projections, considering 
also the committed facilities available to the Group.

The Group and Parent Company continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing these 
consolidated financial statements as set out in 
Section 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

Viability assessment
The Board’s assessment of viability over the 
Group’s three-year business planning time 
horizon is summarised in the viability statement 
on page 64.

Pensions
The Group reached agreement with the Trustees 
of the Group’s main pension scheme (the Scheme) 
in respect of the March 2023 triennial funding 
review. Given the healthy funding position of the 
Scheme, the 2023 agreement does not require 
any further deficit recovery contributions from 
the Group other than those already committed 
as part of the 2020 triennial valuation.

In accordance with the 2020 agreement, the 
Group paid £30.0m of regular deficit funding 
contributions in 2023 and will pay a further £21m 
of contributions in 2024, with no further deficit 
contributions in 2025 and beyond. In addition, 
the Group paid £16.3m of accelerated deficit 
reduction contributions triggered by the disposal 
of certain businesses in the second half of 2022 
and in 2023.

The valuation of the Scheme liabilities (and 
assumptions used) for funding purposes (the 
actuarial valuation) is specific to the circumstances 
of the Scheme. It differs from the valuation and 
assumptions used for accounting purposes, 
which are set out in IAS 19 and shown in these 
consolidated financial statements. The main 
difference is in assumption principles being 
used, which is a result of the different regulatory 
requirements of the valuations. Management 
estimates that at 31 December 2023 the net 
asset of the Scheme on a funding basis (ie the 
funding assumption principles adopted for the 
full actuarial valuation at 31 March 2023 updated 
for market conditions at 31 December 2023) was 
approximately £81.0m (2022: net asset £40.0m) 
on a technical provisions basis. The Trustee of 
the Scheme has also agreed a secondary more 
prudent funding target to enable it to reduce the 
reliance the Scheme has on the covenant of the 
Group. On this basis, at 31 December 2023, the 
funding level was around 99% (or a net liability of 
£6m). The deficit of £6m is expected to be met 
by the remaining deficit contributions.

The net defined benefit pension position of all 
reported defined benefit schemes for accounting 
purposes decreased from a surplus of £39.6m 
at 31 December 2022 to a surplus of £26.8m at 
31 December 2023. The main reasons for this 
movement are the reduction in the discount rate 
applied to the schemes’ liabilities following the 
fall in corporate bond yields in the final quarter 
of 2023 and assets returning less than expected 
over the period, partially offset by the above 
deficit funding contributions.

Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December 2023 the Group’s consolidated  
net assets were £114.9m (2022: net assets 
£352.7m).

The movement is predominantly driven by the 
reported loss before tax for the year as explained 
above, the actuarial loss on all reported defined 
benefit pension schemes and the reduction in 
the amount of deferred tax assets recognised.

Parent company balance sheet
The company’s market capitalisation continues 
to be significantly less than the net assets of the 
parent company at 31 December 2023 and the 
directors gave consideration as to why this might 
be the case and whether assets on the parent 
company balance sheet might be impaired. The 
factors considered included: the differing basis of 
valuations (including that third parties value the 
services sector on income statement multiples 
versus long-term view using a discounted cash 
flow for the basis of impairment testing under 
accounting standards), sum-of-the parts view 
and the multiples achieved on recent disposals, 
general market assumptions of the sector which 
can ignore the liquidity profile and specific risks 
of an entity, and other specific items impacting 
the market’s view of the Group at the moment.

Management’s estimate of the fair value less 
costs to sell of the Group used in the testing 
of goodwill and intangibles for impairment at 
31 December 2023 gave a value for the Group that 
exceeded the market capitalisation at that date, 
and supported the parent company net assets.

An impairment test was performed at 
31 December 2023 in respect of the parent 
company’s investments in subsidiaries and 
amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings.  
A net impairment reversal of £1.7m was identified 
in respect of the parent company’s investments 
in subsidiaries, and a net impairment of £0.4m 
was recognised in respect of amounts owed 
by subsidiaries.

“ The Group reached 
agreement with the 
Trustees of the Group’s 
main pension scheme in 
respect of the March 2023 
triennial funding review… 
with no further deficit 
contributions in 2025 and 
beyond”

28

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Highlights

Prioritising what matters

Being a responsible organisation is a priority for Capita

2023 performance highlights

The commitment to being a responsible 
organisation continues to be a priority for Capita. 
This means a constant, Group-wide focus on how 
we operate for all our stakeholders – employees, 
shareholders, clients, end-users and communities.

Our ESG (environmental, social and governance) 
Committee, continued their work in 2023, focusing 
on responsible business challenges, and providing 
additional strategic oversight, accountability 
and guidance.

Our approach to being a responsible business has 
ensured that we remained focused on supporting 
the United Nations’ Sustainable Development 
Goals (UNSDGs) as well as addressing the issues 
where we can have the biggest impact – through 
our own operations, and the products and 
services we provide to our clients.

In 2023, our activities continued to be focused 
on: building a more inclusive organisation and 
supporting our colleagues’ wellbeing; tackling 
economic inequality; reducing our environmental 
impact; and operating responsibly.

Among the significant range of activities 
delivered, we are most proud of:

•  our science-based climate targets, including 
the collaborative work we have undertaken 
with our suppliers;

•  the substantial progress towards our diversity 
goals including a decrease in our pay gap of 
more than 5% compared with 2022, and being 

ranked 18 out of 400 on the Forbes global list 
of top employers for women;

•  our flexible working commitment;

•  our continuous focus on wellbeing, health 

and the safety of our colleagues; and

•  supporting our communities with our 

volunteering, payroll giving, apprenticeship 
levy, gifting and fundraising programmes.

We also need to respond to a rapidly changing 
external environment and difficult economic 
situation, which affect the way we operate.

At the end of 2023, we took the difficult decision 
to withdraw from the UK’s real living wage. Since 
2020, the Group has increased the salaries of 
our lowest earners by 22% and the 2024 real 
living wage increase of 10.1% was not 
something we could commit to given the need 
for Capita to remain cost competitive, and 
reflecting the fact that this is not a cost we are 
able to pass on to clients.

We are, therefore, refreshing our responsible 
business principles to ensure they prioritise the 
areas of greatest concern for our organisation, 
which includes the right governance, reporting 
and risk management framework.

We will publish our updated principles and 
responsible business progress report on our 
website later in 2024.

 * see page 37 for further information on SafetyNet
**  see page 36 for further information on gender and ethnicity representation

Wellbeing index (2022: 71%)

Of our senior leaders are women** (2022: 26%)

72%

40%

Inclusion index (2022: 74%)

Women on the Board** (2022: 56%)

77%

56%

Colleagues who feel they can be  
themselves at work (2022: 83%)

Ethnic minority representation on the Board** 
(2022: 22%)

84%

22%

Colleagues supported through the SafetyNet* 
process (2022: 219)

246

Volunteering hours logged (2022: 7,800)

21,000

Colleagues feel safe at work (2022: 90%)

Achieved

90%

‘A’

CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) score in 2023,  
up from D in 2019

Capita plc awarded

Cabinet Office compliance in the modern 
slavery assessment tool

EcoVadis Silver award

96%

Payroll giving (2022: £180,000)

£141,000

Reported breaches of human rights or 
modern slavery legislation (2022: zero)

Zero

29

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business

Responsible business at a glance

We are committed to being a responsible business – in how we operate, serve society, respect 
our people and the environment, and deliver improving returns to our investors.

Our people – see pages 32 to 37 for more information. Also read our gender and 
ethnicity pay gap reporting online.

The environment – see pages 40 to 42 and the TCFD section for more information. 
Also read our achieving net zero report online.

We want to make Capita a place that people want to join and where they want to stay – 
a workplace that delivers on our four employee value proposition themes: be yourself; make 
an impact; expand your horizons; and shape our future. We recognise the contributions of all 
colleagues, supporting and paying them fairly for the work they do.

Our three-phased approach aims to reach operational net zero by 2030; operational and 
business travel net zero by 2035; and full net zero by 2045. 

Key metrics 
eNPS (points) 
Voluntary turnover (%) 
Employee engagement index (%) 
People survey response rate (%) 

Key metrics 
Change in carbon footprint (tCO2e)1 
1. Units have been corrected to tCO2e from prior reporting in million gross tonnes.

2023 
+1,169

2022
(4,322)

2023 
-4
24
67
69

2022
-9 
30 
65 
72 

Our customers and clients – see pages 43 and 44 for more information.  
Also read our supplier charter and human rights policy online.

Our reputation depends on delighting our customers and clients. We are committed 
to working with our supply-chain to ensure that together we can achieve wider social, 
economic and environmental benefits.

Our investors – see page 47 for more information.

Input and feedback from our investors form important elements of our decision making and 
strategic planning.  

Key metrics 
cNPS (points) 
Supplier payment within 60 days (%) 

2023 
+16
99

2022
+35 
99 

Key metrics 
TSR (%) 
Number of institutional contacts met in the year

2023 
(9.3)
86 

2022
(33.5)
98

30

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
 
Responsible business 

  UNSDGs

United Nations Sustainability Development Goals

Goal 3:
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at 
all ages 

Goal 5:
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls

Goal 10:
Reduce inequality within and among countries

Goal 8:
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work 
for all

Goal 13:
Take urgent action to combat climate change and 
its impact

Delivering against the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

We prioritise the wellbeing, safety, and health of 
our workforce 

We are committed to retaining female and 
ethnically diverse talent as well as increasing 
the proportion of diverse hires at all levels of 
our business

We operate as a responsible, ethical business 
and continuously strive to create a great in-work 
experience for all our people

We are tackling climate change, reducing our 
environmental impact, and working with our 
clients and suppliers to help them do the same

How we support realisation of these goals

1. We promote wellbeing, health and safety throughout 

1. We promote inclusion, diversity and equity throughout 

our policies and standards

our policies and standards

2. We keep our employees safe and healthy at work

2. We are committed to our recruitment, retention and 

3. We have comprehensive safeguarding standards 

and procedures

progression action plan, which includes:

a. Licence to hire – inclusive recruitment training

4. We continuously work to understand, support and 

b. Internal first policy – vacancies advertised internally 

improve the wellbeing of our global workforce

initially to focus on internal growth

5. We offer occupational health to all employees as 
required, and provide targeted health support for 
employees in high-risk business areas

6. We offer an employee assistance programme or 

similar for all our employees globally

7. We are committed to virtual first and flexible work 

wherever possible

c. Members of the Moving Ahead programme

d. Mutual mentoring programmes for female and Black, 

minority ethnic colleagues

e. RISE (reduce inequality and strive for equality) 

development programmes

3. We aim to increase gender balance in leadership, senior 

level roles and across our organisation

4. We provide access to an independent Speak Up process 

to raise a concern

5. We work closely with our gender and EmbRACE 

employee network groups to evolve and adapt our 
policies, procedures and standards to be as inclusive 
as possible

1. We have a clear code of conduct on which every 
employee is trained, and has the opportunity to 
independently and anonymously raise any breaches 
or concerns

2. We are a good citizen, paying taxes in line with fair tax 
mark as well as paying our suppliers on time, adhering 
to the prompt payment code

1. We promote climate change mitigation and 

environmental matters throughout our policies 
and standards

2. We engage with our suppliers through CDP supply 

chain membership, and ask them to disclose to CDP 
and set science-based targets

3. We work with our clients to drive decarbonisation and 

3. We operate with fiscal responsibility, maintaining 

help them to achieve their net zero goals

appropriate debt levels

4. We are proactive in the prevention of bribery, corruption, 

fraud tax evasion and anticompetitive practice

5. We perform consistently against recognised ESG 

metrics, verified by accreditations such as EcoVadis, 
the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and Sustainalytics

6. We listen to employees’ views, and act on their 
feedback, aiming to create a consistently great 
employee experience for everyone

7. We work with our employee network groups to evolve 
and adapt our policies, procedures and standards to 
be as inclusive as possible

8. We operate on an internal-first talent model, aiming 
to grow our own people, build skills and create 
great careers

4. We have continued the consolidation of our property 

portfolio, asking landlords to increase the percentage of 
renewable energy used and implementation of energy 
efficiency initiatives and solutions

5. We are accelerating the move to hybrid and electric 

vehicles with supporting infrastructure

6. We are committed to virtual first and flexible working 

wherever possible

7. We have introduced incentives, linked to net zero for 

our executives and management

8. As part of our business review process, we report 
quarterly on carbon emissions against target at 
divisional level

For more information about our workforce practices on 
wellbeing, safety and health, see page 37

For more information about our commitment to people, see 
pages 32 to 37 and our gender and ethnicity pay gap report 

For more information about our commitment to growth 
and people, see pages 32 to 37 and 43 and 44

For more information about our work to fight climate 
change, see pages 40 to 42

31

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
Responsible business 

  Our people

Creating a compelling people experience

Workforce

43,000

people employed in 11 countries

2023 saw a continued commitment to creating 
a workplace that delivers on our four-employee 
value proposition (EVP) themes: be yourself; 
make an impact; expand your horizons; and 
shape our future. These themes were augmented 
by our #bebrilliantbeyou campaign which was 
received well externally and internally.

We were therefore particularly pleased to see 
continuing improvements in our employee net 
promoter score (eNPS), our engagement index, 
and our wellbeing and inclusion indices. These, 
combined with a reduction in our voluntary 
attrition levels and recruitment of the resources 
we need to meet the needs of our customers, 
evidences an improving colleague experience. 
We continued with our commitment to internal 
mobility with more roles than ever being filled 
by talented internal colleagues through people 
processes that are now simpler and 
applied globally.

Other headline activities included the rollout 
of our career path framework, supported by 
a fair and consistent global reward framework. 
We remain committed to providing equitable 
opportunities through diversity and inclusion, 
evidenced by our strong representation statistics 
throughout Capita and the improvement in our 
gender pay gap. More colleagues than ever 

engaged with our digital training modules 
and 2023 saw the launch of both our global 
all colleague induction programme and a line 
manager induction offering. Our virtual first, 
hybrid working model remains an important 
pillar in providing flexible working solutions for 
our colleagues and continues to receive a 
positive response from colleagues.

2024 will see us continuing to focus on engaging 
and inspiring all our colleagues globally. Providing 
clarity on career opportunities, developing skills 
and investing in the leadership skills of our 
managers and leaders are key deliverables 
to meet the expectations of everybody who 
works at Capita.

As part of our future strategy, we will also reset 
our culture. Our culture is a critical enabler to 
ensuring our people can deliver on our objectives. 
We have identified key themes which include: 
accountability and ownership; moving at pace; 
a One Capita mindset; honesty; empathy and 
compassion; and a cost-conscious mindset. 
These themes will evolve over the coming 
months but the sentiment will remain. We will 
launch a new set of values and behaviours in 
the coming months to support the culture reset.

Building an engaged workforce
We appreciate the importance of a highly engaged 
workforce and we continue to implement measures 
and interventions to ensure we achieve this. 
In 2023 we continued with our pulse survey, 
on top of our annual employee survey, to better 
understand how our employees were feeling, 
and ensure we were listening to, and acting 
on their feedback.

We were pleased to see that in our annual people 
survey, completed in October by more than 
30,000 employees globally, 73% of respondents 
said their manager had both shared and acted 
on survey results. We will work to continue 
increasing this score in 2024.

In overall engagement, we saw positive 
movement in 2023: our eNPS increased by five 
points, while our employee engagement index 
increased by 2%, wellbeing index by 1% and 
inclusion index by 3%. In addition, 2023 was 
the fifth year in which employees were able to 
rate their line manager’s performance against 
our manager commitments. These commitments 
set out the additional behaviours we expect from 
all our leaders and managers and affirm our 
commitment to be a values-driven organisation. 
In 2023, across all 10 commitments, more than 
92% of respondents agreed that their manager 
demonstrated our values and behaviours, 92% 
of colleagues confirmed that they have open and 
honest communication with their line managers 
and 90% agreed that their manager helps 
everyone to succeed to their full potential. 
The feedback is fed into annual development 
discussions and can inform managers’ objectives.

“ I am proud of our 
continued progress 
in creating a consistent, 
rewarding and engaging 
experience for every 
colleague globally at 
Capita. 2023 saw us 
continue to deliver on 
our people goals with 
notable successes in 
attracting and retaining 
talented colleagues”

Scott Hill
Chief People Officer

32

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Our people continued

Our commitment to flexible, 
remote working
In a market where many companies are now 
expecting all employees to return to the office 
post-Covid, we took a clear stance at Capita to 
offer flexible and remote work, wherever client 
and business needs allow, as part of a virtual-first 
working approach.

We believe offering this flexibility will help us to 
attract and retain high-quality and increasingly 
diverse talent. For the second time, we asked 
about working arrangements in our annual 
people survey, and the data showed us that 
those who work in a hybrid model, or from home, 
are on average 5% more engaged than those 
who work solely from an office or the field. 81% 
of these individuals also say it is a key motivator 
for them to remain working at Capita, an increase 
of 2% compared with last year.

However, we acknowledge that fully remote 
working does not suit everyone, and we encourage 
colleagues to work from a local office when 
needed, or to get together for team events. 
We will continue to evaluate the impact of 
this approach in 2024.

Performance and development
During 2023, we continued the development 
of our career path framework (CPF). This is 
a Capita-wide tool designed to enable our 
colleagues to plan and develop their careers. 
It provides a map of the whole organisation, 
enabling colleagues to view the role they  
are in, behavioural, leadership and technical 
competencies for roles across the organisation 
and identify what they need to do to progress 
and move to another position in the organisation. 
This framework forms the foundation of many of 
our development and people processes.

We continue with our annual appraisal process 
which includes a discussion based on the 
colleague’s achievement against their objectives, 
values, strengths, areas for development, 
feedback, future targets as well as learning 
needs, and plan for career progression. Reviews 
are multidimensional with a focus on both the 
‘what’ in terms of performance against objectives 
and the ‘how’ performance against our Capita 
Values. Employees are encouraged to seek 360 
degree feedback and focus on their development 
areas. For 2023 end of year appraisals, 98% 
(2022: 91%) of our employees had a performance 
review documented in our HR system.

Training
We continue to see positive engagement with 
our diverse training opportunities. Our focus 
is to ensure our colleagues are trained and well 
equipped to perform their roles and deliver on 
our client commitments. We also continue to 
provide broader training resources to enhance 
learning and support career development. Our 
focus has been on a global delivery approach to 
ensure consistency and building a suite of flexible 
resources delivered through multiple channels.

We introduced a new suite of resources to 
enhance leadership capability including a focus 
on leading oneself, leading others and leading 
the organisation. Included in this is a coaching 
framework to enable consistency and encourage 
more meaningful career conversations. We 
continue to be agile and adapt learning resources 
to meet the needs of the business. In 2023, we 
introduced a new global induction programme, 
which supports colleague retention through 
demonstrating why people are proud to work 
for Capita.

We developed new resources within our Academy 
to support colleagues’ skills development in areas 
such as sales and data, both of which bring in 
external expertise to share industry best practice 
and help to ensure specialist knowledge is shared 
across our specialisms.

We are proud to have successfully continued 
our RISE (reduce inequality strive for equality) 
and RISE for women programmes which are 
specifically designed for Black, Asian and 
minority ethnic and female colleagues to help 
them transform their careers in Capita. We saw 
high levels of engagement in these programmes 
and many of those who have undertaken 
the learning have expanded their role, been 
promoted, or are now leading a project to 
drive our inclusion, diversity and equity agenda.

We launched mandatory safeguarding policy 
training, to raise awareness of the issues around 
safeguarding adults and children and most 
importantly how to escalate cases to get the 
right help. This training is aligned to our Speak Up 
and SafetyNet policies and is supported by our 
employee relations hub, helping all colleagues 
navigate difficult circumstances.

We are proud of our learning hub shared services 
model, which has enabled us to streamline our 
processes and aims to ensure we are utilising 
training resources effectively. This has also 
promoted our shift to a self-service for learning 
model, providing a wider choice of options for 
colleagues, moving away from a more traditional 
learning structure.

We will continue to focus on colleague 
needs, aligning learning solutions to our CPF, 
helping our colleagues make career choices, 
understanding how to upskill and prepare

“ I highly recommend 
the RISE programme to 
anyone who is looking for 
a personal and professional 
transformation. Working 
through the modules 
I have discovered the value 
of my own experiences 
and being able to share 
those among women who 
can relate on all different 
levels has been invaluable 
to my learning. Being 
vulnerable is one of the 
hardest skills to master yet 
this programme provides 
you with a platform, to 
not only be vulnerable and 
open, but to feel accepted 
and heard. As a result of 
this programme, I have 
developed a clear vision 
for my career and a plan 
to achieve it”

Katie Wheeler
Talent Acquisition Partner,  
Process & Continuous Improvement 
Lead, Public Services 

33

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Our people continued

themselves for future roles. We will continue to 
enhance the Capita management and leadership 
academy to help to ensure our managers 
continue to be the best version of themselves 
and can help lead our organisation to success.

As an extension of our apprenticeship offering, 
and in alignment with our social value and 
responsible business activity, we are proud to have 
been recognised in 2023 for gifting our apprentice 
levy to charities in partnership with Corndel.

Globally, we will continue to be curious about how 
technology can lend itself to help us provide a better 
suite of resources and help us to retain talent.

We will continue to focus on simplification, 
organising our resources and providing easy 
access for all colleagues so they can self-serve 
and self-develop. We will continue to build our 
learning suite and provide clear alignment to our 
career pathway framework, supporting attraction, 
diversity and inclusion, competency development, 
and retention of our talent globally.

Professional development
At the end of 2023, we had 58 different 
professional development programmes available 
across England funded by our apprenticeship 
levy. We had more than 549 learners on the 
apprenticeship programmes and 212 learners who 
had successfully completed their professional 
development programme during the year. At the 
same time, the development of our managers 
remains a significant priority, as we continue 
to grow our Accelerate, Advance and Ascent 
programmes to upskill our line managers aligned 
to our Management and Leadership Academy. 
At the end of 2023, we had 186 managers on 
one of these development pathways.

During the year, we designed and launched a 
data apprenticeship pathway which aims to help 
colleagues develop their professional data skills 
at varying levels. The Discover, Empower, Enable 
and Innovate programmes are designed to 
expand colleagues’ skills in their current roles 
and widen the pool of future opportunities.

Supporting future leaders
In 2023, we enhanced our processes designed 
to facilitate internal mobility through our approach 
to talent and succession. Succession planning is 
an integral process helping us to identify potential 
in individuals and develop future talent to support 
organisational effectiveness and success. We 
conducted a comprehensive succession process 
for our Executive Team and top 100 leadership 
roles, assessing the potential of 385 colleagues 
and challenging ourselves on the diversity and 
inclusion of our talent pipelines. 44% of this 
population who were identified as high potential 
and suitable for succession are female.

To improve diversity at senior levels, we also 
continue to support high-potential women 
and individuals from underrepresented groups 
through cross-company mentoring opportunities. 
In 2023, a further 80 colleagues were enrolled in 
these programmes. We were delighted to win the 
Moving Ahead Most Dynamic Mentoring 
Organisation of the Year Award.

Talent acquisition and turnover
Despite a highly competitive global talent market, 
in 2023 Capita continued to attract large volumes 
of applicants, with more than 17,000 new starters 
in the year, and continued the onshore, nearshore 
and offshore hiring strategy to leverage the global 
talent marketplace.

Given the challenging external economic 
backdrop, our focus in 2023 continued on 
employee retention initiatives, ensuring the 
best talent was nurtured and developed, and 
on mitigating voluntary turnover, which was 
24% in 2023 down from 30% in 2022.

Our strengthened Capita-first policy saw more 
than 2,000 roles filled internally, just over 8% 
of total recruitment. We not only rolled out an 
internal mobility mandate, ensuring complete 
transparency to Capita employees on all 
opportunities but also achieved a reduction 
overall in our time to offer from 64 days in 
2022 to 58 days in 2023. We ensured a focus 
on aged vacancies, a greater level of reporting, 
governance and streamlining our interview and 
assessment process to achieve this improvement.

Over the course of 2023, the talent acquisition 
resourcing function continued to enhance our 
operating model, heightening our candidate 
centric approach, driving value, quality and 
efficiency. We also continued to build on the 
refresh of our employer brand, developing new 
campaign material and capitalising on our EVP 
to attract and retain talent.

In 2024 we will continue to build on our internal 
mobility strategy, and further focus on retention 
activities in support of future growth.

HR operations
Our people hub, which provides direct HR 
support to all employees, continued to deliver 
excellent results, with 99% of calls being 
answered within eight seconds. Our internal 
chatbot, Herbot, continued to manage high 
volume multi-functional transactional queries 
from employees, on demand. Across our people 
hub channels, we successfully managed more 
than 500,000 enquiries, incidents and data 
transactions throughout the year.

We continued to see positive levels of 
engagement with our learning resources 
over the past year, for example:

c.810,000

digital learning modules completed – 
an increase of more than 240,000 on 2022

c.202,000

mandatory training modules completed – 
compared with c.356,000 in 2022

c.25,000

managers passport digital modules completed 
– an increase of almost 15,000 on 2022

c.13,700

colleagues attended live development 
workshops delivered by the Capita Academy

c.50,000

resources have been accessed as part of 
Capita’s e-library, including e-books, audio 
learning and virtual classrooms

c.11

hours of learning completed on average by 
each employee, excluding technical training 
delivered locally 

34

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Our people continued

Reward
Our fair pay agenda continues to underpin all our 
remuneration decisions. We continued to develop 
our career path framework which now covers 
more than 80% of our colleagues globally. This 
includes market informed job pay ranges and pay 
progression guidelines that help our managers 
make effective decisions. We help our managers 
to review salaries globally each year following 
these consistent principles and guidelines.

We launched tools to help govern pay decisions 
and check for unconscious bias, ensuring that 
we are recognising the contributions of all our 
colleagues, supporting and paying all colleagues 
fairly for the work they do.

Our colleagues can also choose from a range 
of additional benefits such as private medical 
insurance, cycle to work schemes and will writing 
as well as having access to savings and discounts 
from major brands through our Extras platform, 
which this year included the option of purchasing 
electric/hybrid cars through salary sacrifice.

At the end of the 2023, we took the difficult 
decision to withdraw from the UK’s real living 
wage. Since 2020, the Group has increased the 
salaries of our lowest earners by 22% and the 
2024 real living wage increase of 10.1% was 
not something we could commit to given the 
need for Capita to remain cost competitive.

We publish our gender and ethnicity pay gap 
report annually on our website.

Building a more inclusive organisation
At Capita, we are committed to creating an 
environment where diversity is valued, respected 
and included in everything we do, and where we 
benefit from all colleagues sharing their different 
perspectives and bringing their whole selves to 
work. In this way, each person can do their part 
to create better outcomes. We are committed to 

this goal not just because it helps us deliver 
better for our clients and end-users, but 
because we believe it’s the right thing to do.

During 2023, we continued to build on our 
previous work to create a more inclusive 
workplace for all our people. Achievements and 
external recognition during the year included:

•  Being ranked 18 out of 400 on the Forbes 
Global list of top employers for women, an 
assessment that cannot be nominated for, but 
is determined following anonymous interviews 
with thousands of employees across the globe.

•  Showing a 5% reduction in our gender pay gap 
compared with 2022, the largest improvement 
since we started reporting.

•  Winning Most Dynamic Mentoring Organisation 

award for our Moving Ahead mentoring 
programmes which work to equip our diverse 
talent with the right tools to develop their 
careers. So far 82% of participants have been 
promoted, changed roles, or their current role 
has expanded while on the programme.

•  Continuing to support our eight global 

employee network groups which had more 
than 12,000 network members at the end 
of the year.

•  Continuing with our mutual mentoring 

programmes for female, and Black and 
minority ethnic colleagues to raise awareness, 
forge relationships, create better allies and 
shape an inclusive culture.

•  Running regular, virtual ‘get involved’ sessions 

to build awareness and understanding of 
our similarities and differences as well as 
responsible business in general. Topics 
covered included: inclusive communications; 
disability and accessibility; and neurodiversity. 
This was in addition to our ongoing celebration 
of awareness events such as: Pride; International 
Women’s Day; International Men’s Day; Racial 

Equality Week; Black History Month; Mental 
Health Awareness week; International Day 
of People with Disabilities; and more general 
responsible business events such as Charity 
and Community Day, Earth Day and Anti 
Slavery Day.

We also celebrated our Black colleagues with our 
third annual Black employees awards held during 
Black History Month. This year was a global 
event sponsored by our CEO.

During the year, we undertook the Employers 
Network for Equality and Inclusion’s industry-
recognised TIDE benchmarking and were granted 
a Silver Tidemark. This is testimony to our ongoing 
diversity and inclusion commitments and practices.

In 2023 we continued with our three diversity 
focus areas: women in senior leadership; ethnic 
diversity in middle and senior leadership; and 
supporting colleagues with a disability.

We are pleased to say that at 31 December 2023 
our overall workforce was 50% female, and in our 
senior management roles 40% were female. In 
addition, our Board was 56% female and our 
Executive Team was 29% female.

At 31 December 2023 our workforce was 
19% ethnically diverse, including 7% Black, and 
our senior leaders were 10% ethnically diverse 
(in the UK) and 2% Black. In addition, our Board 
and our Executive Team were 22% and 14% 
ethnically diverse respectively.

In 2022 we were recognised as Disability 
Confident Employer (level 2) status across the 
Group and throughout 2023 continued to work 
with the Capita ability network to strengthen 
understanding as well as support our colleagues 
with a disability. We also increased our disability 
declaration level by 3%.

35

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Our people continued

Reporting table on gender representation at Board and Executive Team level at 31 December 2023

Gender
Male
Female
Other categories
Not specified/prefer not to disclose

Number of  
Board members
4
5
0
0

% of Board
44
56
0
0

Number of  
senior positions  
on the Board
3
1
0
0

Number  
in executive 
management
5
 2
0
0

% of executive 
management
71
◊ 29
0
0

Reporting table on ethnicity representation at Board and Executive Team level at 31 December 2023

Ethnicity Group
White British or other White (including 
minority white groups) 
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group, including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to disclose

Number of  
Board members 

% of Board

Number of  
senior positions  
on the Board

Number  
in executive 
management

% of executive 
management

7
0
1
1
0
0

78
0
11
11
0
0

4
0
0
0
0
0

6
0
1
0
0
0

86
0
14
0
0
0

Gender balance of senior management at 31 December 2023

Gender
Male
Female
Not specified/prefer not to disclose

Gender balance of total workforce at 31 December 2023

Gender
Male
Female
Other categories
Not specified/prefer not to disclose

61
41
1

59%
◊ 40% 
1%

21,637
22,129
10
393

49%
50%
0.1%
0.9%

At 31 December 2023 (being the reference 
date selected by the Board for the purposes 
of this disclosure), the Company complied, 
as detailed below, with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) regulatory targets, set out in 
Listing Rule 9.8.6R (9).

•  The Board was 56% female (43% female 
at 6 March 2024, the date of this Annual 
Report, following Claire Miles and Janine 
Goodchild stepping down from the Board 
on 31 December 2023);

•  The Senior Independent Director 
(Georgina Harvey) is female; and

•  The Board had two Directors from 

a minority ethnic background.

Capita collects the data used for the 
purpose of making the gender and ethnicity 
representations from Board members, 
Senior Management and the Executive Team 
on a voluntary basis. The data for Senior 
Management and the Executive Team is 
extracted from the HR management system, 
Workday. The data for Board members is 
obtained via email from each member in 
which they are asked to declare which of 
the gender and ethnicity categories they are.

Capita defines Senior Board positions as: 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and, Senior 
Independent Director (SID); and Senior 
Management, as those at CEO-2 within the 
Group plus subsidiary legal entity directors, 
as per requirements of the Companies Act 
section 414C(8)(c)(ii) and 414c(10)(b). The 
Executive Team is considered to be the 
Company’s executive management as 
defined by the Listing Rules.

◊ KPMG, our independent assurance provider, has 
provided limited assurance over the selected information 
in this table denoted by the symbol (◊) using the assurance 
standard ISAE (UK) 3000. The assurance report as well 
as the reporting criteria and full methodology can be 
found in full on our website: https://www.capita.com/
about-capita/resources-and-reports.

36

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Our people continued

As a multidisciplinary group, SafetyNet provides 
independent views and advice, recommends 
additional interventions, and supports managers 
and colleagues through extremely difficult situations. 
In 2023, SafetyNet supported 246 colleagues.

We also have employee assistance programmes 
or similar support services available to all 
colleagues globally, which provide access 
to counselling and online resources.

Reimagining our workplaces
We continued to transform and simplify our 
property footprint with further consolidation 
during 2023, with 19 locations closed globally. 
We continue to create more flexible and better 
equipped space, providing our colleagues with 
improved technology to complement our ways 
of working. This allows us to come together, both 
face-to-face and virtually, to collaborate and to 
meet with clients and stakeholders.

We also recycle as much furniture and equipment 
as possible from the sites we closed, with more 
than 2,000 items being relocated internally. As 
part of our responsible business commitment, we 
also donated more than 1,300 items of furniture 
to charities, nurseries, schools and food banks.

Supporting our colleagues’ wellbeing
Focusing on the wellbeing, safety and health of 
all Capita employees has been a priority during 
2023. Our mid-year pulse survey included eleven 
new wellbeing-related questions, providing 
valuable insight into how our colleagues are 
feeling and enabling teams to better support 
and care for our colleagues.

Our overall wellbeing index increased to 72% in 
2023, 1% higher than in 2022.

Capita has continued to sustain health, safety 
and environment (HSE) metrics between 94% 
and 96% throughout 2023 and was recognised 
by the British Safety Council by being awarded 
the International Safety Award.

In 2023, we increased the intensity of our suicide 
awareness initiatives and became members of the 
National Suicide Prevention Alliance to demonstrate 
our commitment to continue to tackle this 
difficult subject.

We continued with our mandatory safeguarding 
training with 98% completion for level 1 and 
99% for level 2, which exceeds our internal 
compliance targets of 95%. Our safeguarding 
framework is embedded within our divisions 
and Group functions. In 2023, 630 safeguarding 
reports were made with 234 needing further 
external referral support from local authorities 
or the emergency services.

Our SafetyNet initiative continues to provide 
much needed expert guidance to human 
resources representatives and line managers 
supporting colleagues with complex issues 
related to wellbeing, safeguarding or vulnerability.

37

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Community

Supporting our communities

Tackling economic inequalities
Helping to support and grow strong communities 
in the current economic climate is important 
for Capita.

The majority of our employees globally are granted 
one day per year for volunteering activities, almost 
21,000 hours of volunteering were recorded in 
2023, nearly three times more than in 2022.

In 2023 we continued our partnership with 
Business in the Community (BiTC). Capita has 
been working with BiTC, the UK’s largest and 
most influential responsible business network, 
since 2019.

In 2023 our then CEO, Jon Lewis, continued 
his work as Chair of the Employment and Skills 
Leadership team, which brings together senior 
leaders from across industry to build solutions to 
support access to and growth in employability 
and skills.

We also continued our work as part of the 
cross-industry cost-of-living taskforce, which 
brings together a group of senior executives 
to support those most disadvantaged and 
vulnerable in society.

In 2023, we gifted more than £800,000 of our 
apprenticeship levy to charities and SMEs to 
support their investment in skills development.

We continued to support our employees as 
they fundraised more than £227,000 and were 
pleased to donate more than £24,000 in matched 
charity funding.

In partnership with Hands On Payroll Giving, we 
were able to significantly increase our charitable 
impact. Our collaboration enables Capita 
employees to support their chosen charities and 
communities. In 2023 we raised almost £141,000 
through payroll giving activities.

Capita supported Social Shifters Global 
Innovation project with 279 volunteers acting as 
judges and taking part in the 2023 programme. 
Social Shifters is a social innovation challenge 
designed to accelerate young (18 – 30 years) 
social innovators, to explore, start and grow their 
ideas to tackle the social or environmental issues 
that matter to them most. To enter the Social 
Shifters Global Innovation Challenge, young 
people must present an idea that is unique and 
contributes towards at least one of the United 
Nation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals.

We also entered a new partnership with South 
Nottingham College. The ability initiative aims 
to give 16 – 25 year olds with a disability or 
complex learning need an opportunity to enter 
paid employment and to support them with their 
future career choices. Following a successful 
work placement, three young people were 
offered and accepted permanent roles at Capita. 
We will continue this partnership in 2024.

Project Selborne sponsored an event at 
London Docklands where 30 young people aged 
between 9 and 14 tried out rowing, kayaking 
and sailing on the Thames. This was part of the 
Sea Cadets On The Water programme, which 
provides thousands of young East Londoners 
from low-income families with the chance to 
experience water sports, learn something new 
and earn qualifications. An additional focus was 
on increasing diversity and inclusion in the Sea 
Cadets and Royal Navy.

“ Alzheimer’s Society would 
like to say a huge thank 
you to Capita for your 
donations, allowing us 
to provide help and hope 
to more people affected 
by dementia. Regular 
donations are so important 
to us and are the backbone 
of our work. Monthly income 
generated through Payroll 
Giving allows us to budget 
and plan for the future, as 
well as help those who 
need it right now. Sadly, 
dementia is the UK’s 
biggest killer with over 
900,000 people currently 
living with it – and if we do 
nothing, 1 in 3 people born 
today will go on to develop 
dementia. That’s why we 
need supporters like you 
to help end the devastation 
of dementia”

Charley O’Hara
Individual Giving Assistant,  
Alzheimer’s Society

38

Community investment

c.£1.4m*

(2022: c.£1m)

 * excluding £800,000 gifted as apprenticeship levy 

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Community continued

In 2023 we continued with our commitment 
to upholding the Armed Forces Covenant and 
creating a culture that honours and empowers 
those in the armed forces community. We 
developed a podcast series that shares powerful 
stories of resilience and dedication from veterans, 
reservists and military spouses and can be found 
on our website.

Our partnership with Meadow Well Connected 
was recognised at the annual North-East Charity 
Awards as we won the Corporate Charity 
Partnership award. Since becoming partners 
in 2018, we have supported a wide range 
of activities and services for Meadow Well 
Connected, which included donating 216 
volunteering hours, providing Christmas lunches 
for more than 100 local people and installing 
around 4km of new pathways in the 
charity’s gardens.

“ Capita’s support really 
does means so much to 
us. We absolutely love 
payroll giving here at 
Macmillan. By giving 
through your salary each 
pay day we are able to 
provide essential services 
for people with cancer 
throughout the UK from 
our Macmillan Support 
Line to our incredible 
Macmillan nurses. The fact 
that we know how often 
and how much you will 
donate each month means 
that we can plan ahead 
and spend your hard-
earned money where we 
know it is needed most”

Ollie Lashbrook
Senior Corporate Partnerships 
Operations Manager at Macmillan

The majority of our 
employees globally are 
granted one day per year 
for volunteering activities, 
almost 21,000 hours of 
volunteering were recorded 
in 2023, nearly three times 
the amount in 2022 

Our partnership with Meadow Well 
Connected was recognised at the annual 
North-East Charity Awards as we won 
the Corporate Charity Partnership award. 
Since becoming partners in 2018, we 
have supported a wide range of activities

39

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Planet

Planet 

Fighting climate change
Capita has updated its target to become fully net 
zero to 2045. A significant amount of our carbon 
emissions originates from our supply chain, and 
we extended our target to achieve full net zero 
by ten years to allow us more time to engage 
with our suppliers and support them to reduce 
their environmental impact. We are working to 
validate our revised targets with the Science 
Based Target initiative (SBTi).

Our three-phased approach aims to reach 
operational net zero by 2030; operational and 
business travel net zero by 2035; and full net 
zero by 2045.

Following our commitment to be net zero by 
2045, the challenges we believe will be most 
difficult to address are: the decarbonisation of 
our heating systems; and collecting, monitoring 
and managing the reduction of emissions from 
nearly 18,000 suppliers.

Near-term targets

Driving down GHG emissions

Capita has committed to reduce absolute Scope 
1 and 2 greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions and 
absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions covering 
business travel by 46% by 2030 from a 2019 
base year. Capita has also committed to 50% 
of its suppliers by spend – covering purchased 
goods and services, and capital goods – having 
science-based targets by 2025.

Long-term targets

Capita has committed to reducing absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, and absolute 
Scope 3 GHG emissions (covering purchased 
goods and services, capital goods, business 
travel and employee commuting) by 90% by 
2045 from a 2019 base year.

We are committed to these challenging targets 
at every level of our organisation, setting 
decarbonisation as our overarching objective. 
Our goal is for all residual emissions from 2045 
to be neutralised in line with SBTi criteria to reach 
net zero emissions.

As a result of our virtual-first meeting strategy and 
hybrid working culture we continue to manage 
business travel emissions, standing at only 22% of 
pre pandemic levels in the current reporting year. 
Our electricity emissions also reduced, through 
efficiency, sourcing more renewable power and 
reducing the property portfolio.

The net zero property refit plan continued in 2023 
with upgrades to heating and cooling systems, 
controls, lighting and building fabric. We plan to 
pilot heat pump technology in selected properties 
over the next few years to begin migration from 
fossil-fuelled heating systems and are in 
the process of identifying and agreeing 
suitable locations.

Our highly successful building energy monitoring 
programme continues to identify energy savings. 
Our Facilities Management team review half 
hourly energy data for our larger properties 
quarterly, leading to efficiency action and plant 
and controls upgrades. We also use this process 
to monitor the success of plant replacement 
programmes and refurbishments, checking 
that expected energy efficiency and 
emissions reduction are achieved.

Engagement with our top 265 suppliers through 
the Carbon Disclosure Project supply chain 
membership gives us access to supplier climate 
risk and compliance data and CO2 equivalent 
(CO2e) emissions target and policy data, as well 
as opportunities to identify impact reduction 
initiatives. These insights help us transition from 
spend-based calculation to actual CO2e data to 
decouple emissions from spend.

In addition to our emissions savings achieved 
through plant replacement in 2023, we have 
also installed 34 electric vehicle chargers across 
seven locations, and have further installs planned 
for 2024 to support electric vehicle users. Energy 
Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) surveys 
carried out in 2023 have identified a number of 
further initiatives which we are now exploring to 
drive further energy reductions. Post pandemic 
travel emissions have increased, but remained 
significantly below our short-term SBTi target 
for 2030. We have set a revised 2045 net zero 
target to augment our short term 1.5 degrees C 
science-based targets for greenhouse gas 
reduction. This target covers our full value chain 
and we are working to have it verified with SBTi. 
In 2023 functions and divisions set net zero 
targets, linked to incentive plans to drive 
progress against our net zero milestones and 
plan. Capita maintained CDP ‘A’ list in 2023.

We have already achieved our 2025 and 2030 
near-term science-based targets except for Scope 
1 which we expect to achieve by the end of 2024.

With more than 43,000 colleagues across the 
globe, we are all too aware of our own internal 
responsibilities. We therefore launched a new 
environmental standard, setting out Capita’s 
environmental commitments and responsibilities 
and incorporating an environmental training 
module for all employees to support the 
environmental standard and net zero commitment.

In 2023 we published our fourth disclosure 
statement against the recommendations of 
the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), 
see pages 50 to 56.

40

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Planet continued

GHG emissions (tCO2e) and energy use (kWh) for period 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023

Energy used to calculate emissions (kWh)

Gas and fuel

Electricity and district heat

Business travel – cars

Total energy used

% of total energy used
Emissions from combustion of gas and fuel for heating  
tCO2e (Scope 1)
Emissions from combustion of fuel in company vehicles 
tCO2e (Scope 1)
Emissions from fugitive refrigerant gas tCO2e (Scope 1)
Emissions from purchased district heat tCO2e (Scope 2)

Emissions from purchased electricity (location based) tCO2e 
(Scope 2)
Emissions from purchased electricity (market based) tCO2e 
(Scope 2)
Emissions from business mileage, air, rail, tube tram and light 
rail, taxi, bus, coach, ferry, hotel, waste tCO2e (Scope 3)

Total gross tCO2e Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location based)

Total gross tCO2e emissions (location based)

Total gross tCO2e emissions (market based)
Intensity ratio: gross Scope 1 and 2 tCO2e (location based) 
per £1m turnover
Intensity ratio: gross Scope 1 and 2 tCO2e (location based) 
per headcount

Data source

Current reporting year 2023

Comparison reporting year 2022

Comparison reporting year 2021

UK and offshore

Global excluding 
UK and offshore

Total UK and offshore

Global excluding 
UK and offshore

Total UK and offshore

Global excluding 
UK and offshore

Total

Energy Bureau, UK est energy, 
FSC burn, int. est energy, 
Capita Europe

58,451,965

1,276,761

59,728,726

58,561,431

2,443,394

61,004,825

65,139,586

1,726,618

66,866,204

61,520,201

15,030,765

76,550,966

65,813,485

15,405,065

81,218,550

93,211,777

26,513,142 119,724,918

SAP expenses

7,208,314

2,276,310

9,484,624

12,211,032

3,836,579

16,047,610

12,502,976

2,271,999

14,774,974

127,180,480

18,583,836 145,764,316 136,585,947

21,685,038 158,270,986 170,854,338

30,511,758 201,366,097

87%

13%

100%

86%

14%

100%

85%

15%

100%

Energy Bureau, Capita Europe
Fleet, FSC, fleet Germany, India, 
South Africa
Fugitive refrigerant gas
Energy Bureau, Capita Europe
Energy Bureau, UK est energy, 
int. est energy, Capita Europe, 
South Africa, India

10,373

246

10,619

9,281

1,224
339
30

63
2
68

1,287
341
98

1,851
445
34

405

67
0
264

9,686

11,620

1,918
445
298

1,845
1,466
40

320

71
0
157

11,941

1,916
1,466
198

12,553

8,714

21,267

12,827

8,012

20,839

23,891

6,853

30,744

Energy Bureau

1,044

2,411

3,455

2,247

1,836

4,083

10,328

8,132

18,460

SAP, Agiito

5,475

24,519

29,995

18,486

8.1

0.56

1,369

9,091

10,460

4,158

3.0

0.21

6,844

33,611

40,455

22,644

11.2

0.77

4,857

24,438

29,294

18,680

8.1

0.77

1,244

8,748

9,992

3,552

2.9

0.48

6,101

33,186

39,287

22,233

11.0

0.66

3,860

38,863

42,722

29,119

10.0

0.91

640

7,401

4,500

46,264

8,042

50,763.93

9,163

38,282.35

2.3

0.39

12.3

0.73

Methodology: Carbon emissions have been calculated following the GHG protocol using the operational control approach. Estimated energy figures have been used for buildings where direct meter data is not available, using Cibse guide F 
benchmarks (or previous years’ consumption outside UK if available). Any fuel figures provided in litres have been converted into kWh or tCO2e using Gov.UK and Defra conversion tables. Mileage provided has been converted into tCO2e using Defra 
conversions for the relevant engine size and fuel type. kWh figures for air, rail, taxi and other public transport have been omitted as not practical to convert from passenger km or passenger fares but CO2e emissions have been calculated using Defra 
conversion factors.
Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 business travel are verified to ISAE 3000 by SLR Consulting in each year.

41

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Planet continued

Energy efficiency action 2023
We invested in energy-efficiency measures across our estate in 2023 to deliver savings below.

Building plant upgrades and initiatives
Replacement LED lighting
Replacement chillers and air conditioning units
Replacement heating plant
Updated building management controls
Installation of sub-metering
Total

(tCO2e reduction per annum)
89.7
158.7
65.8
2.8
139.7
456.7

In addition to our emissions savings achieved through plant replacement in 2023, we have also 
installed 34 electric vehicle chargers across seven locations, and have further installations planned for 
2024 to support electric vehicle users. Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) surveys carried 
out in 2023 have identified a number of further initiatives which we are now exploring to drive further 
energy reductions. Post-pandemic travel emissions have increased, but remained significantly below 
our short-term SBTi target for 2030. We have set a revised 2045 net zero target to augment our short 
term 1.5 degrees C science-based targets for greenhouse gas reduction. This target covers our full 
value chain and we are working to have it verified with SBTi. In 2023 functions and divisions set net 
zero targets, linked to incentive plans to drive progress against our net zero milestones and plan. 
Capita maintained CDP ‘A’ list in 2023.

Net zero milestones
We are working to reach operational net zero by 2030 (Scopes 1 and 2); operational and business 
travel net zero by 2035 (Scopes 1 and 2, Scope 3 business travel); and full net zero by 2045, 
including our supply chain.

Methodology

We measure our environmental performance by reporting our global carbon footprint annually in terms 
of tonnes CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), an absolute measure, tonnes CO2 equivalent per £1m revenue and 
per person (intensity measures). The data relates to Capita’s owned and leased facilities and business 
travel under its operational control across all geographies. We report separately on our direct emissions 
from Capita-controlled and owned sources (Scope 1), indirect emissions from consumption of electricity, 
heat or steam (Scope 2), and emissions from third parties (Scope 3). This ensures our compliance 
with Part 7 of The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Director’s Report) Regulations 2013 
which requires certain disclosures in respect of GHG emissions (the Strategic Report GHG 
Emission disclosures).

We engaged an external agency, SLR Consulting Ltd, to provide independent limited assurance 
over the selected GHG emissions data (highlighted in the table opposite with an *) using the 
assurance standards ISAE 3000 and 3410. SLR Consulting Ltd has issued an unqualified  
opinion over the selected data; its full assurance statement is available at  
www.capita.com/responsible-business/resources-and-reports.

Our disclosures cover sources of our GHG emissions from our operations in the UK, Ireland, Central 
Europe (Germany, Switzerland, Poland and Bulgaria), India and South Africa. Capita converts the 
consumption data into a carbon footprint with consideration for the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol, together 
with the latest emissions factors from the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 
Association of Issuing Bodies and International Energy Agency.

Annual GHG emissions

Scope 1 (tCO2e) 
Scope 2 (tCO2e) (location-based) 
Scope 2 (tCO2e) (market-based) 
Scope 3 (tCO2e) (business travel and waste) 
Total gross tonnes of CO2e (location-based) 
Total gross tonnes of CO2e (market-based) 
Total gross tonnes of CO2e/£1m revenue (location-based) 
Total gross tonnes of CO2e/headcount (location-based) 

2023
12,247*
21,365*
3,553*
6,844*
40,456
22,644
13.5
0.92

2022
12,049*
21,137*
4,083*
6,101*
39,287
22,233
13.03
0.79

2021
15,021*
24,088*
10,328*
4,500*
43,609
29,848
13.70
0.73

2020
18,980*
28,359*
23,526*
7,881*
55,220
50,387
16.60
0.85

Table of progress against SBTi verified short-term targets

Scope 1 (tCO2e) 
Scope 2 (tCO2e) (market-based) 
Scope 3 (tCO2e) (business travel and waste) 
Progress against SBTi verified short-term engagement target
Scope 3 supply chain spend covered by science-based targets % 
Other metrics 
100% renewable power progress (as % of total power) 
Transition from internal combustion to low emission vehicles:
Diesel 
Hybrid electric 
Pure electric 
Average CO2e 
Fleet vehicle energy source

2023 actual
12,247 
3,553 
6,844 

2023 actual 
54% 
2023 
90% 

43% 
52% 
4% 
96g/km 

2023 target
15,775 
23,006 
25,578 

2023 target 
33% 
2022 
85% 

47% 
48% 
4% 
96g/km 

2030 target
10,201 
14,876 
16,540 

2025 target 
50% 
2021 
80% 

62% 
32% 
5% 
96g/km 

Notes:
Total gross tonnes of CO2e/£1m revenue (location-based) in 2023, 2022 and 2021 has been calculated using statutory revenue.
Scope 1: emissions from Capita sources that are controlled by us, including the combustion of fuel, company-owned 
vehicles and the operation of our facilities.
Scope 2: emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: emissions from non-owned sources related to Capita’s activities, including business travel and waste.
Milestone 1
Emissions data above covered by limited external assurance to ISAE 3000

42

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
 
Responsible business 

  Operating responsibly

Ensuring we align with our purpose

In 2023, we maintained our focus on responsible operations by: continuing to support clients and communities; engaging and 
working closely with our suppliers; understanding our colleagues’ needs; and dealing with wider societal challenges, such as 
the cost-of-living crisis.

cNPS score for 2023

+16

Spend with c.18,000 direct suppliers in 20231,2

£1.83bn

In

77

countries

1. Excludes intercompany spend.
2. Data includes Smart DCC (DCC) spend (£0.6bn) 

as under the terms of the licence Capita administers 
DCC’s accounts payable function. Under the terms of 
the licence Capita does not control the DCC legal entity 
and therefore this spend is not consolidated into the 
consolidated financial results.

Client relations
We actively seek the views of our clients through 
an annual customer net promoter score (cNPS) 
survey. In the survey we ask for feedback on our 
current performance, key drivers and encourage 
comments on areas that they would like us to 
focus on in future. We feed this information 
back to our teams who then take the time to 
understand any root causes of issues raised and 
set actions which are monitored via our customer 
relationship management platform, Salesforce.

In 2023, Public Service and Experience received 
feedback from 384 individuals across 234 clients 
– a 51% response rate. The results give Capita 
a cNPS score of +16 for 2023, continuing the 
positive cNPS feedback within both divisions.

Supplier engagement
Almost 92% of our total supply chain are small 
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), including 
sole traders and micro-businesses. We continued 
to recognise the effect that the current economic 
situation is having on many of these suppliers, 
with both high inflation and the cost-of-living 
crisis in the UK. We endeavour to ensure payment 
to agreed terms with our vendors and seek to 
make payments to small suppliers more quickly 
in accordance with the Prompt Payment Code.

As signatories to the Prompt Payment Code, we 
report our payment practices and performance 
to the UK Government every six months; 99% 
of our suppliers were paid within 60 days. 92% 
of SMEs were paid within 30 days.

We value the business relationships we have with 
our suppliers and seek to build lasting relationships, 
treating our suppliers and partners fairly and 
paying promptly. We want to work with suppliers 
who share our values and support us in delivering 
our purpose.

Our supplier charter, which is available on our 
website, remains at the core of strengthening 
our commitments and sets out how we conduct 
business in an open, honest and transparent 
manner, and what we expect of our suppliers. 
This year, it was refreshed and relaunched. 
It applies to all new and renewing suppliers.  
As a minimum, we expect our suppliers to comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations. This 
includes the provision of safe working conditions, 
treating workers with dignity and respect, acting 
ethically and being environmentally responsible. 
Our aim is to work together to achieve the highest 
standards in our supply chain, while achieving 
wider social, economic and environmental 
benefits aligned to the Social Value Act.

To mitigate ESG risk within our supply chain, 
40% of suppliers by spend are monitored 
through EcoVadis scorecards and there is a plan 
to expand this monitoring more widely across our 
supply chain. Less than 5% of spend is incurred 
in countries deemed to be high risk as per the 
Global Slavery Index (www.walkfree.org). All 
suppliers are subject to Capita’s supplier risk 
management framework to identify and 
mitigate risk.

To support our net zero goals, the ESG 
Committee approved the strategy to decarbonise 
our Scope 3 Supply Chain Emissions and to have 
2023 business aligned objectives for suppliers to 
have science-based targets in place.

To understand Capita’s Scope 3 carbon 
footprint, a supplier engagement programme 
was also undertaken with suppliers accounting 
for £1bn annual spend (over 50% of the supply 
chain by spend) to ask them to disclose their 
carbon emissions to CDP.

Our 2025 goals are that 55% of our suppliers 
by spend will have committed to having science-
based targets (SBTs) in place and, by 2030, 85% 
of our suppliers by spend will have committed 
to having SBTs in place. By 31 December 2023, 
54% of our suppliers by spend had committed to 
having SBTs in place.

43

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportWe continue to improve our privacy and 
data management practices, and we recently 
appointed a Chief Data Officer to work alongside 
our Group Data Protection Officer. During 2023 
we also launched new mandatory privacy 
training for our colleagues and continued to 
raise awareness of the importance of privacy 
through tailored training initiatives and ongoing 
communication programmes.

Privacy training

c.29,000

privacy training modules completed

Responsible business 

  Operating responsibly continued

Targeting bribery and corruption
We do not tolerate bribery or corruption in any 
form. Our anti-bribery and corruption set of 
policies apply to all Capita businesses, employees 
and suppliers. The Risk & Compliance team 
monitors compliance, with a view to ensuring 
all parts of the business are aware of their 
responsibilities in terms of charitable donations, 
sponsorships, facilitation payments, gifts and 
hospitality. All employees must complete 
financial crime training annually.

Upholding human rights
We are committed to playing our role in society 
by ensuring that we have the systems, policies 
and processes in place to identify any potential 
instances of exploitation and, if found, eradicate 
modern slavery in all its forms from our business 
and supply chain.

Our updated human rights policy details our 
commitments to upholding the principles of 
human rights, as set out in the UN Declaration 
of Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organization core labour principles. We comply 
with all relevant legislation, including the UK 
Modern Slavery Act and our compliance 
statement can be found on our website. We 
outline expectations and compliance to the 
standards we set out for suppliers, working with 
them to ensure they operate in accordance with 
this policy, and upholding the principles of human 
rights in their operations and supply chains.

We are taking appropriate steps to ensure that 
everyone who works for Capita benefits from a 
working environment in which their fundamental 
human rights are respected and anyone that we 
do business with also upholds these principles. 
If any client, employee, supplier or other 
stakeholder becomes aware of any potential 
breach of human rights (or any other ethical 
concern) they may report this confidentially to 
our Speak Up hotline. This hotline is externally 
managed for independence and confidentiality 
and made available across multiple channels.

Protecting privacy
Our clients and our colleagues expect us to keep 
their data safe and secure, and to respect their 
privacy. We take this responsibility very seriously, 
with a view to ensuring we only process personal 
data in line with all applicable laws, including how 
we collect, store, use, retain, transfer and delete 
personal data.

Our privacy policy details how we expect 
everyone to take responsibility for privacy, 
including the protection of data, applying our 
privacy standards, procedures and guidance in 
their areas of the business. These requirements 
include maintaining information asset registers, 
following a comprehensive incident management 
process, ensuring privacy by design, and data 
protection impact assessments.

For more information on our anti-bribery, corruption and human rights policies, see page 49

44

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Engaging with our stakeholders

Engaging with our stakeholders

Society

Our people

Creating better 
outcomes

Investors

Clients and 
customers

Suppliers and 
partners

Section 172 statement
Capita’s Directors are fully aware of and understand their statutory 
duties under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act). 
The Board has a clear framework for determining the matters within 
its remit and has approved Terms of Reference for the matters 
delegated to its Committees. When making decisions, each 
Director ensures that they act in the way they consider, in good 
faith, would most likely promote the Company’s success for the 
benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so have regard 
(among other matters) to section 172(1)(a) to (f) as detailed below.

a.  The likely consequences of any decision in the long term.
b. The interests of the Company’s employees.
c.  The need to foster business relationships with suppliers, clients  

and others.

d. The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and 

the environment.

e.  The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for 

high standards of business conduct.

f.  The need to act fairly towards all members of the Company.

This section 172 statement forms the directors’ statement required 
under section 414CZA of the Act and describes how the Directors 
have taken into account wider stakeholders in their decision making 
and also the principal decisions taken during the year. 

Our people

Why they are important
They deliver our business strategy; 
they support the organisation to build 
a values-based culture; and they deliver 
our products and services ensuring 
client satisfaction.

What matters to them
Flexible working; learning and 
development opportunities leading to 
career progression; fair pay and benefits 
as a reward for performance; and two-way 
communication and feedback.

How we engaged
•  People surveys

•  Regular all-employee communication

•  Employee director on the  

Capita plc Board

•  Employee focus groups and 

network groups

•  Workforce engagement on remuneration

•  Regular ‘breakfast’ sessions with the 
Executive Team for our colleagues

Topics of engagement
•  Creating an inclusive workplace

•  Health and wellbeing

•  Speak Up policy

•  Directors’ remuneration

•  Acting on survey feedback

•  The career path framework

•  The redundancy consultation 
programme announced in 
November 2023

Outcomes and actions
The 2023 employee survey showed key 
indices had either improved or remained 
steady with a five-point increase in the 
eNPS compared with 2022. 63% of 
colleagues who responded felt proud to 
work at Capita. We are developing and 
delivering a range of action plans, including 
ensuring our leaders feel confidence in, 
and ownership of Capita’s strategy, plans 
and successes, developing inclusive 
opportunities for internal career mobility.

In December 2023, the Board agreed 
that while the appointment of employee 
directors had been successful, it was 
appropriate for the Board to consider a 
wider level of engagement with colleagues, 
including site visits arranged for individual 
directors to meet with local management 
and colleagues at Capita’s businesses. In 
addition, the Board has appointed Nneka 
Abulokwe as the designated non-executive 
director to engage with colleagues. 
Adolfo Hernandez, our new CEO, has 
also commenced a series of breakfast 
sessions to meet with colleagues of 
differing seniority and at different locations 
throughout the Group. Janine Goodchild 
stepped down from the Board as an 
employee director on 31 December 2023.

The UK real living wage increase was 
applied from 1 April 2023. At the end 
of 2023, we took the difficult decision to 
withdraw from the UK’s real living wage. 
Since 2020, the Group has increased the 
salaries of our lowest earners by 22% 
and the 2024 real living wage increase 
of 10.1% was not something we could 

commit to given the need for Capita to 
remain cost competitive and reflecting the 
fact that this is not a cost we are able to 
pass on to clients.

The global career path framework which 
defines career levels, career job content, 
and reward framework within Capita was 
rolled out during the year.

In October 2023, Capita was recognised 
by Forbes, as being one of the top 
companies for women, ranking at number 
18 out of 400 global companies on their list.

We continued to promote our Speak Up 
policy throughout the organisation.

Risks to stakeholder relationship
•  Our ability to recruit due to the national 

and global labour market demand 
for resources

•  Our ability to retain and develop people, 
impacting our quality of service and our 
financial performance

•  Our ability to evolve our culture and 
practices in line with our responsible 
business agenda

Key metrics
Voluntary attrition, eNPS, employee 
engagement index and people survey 
completion level.

Further details
Responsible business section on pages 32 
to 37. Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 96. 

45

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
Responsible business 

  Engaging with our stakeholders continued

Clients and customers

Suppliers and partners

Why they are important
They are recipients of Capita’s services; and 
Capita’s reputation depends on consistent 
and timely delivery of the services they need 
from us.

What matters to them
High-quality service delivery; delivery 
of transformation projects within agreed 
timeframes; and responsible and sustainable 
business credentials.

How we engaged
•  Client meetings and surveys

•  Regular meetings with government 

stakeholders and annual review with the 
Cabinet Office

•  Through our customer advisory boards

•  Through our senior client partner programme 
which provides an experienced single point 
of contact for key clients and customers

•  Introductory meetings and correspondence 
with the new CEO and new CEO, Public 
Service

Topics of engagement
•  Current service delivery

•  Transition and mobilisation of services

•  Capita’s digital transformation capabilities

•  Possible future services

•  Co-creation of client value propositions

•  The cyber incident

•  Ongoing benefits of hybrid working on 

client services

Outcomes and actions
Feedback provided to business units to 
address any issues raised; client value 
proposition teams supporting divisions with 
co-creation ideas; direct customer and sector 
feedback; and senior client partner programme 
undertaking client-focused growth sprints to 
build understanding of client issues and 
ideas to help address them.

Risks to stakeholder relationship
•  Loss of business by not providing the 

services that our clients and customers want

•  Damage to reputation by not delivering to the 
requirements of our clients and customers

•  Loss of customers for our clients

Key metrics
Customer NPS; specific feedback on 
client engagements.

Further details
Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 8 to 12.

Responsible business section on pages 30, 43 
and 44.

Why they are important
They share our values and help us deliver 
our purpose; maintain high standards in our 
supply chain; and achieve social, economic 
and environmental benefits aligned to the 
Social Value Act. Our suppliers and partners 
provide additional expertise, skill and 
technology, elevating our offering.

What matters to them
Payments made within agreed payment terms; 
clear and fair procurement process; building 
lasting commercial relationships; and working 
inclusively with all types of business.

How we engaged
•  Supplier meetings throughout source 

to procure process

•  Regular reviews with suppliers

•  Supplier questionnaires and risk 

assessments

Topics of engagement
•  New digital offerings for clients

•  Supplier payments

•  Sourcing requirements

•  Supplier performance

•  Science based targets (SBTs)

•  Supplier charter

•  The cyber incident

Outcomes and actions
Our supplier charter, which is available on our 
website, remains at the core of strengthening 
our commitments and sets out how we 
conduct business in an open, honest and 
transparent manner, and what we expect 
of our suppliers. This year, it was refreshed 
and relaunched.

To understand Capita’s Scope 3 carbon 
footprint, a supplier engagement programme 
was also undertaken with suppliers accounting 
for £1bn annual spend (over 50% of the supply 
chain by spend) to ask them to disclose their 
carbon emissions to CDP.

During 2023, 99% of our suppliers were paid 
within 60 days.

Risks to stakeholder relationship
•  Environmental issues

•  Commitment to tackling SBTs

•  Supply chain resilience

Key metrics
99% of supplier payments within agreed 
terms; SME spend allocation; and supplier 
diversity profile.

Further details
Supplier engagement section on page 43.

46

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Engaging with our stakeholders continued

Investors

Society

Why they are important
They own the business and provide essential 
capital; and their input and feedback is 
considered when making tactical and 
strategic decisions.

What matters to them
Reporting on strategic, operational and 
ESG factors; financial performance; directors’ 
remuneration, access to the Board and senior 
management; and regular communication.

How we engaged
•  Financial and other reports and 

trading updates

•  Investor meetings with CEO, CFO and 

Investor Relations

•  Dedicated webinar for retail shareholders

•  Regular investor programme with the Board, 
including meetings with the Chairman and 
Remuneration Committee chair and 
feedback throughout the year

•  At the Company’s AGM

•  Discussions around AGM on resolutions 

and governance topics

•  Dedicated Investor Relations contacts and 

email inbox

Topics of engagement
•  Disposal programme

•  Medium-term targets and outlook

•  Social: attrition and engagement

•  Balance sheet and liquidity

•  Appointment of the new CEO

•  Governance: remuneration and remuneration 
policy proposed for shareholder approval 
in 2024

•  The cyber incident

•  Environmental: net zero target

Outcomes and actions
Frequent market communication; and 
active engagement with largest shareholders 
including with the Chairman and Remuneration 
Committee chair, including shareholder 
consultation on the remuneration policy to be 
proposed to shareholders at the 2024 AGM.

Risks to stakeholder relationship
•  Delivery of strategic and financial objectives

•  Key aspects of governance eg remuneration

Key metrics
Revenue; profit; free cash flow; net debt and 
gearing; valuation; and AGM voting.

Further details
Principal decisions table on page 48.

Why it is important
Capita is a provider of key services to 
government impacting a large proportion of 
the population.

What matters to it
Social mobility; youth skills and jobs; digital 
inclusion; diversity and inclusion; climate 
change; business ethics; accreditations 
and benchmarking; and cost of living crisis.

How we engaged
•  Membership of non-governmental 

organisations

•  Charitable and community partnerships

•  External accreditations and benchmarking

•  Working with clients, suppliers, and the 

Cabinet Office

Topics of engagement
•  Youth employment

•  Workplace inequalities

•  Diversity & inclusion

•  Climate change

Outcomes and actions
Youth and employability programme such 
as Social Shifters; ranked 18 on the Forbes 
Global list of top employers for women; a 5% 
reduction in our gender pay gap (compared 
with 2022); awarded Employer’s Network 
for Equality and Inclusion; achieved a silver 
Tidemark and an A CDP (Carbon Disclosure 
Project) score as well as a silver medal by 
EcoVadis for Capita plc.

Risks to stakeholder relationship
•  Lack of understanding of the issues 

important to them

•  Insufficient communication or involvement in 
shaping and influencing strategies and plans

Key metrics
Community investment, workforce diversity 
and ethnicity data, including pay gaps.

Further details
Responsible business: Planet section on pages 
40 to 42.

Responsible business: Community section on 
pages 38 to 39. 

47

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  Engaging with our stakeholders continued

Principal decisions: consideration of stakeholders and outcomes
Examples of some of the principal decisions that the Board has taken during 2023 and how s172 considerations have been factored into the Board’s decision making are set out below:

Principal decisions considered by the Board 
Finance:

•  In June 2023, the Board approved the extension of the 

revolving credit facility (RCF) to 1 December 2026 at £284m, 
reducing to £250m by 1 January 2025 due to specified 
transactions.

•  In July 2023, the Board approved the issuance of £101.9m 

equivalent of new US private placement loan notes.

•  In H2 2023, the Company settled £30.3m of Euro private 
placement loan notes which were originally due in 2027.
•  During 2023, the Board approved the remaining disposals  

of the companies within the Portfolio division.

Governance – Board changes:

Approving the appointment of Adolfo Hernandez as 
Chief Executive Officer.

Impact on long-term sustainable success
The RCF extension and private placement loan 
note issuance demonstrates debt providers’ 
confidence in Capita and has enabled us to 
extend the average maturity of our debt funding. 
Together with the receipt of additional funds 
from the disposal of businesses within the 
Portfolio division these actions significantly 
extended the Group’s funding maturity profile.

The chief executive officer is a critical role 
in implementing and delivering the strategy 
approved by the Board and ensuring that the 
Company upholds its values and purpose.

Significant cost reduction programme: on 21 November 
2023, the Company announced that, following an extensive 
organisational review, the Group would be commencing 
employee consultations programmes which are expected 
to deliver cost savings of £60m on an annualised basis 
from Q1 2024.

The organisational changes principally impacted 
indirect support function and overhead roles. 
The changes were proposed to ensure Capita’s 
business is more efficient and sustainable for 
the longer-term.

Cyber incident: on 31 March 2023 Capita experienced 
a cyber incident. Following forensic work it was confirmed 
that some data was exfiltrated. Following this incident, it 
was agreed to accelerate the Company’s previously planned 
investment to improve Capita’s cyber security maturity. 

Capital allocation policy: during the year the Board 
considered its capital allocation policy.

It is intended that our maturity level will be 
audited with reference to the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology cyber security 
framework on an annual basis by a third party.

The acceleration of the investment and the 
expected improvement in Capita’s cyber 
security maturity will help underpin Capita’s 
long-term success.
The Board agreed to maintain a prudent 
approach to Capita’s capital structure, with 
a medium-term target of net financial debt to 
EBITDA at or below 1x. The Board expects to 
achieve sustainable positive free cash flow 
generation over the medium term.

Stakeholder considerations
All our stakeholders: the strengthening of the Group’s 
funding position has made Capita a more sustainable 
business which is in the interests of all stakeholders.

Further details
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review on pages 8 to 12.

Chief Financial Officer’s 
report on pages 22 to 28.

All our stakeholders: all our stakeholders have an 
interest in the successful delivery of our strategy and the 
way it is delivered. Adolfo Hernandez, CEO has a critical 
role in ensuring that our strategy is delivered in line with 
our purpose and values.
Colleagues: the Board recognised the impact on 
colleagues whose roles were at risk of redundancy. 
A consultation process was undertaken, and support 
offered to affected colleagues.

All our stakeholders: the proposed efficiency savings 
will increase the Group’s operating margins, maintain our 
competitiveness and contribute to a more sustainable 
future for Capita, in the long-term interests of the 
Company and its stakeholders as a whole. 
All our stakeholders: the accelerated improvement in 
Capita’s cyber security maturity and the annual audit will 
be of benefit to all stakeholders.

Shareholders: the Board is mindful that shareholders 
have not yet seen improved returns and financial 
benefit (including shareholder distributions) from 
the strengthened Group.

All our stakeholders: the Board ensures that its capital 
allocation policy is appropriate for the Company’s 
financial position.

Nomination Committee 
report on pages 79 to 83.

Chief Executive Officer’s 
review on page 9.

Chief Financial Officer’s 
report on pages 22 to 28.

Chairman’s statement 
on page 7.

Chief Executive Officer’s 
review on page 10.

Chief Financial Officer’s 
review on page 27.

48

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  NFSIS

NFSIS

This section of the report constitutes Capita’s non-financial and sustainability information statement (NFSIS), produced to comply 
with sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. The table below, and information it refers to, is intended to help 
stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial and sustainability matters. This builds on reporting that we do under 
the following frameworks: CDP, Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the EcoVadis Assessment.

Reporting requirement 
Environmental matters 

Employees 

Human rights 

Social matters 

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery

Due diligence and outcome

Business model
Non-financial KPIs 

Risk management

Policies and standards which govern our approach
•  Health, safety and environmental policy (E)
•  Environmental standard (I)
•  Supplier Charter (E)
•  Procurement policy (E)
•  Code of conduct (E)
•  Health, safety and environmental policy (E)
•  Health, safety and environmental 

•  Wellbeing policy (E)
•  Employee handbook (I)

•  Procurement standard (I)
•  Travel and expenses policy (I)
•  Risk management policy (E)

standard (I)

•  Employment screening policy (I)
•  Procurement policy (E)
•  Speak Up policy (E)
•  Safeguarding policy (E)

•  Matched funding FAQ (I)
•  Fundraising FAQ (I)

•  Diversity and inclusion policy (E)
•  Human rights policy (E)
•  Supplier charter (E)
•  Modern slavery statement (E)
•  Information and cyber security policy (E)
•  Privacy policy (E)
•  Community and charity policy (E)
•  Community and charity standard (I)
•  Volunteering FAQ (I)
•  Code of Conduct: Anti-bribery and corruption policy (E)
•  Gifts and hospitality standard (E)
•  Financial crime policy (E)
•  Conflict of interest policy (E)
•  Risk management framework
•  Annual internal audit plan
•  Risk register
•  Audit and Risk Committee report

I – Group policies, guidance and standards published internally; E – Group policies, statement and reports published externally.

Where is this referenced in this report?
•  Responsible business: fighting climate change pages 40 to 42
•  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), pages 50 to 56
•  Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting Regulation (SECR), page 41
•  Responsible business: operating responsibly – supplier engagement page 43
•  Our people section pages 32 to 37
•  Responsible business: building an inclusive workplace pages 35 and 36
•  Responsible business: diversity data page 36

•  Responsible business: operating responsibly – supplier engagement page 43
•  Responsible business: community – tackling economic inequalities pages 38 and 39
•  Responsible business: operating responsibly – upholding human rights page 44

•  Responsible business: community pages 38 and 39

•  Responsible business: targeting bribery and corruption page 44

•  Risk management framework pages 57 and 58
•  Audit and Risk Committee report pages 87 to 95

•  Business model page 4
•  Non-financial KPIs page 30
•  Responsible business pages 29 to 56
•  Risk management and internal control pages 57 to 63

49

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
Responsible business 

  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)

TCFD

Governance
Capita recognises that climate change and wider environmental emergencies present significant risks 
to society and the planet. Therefore, dedicated roles and responsibilities have been defined in line with 
Capita’s risk management process.

The Board has ultimate accountability for these risks and their management, with delegated 
responsibilities to both Board committees and the Executive Team, cascading to management for 
day-to-day oversight. An overview of climate-related responsibilities and decision-making processes 
across Capita is shown on page 51.

TCFD statement of compliance
Capita has made disclosures in accordance with the FCA Policy Statement 20/17 and listing 
rule LR 9.8.6R(8), and the UK Companies Act requirement for large companies to include 
climate-related financial disclosures.

This section of the Annual Report reports core information responding to the disclosure 
elements outlined by the TCFD recommendations and supporting guidance. Supplementary 
information for those interested in understanding more about our climate impact assessment 
in more detail can be found on our climate change hub webpage, and pages 49 to 53 of the 
2022 Annual Report.

Our disclosure is consistent with the TCFD recommendations, with the exception of the 
following areas where we are working towards full disclosure.

1. Strategy B – financial and strategic planning: over the past few years Capita has 

completed qualitative and quantitative climate scenario analysis, and integrated climate 
change across risk management processes as part of Capita’s ESG principal risk. 
However, the analysis has not yet been embedded into financial and strategic planning.
•  Planned action: over the past year Capita has deepened its understanding of the 

potential impacts and assumptions, and is now in a better position to identify ways to 
incorporate the climate scenario analysis results in our financial and strategic planning 
processes as part of our low carbon transition plan, expected in line with anticipated 
government legislation.

2. Strategy B – transition plan: Capita has not yet consolidated its climate strategy and 
response into a transition plan, but is committed to achieving net zero by 2045, with our 
near-term and long-term science-based targets validated by the SBTi.
•  Planned action: In response to the UK Transition Plan Taskforce guidance, we are 

committed to developing a climate transition plan to expand and align our target action 
plan with this guidance.

3. Metrics & targets A – TCFD cross-industry metrics: since the publication of  

cross-industry climate-related metric categories from the TCFD in 2021, and with a 
better understanding of climate risks and opportunities, we have been seeking ways 
to introduce new reporting of climate KPIs.
•  Planned action: this work is ongoing as we progress towards a climate transition plan.

50

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  TCFD continued

Climate-related responsibilities and decision making governance structure

d
r
a
o
B

s
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C
d
r
a
o
B

e
v
i
t
u
c
e
x
E

p
u
o
r
G
&

l

i

a
n
o
s
v
D

i

i

Capita Board

Responsibility: promoting long-term sustainable success, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society. The Board provides direction to the Executive Team by setting 
the organisation’s risk appetite and identifying the principal risks facing the organisation, including ESG risk which incorporates climate change.

2023 actions and discussions: climate issues are raised to the Board on an ad-hoc basis as they arise resulting in multiple discussions throughout the year. Examples include the sign-off 
scope of work to develop a climate transition plan at Capita in response to emerging guidance from the UK Transition Plan Taskforce. 

Audit and Risk Committee

ESG Committee

Remuneration Committee

Responsibility: assists in managing risk systems.

2023 actions and discussions: review and approve the 
2023 TCFD disclosure on an annual basis. Half-yearly review 
of risks and controls.

Responsibility: strategic oversight and accountability for 
climate-related issues, with membership from across 
functions, chaired by the Chairman of the Board.

Responsibility: setting policies for executive pay and 
incentives and approving changes to existing remuneration 
plans, including climate change as a metric.

2023 actions and discussions: meeting on a regular basis, 
this year the Committee signed-off on developing a UK 
Transition Plan Taskforce-aligned transition plan, and 
sustainable procurement plan to drive climate action 
in supply chain. 

2023 actions and discussions: Capita’s climate targets 
remain part of its strategic remuneration metrics and 
objectives. Targets, performance and objectives are 
reviewed annually. 

Executive Team

Responsibility: accountable for implementing and operating effective governance, risk management and internal controls. This includes monitoring performance in line with climate change 
targets and objectives.

2023 actions and discussions: quarterly review of progress against each business’ net zero plan.

Management positions with key responsibilities

•  Chief Executive Officer: overall executive accountability for climate-related risks and opportunities and ensuring that climate issues are appropriately considered at Board and Executive 

Team level.

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m

•  Divisional Heads of Risk: adopt Group-wide risk policies, identify climate-related risks for their division. Accountable for risk management, governance and control, quarterly reporting to 

the Executive Team.

•  Chief General Counsel: ownership of climate change within the ESG principal risk and managing development of Capita’s net zero strategy. Work closely with the Group’s Risk and 

Compliance functions, particularly around the ESG principal risk.

2023 actions and discussions: management positions are responsible for providing regular updates to the Executive Team and developing processes such as reporting against net zero 
targets through quarterly business review. Defining ownership of climate issues through environment standard.

 Procurement supports the review and measurement of emissions and engagement with key suppliers.

 Finance supports the quantification and reporting of risks and opportunities as part of Capita’s climate risk and opportunity assessment. 

51

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
 
 
 
 
Responsible business 

  TCFD continued

Strategy
Capita has used climate scenario analysis to identify, assess, and prioritise climate risks and 
opportunities. This forward-looking assessment strengthens the Group’s understanding of the 
possible impacts across different climate scenario outcomes to inform the overall business strategy, 
build resilience and mitigate climate risk impacts. Capita is continually evolving its approach to climate 
risk and opportunity assessment to increase depth and coverage over time, and better align with the 
business’ strategic priorities.

Scenario category
Storyline

Phase 1: 2021

Phase 2: 2022

Phase 3: 2023

Ongoing

Temperature outcome
Scenario source/model

Climate risk and 
opportunity (R+O)
identification and 
assessment.

•  Identify range 
of climate 
R+Os and 
impacts.

•  Score R+Os 

across climate 
scenarios and 
time horizons.

Forward-looking 
financial impact 
assessment of 
select climate 
issues.

•  Select key 
risks for 
quantification 
Identify range 
of climate 
R+Os and 
impacts.

•  Evaluate 
potential 
future financial 
impacts.

Deep-dive into 
a key risk and 
further exploration 
of mitigating 
controls.

•  Business 

engagement 
on risk drivers 
and impacts, 
specific focus 
on increasing 
climate 
requirements 
in bids.

Continued review 
and update of 
analysis to ensure 
it is reflective of 
the latest climate 
science and 
business 
activities.

This includes 
a review of 
identified issues, 
assessment 
processes 
and controls.

Climate scenarios

In designing our approach to climate scenario analysis, we engaged with climate consultants to 
understand the appropriate parameters to use.

Timeframes: our climate assessment considers potential impacts across short-term (0–3 years), 
medium-term (4–9 years), and long-term (10+ years) time horizons to reflect the longer-term impacts 
of climate change. The time frames that have been selected align with those used in our risk 
management processes.

Climate scenarios: across the phases of climate scenario analysis, Capita has referenced a range 
of different climate scenario sources dependent on the suitability for analysing selected risks. Broadly 
the Group has referenced scenarios under three categories shown in the following table: orderly 
transition, disorderly transition, and hot house world. These scenarios were selected to explore 
the potential worst-case impacts of transition and physical risks.

Orderly transition
Ambitious early 
action increases risks 
associated with low 
carbon transition but 
limits the effects of 
global warming.

1.4 – 1.6°C
NGFS’s Orderly 
Transition including 
Net Zero 2050 & 
Below 2°C.

IEA Net-Zero 2050

Disorderly transition
Delayed, or late 
and sudden action 
resulting in transition-
related shocks to 
society alongside 
higher impacts 
from physical risks.
1.4 – 1.6°C
NGFS’s Disorderly 
Transition including 
Delayed Transition & 
Divergent Net Zero

Hot house world
Limited action results 
in significant warming, 
and more severe 
impacts from 
physical risks.

2.6 – 4°C+
NGFS’s Hot House 
World scenario 
including Current 
Policies & NDCs.

RCP 8.5

Climate risks and opportunities

The identification and assessment methodologies for each phase of analysis are described in more 
detail in the Risk management section on page 55. The consolidated list of risks and opportunities 
relevant to our business is disclosed on the following page. Over the years our continued assessments 
have broadened our perspectives on the risks and opportunities that could impact Capita. To simplify 
the list of risks and opportunities identified, we have categorised the risks and opportunities into four 
groups. The following table lists the categories and associated risks, providing more detail on the 
drivers and potential impacts to the business, including how we are or plan to respond. The four 
categories include:

•  Market shift for low-carbon solutions: increase in demand for low-carbon solutions which could 

take a larger market share.

•  Net zero transition: investment required to align with the transition and mitigate risk across the 

value chain.

•  Stakeholder expectation for climate action: mandates and requests for climate action and 

disclosure to align with ambitious goals.

•  Physical risk: increasing impact from extreme weather events across the value chain.

52

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  TCFD continued

Climate risks and opportunities table

Climate risks
Market shift for low-carbon solutions 
and lack of skills required to respond.
•  Increasing requests and demands for 

low-carbon products and services which 
are beyond typical services currently 
provided by Capita.

Potential financial business implications
•  Loss of revenue and market share 
if Capita is not able to capture  
low-carbon opportunities.

•  Investment required to develop strategic 
capabilities and upskilling of workforce.

•  Loss of profit margins if Capita must 

Summary of climate 
scenario analysis
Capita is already seeing an increased 
demand for low-carbon solutions. 
We expect this trend to increase in 
an orderly scenario in the short-term 
as solutions are required to meet 
transition goals.

Management responses and opportunities
•  Build strategic focus on growing service offerings of consulting and technical 

low-carbon solutions.

•  Raise awareness and capabilities across Capita to respond more quickly and 

easily to increasing demand.

Opportunity: To grow our low-carbon offerings and access new markets to 
raise revenues.

Net zero transition increases capex 
requirements for decarbonisation as 
well as higher opex related to carbon-
generating activities.
•  Major investment may be required to 
decarbonise business operations, eg 
through upgrading boilers.

outsource elements of service delivery 
for low-carbon solutions where we do 
not have capabilities.

•  High upfront investment costs required 
to decarbonise operations across the 
value chain.

•  Resource required to support value 
chain engagement to drive climate 
action across the value chain.
•  Increased direct costs associated 

•  Internal resources required to manage 

with carbon taxation.

Capita is committed to achieving net 
zero by 2045, which minimises its 
exposure to transition risks. Without 
effective controls, this risk would be 
most prevalent in an orderly and 
disorderly scenario where climate 
policy is most advanced and would 
be expected to increase over time.

•  Assess viability and prioritisation of decarbonisation measures eg energy 

efficiency, fuel switching, and renewable energy to reduce emissions which 
can offer cost savings and minimise exposure to higher transition costs.

•  Continue use of Capita’s sustainability procurement plan to work with 

suppliers which are less carbon-intensive and aligned with the Group’s 
decarbonisation goals.

•  Increase flexibility of property portfolio to enable more agile response to 

changing energy and transition demands.

and mitigate climate impacts.

•  Introduction and expansion of carbon 

pricing mechanisms to increase the cost 
of carbon and incentivise the shift to  
low-carbon operations.

Stakeholder expectations for climate 
action could result in reputational damage 
and financial implications if seen to be 
insufficiently responding to climate action 
or reporting requirements.
•  Increasing customer demand to meet 
climate-related requirements in bids.

•  Legislation & compliance 

requirements covering a range 
of environmental issues.

•  Increased indirect costs associated with 
energy procurement or passed through 
from suppliers. 

Opportunity: Capita is planning to minimise its exposure to transition risks through 
continued action against its net zero target eg energy efficiency measures, and by 
developing a comprehensive transition plan to consolidate these actions.

•  Increased exposure to financial 

penalties, additional costs, or exclusion 
from business activity if not meeting 
customer or jurisdictional requirements.
•  Potential loss of opportunities if unable 
to respond effectively to climate-related 
bid requirements.

•  Loss of market share if competitors 

gain competitive advantage from more 
ambitious climate action.

Capita is already responding to 
mandatory and voluntary climate 
reporting frameworks to promote 
transparency for interested 
stakeholders. Stakeholders are 
already expressing high expectations, 
which are expected to increase 
significantly in an orderly scenario 
over time.

•  Raise awareness and continue to strengthen environmental credentials to 
better respond to customer requests and align with the best practice of 
reporting mandates.

•  Continual monitoring, with defined accountability for net zero achievement 

cascaded through the business.

Opportunity: to differentiate its technical solutions by better embedding climate 
(and other ESG issues) into bid responses. In addition, the Group’s continued 
action to reach net zero by 2045 and transition planning gives Capita a reputational 
advantage as a climate leader. This will attract top talent and investment and 
strengthen the business’ long-term resilience.

•  Increasing stakeholder concern around 
the sufficiency of sustainability action.
Physical climate risk results in disruption 
across the value chain.
•  Operational disruption of owned, leased 

•  Risk of losing top talent and investment 
if not seen to be taking sufficient action.
•  Increased frequency and cost of building 
repairs, and/or adaptation measures.
•  Increased cost of cooling data centres, 

and supplier assets if impacted by 
climate events, which are likely to 
increase in frequency and severity.

due to warmer temperatures and 
water scarcity.

•  Increased response costs to respond 
to issues like power outages, water 
sanitation etc, which are affected by 
climate impacts on local infrastructure.

Capita has not experienced 
significant disruption to date.  
This risk is expected to manifest over 
long-term time horizons and will be 
most significant in a hot house world 
scenario where the temperature rise 
will be much higher.

•  Capita’s flexible property and delivery strategy means we are agile and can 
minimise overall disruption if a site is temporarily impacted. These response 
options are outlined as part of our business continuity plans.

•  Conduct in-depth risk assessments to understand the vulnerability to different 

climate variables so controls are effective.

•  Assess multiple physical climate hazards at key sites to strengthen 

understanding and response to physical risks.

Opportunity: by carrying out an expanded assessment of physical hazards, Capita 
can limit its exposure to potential future costs linked with physical climate events. 

53

s
e
i
t
i
n
u
t
r
o
p
p
o
d
n
a
s
k
s
i
r
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

k
s
i
r

l

i

a
c
s
y
h
P

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic report 
 
 
 
Responsible business 

  TCFD continued

Climate risks and opportunities table continued

In the process of our climate risk and opportunity assessment and scenario analysis, where we identified a need to understand the potential impact on the business, we conducted analysis to explore this in 
more depth. The following case studies provide examples of our analysis focused on exploring the impacts from water stress and climate-related criteria in bids.

Case study: key physical risk (2022)

Case study: key transition risk (2023)

Water stress at key operational sites causes disruption to operations and higher costs for water 
supply and treatment.

What is the risk and the potential impacts?

•  Capita recognises that with continued global warming, increasing water stress (where supply 

does not meet demand) is expected to drive competition for available supply among 
consumers and higher prices.

•  We assessed the potential impact of water stress across 10 regions including 20 key sites 
(office, residential, data centres and call centres). The two regions that scored the highest 
impact rating were South Africa and India, covering several of Capita’s critical operational 
sites. Moderate impact was identified across Germany, USA, UAE and Poland.

•  The main impacts identified include power outages from water stress causing disruption 
to business activities, as well as increased costs for water sanitation and hygiene facility 
maintenance driven by increased cost and volatility of water supply.

What is the business doing about it?

Capita is exploring possible mitigation actions in South Africa and India that include short-term 
lease agreements and employing work-from-home contracts to allow flexibility to maintain 
business activities.

Overall water 
stress 
vulnerability 
scores per each 
region

Significant impact

Major impact

Moderate impact

Minor impact

No immediate impact

Future-facing ability to respond effectively to climate-related bid requirements.

What is the risk and the potential impacts?

•  Capita’s bid process for new service contracts is increasingly subject to environmental and 
specifically climate-related requirements as part of the scoring process determining bid 
success. This applies both to public and private sector bids.

•  In future, given the fast-changing nature of these requirements and anticipated increases in 

score weighting for these across both the public and private sector, Capita is at risk of falling 
behind and losing future business opportunities if it does not adequately prepare to respond.

What is the business doing about it?

Capita is engaging across the business to raise awareness of the potential for losing bids if 
climate-related criteria are not sufficiently addressed. In doing so it has identified measures to 
mitigate the risk and instead transform this into an opportunity for Capita to differentiate itself 
among competitors and contribute to positive climate impacts through its services.

The focus areas for risk mitigation include continuing action on environmental performance, 
strengthening bid governance including the contract review process, and building climate-
related capabilities and skills for those involved in the contract delivery lifecycle. 

Factors used to quantify scale of potential financial impact from risk

1

2

3

Proportion of 
bids subject to 
climate-related 
requirements

Proportion of 
climate-related 
criteria 
ineffectively 
responded to

Likelihood that 
bid is won/lost 
based on 
climate-related 
criteria

Scale of 
future 
opportunities 
at risk of loss 
if Capita 
does not 
effectively 
mitigate this 
risk

54

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  TCFD continued

Resilience and transition plan

In the near term, transition risks are deemed to 
be more material to the business than physical 
risks. While our decarbonisation action plan 
reduces our exposure to transition risks associated 
with energy and carbon costs, we are still sensitive 
to changes in customer behaviour and markets. 
As such, our engagement strategy with 
stakeholders across the value chain is important 
in ensuring we are proactive in minimising the risk 
and seizing opportunities that align with a net 
zero transition.

Our climate scenario analysis using hot house 
world-related scenarios demonstrates how the 
impacts on our business from physical climate 
change could increase over time. As such, we 
plan to conduct further analysis of the impacts 
from a wider range of physical climate variables 
across our portfolio and supply chain in 
the future.

Capita has updated its target to become fully 
net zero by 2045 and is working to validate 
this target with the SBTi. Further details on 
our targets and climate transition plan can be 
found on our climate change hub webpage.

Risk management
Understanding the physical and transitional 
climate-related risks and opportunities relevant 
to our business means we are better able to 
identify and respond to the most exposed 
areas of our business.

Climate change is fully integrated into our risk 
management system and in 2023 has been 
categorised as part of Capita’s ESG principal 
risk. As part of the ESG principal risk, climate 
change risk is subject to oversight and quarterly 
review by the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee, 
and ownership is assigned to the Chief General 
Counsel. We also undertook a separate climate 
risk assessment to ensure the nuances of climate 
issues are accounted for and understood by 
the business.

Risk identification and assessment process

In 2021, Capita held several internal interviews to 
understand how risks and opportunities manifest 
for different divisions and functions. A longlist 
of risks and opportunities relevant to the Group 
was developed, cross-referenced against a peer 
review and TCFD resources, and was qualitatively 
analysed in 2021. The analysis provided Capita 
with an understanding of which climate issues 
were most significant to the business.

In 2022, we selected five climate risks to model 
quantitative potential future financial impact. 
These risks were selected based on their 
perceived significance, as well as the feasibility of 
quantification given data or methodology limitations.

The financial implications were derived by 
extracting financial indicators from climate 
scenario sources and overlaying this with our 
business data eg applying a carbon price to 
our emissions profile. The risks quantitatively 
assessed included water stress under the 
‘physical climate risk’ category, and ‘net zero 
transition’ carbon pricing under the category 
supply chain pass-through cost and carbon 
credit pricing. The assessment results specific 
to these risk drivers can be found on pages 51 
and 52 of the 2022 Annual Report.

In 2023, we prioritised one key transition risk 
associated with growing stakeholder pressure for 
climate action, specifically exploring the potential 
financial impacts of insufficient responses to 
fast-changing climate requirements in bids. The 
purpose of this was to develop understanding of 
the potential future implications and to engage 
the business on the matter, the outcomes are 
disclosed on page 54. We developed an internal 
quantification tool which models the potential 
financial impacts of lost opportunities under 
hypothetical scenarios, which is being used 
to engage relevant divisional teams around our 
response to this risk and associated opportunity. 
Capita will adopt a similar approach for the 
continued analysis of risks and opportunities 
where it is recognised that there is a lack of 
business awareness or a significant opportunity.

Risk controls

As with all Group-wide risks, the scoring process 
applied to climate change within the ESG principal 
risk identifies key controls and mitigating actions 
to reduce risk from inherent to residual level 
based on the risk appetite defined by the Board.

Current climate risk controls include adopting 
science-based emission reduction targets; 
monitoring supply chain emissions; climate 
factors integrated into due diligence when 
onboarding new suppliers; business continuity 
planning to ensure climate resilience; a travel 
policy to reduce business travel; and ongoing 
monitoring of health, safety and environment 
legislation. These controls and their 
effectiveness are reviewed regularly.

Risk integration approach

The results of the risk identification and 
assessment process are integrated into Capita’s 
Group-wide risk management framework, which 
includes continuous monitoring of ongoing and 
emerging risks across emerging legal, health, 
safety and environmental regulations (such as 
the UK Government’s PPN 06/21), using Capita’s 
HSE legal register and an online compliance tool. 
Assessments into required mitigation actions 
will be carried out and integrated into Capita’s 
investment planning and strategy.

55

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportResponsible business 

  TCFD continued

•  Proportion of executive remuneration 

Climate-related targets:

•  Long-term net zero target: Capita commits 

assigned to climate considerations: Capita 
incorporated performance against Capita’s 
climate targets in the 2021 remuneration policy 
applicable for 2023 remuneration.

Other climate-related indicators monitored:

•  % of supply chain spend with suppliers who 
have science-based GHG reduction targets, 
helping track supply chain emissions and 
attainment of SBTs.

•  Proportion of renewable electricity, tracking 
our fossil fuels phase-out and adoption of 
new energy sources.

•  Emissions associated with business travel, 
contributing to the attainment of climate 
targets. Carbon intensity of business by 
turnover and headcount.

Capita has set a range of ambitious targets to 
reduce the company’s impact on global warming, 
and its exposure to climate-related risks. Capita 
has updated its target to reach net zero by 2045 
and is working with the SBTi to have this verified. 
A description of our performance over the past 
three years can be found on page 41.

•  Near-term targets: Capita commits to reduce 
absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and 
absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions covering 
business travel 46% by 2030 from a 2019 
base year. Capita also commits that 50% of 
its suppliers by spend covering purchased 
goods and services and capital goods will 
have science-based targets by 2025.

to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions, and absolute Scope 3 GHG 
emissions covering purchased goods and 
services, capital goods, business travel and 
employee commuting by 90% by 2045 from 
the base year of 2019, and neutralise any 
remaining hard-to-abate emissions using 
robust carbon removals.

•  Capita’s plan to achieve these targets 

across our global operation is addressed 
under driving down GHG emissions, see 
page 40.

Metrics and targets

Climate-related metrics

The business is committed to developing 
cross-industry, climate-related metrics in 
accordance with the 2021 TCFD implementation 
guidance update. Capita’s metrics link to risks 
and opportunities categorised as market shift to 
low carbon solutions and net zero in the climate 
risks and opportunities table above. See the 
annual GHG emissions table in the Planet 
section for the movement in metrics and 
progress against targets.

•  Scope 1 to 3 emissions: we measure and 
disclose our operational (Scope 1 and 2) 
and business travel (Scope 3) GHG emissions 
annually, see page 42, and our full value chain 
emissions via CDP’s climate questionnaire in 
accordance with the GHG Protocol’s 
methodology.

•  Exposure to climate-related risks: the 

climate scenario analysis conducted under 
strategy informs the significance of potential 
exposure to climate impacts over time and 
different climate scenarios.

56

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control

Risk management and internal control

We manage risks proactively
Capita is exposed to a wide range of risks that, 
should they materialise, could have a detrimental 
impact on our financial performance, reputation 
or operational resilience. We recognise that 
effective risk management and internal control 
are fundamental to helping to protect shareholder 
value and deliver our strategic objectives.

Risk governance and oversight
The Board is ultimately accountable for providing 
strategic governance and stewardship of the 
company. Throughout 2023, the principal and 
emerging risks facing the company continued to 
be reviewed by the Board, including those risks 
that could threaten Capita’s business strategy 
delivery, future performance, operational 
resilience or financial position. The Board is 
committed to the continuous improvement of our 
governance and risk management processes, to 
ensure that risks, including new and emerging 
risks, continue to be identified and managed 
effectively and in a timely manner.

The Audit and Risk Committee (the ARC), which 
has delegated responsibility from the Board for 
reviewing and assessing the risk management 
and internal control systems, is responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s principal risk profile and 
ensuring management has developed effective 
risk management strategies.

During 2023, the ARC continued to review 
and brief the Board on the Group’s system of 
risk management and internal control and on 
the effectiveness of the procedures for internal 
control over financial reporting, compliance and 
operational matters.

The executive risk and ethics committee (the 
EREC) is responsible for identifying, assessing, 
overseeing and challenging principal risks across 
all Capita’s unregulated businesses and provides 
regular updates to the ARC. Capita recognises 

the importance of its financial services businesses 
and the need for specific oversight, to manage 
and mitigate regulatory risks associated within 
those businesses. This oversight is provided by 
the financial regulated entities oversight committee 
(the FREOC). The FREOC is chaired by an 
independent non-executive director, supported 
by specialist risk and compliance professionals 
and provides regular updates to the ARC.

On a day-to-day basis, divisional and functional 
leaders, senior leadership and business unit 
teams identify, manage and monitor risks that 
they are accountable for. Capita recognises that 
risk cannot be fully eliminated and that there 
are certain risks the Board and/or the senior 
leadership will accept when pursuing strategic 
business opportunities. However, these 
risk acceptance decisions are made at 
an appropriate authority level and reflect 
the organisation’s defined risk appetite.

Cyber incident
On Friday 31 March 2023, a threat actor gained 
unauthorised access to certain of our IT systems. 
Capita was alerted to this via our security 
capabilities and the access was duly interrupted, 
which significantly restricted the potential impact 
of loss of sensitive data. Prompt action was 
taken to secure our systems and remediate 
issues arising from the incident. Despite the 
setback, we continued to deliver our contractual 
commitments and further steps are underway 
to strengthen our IT infrastructure.

Improving our internal controls
We continuously seek opportunities to enhance 
our risk management and internal control 
environment and introduce greater rigour and 
standardisation in our processes and controls. 
The Board recognises that Capita’s control 
effectiveness remains highly dependent on 
management intervention.

During the year, we initiated a controls 
improvement programme, to document key 
business processes and controls. Our Group 
Internal Audit function will provide assurance over 
control design as part of its annual audit plan.

The Board and the ARC do not underestimate 
the work needed to ensure that robust internal 
control and risk assessment frameworks are 
embedded fully. Work will continue to be 
undertaken throughout 2024 and 2025 to 
enhance and improve the standardisation and 
overall effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control framework. The status of the controls 
improvement plan will continue to be monitored 
at ARC.

Minimum control standards
Minimum control standards are the self-
assessment of financial controls undertaken by 
the finance team to identify areas where control 
improvements are required. Any material issues 
are dealt with through mitigating activities to 
ensure the effectiveness of the existing controls 
over financial reporting.

During 2023, the finance function continued to 
enhance the self-assessment process across 
the whole organisation to obtain assurance over 
the operation of key financial controls. Specific 
improvements included additional checking 
procedures to ensure the robustness of 
assurance over the effectiveness of controls 
and ensuring the scope of the minimum control 
standards aligns with the latest documentation 
of key risks and controls over financial reporting.

Key control questionnaire
Capita runs a key control questionnaire (KCQ) 
process. The KCQ is an annual management 
attestation process where business leaders testify 
to the effectiveness of key controls and adherence 
with group policies within their functions, divisions 
or business units. The results from the KCQ 

process inform the development of action plans 
for control improvement during the subsequent 
year. The KCQ reinforces accountability and 
increases business leaders’ awareness of their 
responsibilities in maintaining an effective control 
environment. The status of KCQ corrective 
actions arising from the exercise are monitored 
by EREC throughout the year.

Risk management process
Our risk management framework (RMF) is defined 
at a Group level with implementation and execution 
owned within each of our functions, divisions and 
business units. The RMF, which is mandated 
throughout the Company, provides a consistent 
approach to the identification, assessment, 
monitoring and reporting of risks and opportunities. 
The RMF also ensures that ownership and 
responsibilities for managing risks are clearly 
understood across the Group.

The functions, divisions and business unit teams 
then work in collaboration with each other to 
undertake a ‘top down, bottom up’ approach 
to identify, assess and respond to risks faced 
by Capita. The risk management process is 
based on risk registers and risk reporting at 
the established risk governance committees. 
Key risks are documented in the risk registers 
and have assigned risk owners who review 
them regularly, and report on them on at least 
a quarterly basis, as part of the risk reporting 
process. The strength of existing controls is 
evaluated to determine whether any further 
mitigating actions are needed to manage the risk 
level to within the risk appetite set by the Board.

A centrally coordinated risk and assurance 
committee timetable enables timely flow of 
risk information from business units to EREC, 
and from EREC to the ARC. During 2023, our 
risk management processes continued to 
operate effectively.

57

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control continued

Risk governance structure and assurance lines

Board

Top 
down

Independent 
assurance

Risk  
oversight

Ownership and 
management  
of risk

Bottom 
up

3

Audit and Risk  
Committee (ARC)

Executive Team and  
risk committees

Risk, compliance  
and governance

Divisional and business  
unit management

Local risk committees

2

1

Third line of defence
•  Internal Audit reports directly  
to the Board and ARC on the 
effectiveness of governance, 
internal control and risk 
management, through an 
independent risk-based 
assurance programme

•  Helps safeguard the first two lines 
and recommend improvements as 
the risk profile adapts and changes

Second line of defence
•  Provides the policies, framework, 
tools, techniques and support to 
empower risk and internal control 
to be managed by the first line

•  Establishes monitoring controls, 
provides oversight and regularly 
evaluates the effectiveness of 
the first line

•  Promotes consistency of the key 
objectives and management of 
risk across the Group

First line of defence
•  Includes senior leadership and 
employees who, as part of their 
core roles, identify and manage 
key risks

•  Equipped with the necessary 
skills, knowledge and tools to 
operate effectively and have the 
relevant authority levels to embed 
the policies and procedures 
across the internal controls and 
risk management frameworks

Emerging risks
The identification of emerging risks is carried out 
by functions, divisions and business units using 
a bottom-up approach, and the executive from a 
top-down perspective. Regular reviews of risks, 
including emerging risks and project/programme 
risks, are included in risk and assurance 
committees within Capita’s existing governance 
structures. During the year, Capita identified an 
emerging risk around our ability to procure, build 
and implement solutions to improve future and 
existing client propositions through the use of 
generative artificial intelligence (gen AI).

We envisage that gen AI will create significant 
competitive opportunities to the nature of 
services Capita delivers to clients. The emerging 
risks associated with this are acknowledged, and 
further evaluation of the risk and the opportunities 
this could bring are planned to be explored 
in 2024.

Our principal risk profile
Principal risks are defined as those risks that 
we determine to be the most material which 
can affect the performance, reputation and 
operational resilience of our business. These 
risks are owned and managed by a member of 
the Executive Team who has accountability for 
ensuring that the risk is effectively managed. 
Assigning risk ownership at executive level also 
ensures that an appropriate level of attention and 
focus is applied in managing the principal risks.

We recognise that it is good practice to review 
our principal risk profile regularly to ensure that 
it remains relevant and in line with our strategic 
objectives. In Q3 2023, Capita initiated a review 
of its principal risk profile, which resulted in a 
reduction in the number of principal risks from 
13 to nine. During the course of 2024, we will 
define the Group’s risk appetite in respect of 
these newly defined principal risks.

The Board remains confident that our existing 
governance frameworks and risk management 
processes will ensure that risks, including any 
emerging risks, continue to be identified and 
dealt with effectively. While recognising the 
improvement made over the last few years 
associated with the simplification of the business, 
the Board acknowledges that risk management 
and mitigation is a continuous process and that it 
is likely to take several years for all risk mitigation 
actions to be fully effective.

At Capita, principal risks are considered over the 
same three-year period as the viability statement. 
They are listed below, and for each risk we 
disclose key risk drivers, mitigating actions, and 
intended future mitigations to manage the risk 
and improve internal control.

58

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control continued

Risk 
1. Profitable 
growth

2. Contract 

performance

Executive risk owner(s) Risk category Risk trend
Divisional Executive Officers 
(EOs)

Strategic

Stable residual risk position. We continue to 
bid for and win new contracts on appropriate 
commercial terms.

Divisional EOs

Operational

3. Innovation

Divisional EOs and  
Chief Technology Officer

Strategic

4. People 

attraction  
and retention

5. Financial 
stability

Chief People Officer

People

Chief Financial Officer

Financial

6. Cyber security Chief Technology Officer

Technology

7. ESG 

(environmental,  
social and 
governance)

Chief General Counsel and  
Chief People Officer

Legal and 
compliance

8. Safety and 

health

Chief General Counsel and 
Divisional EOs

Legal and 
compliance

9. Data 

governance  
and data 
privacy

Chief General Counsel and  
Chief Technology Officer

Legal and 
compliance

Stable residual risk position. We continue 
to deliver services that are vital to the 
success of our clients in line with 
contractual commitments.

Stable residual risk position. We continue 
to work on effectively managing existing 
propositions and identifying opportunities 
which will create new propositions for 
our clients.

Improved residual risk position. We are now 
more successful in attracting talented people 
we need to succeed and have seen a 
material decrease in our levels of attrition.

Improved residual risk position. Following the 
successful disposal of our Portfolio 
businesses, the healthy funding position of 
the Group’s main defined benefit pension 
scheme, and the implementation of the cost 
reduction programme to deliver £60m of 
annualised cost savings from Q1 2024 
underpinning our plan to generate positive 
free cash flow in the medium term. 

Stable residual risk position. There is 
increased focus on improving our cyber 
security posture to protect our systems 
from future unauthorised access and use.

Stable residual risk position. We are 
developing our net zero transition plans 
to reduce our environmental impact and 
supporting our clients and suppliers to do 
the same.

Stable residual risk position. We continue to 
protect the safety and health of all Capita’s 
employees, and manage our duty of care to 
them, the people we work with and those 
affected by our acts and omissions.

Introduced as a new risk in 2023. Capita 
holds significant amounts of employee and 
client data, and additional resources will be 
deployed to enhance our data governance 
and data privacy controls.

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

1. Profitable growth

•  Inability to 

Attract new 
clients and retain 
existing clients 
on appropriate 
commercial terms.

Executive owner:

renew contracts
•  Non-competitive 

pricing

•  Lack of investment 

and innovation
•  Misalignment to 

market requirement

Divisional EOs

•  Inappropriate 

commercial terms 
in contracts

Integral to our growth strategy, this risk considers 
the potential impact of failure to win new bids or 
renew existing contracts on appropriate 
commercial terms.

There is enhanced focus on leveraging digital 
platforms and technology enabled solutions 
to meet and enhance our value proposition.

Mitigating actions
•  Market sector strategies and account plans

•  Streamlined delivery capability

•  Contract commercial review process

•  Investment committees and digital strategy

•  Business Development function, providing 
market intelligence and horizon scanning

•  Divisional performance reporting process

Future mitigation
•  Enhanced sales governance process

•  Acceleration of digital strategy

•  Market sector strategies and account plans, 
aligned to work being undertaken by external 
strategy consultants.

•  Effective framework exploitation

•  Strengthen customer focus (including 
customer centricity workstream and 
customer advisory boards)

•  Renewed focus on mid-range deals

•  Re-baseline onerous contract terms

59

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control continued

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

2. Contract 
performance

Deliver services to 
clients in line with 
contractual and 
legal obligations.

•  Ineffective contract 

management

•  Lack of the capacity or 
capability to deliver 
contractual 
expectations

•  Ineffective service 

Executive owner:

mobilisation

Clients and customers are at the heart of what 
we do. Ensuring that we not only deliver services to 
clients in line with contractual and legal obligations, 
but going above and beyond is fundamental to 
our strategy in ensuring that we remain as trusted 
partners to our clients. There is constant focus on 
enhancing customer engagement and improved 
governance of contract lifecycle management.

Divisional EOs

•  Inadequate supplier 

management
•  Aged, unstable 
or unreliable 
infrastructure

Mitigating actions
•  Contract management framework and 

performance reviews

•  Sales governance

•  Robust lifecycle management and 

programme delivery

•  Supplier management framework

•  Resilience and recovery plans

•  Internal and external assurance

•  Effective operational business resilience and 

recovery plans

Future mitigation
•  Contract monitoring and assurance

3. Innovation

•  Lack of clear strategy 

Innovate and 
develop new 
customer value 
propositions with 
speed and agility.

Executive owner:

Divisional EOs

Chief Technology 
Officer

and ownership 
for innovation

•  Lack of investment 
in new technology 
and capability

•  Non-alignment with 
technology trends 
and developments
•  Lack of capacity  

and/or skill sets to 
develop, scale and sell 
innovative solutions

Innovation, the pursuit of new and groundbreaking 
ideas, technologies and/or strategies inherently 
involves venturing into uncharted territory which 
may expose Capita to various risks such as the 
possibility of failure, financial losses and negative 
impacts on reputation and market position.

Timeliness of embracing appropriate technology 
and aligning it to enhance customer experience 
and value proposition is of the essence. The advent 
of AI brings challenges as well as opportunities for 
greater innovation.

Mitigating actions
•  Divisional and client group strategy reviews

•  Digital steering group and investment committees

•  Intelligence hub which analyses market data  
and government policy which directly drives  
our strategy

•  Dedicated consulting capability to influence and 

align client solution requirements

Future mitigations
•  Digital transformation strategy

•  Glidepath on the approach to innovation, both 

at divisional and Group level

•  Aligning with technology trends and client 

expectations

•  Develop innovative products and services 
delivering value addition to the client and 
their business

•  Investment in cloud and data analytics

60

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control continued

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

4. People attraction 
and retention

Attract, develop, 
engage and retain 
the right talent.

Executive owner:

Chief People Officer

•  Development 

opportunities and 
career progression 
that do not meet 
the expectations 
of colleagues

•  Uncompetitive pay 

and benefits
•  External market 

factors effecting the 
availability of labour

Our people are our assets and we have been 
successful in attracting the talented people we 
need to succeed. In 2023, we have also seen 
material improvements in our levels of attrition. 
Moving forward, we are focusing on how we 
engage and develop our people.

Mitigating actions
•  Career path framework and succession process

•  Global reward framework

•  Global management and leadership academy, 

performance and development process

•  Monitor external labour market and trends

•  Employee engagement survey

•  Colleague performance reviews

Future mitigations
•  Roll out remainder of the career path framework 

to enable employees to plan and develop 
their careers

•  Continue to roll out pay and reward framework 

across all countries to ensure that they 
are competitive

•  Complete design and implementation of 

leadership essentials programme

•  Continue to explore opportunities to utilise 

offshore capability

5. Financial stability

Maintain financial 
stability and achieve 
financial targets.

Executive owner:

Chief Financial 
Officer

•  Inaccurate (long 
and short-term) 
forecasting, business 
planning and 
connected cash 
flow volatility

•  Unexpected breach 
of debt covenants 
resulting in inability to 
drawdown facilities/
refinance as required

•  Restrictions in 

current pension and 
borrowing agreements 
hindering/preventing 
implementation of 
desired corporate 
strategy

•  Inefficient cost base
•  Significant unexpected 

event(s)

The trading performance of the Group is outlined in 
the Chief Financial Officer’s review. The Group’s 
low levels of net debt, pension surplus, prudent 
balance sheet management and focus on 
improving free cash flow before business exits 
all serve to mitigate the risk of financial instability.

Mitigating actions
•  Contract review committee approval of key 
contracts, monitoring of major contract risks

•  Internal review and challenge of business plan 

and reforecasting during the year

•  Scenario modelling during business planning

•  Prospective monitoring of direct cash flow and 

covenant compliance

•  Existence of insurance mitigates some events

•  Ongoing reviews of business performance

Future mitigations
•  Improve cash generation by delivering £60m of 

annualised cost savings from Q1 2024

•  Target a further £100m of annualised efficiencies 

to be delivered by the middle of 2025

•  Enhance the Group’s cash forecasting and 

reporting processes

61

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control continued

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

6. Cyber security

Protect our 
systems, networks 
and programs from 
unauthorised use 
and access.

Executive owner:

Chief Technology 
Officer

•  Sub-optimal identify, 

protect, detect, 
respond and 
recover capability 
(Cybersecurity’s 
Five Functions as 
defined by the National 
Institute of Science 
and Technology)
•  External threat (tech 
change, legal and 
regulatory including 
international, 
geopolitical landscape)

•  People (insider 

threat, capacity and 
capability, training 
and awareness)

•  Insufficient funding to 
improve and maintain 
security posture
•  Third party and 

partners’ inadequate 
cyber and information 
security posture

Cyber security is a key focus for Capita and 
we continuously monitor and improve our cyber 
posture to ensure our systems, networks and 
programs are protected from unauthorised use  
and access.

Mitigating actions
•  Cyber security strategy and compliance 

assessment framework

•  Threat Intelligence function

•  Cyber training and awareness

•  Supplier information security due 

diligence process

•  Communication and education plan 
supported with mandatory training

Future mitigations
•  Security design governance framework

•  Deliver against our National Institute of 

Science and Technology improvement plan

•  Deliver cyber security programme

•  Standardise and enhance our security toolset

•  Security operation centre improvement

7. ESG

Comply with 
regulatory and 
contractual 
requirements to 
drive a purpose 
driven organisation 
with the right focus 
on governance.

Executive owners:

Chief General 
Counsel and Chief 
People Officer

•  Non-compliance with 
applicable regulations 
and Capita policies 
and standards 
including but not 
limited to: supplier 
charter; Code of 
Conduct; human 
rights; environment; 
anti-bribery and 
corruption; 
procurement; conflict 
of interest; financial 
crime; diversity and 
inclusion; business 
resilience; and incident 
management

•  Inadequate monitoring, 
reporting and inability 
to fully understand all 
contractual obligations

•  Changing regulatory 

environment – eg new 
ESG reporting 
legislation

Capita is committed to being a responsible 
organisation. This means a constant, Group-wide 
focus on governance and how we can deliver 
better for all our stakeholders – employees, 
shareholders, clients, end-users and communities. 
We are committed to transitioning to net zero by 
2045, reducing our environmental impact and 
supporting our clients and suppliers to do the 
same.

Mitigating actions
•  Responsible business principles, divisional action 

plans, divisional delivery and compliance, 
including annual external index ratings: EcoVadis, 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Sustainalytics

•  ESG governance process

•  Net zero governance

•  Supply chain management including 

due diligence

•  Human rights policies and procedures, 
including our modern slavery statement

•  Operational resilience and incident management

Future mitigations
•  Develop divisional and functional net zero plans 

to monitor and manage emissions

•  Finalise and implement the responsible 

business principles

•  Develop and implement a plan to 

manage regulatory changes to ESG 
legislative environment

•  Improve the due diligence framework to meet 
the additional legislative requirements outside 
the UK

•  Develop a system/programme to measure 
compliance with supplier charter on an 
ongoing basis 

62

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportRisk management and internal control continued

Principal risk 

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

Principal risk

Key risk drivers

How we manage the risk

8. Safety and health

Protect the safety 
and health of all 
Capita’s employees 
and manage our 
duty of care to 
them, the people we 
work with and those 
affected by our 
acts and omissions.

Executive owners:

Chief General 
Counsel and 
Divisional EOs

•  Immature practical 
approach and lack 
of ownership and 
accountability 
across Capita
•  Inadequate HSE 

capability, capacity 
and structure

•  Inadequate incident 

and near miss 
reporting and analysis
•  Lack of standardised 

and reliable 
health data

As a responsible employer we are committed to 
the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees 
and the people we work with.

Mitigating actions
•  Assurance programme for wellbeing, HSE, 

occupational health, and safeguarding

•  Pan-Capita HSE team reporting lines, 

structure, and capability/capacity review

•  Health data collection and analysis

•  Framework of safety and health policies, 

standards and processes including 
mandatory training

•  Accidents, incidents, near misses and hazards 
reporting along with divisional/Group incident 
analysis/investigation and lessons learned

•  Incident management in line with Group policies, 

standards and procedures

Future mitigations
•  Expand proactive occupational health 
intervention programme in Capita UK

•  Reconfigure reporting lines, structure, 
and capacity of divisional HSE team

9. Data governance 
and data privacy

Manage our data 
effectively (both 
clients and Capita) 
as a strategic 
asset across 
the organisation.

Executive owners:

Chief General 
Counsel and Chief 
Technology Officer

•  Inconsistent 

data governance 
framework, practices 
or technology to 
manage data

•  Lack of awareness of 
regulatory (especially 
data privacy) 
obligations

•  Lack of understanding 
of what data we have, 
where it is stored and 
who owns it

Data is the lifeblood of Capita and a strategic 
asset that we will manage to improve client value 
and citizens’ lives, allow risk to be managed more 
effectively, elevate trust with stakeholders, increase 
growth, enable business efficiency, and enable 
technological innovation and digital transformation. 
Capita has appointed a Chief Data Officer to drive 
transformation in this space in 2024.

Mitigating actions
•  Data privacy policies, standards, procedures 

and mandatory data privacy training

Future mitigations
•  Implement data governance control framework

•  Embed data privacy processes through the 
allocation of appropriate resourcing by the 
businesses and functions, in accordance with 
already promulgated Group data privacy policy 
and standards

63

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportViability statement

Viability statement

In accordance with provision 31 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2018, the Board 
has assessed the viability of the Group and 
Parent Company over the three-year period 
to 31 December 2026, aligned with the period 
of the Group’s business planning process. The 
Board believes that a three-year period provides 
sufficient clarity to consider the Group and 
Parent Company’s prospects and facilitates 
the development of a robust base case set of 
financial projections against which severe but 
plausible downside scenario stress testing can 
be conducted.

In its assessment of the Group’s viability, 
the Board has considered the following:

•  Adjusted revenue growth in 2023 of 1.3%.

•  The cost reduction programmes being 

implemented during 2024.

•  The completion of the Portfolio non-core 

business disposal programme in January 2024.

•  The repayment of £113m of financial debt in 
2023, with no further repayments scheduled 
in 2024.

•  The renewal of the revolving credit facility in 

2023 until 31 December 2026 and the issuance 
of £101.9m US private placement debt with a 
mixture of three and five-year maturities.

•  Agreement with the Trustees of the Group’s 
main defined benefit pension scheme that 
no further deficit recovery contributions are 
required from the Group in 2025 and beyond.

The foregoing elements provide the backdrop 
to the three-year business plan approved by the 
Board in December 2023. The main assumptions 
underpinning the base case financial projections 
in the Group’s business plan are set out below:

•  Further adjusted revenue growth beyond 2024 
broadly in line with market trends in each of 
the two core divisions.

•  Operating profit margin expansion over the 
business plan period reflecting the benefit 
of operating leverage coupled with ongoing 
efficiency delivery.

•  Delivery of cost savings.

•  A transition to positive free cash flow generation 

reflecting the above assumptions and the 
cessation of pension deficit contributions 
with effect from 2025.

The most material assumptions, from a 
viability assessment perspective, relate to 
the continuation of adjusted revenue growth, 
operating profit margin expansion, and delivery 
of cost savings.

The three-year base case financial projections 
were used to assess covenant compliance and 
liquidity headroom under different scenarios. This 
analysis included assessing the sensitivity of the 
financial performance of the Group to changes in 
trading conditions in line with those considered 
in the severe but plausible downside case for 
the going concern assessment and from the 
crystallisation of specific risks including those 
set out in the principal risks section of the 2023 
Annual Report and Accounts (refer to section 1 
of the consolidated financial statements).

The risks applied have not been probability 
weighted but rather consider the impact should 
each risk materialise by applying a ‘more likely 
than not’ test. These wide-ranging risks are 
unlikely to crystallise simultaneously and there 
are mitigations under the direct control of the 
Group, including reductions in capital investment, 
substantially reducing (and/or removing in full) 
bonus and incentive payments, and significantly 
reducing discretionary spend, that can be actioned 
to address a combination of risk crystallisations 
that may occur under a severe but plausible 
downside. These have been considered in 
the Board’s viability assessment.

Reflecting the Board’s expectations of 
improving financial performance, as set out 
above, and its confidence in the Group’s ability 
to refinance maturing debt over the viability 
assessment period, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and Parent Company 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
their liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of the viability assessment.

The strategic report was approved by the 
Board and signed on behalf of the Board:

Claire Denton
Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary

5 March 2024

Capita plc

Registered in England and Wales 
No.2081330

64

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportCorporate 
governance

Corporate governance

66

68

70

72

79

84

87

96

Chairman’s report

Governance at a glance

Board of Directors

Corporate governance report

Nomination Committee report

ESG Committee report

Audit and Risk Committee report

Directors’ remuneration report

119 Directors’ report

65

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Chairman’s report

Chairman’s report 

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce 
the Company’s corporate governance report for 
the year ended 31 December 2023.

2023 was my first full year as Chairman, following 
my appointment in May 2022.

Corporate governance
This corporate governance report sets out how 
the Company has complied with the 2018 UK 
Corporate Governance Code. It also aims to 
explain the work and activities of the Board, 
and the work of its committees.

Company purpose and culture, and 
Board decision making
We recognise that the Board has ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring an appropriate culture 
is in place across Capita to underpin how the 
business behaves towards all its stakeholders. 
Our culture provides the foundation to deliver our 
strategy for all stakeholders – our people, clients 
and customers, suppliers and partners, investors, 
and society. We fully understand our obligations 
to consider the interest of all our stakeholders 
when making decisions, but we recognise that in 
certain instances the interests of our differing 
stakeholders may conflict, presenting challenging 
decisions for the Board and senior management.

During the year, principal issues for the Board’s 
focus included: responding to the cyber incident 
which occurred in late March; CEO succession 
planning; the Company’s operational and 
financial performance; and capital 
allocation considerations.

The Board considered and approved actions to 
improve the Company’s financial performance 
and position, which is in the interests of all 
stakeholders. This included the issuance of 
the US private placement notes in July and the 
extension of the maturity of the Group’s revolving 
credit facility, improving the Group’s debt profile 
and, in November, commencement of the 
restructuring programme intended to deliver 
£60m of annualised cost savings from Q1 2024.

The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee 
spent considerable time during the year focusing 
on the cyber incident, and the subsequent 
acceleration of investment to improve further 
the cyber maturity profile of the Group. In 
addition, the Company undertook an extensive 
organisational review and, as announced on 21 
November 2023, commenced a consultation 
programme expected to deliver cost savings of 
£60m on an annualised basis from Q1 2024, 
with approximately 900, principally indirect, 
support function and overhead roles ‘at risk’ 
of redundancy. While the Board recognised 
the impact on some of our colleagues, we 
considered that this decision, which would 
contribute to a more sustainable future for 
Capita, was in the long-term interests of the 
Company and our stakeholders as a whole. 
Capita provided support to affected colleagues 
during the initial consultation process, which 
concluded in early 2024.

Our s172 statement, which details how the 
Board considers the views of its stakeholders 
and principal Board decisions during 2023, is 
on pages 45 to 48.

“ The Board strongly believes 
that good governance is a 
key part of the strength of 
our business and that by 
reviewing and monitoring 
our existing practices 
we can ensure that our 
governance continues 
to evolve and is aligned 
to our business and 
its needs”

David Lowden, Chairman

66

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceChairman’s report continued

Board succession planning 
and composition

Chief Executive Officer (CEO) successor

As announced on 31 July 2023, Jon Lewis 
informed the Board in 2022, that he was 
interested in exploring his future options, 
including eventual retirement from Capita and 
handover to a new CEO, once the business had 
pivoted to growth and a potential successor had 
been identified. Following these discussions, the 
Board commenced a succession-planning process.

Jon stood down from his role as CEO and 
from the Board on 17 January 2024, and was 
succeeded by Adolfo Hernandez. Jon will remain 
in the business until July to ensure an orderly 
transition. Adolfo was chosen by the Board 
after a rigorous selection process.

Prior to his appointment as CEO, Adolfo was the 
Vice President of Amazon Web Services Global 
Telecommunications business, which is focused 
on enabling digital transformation to the cloud for 
customers around the globe. During his 30-year 
career in the technology sector, Adolfo has 
achieved an excellent record in accelerating 
revenue growth driven by digital services. We 
were pleased to welcome Adolfo as our CEO 
in January and believe that his experience and 
skillset will be key to delivering our strategic 
priorities. Further information on Adolfo’s skills 
and experience are provided in his biography on 
page 70 of this corporate governance report and 
details of the selection process we followed are 
provided in my Nomination Committee report 
on pages 79 to 83.

On behalf of the Board, I would like to express 
our sincere thanks to Jon and pay tribute to 
his significant commitment and achievements 
at Capita since he joined in December 2017, 
including leading the successful transformation of 
the Group. He has shown outstanding leadership 
and determination in rebuilding Capita from the 
ground up. Jon has refocused, strengthened and 
returned the business to growth, while rebuilding 
client trust and improving colleague engagement. 
I also want to commend him for his leadership 
throughout the period following the cyber incident, 
during which Jon decided to delay his possible 
retirement from Capita.

Non-executive directors

John Cresswell decided to step down from 
the Board on 31 March 2023. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank John for his 
commitment and valuable contribution to the 
Board during his seven-year tenure as a director. 
We welcomed Claire Miles to the Board as an 
independent Non-Executive Director on 12 May 
2023. Shortly after Claire’s appointment to the 
Board, she was offered the position of chief 
executive officer of Stagecoach, the UK’s largest 
bus and coach operator. Due to Claire’s new 
executive role, she informed the Board in 
December that she would be unable to devote 
the appropriate time to her role at Capita and 
would therefore resign as a director. Claire 
stepped down from the Board on 31 December 
2023. The Board fully understood Claire’s 
decision and recognises that each director needs 
to have sufficient time to dedicate to their role. 

The Nomination Committee considers other 
commitments of our directors annually to ensure 
that each director is able to allocate sufficient 
time to Capita to discharge their responsibilities 
and I discuss this with each director during my 
one-to-one meetings with them. The Board does, 
however, recognise that the ability of directors to 
share their experiences and expertise from other 
positions is of value to the Company.

The Board strongly believes that good 
governance is a key part of the strength of our 
business and that by reviewing and monitoring 
our existing practices we can ensure that our 
governance continues to evolve and is aligned 
to our business and its needs. This includes 
assessing our governance structure and, in 
December 2023, having concluded the Portfolio 
disposal programme and streamlined the Group, 
culminating in just two divisions – Public Service 
and Experience, the Board agreed that while 
having an employee director on the Board had 
been successful, this was not suitable for the 
business going forward, and that instead the 
Board should ensure that there is broader 
engagement with colleagues. Consequently, 
Janine Goodchild our Employee Non-Executive 
Director stepped down from the Board on 31 
December 2023. It is the intention of the Board 
to increase its visibility with our wider workforce 
and the Board has appointed Nneka Abulokwe 
as the designated non-executive director to 
engage with our workforce. In addition, individual 
site visits will be arranged for our independent 
non-executive directors to meet with colleagues.

On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Claire and Janine for their valuable contributions.

2024 AGM
Our AGM will be held on 21 May 2024. This 
provides an opportunity for our shareholders to 
meet with our directors and I hope you will be 
able to attend.

Corporate governance and committee 
reports
The following pages in this section consist of our 
corporate governance and committee reports. 
I hope that you will find these and the entire 
Annual Report informative. The Board will be 
pleased to receive any feedback you may have.

David Lowden
Chairman

5 March 2024

67

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceGovernance at a glance 

Governance at a glance

The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Capita’s 
long-term sustainable success, generating value for shareholders, 
and contributing to wider society. To assist in providing effective 
oversight and leadership, the Board has established the 
following committees:

Capita Board

Governance highlights
During 2023 our governance framework supported our strategic delivery in a number 
of ways, including:

Board oversight of the  
completion of the Portfolio  
disposal programme

Consideration and approval of 
extension of revolving credit 
facility and issuance of US 
private placement notes

Group Audit and 
Risk Committee  
(ARC)

Remuneration 
Committee  
(RemCo)

Nomination  
Committee 
(NomCo)

Environmental,  
Social and 
Governance 
Committee 
(ESGCo)

Reviewing the 
Group’s capital  
allocation policy

Reviewing 
the results of  
the triennial 
pension valuation

Executive Team

The Group has an Executive Team to manage Capita’s business day to day. Further information on our governance 
structure is available throughout this corporate governance report.

Board changes during 2023 and 2024 to date

31 March 2023
John Cresswell 
stepped  
down as an 
independent non-
executive director

12 May 2023
Claire Miles was 
appointed as an 
independent non- 
executive director

31 December 
2023
Claire Miles and 
Janine Goodchild 
stepped down from 
the Board

17 January 2024
Jon Lewis stepped 
down as CEO 
and a Director, 
succeeded by 
Adolfo Hernandez

31 July 2023
The Company 
announced 
the proposed 
retirement of Jon 
Lewis as 
CEO and a 
Director, to be 
succeeded by  
Adolfo Hernandez 

Details of succession planning for the new CEO are provided in the Nomination Committee report on pages 79 to 83

Board focus on 
the cyber incident

Conducting an 
internal Board 
and Committee 
evaluation

Reviewing and 
approving  
the supplier 
charter

Reviewing 
the outcome of  
the colleague 
survey

Reviewing the remuneration policy for 
executive directors to be proposed  
to shareholders at the 2024 
annual general meeting

Search and identification of new CEO 
to succeed Jon Lewis upon his retirement 
and appointment of new Independent  
Non-Executive Director

68

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceGovernance at a glance continued

Board composition at 31 December 2023 and 5 March 2024 (the date of this report)

Independence (excluding Chairman)

Tenures

 Gender representation in senior Board positions

Gender diversity

Ethnic diversity

Member
31/12/2023

Independent  

%

Member
05/03/2024

Independent  
% 

Chairman

Chairman

31/12/2023
Years
>4

No.
2

05/03/2024
Years
>4

No.
1

CEO/CFO

62.5

CEO/CFO

67

2–3

5 INEDs
Employee 
Director

4 INEDs

1–2
<1

3

3
1

2–3

1–2
<1

3

2
1

31/12/2023 

05/03/2024

31/12/2023

05/03/2024

31/12/2023

05/03/2024

David Lowden, Chairman
Jon Lewis, CEO
Tim Weller, CFO
Georgina Harvey, Senior 
Independent Director

David Lowden, Chairman
Adolfo Hernandez, CEO
Tim Weller, CFO
Georgina Harvey, Senior 
Independent Director

4 Male 
(44%)

4 Male  
(57%)

7 White 
(78%)

5 White  
(71%)

5 Female 
(56%)

3 Female 
(43%)

2 Persons of 
colour (22%)

2 Persons of 
colour (29%)

1. Claire Miles resigned as a director on 31 December 2023.
2. Janine Goodchild resigned as employee director on 31 December 2023.
3. Adolfo Hernandez was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 17 January 2024, following the retirement of Jon Lewis.

Board skills and experience

Director

David Lowden
Adolfo Hernandez
Tim Weller

Nneka Abulokwe
Neelam Dhawan
Georgina Harvey
Brian McArthur-Muscroft

Government 
contracting

Regulated 
businesses

Business  
process 
outsourcing

Consulting

Account 
management

Technology and/
or digital

Transformation 
and strategy

Cyber security

Finance

International

Sustainability

•
•

•

•
•

•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

• 
•
•

•
• 

•

•
•

•

•
•

69

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceBoard of Directors

Chairman

Executive Directors

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Key to committees

A

Audit and Risk

N

Nomination

R

Remuneration

E

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)

Committee chair

N

E

N

A

N

R

E

David Lowden
Chairman

Adolfo Hernandez
Chief Executive Officer

Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer

Georgina Harvey
Senior Independent Director

Appointed: January 2021 (Independent 
Non-Executive Director); March 2021 (Senior 
Independent Director); May 2022 (Chairman)

Independent at appointment: Yes

Key skills and experience: David is a 
highly experienced non-executive director, 
senior independent director and chair of UK 
listed companies. He was formerly Chair of 
PageGroup plc and Huntsworth plc, Senior 
Independent Director at Berendsen, Chair of 
the Audit and Risk Committee at William Hill, 
Chair of the Audit Committee at Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc and Chief Executive 
of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.

Other current appointments: Chairman 
of Diploma plc; and Senior Independent 
Director of Morgan Sindall plc.

Appointed: January 2024

Appointed: May 2021

Key skills and experience: Adolfo has 
c.30 years’ experience in the technology 
sector, achieving an excellent record in 
accelerating revenue growth driven by 
digital services. Prior to joining Capita, 
Adolfo was Vice President of Amazon Web 
Services Global Telecommunications which 
is focused on enabling digital transformation 
to the cloud for customers across the globe. 
Former positions include: CEO of SDL plc 
(now part of RWS Group); and CEO of 
Acision (now part of Mavenir).

Board responsibilities: managing and 
developing Capita’s business to achieve 
the Company’s strategic objectives.

External appointments: None.

Key skills and experience: before joining 
Capita, Tim was at G4S for five years as 
its CFO and for three years before that as a 
Non-Executive Director. He has many years’ 
experience as a CFO with Innogy, RWE 
Thames Water, United Utilities, Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc and Petrofac. 
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
at KPMG, becoming a partner in 1997. He 
was a Non-Executive Director of The Carbon 
Trust from June 2007 to September 2023.

Board responsibilities: overall control and 
responsibility for all financial aspects of the 
business’s strategy.

External appointments:  
Independent Council Member of the 
University of Exeter.

Appointed: October 2019  
(Non-Executive Director); July 2022 
(Senior Independent Director)

Key skills and experience: Georgina 
has significant experience across highly 
competitive consumer-facing markets and 
of delivering successful transformational 
change. Prior to her current roles, Georgina 
was Managing Director of Regionals and 
a member of the Executive Committee 
of Trinity Mirror plc from 2005 to 2012.

Other current appointments:  
Non- Executive Director of Superdry plc 
and Britvic plc and a director of McColl’s 
Retail Group plc.

70

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceBoard members continued

Independent Non-Executive Directors

A

N

R

A

N

R

E

A

N

R

Brian McArthur-Muscroft

Appointed: June 2022

Nneka Abulokwe OBE

Neelam Dhawan

Appointed: February 2022

Appointed: March 2021

Key skills and experience: Brian 
was formerly the Chief Financial Officer 
of Qontigo, a financial intelligence and 
investment management business. Prior to 
this he was Group Chief Financial Officer at 
Micro Focus International plc, a FTSE 100 
global infrastructure software company. 
Former roles include CFO at Paysafe Group 
plc leading the business to a FTSE 250 
listing in 2016 and Group FD at Telecity 
Group plc. Prior to joining Capita he 
was a Non-Executive Director at Robert 
Walters plc. Brian holds a law degree and 
qualified as a chartered accountant with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in London.

Other current appointments: Brian is the 
Group CFO at IQ-EQ, a Global Investor 
Services company.

Key skills and experience: Nneka has 
significant experience of delivering large-
scale, high profile technology projects for 
governments and private institutions globally. 
She held senior and executive positions with 
Logica (now CGI), Atos and Sopra Steria, in 
a corporate career of more than 25 years, 
before founding MicroMax Consulting, 
where she is currently CEO. Nneka was 
also an External Member of the University 
of Cambridge Audit and Risk Committee. 
Nneka was awarded an OBE in 2019 for 
services to business.

Other current appointments: NED, 
Davies Group; Director of MicroMax 
Consulting Limited; Adviser, Cranfield 
School of Management Advisory Board and 
DoGood Africa. Member of Board of Visitors 
of Oxford University Ashmolean Museum.

Key skills and experience: Neelam has 
c.40 years experience in the IT industry, 
where she held senior positions in Hewlett-
Packard, Microsoft, Compaq and IBM with 
responsibility for a wide range of areas 
including strategy, corporate development, 
software engineering and offshoring. She 
now advises multinationals on business and 
technology transformation and, until recently 
was an advisor to IBM, helping them 
navigate through a business and talent 
transformation in India. Until 2023 Neelam 
was a director of Skylo Technologies Inc. 
and a member of the Koninklijke Philips 
NV Supervisory Board.

Other current appointments:  
Non-Executive Director of ICICI Bank 
Limited, Yatra Online Inc and Hindustan 
Unilever Limited and Capillary Technologies.

Directors who served during 2023

John Cresswell stepped down from 
the Board as Non-Executive Director 
on 31 March 2023.

Claire Miles was appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 12 May 2023 
and stepped down from the Board on 
31 December 2023.

Janine Goodchild stepped down from 
the Board as Employee Non-Executive 
Director on 31 December 2023.

71

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report 

Corporate governance report 

UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
Capita plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the Code) applies to accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and is available from the Financial Reporting Council’s website, 
www.frc.org.uk. The Code sets out the framework of governance for premium listed companies such 
as Capita plc.

The Board and its Committees note the publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024 
(the 2024 Code) published on 22 January 2024, which will apply to accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2025, other than Provision 29, which will apply to accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2026. The Board has commenced a review of the amended provisions contained 
within the 2024 Code.

Together with the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 96 to 118, this report sets out the Board’s 
approach to governance and the work undertaken over the year. During 2023, we complied with all 
relevant provisions set out in sections 1 to 5 of the Code except for Provision 24 which provides that 
audit committees should comprise independent non-executive directors. Janine Goodchild who was a 
member of the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) during 2023 was a non-executive employee director 
and was not considered as independent. However, the Board considered that the formal appointment 
of Janine to ARC continued to demonstrate how the Group values diversity of perspective and that this 
is considered more important than a purely compliance-driven approach to the Code. Janine stepped 
down from the Board on 31 December 2023. Following Janine’s resignation, ARC comprises solely 
independent non-executive directors.

Following Janine’s resignation, the Board has appointed Nneka Abulokwe as designated non-executive 
director for colleague engagement, in compliance with Code Provision 5, and is also considering 
wider engagement with colleagues. Further information is provided on page 67. Our new CEO, 
Adolfo Hernandez, has commenced a series of breakfast meetings at different Capita locations to 
meet with colleagues. In addition, Georgina Harvey, Remuneration Committee chair, has ongoing 
colleague engagement in respect of executive remuneration and considers feedback from these 
meetings which is shared with her fellow Committee members and the Board. Further details are 
included in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 100.

How we apply the principles of the Code

Section 1: Board leadership and Company purpose
Chairman’s introduction
Strategic report
The role of the Board
Purpose and culture
Stakeholder and colleague engagement
Section 2: Division of responsibilities
Board composition
Role of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors, and 
Company Secretary
Time commitment, external appointments, independence and tenure 
Section 3: Composition, succession and evaluation
Appointment to the Board and succession planning
Skills, experience, and knowledge of the Board
Board diversity
Board evaluation
Section 4: Audit risk and internal control
Auditor independence and effectiveness of the audit
Principal and emerging risks
Risk management activities
Fair, balanced, and understandable assessment
Viability statement
Section 5: Remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report

Further information about how the Company has applied the principles of the Code is set out in this 
corporate governance report. Key highlights of the Company’s compliance with the Code together 
with cross references to other sections of the Annual Report are detailed in the table opposite.

Directors’ remuneration policy
Engagement with stakeholders on remuneration

Pages

66 to 67
2 to 64
73
4, 8 to 9
45 to 48

75
74

69, 73, 79

79 to 83
69
69
76

92
59 to 63
57 to 59
89
64

96 to 118

101 to 107
99 to 100

72

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Governance structure and division of responsibilities

The Board

Role of the Board

The Board is responsible for promoting Capita’s long-term success. This is achieved through 
effective governance and keeping the interests of stakeholders at the fore in decision making. 
The Board establishes the Group’s purpose and values and sets the Group’s strategy, ensuring 
alignment with our culture, and overseeing its implementation by management. The Board is 
responsible for oversight of the Group’s governance, financial reporting, internal controls, 
and risk management, including the Group’s risk appetite.

A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision is available in the Corporate 
Governance section of the Company’s website at www.capita.com.

Board composition and election

Our Board currently comprises seven members: the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and four independent Non-Executive Directors who are experienced 
individuals, drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds with the skills to promote 
the long-term sustainable success of the Group.

Board composition is a deliberate balance of newer and longer-standing members and reflects 
the ongoing review and refreshment of Board membership to ensure a balance of skills and 
experience appropriate for the broad nature of Capita’s businesses. The experience and 
breadth of tenure of the non-executive directors means the Board is well positioned to advise, 
challenge, and support executive management as the Group progresses its growth strategy.

All Directors are appointed to the Board for an initial fixed three-year term, subject to  
annual re-election by shareholders at the Company’s AGM. In accordance with the Code, all 
Directors will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election at the 2024 AGM to be held 
on 21 May 2024.

Board independence

Non-executive directors are required to be independent in character and judgement. 
All relationships that may interfere materially with this judgement are disclosed as required 
under the conflicts of interest policy, see page 120. The Board believes that each of the 
non-executive directors has retained independence of character and judgement and has not 
formed associations with management or others that may compromise their ability to exercise 
independent judgement or act in the best interest of the Group. The employee non-executive 
director was not considered as independent during 2023, given her status as an employee of 
the Group.

The Code does not consider a chairman to be independent due to the unique position the role 
holds in corporate governance. David Lowden met the independence criteria outlined in the 
Code when he was appointed as the Group’s chairman in 2022. The Board is satisfied that 
no conflict of interest for any director requires disclosure, see page 120.

Directors’ biographies, tenures, key skills and experience, and external appointments are set out 
on pages 70 to 71.

The Board delegates certain matters to its four principal committees:

Nomination Committee
Chair: David Lowden

Audit and Risk  
Committee
Chair: Brian McArthur-Muscroft

Remuneration  
Committee
Chair: Georgina Harvey

ESG  
Committee
Chair: David Lowden

Membership: 4

All Independent  
Non-Executive Directors

Membership: 3

Chairman and 2 Independent  
Non-Executive Directors

•  Sets remuneration 

•  Oversees the development 

Membership: 6

Chairman, 4 Independent 
Non-Executive Directors + 
CEO

•  Reviews composition of 

the Board.
•  Recommends 

appointments of 
new directors.
•  Ensures plans are 
in place for orderly 
succession to both 
the Board and senior 
management positions.
•  Overseas development 
of diverse pipeline 
for succession.

Membership: 4

All Independent  
Non-Executive Directors

•  Reviews accounting 

policies and contents 
of financial reports.

•  Monitors internal control 

environment.

•  Considers adequacy, 

effectiveness, and scope 
of external and internal 
audit programme.

•  Overseas relationship with 

external auditor.

•  Monitors risk profile and obtains 
assurance that principal risks 
have been properly identified 
and appropriately managed.

policy and principles 
for Board and senior 
management 
remuneration.

•  Approves incentive 
design and setting 
of targets.

•  Approves executive 
directors and senior 
management 
remuneration.

The Nomination 
Committee report can be 
found on pages 79 to 83.

The Audit and Risk Committee 
report can be found on 
pages 87 to 95.

The Directors’ 
remuneration report 
can be found on 
pages 96 to 118.

of the Group’s ESG 
strategy, monitoring its 
performance in relation 
to ESG matters.

•  Considers the adequacy 
of the Group’s ESG 
policies and processes.
•  Oversees and monitors 
the Group’s progress 
against its net zero 
emissions strategy.
•  Oversees and supports 

stakeholder engagement 
on ESG matters.

The ESG Committee 
report can be found on 
pages 84 to 86.

Committee terms of reference are available on the Company’s website at  
www.capita.com/about-capita/corporate-governance.

Executive Team 
Chair: Adolfo Hernandez
The Executive Team is responsible for the execution of the 
Company’s strategy and the day-to-day management of 
the business.

Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee identifies and controls 
inside information or information which could become 
inside information and determines how and when that 
information is disclosed in accordance with applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements. 

The Executive Team operates a number of supporting committees that provide oversight on key business activities 
and risk. These include the executive ethics and risk committee and the Capita investment review committee.

Supporting committees

73

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board leadership and roles
To ensure the Board performs effectively, there is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of the Board and the executive leadership:

Chairman

(David Lowden)

Leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all 
aspects of its roles. This includes:
•  Ensuring there is effective communication between the 

Board, management, shareholders, and the Group’s wider 
stakeholders, while promoting a culture of openness and 
constructive debate;

•  Ensuring that the views of all stakeholders are taken into 

consideration in the Board’s decisions;

•  Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance;
•  Setting the Board’s agenda and ensuring that adequate time 
is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular 
strategic issues;

•  Ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear 

information; and

•  Overseeing the annual Board performance review and 

addressing any actions.

Senior Independent Director 

Independent Non-Executive Directors

(Georgina Harvey)

The responsibility of this role includes:
•  Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman on  

Board-related matters;

•  Chairing meetings in the absence of the chairman;
•  Acting as an intermediary for other directors when necessary;
•  Leading the evaluation of the Chairman’s performance;
•  Being available to shareholders who wish to discuss matters 

which cannot be resolved otherwise; and

•  Leading the search for a new Chair, when necessary.

(Georgina Harvey, Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Nneka Abulokwe 
and Neelam Dhawan)

The responsibility of this role includes:
•  Providing effective and constructive challenge to the Board;
•  Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting 
of performance;

•  Reviewing Group financial information and ensuring there are 

effective systems of governance, risk management and internal 
controls in place;

•  Determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive 

directors; and

•  Having a prime role in appointing executive directors, and in 

succession planning.

Nneka Abulokwe has been appointed as the designated 
non-executive director for colleague engagement.

Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Financial Officer 

Chief General Counsel & Company Secretary

(Adolfo Hernandez)

(Tim Weller)

(Claire Denton)

The role of CEO is separate from that of Chairman to ensure 
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision making. 
The CEO has responsibility for:
•  The day-to-day running of all aspects of the Group’s business;
•  Developing and implementing the Group’s strategy;
•  Ensuring the effective implementation of Board decisions;
•  Leading the Group’s executive team; and
•  Representing the Group to external stakeholders. 

The responsibility of this role includes:
•  Supporting the CEO in developing the Group’s strategy 

and its implementation;

•  Representing the Group to external stakeholders;
•  Ensuing that the Group has the appropriate financing 

structure and internal controls over financial reporting; and
•  Oversight of the following key functions: Finance, Investor 

Relations, Internal Audit and Risk Management, Tax, Treasury, 
Insurance and Commercial.

Claire is available to all directors and is responsible for ensuring 
that all Board procedures are complied with. Claire has direct 
access and responsibility to the chairs of the standing committees 
and open access to all directors, and is secretary to the Board 
and all its committees.
Claire meets regularly with the Chairman and committee chairs and 
briefs them on areas of governance and committee requirements.

Independent advice: All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters relating to their responsibilities as directors and as members of the various committees of the Board at the Group’s expense.

74

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board composition at:

Chairman
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Senior Independent Director
Independent  
Non-Executive Director

Employee Director

Attendance of the directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings is shown below; 
the maximum number of meetings a director could attend is in brackets.

1 January 2023
David Lowden1
Jon Lewis2
Tim Weller
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
John Cresswell3
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-
Muscroft
–
Janine Goodchild5

31 December 2023
David Lowden
Jon Lewis2
Tim Weller
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
–
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-
Muscroft
Claire Miles4
Janine Goodchild

5 March 2024  
(the date of this report)
David Lowden
Adolfo Hernandez2
Tim Weller
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
–
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-
Muscroft
–
–

David Lowden
Jon Lewis1
Tim Weller 
Georgina Harvey2
Brian McArthur-Muscroft3
Nneka Abulokwe
John Cresswell4
Neelam Dhawan5
Janine Goodchild
Claire Miles6

Board
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
6/(7) 
7/(7) 
3/(3) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 

Audit and Risk 
Committee
N/A
N/A
N/A
5/(5)
6/(6)
N/A
1/(1)
6/(6)
6/(6)
3/(4)

Remuneration 
Committee
N/A
N/A
N/A
5/(5)
5/(5)
5/(5)
N/A
4/(5)
N/A
N/A

Nomination 
Committee
4/(4)
1/(1)
N/A
4/(4)
4/(4)
4/(4)
0/(1)
4/(4)
N/A
1/(2)

ESG  

Committee
6/(6)
N/A
N/A
6/(6)
N/A
6/(6)
3/(3)
N/A
6/(6)
2(3)

1. David Lowden was independent on appointment as chairman in accordance with the Code.
2. Jon Lewis retired as CEO and a director on 17 January 2024, with Adolfo Hernandez appointed as CEO and a director 

on that date.

3. John Cresswell retired as a director on 31 March 2023, having served seven years as a non-executive director.
4. Claire Miles was appointed as a non-executive director on 12 May 2023 and stepped down as a director on 

31 December 2023 following her appointment as chief executive officer of Stagecoach. Claire advised the board that 
due to her new executive position she did not consider that she would have sufficient time to dedicate to Capita to 
appropriately perform her role as a director.

5. Janine Goodchild stepped down as Employee Director on 31 December 2023. Further information is provided on page 67.
6. Further information on these changes and the Company’s compliance with Code Provision 5 regarding the Board’s 

engagement with colleagues is provided in the Nomination Committee report on pages 79 to 83.

Directors’ interests

The interests of directors and their immediate families, who served during the year in the shares of the 
Company, together with details of executive directors’ share options, are contained in the Directors’ 
remuneration report set out on pages 96 to 118.

At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Board meetings and attendance.

During 2023, the Board held seven scheduled meetings. The Board also held an in-depth strategy 
session in Leeds, England where Directors met with clients and colleagues. Additional ad hoc 
meetings were held as required. In 2023, these included several meetings in relation to and following 
the cyber incident on 31 March 2023 which was a principal focus for the Board. Meetings held 
outside the normal schedule need to be flexible and are principally held by video conference.

1. Jon Lewis recused himself from three Nomination Committee meetings during the year which considered succession 

planning for the role of CEO.

2. Georgina Harvey was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 March 2023.
3. Brian McArthur-Muscroft was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a late change in the Board meeting schedule 

which coincided with a prior business engagement.

4. John Cresswell stepped down from the Board and its Committees on 31 March 2023. He did not attend one Nomination 

Committee meeting during the year, recusing himself as this dealt with the appointment of his successor.

5. Neelam Dhawan was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a change in meeting date which 

conflicted with a prior business engagement.

6. Claire Miles joined the Board and the Remuneration, Audit and Risk, and ESG Committees on 12 May 2023. She was 

unable to attend one Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and ESG Committee meeting due to a previous 
business commitment which had been scheduled prior to her appointment as a director.

Any director’s absence from Board or committee meetings was previously agreed with the Chairman 
of the Board or relevant committee and the CEO. Where possible the Chairman or committee chair 
will contact the director who is unable to attend the meeting to obtain their comments on Board and 
committee papers prior to the meeting. The Board and Committee agendas ensure that discussion 
is focused on key strategic issues and responsibilities, as well as reviews of significant issues arising 
during the year.

The chairman and non-executive directors held a closed session without management present at 
the end of several scheduled 2023 Board meetings. Throughout the year, Directors also devoted 
time to interviewing candidates for both executive and non-executive roles. The Chairman also held 
one-to-one individual review sessions with each executive director and each non-executive director.

75

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board effectiveness

The Board carries out effectiveness reviews annually.

The last external evaluation was undertaken by Independent Evaluation in 2021. Internal evaluations 
were performed during 2022 and 2023 and it is expected that the 2024 evaluation will be undertaken 
by an external party.

Key findings of the evaluation performed in 2022 are set out below together with actions taken 
during 2023:

Finding from 2022 evaluation
Strategy – although noting the regular presentations 
from the chief executives (CEs) of Public Service and 
Experience, additional focus was requested by the 
Board on the divisions’ strategic focus on digital 
solutions and margin improvements

Stakeholders – the Board noted that further 
interaction with both clients and senior management 
would be beneficial.

Action in 2023
During the year presentations to the Board from the 
CEs of Public Service and Experience included 
strategic focus on digital solutions and margin 
improvements. The Board discussed and debated 
these matters with the divisional CEs during Board 
meetings and the annual strategy meeting.
During the year several members of the senior 
management team below the Executive Team 
level presented to the Board and/or its committees. 
The Board also attended a site visit to Leeds in 
September 2023, and met with all members of 
the Experience senior leadership team, colleagues 
working at call centres and clients. 

The 2023 Board evaluation, and the evaluation of its committees, was undertaken internally by the 
completion of a questionnaire by each director, followed by a one-to-one meeting with the Chairman. 
The Board received a report from the Chairman on the outcome of the evaluation, including formal 
recommendations which were discussed and approved by the Board. Committee feedback was 
presented to the relevant committee chair. The Chairman was assisted in this process by Claire 
Denton, Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary.

Overall, the performance of the Board and its committees was viewed positively with progress made 
across many areas. Directors found Board and Committee meetings to be open and constructive. 
The relationship with the executive was seen positively, with their addressing of key issues recognised 
and their openness appreciated. The Board also considered its constitution and whether other options 
should be considered in relation to the Board’s engagement with colleagues. Further information is 
included on page 72.

The following four principal areas were identified for actions:

Principal areas identified for action  
in the 2023 Board evaluation
Stakeholders –
The Board requested:
•  additional focus on client feedback.
•  greater exposure of key supplier relationships.
•  increased interaction with colleagues (see below).
Wider engagement with colleagues
•  The Board agreed that following the streamlining 
of the Group, the Board should have broader 
engagement with colleagues to include site 
visits by individual directors.

Board meeting support –
The Board requested further improvement in the quality 
of Board papers and formalisation of the process to 
review previous key decisions made by the Board.
•  The Board requested that the Company focused on 
certain strategic matters for the future to achieve its 
strategic priorities and improved financial performance.

•  The Board noted that the incoming CEO would 

require appropriate support.

Proposed action in 2024
The Executive Team will ensure that the Board 
receives additional client feedback, and has 
greater information on key supplier relationships 
and increased interaction with colleagues.

Site visits to various locations will be arranged 
for directors during 2024, who will then provide 
feedback to the Board.

The Chairman has discussed these matters 
with the Chief General Counsel and Company 
Secretary and actions have been undertaken 
to improve Board meeting support. 
Specific issues are being progressed by the 
new CEO together with relevant members of 
the Executive Team.
A full onboarding programme was developed 
for Adolfo Hernandez who joined Capita as 
CEO on 17 January 2024. Adolfo has met, or 
will meet, with members of the Cabinet Office, 
representatives of major clients, certain major 
shareholders, senior management, and 
colleagues including visiting Capita’s overseas 
locations in India, South Africa, and Germany. 

An update on the 2024 actions will be provided in the Company’s 2024 Annual Report.

76

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Governance and strategy
The Group recognises the contribution made by good governance to the Company’s success, and 
changes made at both Board and Executive Team level demonstrate the importance of embedding 
the right structures with the right people to deliver the Group’s strategy. The connection between 
governance and delivery of strategy is reflected throughout this Annual Report.

In addition to their statutory duties, the directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively 
on all its accountabilities. The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to 
best support the delivery of long-term value, providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate 
framework of rewards, incentives, and controls. The Board is collectively responsible for the success 
of the Company and directors’ roles are set out above. Following presentations by executive and 
divisional management, and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, clear 
decisions on policy or strategy are adopted, and the executive management are fully empowered 
to implement those decisions.

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to act in a way they consider, in good faith, 
would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a 
whole. The Company’s s172 statement together with principal decisions of the Board during 2023 
is on pages 45 to 48.

Stakeholder engagement

As highlighted by the Code, the Board recognises the importance of identifying its key stakeholders 
and understanding their perspectives and values. Through regular dialogue and communication, 
the Board is mindful of all of Capita’s stakeholders when planning or making decisions of 
strategic significance.

During 2023, the Board complied with Code Provision 5, engagement with the workforce, through its 
Employee Director, Janine Goodchild, who was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2022. The Board 
has valued Janine’s contribution. In December 2023, the Board agreed that while having an employee 
director on the Board had been successful this was not suitable for the business going forward, 
and that instead the Board should ensure that there is broader engagement with colleagues. In 
this respect, the Board has appointed Nneka Abulokwe as designated non-executive director for 
colleague engagement. In addition, it has been agreed that directors will visit different sites during 
the year to meet with colleagues. Further information is provided on page 80. In September 2023, 
the Board met with clients and spoke to colleagues in some of the call centres managed by Capita, 
based in Leeds, on behalf of customers in the telecommunications sector. Photographs from this visit 
are included in this report. Following his appointment as CEO on 17 January 2024, Adolfo Hernandez 
has held a series of breakfast meetings with colleagues at various Capita locations.

There is an active engagement programme with the Company’s investors. The executive directors 
meet regularly with institutional shareholders to discuss and obtain feedback on the business, 
performance, strategy, capital structure and allocation and corporate governance, and address any 
issues of concern. This is undertaken through a combination of roadshows, group or one-to-one 
meetings and attendance at investor conferences. This engagement included presentations to 
institutional shareholders and analysts following the release of the Group’s half and full-year results 
(available on the Group’s website www.capita.com). Our Chairman, David Lowden, and Georgina 
Harvey, Senior Independent Director, also met with a number of institutional shareholders during 
the year.

Topics discussed in investor meetings included the cyber incident, free cash flow generation, 
remuneration structure, operating margin improvement and the nomination committee’s process 
for appointment of the new CEO.

The investor relations team has day-to-day responsibility for managing investor communications and 
always acts in close consultation with the Board. The Director of Investor Relations and representatives 
from the Company’s brokers, Deutsche Numis and Barclays are invited to attend Board meetings 
during the year to provide investor feedback. The Investor Relations team also arranged specific ESG 
engagements with investors. All members of the Board, including the non-executive directors, receive 
a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and anonymous feedback that follows the 
annual and half-yearly presentations to investment analysts and institutional investors. Analysts reports 
concerning Capita are circulated to the directors and the Board is kept informed of changes in the 
share register.

At the 2023 AGM, all resolutions were passed, with every resolution receiving more than 95% of votes 
cast in favour. The Board is grateful to shareholders for their continued support.

At the 2024 AGM the Company will be seeking approval of its directors’ remuneration policy. 
In developing the policy, Georgina Harvey, chair of the Remuneration Committee, has engaged with 
our major shareholders and key proxy advisory bodies. Further information is included in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 99 to 107.

Further information on how the Board has engaged with its key stakeholder groups can be found on pages 45 to 48

77

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Annual general meeting
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM. The 2024 AGM of the Company will be held at 
Capita’s offices at 65 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7NQ on 21 May 2024. Details of the meeting 
format and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which will be sent to 
shareholders with the 2023 Annual Report and includes notes explaining the business to be transacted. 
The Notice of Meeting is also available on the Company’s website at www.capita.com.

Risk management and internal control
The Board monitors the Company’s risk management and internal control systems and carries 
out an annual review of their effectiveness. The ARC report contains further details. The monitoring 
and review includes all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls. 
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board. The Group’s key internal control procedures are 
fully documented within the strategic report on pages 57 to 59.

The directors consider that each of the resolutions to be proposed to shareholders is in the best 
interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote 
in favour of all the resolutions.

The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee chairs are expected to attend the 2024 
AGM and will be available to answer any questions from shareholders.

Furthermore, through the operation of the risk governance process, the directors confirm, for the 
purposes of Provision 28 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the emerging 
and principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. A description of those principal risks, what procedures are in place 
to identify emerging risks, and an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated, is set out 
on pages 58 to 63.

Shareholder communications
In addition to the AGM, shareholders can access up-to-date information through the Group’s website 
at www.capita.com. Shareholders can also view their holdings by using the Signal shares shareholder 
portal, a service offered by Link Group, the Group’s registrar, at www.capitashares.co.uk. The Signal 
shares portal is an online service enabling shareholders to easily access and maintain their shareholding 
online. Shareholders can also contact Link by email at shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.co.uk. Link 
also provides a telephone helpline, 0371 664 0300, calls are charged at the standard geographic 
rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate. 
Lines are open between 9.00am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England 
and Wales.

Business relationships
Details regarding relationships with suppliers, clients and others, together with further cross 
references, are provided in the engaging with our stakeholders section on pages 45 to 48.

Remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 96 to 118.

78

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report

Nomination Committee report

Principal role and responsibilities
As set out in the terms of reference, which 
are available on the Company’s website,  
www.capita.com, the Nomination Committee 
is responsible for a number of key matters, 
including to:

•  Identify and nominate appropriate candidates 
for appointment to the Board, having due 
regard to the provisions of the Code and, in 
particular, the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and the diversity of 
its composition.

•  Keep the structure and size of the Board, its 
committees and the leadership requirements 
of the Group under review and ensure that 
plans are in place for orderly succession 
and appointment to the Board.

•  Consider the independence, time commitment 

and performance of the Non-Executive 
Directors.

•  Oversee development of a diverse pipeline 

for succession to the Executive Team.

Areas of focus in 2023
•  Succession planning for the Chief 

Executive Officer.

•  Recruitment and appointment of an 
independent non-executive director.

•  Review of diversity and inclusion activities 

and measures.

•  Review of senior management talent 

and Executive Team succession planning.

•  Consideration of the contributions and 

effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors 
seeking re-election at the 2023 AGM.

•  Reviewing the constitution of the Board.

•  Reviewing the skills and experience of 

the directors and their other commitments.

“ Board succession planning 
has been an important 
area of focus for the 
Committee during 2023”

David Lowden, Chair,  
Nomination Committee

Nomination Committee time allocation

1. Board appointments
2. Employee director appointments
3. Succession planning
4. Diversity
5. Governance

23%
5%
51%
8%
13%

1

2

The time allocation chart is provided for guidance only and other 
matters were also considered by the committee.

5

4

3

79

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report continued

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Nomination Committee (the Committee), I am pleased to present this report, which 
describes how we carried out our responsibilities during 2023. The Committee met four times during 
the year.

Board succession planning
Board succession planning has been an important area of focus for the Committee during 2023.

As noted in my introductory statement, Jon Lewis informed the Board during 2022 that he was 
interested in exploring his future options, including eventual retirement from Capita. As Chair of the 
Committee, and with the support of our Chief People Officer and my fellow Committee members,  
I led the recruitment process for a new CEO, assisted by search firm Lygon Group. On 31 July 2023, 
following the conclusion of the process, we were delighted to announce the appointment of Adolfo 
Hernandez as Capita’s new CEO. Adolfo has an excellent track record in accelerating revenue growth 
driven by digital services. Adolfo joined the Company as CEO and a Director of Capita on 17 January 
2024, with Jon stepping down from the Board on that date. Jon will remain in the business until July 
2024, to ensure an orderly transition. Further information on the appointment process is provided on 
page 81.

During the year and following John Cresswell’s retirement from the Board on 31 March 2023, having 
served as a director for more than seven years, the Committee recommended the appointment of 
Claire Miles as an Independent Non-Executive Director. In our consideration of this appointment, 
we concentrated on identifying candidates who would add to the collective skills, experience, and 
diversity of the Board to improve our ability to support and challenge management as Capita 
develops and evolves. Further information on the appointment process is provided on page 82.

Board changes
On 7 December 2023, the Company announced that Claire Miles would step down from the Board 
on 31 December 2023. Claire’s decision followed her appointment as chief executive officer of 
Stagecoach, Britain’s largest bus and coach operator on 4 October 2023. Claire advised the Board 
that due to her new executive role she would be unable to dedicate sufficient time to enable her to 
contribute to Capita appropriately. While disappointed that Claire was unable to remain on the Board, 
the Committee understood Claire’s reasoning. The Committee itself annually assesses the external 
commitments of each director to ensure that they have sufficient capacity to fulfil their obligations 
to the Board and its committees and to ensure that no director is over-boarded.

Board composition
In December 2023, the Committee in conjunction with the Board, reviewed the Board’s constitution to 
ensure that it continues to be appropriate. The Board concluded that while having employee directors 
on the Board had been successful, this was not suitable for the business going forward, and that 
instead the Board should ensure that there is broader engagement with colleagues. Consequently, it 
was recommended to the Board that Janine Goodchild should step down as Employee Director and 
member of the Board on 31 December 2023. The Board now constitutes seven directors, comprising 
the Chairman, two Executive Directors (the CEO and the CFO) and four Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, which the Board deems appropriate for the business. Following Janine’s resignation, and 
on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board appointed Nneka Abulokwe as the 
designated non-executive director for colleague engagement.

During 2023, we also reviewed the talent pipeline for the Executive Team and completed our annual 
governance processes.

Further details of the Committee’s responsibilities and work undertaken by the Committee during 
2023 are included in the Nomination Committee report. I hope you will find this informative.

David Lowden
Chair

Nomination Committee

5 March 2024

80

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report continued

Nomination Committee members

Member
David Lowden (Chair)
Jon Lewis
Adolfo Hernandez
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
John Cresswell
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Claire Miles

Member since
1 January 2021
1 July 2022
17 January 2024
1 October 2019
1 February 2022
17 November 2015
1 March 2021
1 June 2022
12 May 2024

Date of retirement from  
the Committee (if applicable)

17 January 2024

31 March 2023

31 December 2023

Board changes
The appointment of our new CEO, Adolfo Hernandez, was a key area of focus for the Committee 
during 2023. In addition, we continued to focus on the evolution of the Board and, prior to the 
retirement of John Cresswell on 31 March 2023, identified a need for an additional Non-Executive 
Director who was an accomplished, growth-oriented business executive and leader. Board 
appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific skills, experience, knowledge and 
independence needed to ensure a rounded board. We seek to ensure a minimum of 40% female 
representation on recruitment shortlists and, where appropriate, to include candidates who may 
not have listed company experience but who possess suitable skills and qualities. We only engage 
executive search firms that have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity 
and best practice.

Recruitment of the CEO
The Committee was assisted in the search for a new CEO, which was led by the Chairman, by the 
search firm, Lygon Group, which has no connection to the Company or individual Directors. Lygon 
Group was not engaged by the Company for any other purpose during 2023. The search process 
was conducted as follows:

First stage

Second stage

Third stage

Development of a 
candidate profile.

Selection and engagement 
of an independent search 
firm carried out via a 
tender process.

The Nomination Committee 
received presentations from 
two search firms, following 
which Lygon Group was 
engaged by the Committee 
to undertake the search.

A long-list of potential 
candidates, identified by Lygon, 
was reviewed by the Chairman 
and Chief People Officer and 
presented to the Committee.

The Committee also considered 
whether there were any potential 
internal candidates for the role.

A short list of candidates 
was reviewed, with candidates 
interviewed by the Chairman, 
Chief People Officer and other 
members of the Board including 
the Senior Independent 
Director and Chief Financial 
Officer.

Final stage

Fifth stage

Fourth stage

A Board meeting was 
convened to approve the 
appointment and offer to 
the preferred candidate, 
Adolfo Hernandez.

The appointment of Adolfo 
Hernandez was announced 
on 31 July 2023, following 
approval by the Board.

Adolfo joined Capita as 
CEO and a Director on 
17 January 2024.

The preferred candidate 
met with all but one director, 
following which the Nomination 
Committee made a 
recommendation to the Board.

A Remuneration Committee 
meeting was convened to 
approve the remuneration 
package subject to Board 
approval of the appointment.

The preferred two candidates 
met with other members of 
the Committee.

A detailed induction plan was created for Adolfo focusing on building his understanding of 
the business.

81

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report continued

Non-Executive Director appointment

To assist with the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, following John Cresswell’s decision 
to retire, the Committee appointed search firm Spencer Stuart, which has no connection to the 
Company or individual Directors. The Committee reviewed the skills matrix of the directors which 
is updated annually, and a candidate profile was developed to address any identified gaps and to 
complement the needs of the business and the Board as a whole. Spencer Stuart was not engaged 
by the Company for any other purpose during the year. Having considered the shortlist, the Chair and 
fellow committee members interviewed the preferred candidates and recommended the appointment 
of Claire Miles to the Board for approval. The Committee further recommended that, on appointment 
to the Board, Claire was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and ESG Committees.

The appointment of both Adolfo and Claire involved a formal, rigorous, and transparent appointment 
process based on merit and objective criteria, with due consideration being given to a broad range of 
factors such as diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths, 
and the Group’s future strategic direction.

Board of directors’ induction and training
All new directors are provided with a robust induction, tailored to suit their individual needs. This is 
an invaluable step to not only support directors in meeting their statutory duties, but also gives them 
a comprehensive introduction to the business and its strategic priorities.

Ongoing training and briefings are also given to all directors, including external courses as required. In 
addition, all directors are required to undertake online training on the Company’s Code of Conduct 
and cyber and information security awareness, which are also mandatory for all Group employees.

Induction case study – Claire Miles
Claire Miles was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2023. The Company Secretary assisted the 
Chairman with the preparation and delivery of a tailored and comprehensive induction programme, 
designed to give Claire a thorough overview and understanding of our business with a focus on the 
Group’s strategy, and wider business objectives. The induction sessions, which were principally 
virtual, provided Claire with an opportunity to meet with senior management and advisers and build 
an understanding of the key areas of focus for the Board, its committees, and the Group. The 
induction programme was complemented by the Board site visit to Leeds in September 2023, 
which included presentations by members of the Experience senior management team, meetings 
with clients and with the wider workforce.

After 17 April 2023 (the date of the announcement of Claire’s appointment)
Claire was provided with a comprehensive pre-read, including previous Board and relevant 
Committee papers
12 May 2023
Claire was formally appointed to the Board, Audit and Risk, Nomination and ESG Committees
May/June 2023
Claire met with senior executive and functional heads (principally on a one-to-one basis) to 
provide her with an understanding of the Group’s operations, culture, and values. This included 
meetings with all members of the Executive Team, the Director of Investor Relations and the 
Group Director of Financial Control 

Meetings with the Director Internal Audit and Risk, the external auditor and external legal counsel
September 2023
Site visit in Leeds, meetings with clients and colleagues

82

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceSuccession planning and Board composition
A formal succession framework is in place for the Executive Team and the two management layers 
beneath. The purpose of the framework is to apply a fair, objective and consistent methodology to 
identify future potential career paths for individuals within the Group.

Structured development plans are implemented to support individuals in improving their skills and 
experience. The depth of the framework means talent can be identified and nurtured at an early 
stage, and combined with the approach to Board appointments, means the pool of possible future 
candidates for Board roles is sufficiently wide and diverse.

Board evaluation
Details of the annual Board evaluation process are provided in the Chairman’s report on page 76.

Nomination Committee report continued

Diversity and inclusion

Capita’s diversity and inclusion policy is based on a commitment to creating an environment where 
diversity is valued and respected. We believe that business success is a direct result of the experience 
and quality of its people. Inherent within this approach is an acceptance and embracing of diversity in 
all its forms and an endorsement that the entire workforce, including the Board, be representative of the 
communities in which Capita operates. We have met the FCA’s target of 40% female representation 
on the Board and with regards to ethnicity, at least one person of colour, in respect of accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2022. Key aims of the policy are to ensure equality, diversity, 
and inclusion in the workplace and to promote a culture where everyone is treated with respect and 
dignity. Further information on actions taken to address diversity, inclusion and wellbeing across the 
workforce is in the responsible business section on pages 32 to 37.

Disclosures required under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)

At 31 December 2023 (being the reference date selected by the Board for the purposes of this 
disclosure), the Company complied, as detailed below, with the regulatory targets set out in Listing 
Rule 9.8.6(9).

•  The Board was 56% female (43% female at 5 March 2024, the date of this Annual Report, 

following Claire Miles and Janine Goodchild stepping down from the Board on 31 December 2023);

•  The Senior Independent Director (Georgina Harvey) is female; and

•  The Board had two Directors from a minority ethnic background.

The Board continues to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) at 5 March 2024, the date of this report, 
and it is expected that it will comply on 21 May 2024, the date of the Company’s 2024 Annual 
General Meeting. Further details of the Company’s compliance with LR9.8.6(R) at 31 December 2023 
and 5 March 2024 are provided on pages 36 and 69.

While Capita has exceeded the FCA’s 40% target for female representation at Board level, with female 
representation among senior management and direct reports at 40% at 31 December 2023, the 
Board recognises that there is still more to do throughout the organisation.

At 31 December 2023, female representation on the Board was 56% and among senior management1 
was 29%. At 31 December 2023, ethnically diverse representation on the Board and among senior 
management1 was 22% and 14% respectively. Further disclosures on our gender and ethnicity 
diversity and how percentages are calculated and information collated is provided on page 36.

1. The 2018 Code defines senior management as the Executive Team and the Group Company Secretary. Claire Denton, 

Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, is a member of Capita’s Executive Team.

83

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceESG Committee report

ESG Committee report

Overview
The ESG Committee (the Committee) met 
six times during 2023. David Lowden acts 
as ESG Committee chair. Other members of 
the Committee are Georgina Harvey and Nneka 
Abulokwe, Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
John Cresswell and Janine Goodchild stepped 
down from the committee on 31 March 2023 and 
31 December 2023, respectively. Claire Miles 
was appointed as a member of the Committee 
on 12 May 2023 and stepped down on 
31 December 2023 when she resigned 
as a director.

ESG Committee time allocation 

5

4

3

1

2

Responsibilities and activities

Key responsibilities

•  Oversee the development of the Group’s 

•  Review diversity and inclusivity data and 

responsible business strategy and monitor its 
performance in respect of ESG-related matters 
on behalf of the Board.

approve the Group’s gender and ethnicity 
pay gap report.

•  Review and approve the Group’s modern 

•  Oversee and monitor the Group’s progress 

slavery statement.

against its net zero strategy.

Activity in 2023

Net zero:

•  Reviewed the Task Force on Climate-

related Financial Disclosures for inclusion  
in the Capita 2022 Annual Report.

•  Reviewed the Group’s net zero emissions 

and draft low carbon transition plan.

•  Reviewed and approved the Company’s modern 

slavery statement on behalf of the Board.

•  Reviewed the Group’s Speak Up policy.

Strategy:

•  Considered Capita’s responsible business strategy.

•  Considered Capita’s ESG strategy and 

governance structure.

Liaison with the Remuneration Committee  
on ESG-related targets:

•  Considered stakeholder feedback from 
shareholders, customers and regulators.

•  Reviewed and recommended to the 

Remuneration Committee ESG-related 
bonus targets for 2023.

“ During the year, the 
committee focused on 
responsible business 
challenges, and providing 
additional strategic 
oversight, accountability, 
and guidance”

1. Governance/regulatory
2.  Employee-related issues including diversity  

and inclusion

3. Net zero
4. ESG-related bonus targets
5. Strategy

34%
34% 

13%
5%
13%

Approval of external ESG communications:

•  Reviewed the our people and responsible 

business sections of the 2022 Annual Report.

•  Reviewed and approved the 2022 

responsible business report for publication.

David Lowden, Chair,  
ESG Committee

The time allocation chart is provided for guidance only and 
other matters were also considered by the Committee.

Policies and procedures:

•  Reviewed and approved Capita’s supplier 
charter and considered how net zero was 
assessed and monitored within the Group’s 
supply chain.

Our people:

•  Received a presentation on Capita’s 

safeguarding policy, including SafetyNet, a 
Capita specific team and process designed to 
support Capita’s most vulnerable colleagues.

•  Received a presentation on diversity and 
inclusion at Capita, including gender and 
ethnicity pay gap reporting.

•  Received feedback on the response to the 

2023 employee surveys.

Governance

•  Discussed the outcome of the annual evaluation 

of the Committee.

•  Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee.

84

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceESG Committee report continued

Dear shareholders,
I am pleased to present this report on the first full year of the Committee following its formation in 
June 2022.

Role of the Committee
The Committee oversees Capita’s conduct as a responsible business. During the year, it focused 
on responsible business challenges, and providing additional strategic oversight, accountability 
and guidance.

Focus of the Committee
This Committee provides a forum within which all components of Capita’s responsible business 
strategy can be considered on a regular basis. During the year, it focused on the following matters:

Diversity & inclusion

The Committee reviewed and approved the Group’s 2023 UK gender and ethnicity pay gap report. 
2023 was the third consecutive year that Capita voluntarily published its ethnicity pay gap. We believe 
that analysing diversity data and being transparent about the diversity of our workforce is an important 
step in moving towards a fairer, more inclusive workplace.

The Committee was pleased to note that our gender pay gap had improved, with a 5% reduction 
compared with 2022, the largest improvement since we commenced reporting on the gender pay 
gap. This is the result of several years of work within Capita to increase the number of women working 
in our senior leader roles. The committee recognises that there is more to do but is proud that our 
global workforce comprises 50% of females. We were also proud to note that Capita was ranked 
18 out of 400 on the Forbes global list of top employers for women.

We noted that our ethnicity pay gap increased during 2023. While high volumes of recruitment have 
served to increase the representation of ethnic minority talent in our business, this has primarily been 
in more junior and lower paid positions. Capita continues to focus on attracting diverse senior talent, 
and most importantly, on growing, developing and promoting diverse talent from within.

The Committee considered the initiatives undertaken to improve this position, including our RISE 
(reduce inequality strive for equality) programme and our EmbRACE employee network group, which 
aims to address disparity of opportunity and support the progression of those who aspire to move 
into their first manager role.

While pleased with the progress made within the Group on diversity and inclusion matters, 
the Committee recognises that there is more work to be done. We are supportive of the update 
report from the Parker Review, and our Executive Team is considering ethnicity targets for senior 
management. This will remain a key area of focus. We will provide an update on progress made 
in these areas in our 2024 report.

Wellbeing of our colleagues

The health, safety and wellbeing of all our colleagues is a priority for the Committee and the Company. 
The Committee received a presentation from the Senior Medical Officer detailing Capita’s 
safeguarding policy and our SafetyNet initiative, which continues to provide much needed expert 
guidance to our human resources representatives and line managers supporting colleagues with 
complex issues related to wellbeing, safeguarding or vulnerability.

ESG-related bonus targets

We worked closely during the year with the Remuneration Committee on ESG-related bonus targets, 
both reviewing the outturn of the ESG-related targets included in the 2022 management bonus plan 
and reviewing ESG targets for the 2023 management bonus plan, making recommendations to the 
Remuneration Committee. These include traditional measures, such as employee engagement, as 
well as targets that address broader societal concerns, such as climate change, consistent with the 
Board’s responsibility to all stakeholders. Further details are provided in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 96 to 118.

Supplier charter

The Committee reviewed and approved Capita’s supplier charter. Our review included an in-depth 
discussion on how our suppliers assess and manage the impact of their business during their 
transition to net zero, particularly noting that there is often a disproportionate financial impact on 
SMEs compared with our larger suppliers. We noted that Capita’s smaller suppliers may need more 
support during the transition to achieve full net zero.

85

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceESG Committee report continued

Net zero target

In early 2024, the Committee considered and approved a proposal from management to update our 
targets to become fully net zero by 2045. This recognised that a significant amount of our carbon 
emissions originate from our supply chain and that by extending our target by ten years we have 
additional time to engage with our suppliers and work with them to reduce their environmental impact. 
Capita is currently working with the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), the globally recognised 
body for climate-related target setting, to validate our new targets.

As a Committee we have also approved a three-phased approach to full net zero, aiming to reach 
operational net zero by 2030; operational and business travel net zero by 2035; and full net zero 
by 2045.

Further details of our proposals which are subject to validation with the SBTi are detailed in the 
Responsible business report on pages 40 to 42.

Other matters

During the year, the Committee also addressed a range of other strategic and current issues including 
the results of our employee surveys, and discussed the initiatives that are being undertaken by Capita 
in these areas. We considered and approved the Group’s modern slavery statement on behalf of the 
Board and assessed our Speak Up policy, concluding that following its relaunch in 2022 the policy 
was operating effectively.

Going forward and Committee chair
The Committee recognises the need for Capita to respond to a rapidly changing external environment 
including the difficult economic environment, which impacts the way we operate.

In December 2023, we reviewed our refreshed responsible business principles to ensure that they 
focus on the areas of greatest concern to the Group, including making sure that we have the 
appropriate governance structure, reporting processes and risk management. During this review, the 
Committee considered stakeholder views and feedback, including from shareholders, customers and 
regulators.

Capita’s updated responsible business principles will be published later in 2024. We look forward to 
reporting more on these matters and the progress made.

Following the appointment of Nneka Abulokwe as designated non-executive director for colleague 
engagement, it was also proposed by the Nomination Committee that Nneka takes on the role of 
ESG Committee chair on 6 March 2024, following the announcement of Capita’s 2023 full year 
results. This is a natural evolution of the roles of our independent Non-Executive Directors, with Brian, 
Georgina and Nneka acting as chairs of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and ESG Committees 
respectively. I will remain a member of this Committee.

David Lowden
Chair

ESG Committee

5 March 2024

86

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report 

Audit and Risk Committee report

Overview
The Audit and Risk Committee’s (the 
Committee’s) terms of reference set out in full the 
role, responsibilities and authority of the 
Committee and can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.capita.com/about-capita/
corporate-governance. The terms of reference 
are reviewed annually and updated as required.

Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for carrying out 
the audit functions as required by DTR 7.1.3R 
and assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities in respect of the Company and the 
Group. The Committee’s key responsibilities are:

Financial reporting

To review the reporting of financial and other 
information to the Company’s shareholders and 
to monitor the integrity of financial statements, 
including the application of key judgements in 
determining reported outcomes, to ensure 
they are fair, balanced and understandable.

Risk management, internal control 
and compliance

To review and assess the adequacy of systems 
of internal control and risk management, and 
monitor the risk profile of the business.

Internal audit

To approve the annual internal audit plan, review 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
and review all significant recommendations, and 
ensure they are addressed in a timely manner.

External audit

To review the effectiveness and objectivity of the 
external audit process, assess the independence 
of the external auditor and ensure appropriate 
policies and procedures are in place to protect 
such independence.

Effectiveness

To report to the Board on how it has discharged 
its responsibilities.

Audit and Risk Committee 
time allocation

4

3

1

2

1. Risk management, internal control & compliance
2. Financial reporting (incl. external audit)
3. Private meetings with auditors
4. Governance

51%
36%
8%
5%

The time allocation chart is provided for guidance only and 
other matters were also considered by the Committee.

“ Following the decision 
by the Board and the 
Committee to focus on 
optimising the existing 
finance reporting systems, 
further progress has been 
made in improving the 
Group risk and control 
framework and 
financial controls”

Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Chair,  
Audit and Risk Committee

87

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Risk and control framework
The Committee continued to fulfil its role of supporting the Board in its review of the integrity of the 
Group’s financial reporting, monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management 
and internal controls, and overseeing the activities of the Group’s internal audit function and its 
external auditor.

As noted below, further progress was made in strengthening the Group’s controls. In addition, as in 
the prior year, a key control questionnaire process was completed across the Group where business 
leaders attested to compliance with key controls. This enables management to focus attention on 
control areas that need improvement.

Further detail on the risk management and internal control environment is set out later in this report 
on pages 94 and 95.

Controls improvement
Following the decision by the Board and the Committee to focus on optimising the existing finance 
reporting systems, further progress has been made in improving the Group risk and control framework 
and financial controls. These programmes have continued to focus on the simplification of finance 
activities and controls, continuing to embed the enterprise risk management framework, and further 
rationalisation of the overly complex legal structure. Key improvements in 2023 include: designing 
standard access rights to key systems; documenting the key risks and controls over financial 
reporting, considering significant fraud risks; and independent testing by Group Internal Audit of 
the design effectiveness of those key financial controls. In addition, the legal entity rationalisation 
programme progressed well during the year with the number of legal entities in the Group being 
reduced by 50. At 1 January 2024, the Group had 130 legal entities compared with 369 in July 2018. 
The rationalisation programme is ongoing, and the number of legal entities will be significantly 
below 100 by the end of 2024. Further improvements to the Group risk and control framework are 
planned for 2024, including obtaining assurance of management’s process of monitoring operating 
effectiveness of key controls. In 2023 the Group’s controls activity has continued to be supported 
by a Speak Up policy which facilitates whistleblowing across the Group with a function dedicated 
to identifying, preventing and investigating where fraud concerns have been raised. This was 
expanded to Switzerland and Germany in 2023, completing the rollout to all geographies.

The Board and the Committee also recognise the reforms to the UK Corporate Governance Code 
announced in January 2024, specifically the requirement for a Board declaration regarding controls 
from 2026. To date, activity has prioritised those areas which were known to be within the scope of 
the code, specifically the identification, documentation, and testing of the design effectiveness of 
controls over financial reporting and significant fraud risks. The Board and the Committee are now 
considering the provisions of the revised code which will inform future control improvement activity.

Committee membership and attendance
The Committee comprises myself as chair, together with Neelam Dhawan, Georgina Harvey and 
Nneka Abulokwe, independent non-executive directors.

During 2023 Janine Goodchild, employee non-executive director, was also a member of the 
Committee. Although not considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 
(Code), Janine brought valuable insights from the employee perspective into Committee discussions 
and the Board considered that this was important from an employee engagement perspective. Janine 
stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2023, following a review of the 
Board’s constitution by the Nomination Committee and the Board, during which it was agreed that, 
although the employee director position had been successful, it would now be appropriate to adopt 
a wider employment engagement strategy given the more streamlined Group. Further information is 
provided on page 67.

John Cresswell stepped down as a director and member of the Committee on 31 March 2023.  
I would like to thank John for his significant and valuable contribution to the Committee’s 
deliberations. Georgina Harvey, Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair was 
appointed as a member of the Committee upon John’s departure. Claire Miles was appointed as a 
director and a member of the Committee on 12 May 2023. Following the appointment of Claire the 
Committee comprised five directors, with 80% of Committee members considered independent.

As part of her induction programme, Claire Miles met with Ian Griffiths, Audit Partner, KPMG, our 
external auditor, Capita’s Group Director Financial Control and our Director Internal Audit and Risk. 
Georgina Harvey was previously a member of the Committee from October 2019 until June 2022 
when the Board reviewed Committee membership. However, following the retirement of John 
Cresswell, it was decided to reappoint Georgina as a member of the Committee to ensure that the 
Committee has the requisite skills and depth necessary to discharge its duties in accordance with its 
terms of reference. Claire Miles stepped down from the Board and a member of the Committee on 
31 December 2023, following her full-time appointment as chief executive officer of Stagecoach. 
Further information is provided in the Nomination Committee report on page 80. Nneka Abulokwe was 
appointed as a member of the Committee on 27 February 2024. From 1 January 2024, the 
Committee has comprised solely of independent non-executive directors.

The Committee is required to include at least one financially qualified member, this requirement is 
fulfilled by myself as a chartered accountant.

All other Committee members are considered financially literate given their qualifications and 
experience. Neelam has held senior positions in Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Compaq and IBM 
with responsibility for areas including strategy and corporate development. Georgina has significant 
experience across highly competitive consumer-facing markets. She is currently a non-executive 
director of Superdry plc and a member of its audit committee. Nneka is an adviser of Cranfield School 
of Management Advisory Board and was formerly an external member of the audit and risk committee 
of the University of Cambridge. Biographies of the directors, including their skills and experience are 
on page 70 to 71.

88

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

To encourage effective communication, in addition to the above members, the Chairman, CEO, 
CFO, Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Director Financial Control and Group 
Chief Accountant are invited to attend Committee meetings along with certain members of the senior 
management team, the Director Internal Audit and Risk and representatives from KPMG, the Group’s 
external auditor. The Head of Business Integrity provides a report at each meeting to update the 
Committee on speak-up matters and related issues. Opportunity exists at the end of each Committee 
meeting for the representatives of the internal and external audit teams to meet with the Committee in 
the absence of management and both have access to the Committee should they wish to voice any 
concerns outside formal meetings.

Committee performance was assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation, see page 76 for more 
information. The Board is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members, both 
during the year and currently is such that the Committee discharges its responsibilities in an effective, 
informed and challenging manner and that, as a whole, the Committee has competence relevant to 
the sector in which the Company operates. The Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, or 
their nominee, acts as Secretary to the Committee and is available to assist the members of the 
Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed accordingly.

How the Committee operates
The Committee has an annual forward agenda to cover the key events in the financial reporting cycle, 
specific risk matters identified by the Committee and standing items that the Committee is required 
to consider in accordance with its terms of reference. The annual agenda is supported by planning 
meetings held in advance of the principal Committee meetings, led by me with the CFO, members 
of the Group Finance team and the external auditor. I also meet on a regular basis and separately 
with the CFO and Director Internal Audit and Risk. The purpose of these meetings is to identify key 
issues impacting the business that may require consideration by the Committee. Reports are received 
from Group functions, including risk and internal audit, as appropriate. The Group’s Chief Technology 
Officer and/or the Chief Information Security Officer attend every Committee meeting to provide an 
update on the Group’s cyber and IT resilience. The Head of Business Integrity also attends every 
Committee meeting to provide an update on cases reported under the Group’s Speak Up policy. 
Additional reports are provided as may be required. I report to the Board the key matters of 
discussion and make any significant recommendations as necessary.

How the Committee discharged its roles and responsibilities in 2023
The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year and attendance at each meeting is 
shown on page 75. Meetings are planned around the Company’s financial calendar.

Financial reporting

Accounting judgements and significant accounting matters

As part of the process of monitoring the integrity of the financial information presented in the half-year 
results and the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee reviewed the key accounting policies and 
judgements adopted by management to ensure that they were appropriate. The significant areas of 
judgement identified by the Committee, in conjunction with management and the external auditor, 
together with a number of areas that the Committee deemed significant in the context of the 
financial statements, are set out on pages 90 to 92.

Fair, balanced and understandable

At the Board’s request, the Committee considered whether the half-year results and the Annual 
Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the information provided 
was sufficient for a reader of the statements to understand the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. The Committee reviewed both the narrative and financial sections of the 
reports to ensure they were consistent and gave a balanced view of the performance of the business in 
the year and that appropriate weight was given to both positive and negative aspects. The Committee 
also considered the use of alternative performance measures (APMs) and whether the APMs are 
appropriate, including any changes to their definition in the period. The Committee also considered 
whether the full-year announcement was presented clearly.

The Committee considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts enables readers to understand 
the Company’s financial position and prospects, as well as assess its going concern status and 
longer-term viability.

89

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Significant issues in relation to the financial statements considered by the Audit 
and Risk Committee

Going concern and viability assessment

Matter considered

Consideration of the going concern assumption and viability of the Group and Parent Company is the 
responsibility of the Board. The Committee conducted an assessment as part of its support role, 
given the inherent judgements required to assist the Board in evaluating the resilience of the Group.

Action

The Committee considered the projections within the business plan, agreed by the Board in 
December 2023, and the key assumptions underpinning the future cash flow and profit forecasts. The 
Committee received reports from executive management and KPMG (as part of their standard 
reporting to the Committee in the course of performing their duty as statutory auditor) concerning the 
going concern and viability assessments, including the key risks identified. These included details on 
the key assumptions, the forecasting process, the committed facilities available, and the mitigations 
within direct control of the Group. The Committee also considered the risks identified and appraised 
the severity and plausibility of these in setting the downside scenario (see section 1 to the 
consolidated financial statements for details).

The Committee reviewed the disclosures presented in section 1 of the consolidated financial 
statements together with the viability statement on page 64 to ensure there was sufficient detail 
provided to explain the basis of preparation and the Board’s conclusion.

Outcome

The Committee is satisfied that the analysis presented by executive management and KPMG 
provides enough detail to allow a robust assessment of relevant risks and mitigations to be 
undertaken. This supported full discussion of the severe but plausible downsides and allowed the 
Committee to recommend to the Board that the going concern assumption be applied and the 
viability statement be approved.

The Committee is satisfied that section 1 to the consolidated financial statements and the viability 
statement on page 64 include proportionate disclosures to inform users of the assessments 
undertaken by the Board.

Revenue and profit recognition

Matter considered

There is significant risk on long-term contracts related to revenue recognised from variations or scope 
changes, where significant judgement is required to be exercised by management. There is a risk that 
revenue may be recognised even though it is not probable that consideration will be collected, which 
could be due to uncertainties over contractual terms and ongoing negotiations with clients.

Judgement is also required when customers request scope changes to determine if there is a 
contract modification or a contract termination followed by a new contract. Contract terminations can 
lead to the immediate recognition of any deferred income being held for recognition in future periods.

Action

The Committee received regular updates on all major contracts during the year and specifically 
reviewed the material judgements as part of the half-year and year-end close process. The Committee 
has also considered the recognition of onerous contract provisions, where appropriate, and the 
lifetime profitability of contracts.

To aid the reader, the company has included a detailed explanation of the Group’s accounting for 
long-term contracts (see note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements).

Outcome

The revenue recognition policy includes disclosure of the significant judgements and estimates in 
relation to its application and the Committee is satisfied that these have been properly disclosed. 
The Committee is satisfied that the disclosures given within the accounts are sufficient to gain a 
proper understanding of the methodology of accounting for revenue across the Group, including 
the recognition of deferred income at the balance sheet date. The Committee reviewed the disclosure 
and concluded that these provide information that is helpful to allow a fuller understanding of the 
application of IFRS 15 to the Group’s contracts.

Contract fulfilment assets

Matter considered

Costs incurred to deliver a customer contract may be capitalised as contract fulfilment assets in 
accordance with IFRS15. Judgements are involved in assessing whether the costs incurred on a 
contract or an anticipated contract meet the capitalisation criteria as set out under the standard.

In addition, the amortisation of these assets involves estimation of the expected life of the contract, 
and when a contract is in the early years post-inception and undergoing major transformation 
activities, the contract fulfilment assets (CFAs) are at heightened risk of impairment. Judgements are 
involved in assessing whether the costs incurred on a contract or an anticipated contract meet the 
capitalisation criteria as set out under the standard.

Action

The Committee has considered and challenged the significant judgements and estimates involved in 
determining the carrying value of CFAs.

As part of the review of all major contracts, the Committee has also considered the recoverability 
of CFAs.

90

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Outcome

The Committee is satisfied that appropriate judgements and estimates have been made in determining 
the carrying value of CFAs and the extent of impairment of CFAs recognised in these statements is 
appropriate. The Committee is satisfied that the accounting policy note provides sufficient clarity as 
to the policy adopted and that the disclosures provide information to allow a reader to understand 
the risks associated with different stages of a typical long-term Capita contract.

Impairment of Parent Company’s investment in subsidiaries, and recoverability of receivables from 
subsidiary undertakings in the Parent Company

Pensions

Matter considered

The measurement of the defined benefit liabilities in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 
operated within the Group is a complex area, relying on assumptions on inflation, mortality, corporate 
bond yields, expectations of returns on assets and several other key inputs. There is a risk that any 
one of these could lead to misstatement of the Group’s liabilities in respect of pension obligations 
and the pension charge or movement recognised in the income statement or statement of 
comprehensive income.

Matter considered

Action

The Parent Company carries a material balance of investment in, and receivables from, subsidiaries in 
its financial statements. The impairment and recoverability assessments require the application of 
judgement concerning future prospects and forecasts.

The Committee reviewed the disclosure as presented in the accounts. The Committee also challenged 
the key assumptions and reviewed the sensitivity to changes in some of the key assumptions on a 
standalone basis as well as in the context of defined benefit schemes across other external benchmarks.

Action

Outcome

The Committee has reviewed the robustness of the impairment model and challenged the 
appropriateness of assumptions used to calculate and determine the existence of impairment.

The Committee has also reviewed the robustness of the assessment of recoverability of receivables 
from subsidiary undertakings in the parent company and challenged the appropriateness of 
assumptions used to calculate and determine any provisions required.

Outcome

The Committee considered that any impairment of investment in subsidiaries, or any provision against 
amounts receivable from subsidiaries, at the parent company level were appropriate and properly 
accounted for.

The Committee acknowledged the gap between the net assets of the Parent Company and the 
market capitalisation of the Company. The Committee gave consideration as to why this might be the 
case and whether goodwill or assets on the Parent Company balance sheet may be impaired. The 
factors considered included: the differing basis of valuations (including that third parties value the 
services sector on income statement multiples versus long-term view using a discounted cash flow for 
the basis of impairment testing under accounting standards), sum-of-the parts view and the multiples 
achieved on recent disposals, general market assumptions of the sector which can ignore the liquidity 
profile and specific risks of an entity, and other specific items which impact the market’s view of the 
Group at the moment. Taking these points into consideration the Committee is comfortable that there 
is no impairment in respect of the net assets of the Parent Company to be recognised at 
31 December 2023, despite the continuing low market capitalisation of the Company.

The Committee is satisfied that the estimation of the Group’s pension liabilities and the narrative that 
accompanies them gives the required level of information for a reader of the accounts to determine 
the impact on the Group of its pension obligations.

Deferred tax assets

Matter considered

The Group carries significant deferred tax assets. The recoverability assessment requires the 
application of judgement concerning future prospects and forecasts.

Action

The Committee reviewed the disclosure as presented in the accounts. The Committee also challenged 
the key assumptions and reviewed the sensitivity to changes in some of the key assumptions on a 
standalone basis as well as in the context of defined benefit schemes across other external benchmarks.

Outcome

The Committee is satisfied with the amount of deferred tax recognised in these financial statements.

The Committee is also satisfied that the assumptions, methodology and disclosure in note 2.6 to the 
consolidated financial statements are sufficient to give the reader an understanding of the approach 
taken and the sensitivities within the assumptions that could reasonably give rise to a material 
derecognition of deferred tax.

91

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Costs related to the cyber incident

Matter considered

In March, the Group experienced a cyber incident which caused disruption to some client services. As 
stated in the accounting policies, Capita separates its profit between adjusted and reported to provide 
useful disclosure to aid the understanding of the performance of the Group. The costs arising from the 
cyber incident have been excluded from the adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax of 
the Group. The Committee needs to ensure the complete identification, quantification and disclosure 
in the financial statements of the costs arising from the cyber incident.

Action

The Committee considered the nature of the costs that management have disclosed as arising from 
the cyber incident and the process put in place to ensure only those costs are excluded.

The Committee considered the appropriate presentation to apply for costs related to the cyber 
incident which are presented as an adjustment to the reported results.

The Committee reviewed the contingent liability disclosure in note 6.2 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

Outcome

The Committee concurs with management’s view that the presentation of the costs related to 
the cyber incident as an adjustment to the reported results provides useful disclosure to aid the 
understanding of the performance of the Group and agrees that the items excluded meet with the 
stated policy for recognition. Note 2.4 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the nature of 
the costs excluded, and the Committee is satisfied that this provides sufficient information to inform 
a reader.

The Committee reviewed the disclosures within the contingent liability note. It was satisfied that the 
disclosure provided proportionate detail to inform a reader.

Other issues considered in relation to the financial statements

Materiality

Materiality is important in determining the risk attached to any judgement. The Committee considers 
the audit materiality set by the external auditor to ensure that the Committee is informed of individual 
items above a certain threshold that are most likely to have an impact on the financial statements. 
The Committee reviews the external auditor’s report and the individual items that breach the 
materiality thresholds and assesses their relative impact on the reported statements. These are: income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income; balance sheet; statement of changes in equity and 
cash flow; as well as the notes to the accounts.

The Committee requests further clarification from the external auditor, the CFO and Director of Financial 
Control as to the nature of these items and also their relative importance in the financial statements.

After having made such enquiries, the Committee is satisfied that materiality has been applied 
correctly in the accounts.

Disclosure of information to the auditor

The directors who held office at the date of the approval of this directors’ report confirm that, so 
far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and each director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information required for the audit and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.

Statutory auditor

The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group’s auditor (KPMG) and it advises the 
Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the auditor and on fees earned for both 
statutory audit and audit-related work. The Committee discusses the nature, scope and timing of the 
statutory audit with the auditor and, in making a recommendation to the Board on auditor 
reappointment, performs an annual, independent assessment of the auditor’s suitability, performance and 
independence.

The external auditor attends meetings of the Committee and provides updates on statutory reporting, 
audit-related services and fees, and ongoing audit items.

The auditor has the opportunity to raise concerns in private session with the Committee and 
separately with the chair. Specifically, the Committee asks the auditor if discussion of business 
performance in the strategic report is consistent with the auditor’s overall impression of Capita. 
Any material discrepancies are discussed (refer to the independent auditor’s report).

Auditor independence

The Committee has a responsibility to put in place safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence 
and the key measures are:

•  The CFO monitors the independence of the auditor as part of the Group’s assessment of auditor 

effectiveness and reports to the Committee accordingly.

•  The CFO must approve all audit-related engagements – further details are set out in the section 
below on audit-related services. The Committee reviews audit-related fees twice a year and 
considers the implications for auditor objectivity and independence.

•  The auditor must confirm its independence to the Committee every six months.

Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the selection of any third-party 
auditor. Such conflicts may arise across public and private sector clients, and in key supplier 
relationships. They are a key factor in the award process for an external audit assignment.

92

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Audit-related services and fees

Financial Reporting Council: audit quality inspections

The Company’s policy on auditor independence describes the services that may be procured from the 
auditor, namely audit and audit-related services only. To avoid the perception of a conflict of interest, 
the provision of non-audit services is not permitted. Audit-related services include those required 
by laws and regulations, or where it is more practical for the external auditor to perform the service 
(eg reporting accountant role related to certain public company transactions, and audit and other 
assurance services related to public reporting on other information issued by Capita, such as reports 
on information in the front of the annual reports not covered by the auditor’s report on the financial 
statements). KPMG continues to perform the review of interim results which, although technically 
classified as a non-audit service, relates closely to the audit.

Under the policy, which is reviewed annually, executive management has discretion to engage 
the auditor for audit-related services but the nature of such assignments and associated fees 
must be reported regularly to the Committee. All assignments require approval from the CFO. 
Where executive management has any concern that a proposed assignment might threaten 
the auditor’s independence, this is discussed with the Committee chair.

Total non-audit fees during the year were £0.5m and related to the review of interim results, ISAE 
3402 assurance reporting on controls operating by a subsidiary, and ISAE 3000 assurance reporting 
over non-financial metrics reported within the Annual Report and Accounts. Further details are 
provided in note 2.3.2 to the consolidated financial statements.

External auditor performance

The Committee discussed regularly the performance of KPMG during the year and was satisfied that 
the level of communication and reporting was appropriate. These discussions included a review of 
the effectiveness and quality of the audit process, audit planning and a formal post-audit evaluation.

The formal evaluation comprises separate assessments by both management and the Committee of 
the auditor’s role, activity and performance including:

•  Calibre and risk profile of the audit firm;

•  Audit governance, independence and objectivity;

•  Audit scope and strategy;

•  Audit team and relations with management and business; and

•  Audit communications and resolution of audit issues.

Each year, the Audit Quality Review team (AQR) of the FRC issues a report that sets out the principal 
findings arising from the audit quality inspections conducted in the previous calendar year across a 
sample of audits for all major audit firms. The AQR’s objective is to monitor and promote improvements 
in the quality of auditing. The report highlights improvements required to promote audit quality, and 
areas of good practice. The FRC publishes separate reports on the individual firms, including KPMG.

The Committee received a presentation from the KPMG lead audit partner on the findings from the 
FRC Audit Quality Inspection Report for KPMG.

FRC’s Audit Quality Review of the Capita 2022 audit by KPMG

During the year, the 2022 audit of Capita plc by KPMG was reviewed by the Audit Quality Review 
(AQR) team. The FRC routinely monitors the quality of the audit work of certain UK audit firms through 
inspections of sample audits and related procedures at individual audit firms. Certain matters were 
identified relating to how KPMG evidenced its conclusions over the work performed in two specific 
areas of the audit. The AQR also highlighted good practice observations in relation to KPMGs 
challenge over going concern and the robust evaluation of the Company’s going concern assessment.

The Committee and KPMG have discussed the review findings and the agreed actions and are 
satisfied with responses to be implemented by KPMG in the 2023 audit. Overall, the results of the 
review raised no issues which cause doubt on the fundamental quality of Capita’s external audit 
and the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the external audit.

External auditor reappointment

Following a robust and rigorous audit tender process in 2018, the Committee and Board 
recommended the reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Group’s auditor and this was approved 
by shareholders at the 2019 AGM. KPMG was first appointed in 2010, initially as KPMG Audit plc.

The lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis. The current lead audit partner rotated onto the 
audit following the completion of the 2021 audit in March 2022.There are no contractual obligations 
which restrict the Committee’s choice of auditor.

Under the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services Order and the EU Audit Directive and Audit 
Regulation, the provision of audit services should be retendered every 10 years. The complex nature 
of the Group requires that a knowledge base is built up year on year by the incumbent to ensure that 
the external audit is conducted with a proper understanding of the Group’s operations and the nature 
of the risks that it faces. This is an important factor in ensuring audit quality. The Group has complied 
with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order.

A resolution to reappoint KPMG as the external auditor of the Company will be put forward at the 
forthcoming annual general meeting. If approved, KPMG will hold office from the conclusion of this 
meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the 
Company, and its remuneration will be determined by the Committee.

93

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Review of risk management and internal control

The Committee received reports on the following themes during the year:

Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems is delegated to the Committee by the Board. The principal risks and risk management 
processes are set out on pages 57 to 63.

Effectiveness and efficiency of risk management

During the year, the Committee completed a robust assessment of the principal risks, including 
deep-dive reviews on four of the Group’s principal risks. These reviews focused on principal risks 
related to:

•  Internal controls

•  People, attraction and retention

•  Securing new contracts and extending existing contracts

•  Delivering our contractual obligations

The principal risk assessment also considered any emerging risks that would threaten Capita’s 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The assessment process included regular 
engagement with the Executive Team members accountable for the management of risk falling under 
their remit. As part of each deep dive, the Committee reviewed existing controls and further risk 
reduction actions to ensure they were valid and effective in reducing the overall risk level.

Principal risk refresh

Capita’s principal risks had remained relatively unchanged since 2019. In September 2023, 
the Committee reviewed the principal risk profile, given that since 2019:

•  Capita has changed its business operating model, reducing from six to two divisions.

•  The global Covid-19 pandemic has led to new expectations as employees continue to work 

from home.

•  The geopolitical and political landscape has changed.

•  Recession and macroeconomic uncertainty have led to customers wanting to spend less yet 

continue to seek value for money.

•  Global supply-chain challenges, social and technological changes.

The Committee’s review followed a detailed exercise by the Executive Team and members of their 
senior leadership teams and discussion at the executive risk and ethics committee. Further 
information is provided in the risk section on page 58 of the strategic report.

The Committee considered and challenged management’s assessment of the revised principal risks 
and this matter was also discussed by the Board. Following this assessment the principal risks have 
reduced from 13 to nine. The Committee will continue to receive ‘deep dives’ from management on 
the nine principal risks.

•  Cyber and information security;

•  IT resilience;

•  Internal controls;

•  Finance transformation

•  Securing contracts and extending existing contracts;

•  Risk of failing to deliver on our contractual obligations to our clients;

•  Attracting, developing and retaining our people;

•  Anti-bribery and corruption, including details of matters raised under the Group’s Speak Up policy;

•  Data privacy; and

•  The Group’s legal entity rationalisation programme.

Although cyber and information security was a standing item on the Committee’s agenda prior to 
the cyber incident in late March 2023, the Committee has increased its scrutiny of this topic in the 
wake of the incident. This will remain a principal focus of the Committee for the foreseeable future. 
The Chief Technology Officer and/or the Chief Information Security Officer attend every Committee 
meeting to provide an update on the Group’s cyber security maturity and receive robust challenge 
from Committee members.

The enterprise risk management framework and control environment continues to be enhanced 
and embedded across Capita in the revised operating model. The Committee concluded that risk 
management processes and the system of internal controls were adequate and there were no 
material weaknesses requiring specific disclosure. The Committee reported the conclusions to the 
Board to support the annual confirmation that a robust assessment of the principal risks had been 
carried out.

Effectiveness and efficiency of financial controls

Detail on the status of internal financial controls is in the internal control and risk management section 
of this report and can be found on pages 57 to 63. As detailed on page 88 further improvements 
to the Group risk and control framework, including financial controls were delivered during the year.

The Committee concluded that the Group risk and control framework, including financial controls 
could be relied upon to be materially effective, noting that further improvements to the Group risk and 
control framework are planned for 2024 to ensure that financial controls are appropriately efficient for 
a Group of the scale and complexity of Capita.

Internal audit

The Group internal audit function has an administrative reporting line to the CFO and an independent 
reporting line to me as Chair of the Committee. The function has in place a co-sourcing arrangement 
which adds expertise and breadth to the work of the inhouse audit team. The function is led by the 
Director Internal Audit and Risk who is also responsible for the Group’s non-regulated business risk 
function. Regulated business risk is the responsibility of the CEO, Capita.

94

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

The 2024 plan was approved by the Committee in December 2023. The plan focuses on the following 
four areas: (i) risk-based cyclical audits of core ‘business-as-usual’ activities aligned to our principal 
risks; (ii) advisory reviews (iii) progressive assurance and (iv) testing of key controls documented by 
the functions as they strengthen their internal control framework.

Conducting cyclical audits over these risks and processes provides better insight into how risk is 
being managed and provides comparison across business units. The plan is structured to be flexible; 
to provide assurance over core ‘business as usual’ activities aligned to our principal risks; and, to offer 
continued support for ongoing change activities.

Throughout the year, the Group internal audit function provides written reports to the Committee 
on the work carried out to date and the in-flight work to be completed, together with oral updates. 
An annual report is provided each year summarising the key matters arising. Reports set out controls 
and process weaknesses identified during the work, together with any recommendations for action.

In all cases, management responded with appropriate actions to mitigate the associated risks. 
The Committee reviews management’s response to the matters raised and ensures that any action 
is commensurate with the level of risk identified. The Committee receives regular status updates 
on identified actions and provides robust challenge.

As detailed in the 2022 Committee report, as a result of the consistent themes identified during 
audits including a lack of defined policy and procedures over key processes, responsibilities and 
accountabilities of roles not always clear and a lack of evidence to demonstrate monitoring and 
reporting of control activity, a plan was presented and approved by the Committee during 2022 to 
address these issues and further improve the Group’s financial controls framework. The Committee 
received updates on the progress of this project at each Committee meeting and closely monitors 
the progress of this project. Further information is detailed on page 88.

Through regular interaction between the Committee and the Director Internal Audit and Risk, as well 
as reports received from the function, the Committee can assess and satisfy itself that the Group’s 
provision of internal audit is effective.

Anti-bribery and corruption

Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy, which complies with the Bribery Act 
2010. Procedures are reviewed periodically to ensure continued effective compliance in Group 
businesses around the world.

Code of Conduct and Speak Up

Capita’s Code of Conduct was refreshed in 2022, with the relaunch of the Group’s Speak Up policy. 
Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all Group employees including Capita plc directors. The 
Speak Up policy, provides a framework for concerns to be raised in a responsible and effective 
manner. This ensures that concerns are addressed in a manner independent of a colleague’s 
business area, and that concerns can be raised through a facility provided by an independent 
third-party provider. Where concerns are raised, they are escalated to named contact points 
within Capita for further assessment and investigation.

As part of the relaunch of the Speak Up policy in 2022 a 12-month Speak Up communication 
plan was implemented to raise awareness of this policy and stimulate engagement with employees. 
The number of reported cases has again increased during 2023 following this communication plan, 
with significant progress being made in increasing the number of reported cases to a level more 
representative of Capita’s size and its peers.

During 2023, members of the Business Integrity team visited some of Capita’s international 
sites, including South Africa, to reinforce and embed the Speak Up policy in these businesses. 
The Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary also attended some of these meetings via 
video-conference. The Speak Up policy has also recently been introduced in Capita’s businesses 
in Germany following a change in legislation.

While recognising the progress made the Committee recognises that the number of reported cases is 
still low in certain geographies given the size of Capita and further communication will be undertaken.

This is an area of focus for the Committee, which receives a report from Capita’s Head of Business 
Integrity and an update on the current level of reported cases at every meeting. Oversight of these 
arrangements is a matter reserved to the Board and I provide regular updates on the operation of 
the policy to the Board.

Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Chair

Audit and Risk Committee

5 March 2024

95

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report

Directors’ remuneration report

The directors’ remuneration report (excluding the 
policy) will be subject to an advisory shareholder 
vote, and the policy will be subject to a binding 
shareholder vote, at the 2024 AGM.

This report is split into three sections:
•  The annual statement summarises how 
the committee discharged its roles and 
responsibilities in respect of 2023 including 
the review of the directors’ remuneration 
policy and pay decisions for 2024.

•  The directors’ remuneration policy (the policy) 
presents the policy which remains largely 
unchanged from that approved by shareholders 
at the 2021 AGM and will be subject to a 
binding shareholder vote at the 2024 AGM.

•  The annual report on remuneration sets out 

the remuneration arrangements and incentive 
outcomes for the year under review and 
explains how the policy will be operated 
for 2024.

“ The Remuneration 
Committee considers that 
our remuneration policy 
remains appropriate; 
following the recent 
appointment of our 
new CEO this will be 
kept under review”

Remuneration Committee approximated time allocation 

8

1

2

3

7

6
5

4

1. Governance
2. Executive director and executive team remuneration
3. Annual bonus plan
4. Long term incentives
5. Wider workforce/gender and ethnicity pay gap
6. Shareholder consultation/feedback
7. Policy review
8. Committee time only

7%
5%
33%
20%
6%
4%
23%
2%

Georgina Harvey, Chair,  
Remuneration Committee

Remuneration Committee 
membership and attendance
All members of the committee are 
independent non-executive directors. During 
2023 the non-executive employee director 
attended committee meetings by invitation, 
rather than being a member of the committee. 
From 1 January 2024, following the decision 
to change the constitution of the Board, there 
will no longer be a non-executive employee 
director. The number of formal meetings held 
and the attendance by each member is shown 
in the table on page 75.

The committee also held informal discussions 
as required. The Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the 
committee and is available to assist the 
members of the committee as required, 
ensuring that timely and accurate 
information is distributed accordingly.

The committee’s terms of reference set out 
the role, responsibilities and authority of the 
committee and can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.capita.com/investors. These 
are normally reviewed and updated where 
appropriate, on an annual basis.

96

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Annual statement
Dear shareholder,

I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2023.

The committee’s focus in 2023 has been centred on:

•  Reviewing our current remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM: 

considering the appropriate approach for 2024 and future years;

•  Agreeing the remuneration arrangements in respect of Jon Lewis’s retirement as Chief Executive 

Officer (CEO) and the appointment of Adolfo Hernandez as his successor; and

•  Colleague wellbeing and development: embedding Capita pay principles, rolling out our career path 
framework incorporating job sizing and market-informed job pay ranges to deliver transparency on 
pay throughout the Group.

Details of the committee’s approach to remuneration in 2023, and the proposed implementation of 
the policy for 2024, are set out below.

How the committee operates

The committee has an annual agenda covering the key planning and decision events in the annual 
remuneration cycle. Each meeting is supported by an agenda setting discussion held in advance 
with the committee Chair, Chief People Officer and Group Reward Director, to identify issues affecting 
remuneration that may require consideration by the committee. Regular reports, including updates 
on corporate governance and regulatory developments, are received from the committee’s adviser. 
At each committee meeting the members may receive other reports and presentations covering 
wider workforce arrangements which include the annual pay review, incentive scheme arrangements, 
gender pay and ethnicity reporting, engagement on how executive remuneration aligns with wider 
company pay policy, salary proposals for members of the senior team and approval of remuneration 
packages for new members of the executive team.

During 2023, the ESG committee was responsible for making recommendations to the committee 
in respect of setting and assessing ESG targets in the annual bonus.

Committee activities

The key workstreams of the committee during the year included:

•  Reviewing the current policy and agreeing the approach for the policy to be put to shareholders 

for approval at the 2024 AGM.

•  Agreeing the remuneration arrangements in respect of Jon Lewis’s retirement as CEO and the 

appointment of Adolfo Hernandez as his successor.

•  Agreeing the vesting percentage in respect of the 2020 LTIP awards for the performance period 

ended 31 December 2022.

•  Agreeing annual bonus awards for the year ended 31 December 2022.

•  Agreeing 2023 Restricted Share Award (RSA) levels.

•  Agreeing the design and targets for the 2023 annual bonus.

•  Determining the remuneration arrangements for senior management leavers/joiners.

•  Consideration of executive pay arrangements and alignment with those for the wider workforce.

•  Ongoing workforce engagement in respect of executive remuneration.

•  Receiving progress updates in respect of the implementation of wider workforce strategy on pay 

and progression (career path framework).

In addition, the committee has ensured that the remuneration policy (current and proposed) and 
practices are consistent with the six factors set out in Provision 40 of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code):

Clarity – our policy is well understood by our senior management team and has been clearly 
articulated to our major shareholders and representative bodies (both on an ongoing basis and 
during the detailed consultation exercise in respect of the policy review carried out during 2023).

Simplicity – the committee is mindful of the need to avoid overly complex remuneration structures, 
which can be misunderstood and deliver unintended outcomes. A key objective of the committee 
is to ensure our executive remuneration policies and practices are straightforward to communicate 
and operate.

Risk – our policy has been designed to ensure that inappropriate risk taking is discouraged and will 
not be rewarded via: (i) the balanced use of both short-term incentives and long-term share awards; 
(ii) the significant role played by equity in our incentive plans (together with in employment and post 
cessation shareholding guidelines); and (iii) malus/clawback provisions and the committee’s ability 
to use discretion to adjust vesting levels.

Predictability – our incentive plans are subject to annual individual limits, with our share plans also 
subject to a share dilution limit.

Proportionality – there is a clear link between individual awards, delivery of strategy and our long-term 
performance through performance conditions or underpins applied to the annual bonus plan and RSAs. 
In addition, the significant role played by incentive/at-risk pay, together with the structure of the 
executive directors’ service contracts, ensures that poor performance is not rewarded.

Alignment to culture – our executive pay policies are fully aligned to Capita’s culture, including 
elements of fixed pay (executive director pension provision is aligned with the workforce) and through 
the use of performance metrics that measure how we perform against our financial and non-financial 
KPIs. RSAs further increase alignment to Capita’s responsible business strategy by offering a 
narrower range of value outcomes.

97

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration for 2023
A summary of the approach to remuneration in 2023 was as follows:

•  There was no change in the base salary level for the CEO or the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in 2023.

•  The annual bonus operated in line with policy, with a maximum potential of 200% of salary for 

the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO. The bonus was based on revenue, profit before tax and 
free cash flow (all equally weighted and totalling 80% of maximum bonus) and strategic/individual 
objectives (totalling 20% of maximum bonus).

•  RSAs were granted under the Capita Executive Plan in March 2023 at 150% of salary for the CEO 
and 100% of salary for the CFO. Further details of the 2023 RSAs are set out in the annual report 
on remuneration.

Annual bonus for 2023

Following a review of performance against the annual bonus targets, no annual bonuses were 
awarded to the CEO and CFO in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023.

While revenue performance was between threshold and target, it was noted that revenue benefited 
from certain non-trading items, the exclusion of which would have resulted in a below threshold 
performance. PBT and free cash flow performance were below threshold.

In light of this financial performance, while progress was made against a number of the strategic/
individual objectives, management recommended to the committee that no management bonuses 
should be paid for the year ended 31 December 2023 and the committee accepted this proposal. 
Further details in respect of the annual bonus performance assessment are set out on pages 110 
and 111.

2021 RSAs

The RSAs granted to Jon Lewis and Tim Weller in May 2021, which were due to vest in May 2024, 
will lapse in full post year end following the application of the total shareholder return (TSR) underpin.

Total remuneration

The committee is satisfied that total remuneration awarded to the CEO and CFO in respect of 2023 
(ie fixed pay only) was appropriate in the context of the shareholder and broader stakeholder experience.

Use of discretion

The committee retains the right to exercise discretion to override formulaic outcomes and ensure that 
the level of bonus and/or share award payable is appropriate. It may also use its judgement to adjust 
outcomes to ensure that any payments made reflect overall Company performance and stakeholder 
experiences more generally. Where discretion is exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully 
disclosed to shareholders in the relevant annual report. A summary of the discretion exercised by the 
committee over the last four years, is set out below:

Annual bonus 

Share awards 

2020
In light of the impact of Covid-19, the annual bonus plan 
was withdrawn for 2020 for the executive directors (plus 
the executive committee and selected senior managers) 
before the targets were agreed.

2020 LTIP award levels were reduced by around 70% 
compared with normal grant levels. In addition, and to 
reflect underlying financial and operational performance, 
the committee applied downward discretion when 
assessing the vesting of the 2018 LTIP 

2021
No committee discretion exercised.

2022
Annual bonus awards for the CEO and CFO for the year 
ended 31 December 2022 were reduced from 69% to 
60% of the maximum, see page 115 of the relevant 
annual report.

2021 RSA levels were reduced from 
the normal policy grant level by 
around 17%.

The 2022 RSA level for the CEO was reduced from the 
normal award level of 150% of salary to 100% of salary, 
see page 116 of the relevant annual report.

2023
No committee discretion exercised 
(albeit it should be noted that the 
committee accepted management’s 
proposal not to pay an annual bonus 
for 2023).
No committee discretion exercised.

98

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Board changes in 2023

Implementing the policy for 2024

On 31 July 2023 Capita announced Jon Lewis’s intention to retire. Jon Lewis stepped down as CEO 
and an executive director on 17 January 2024 although he remains an employee until July 2024 to 
ensure an orderly transition. Adolfo Hernandez was appointed CEO and executive director on 
17 January 2024. The remuneration arrangements relating to Jon Lewis’s retirement and the 
appointment of Adolfo Hernandez are set out on pages 114 and 115.

John Cresswell stepped down as a non-executive director on 31 March 2023. Claire Miles was 
appointed as a non-executive director on 12 May 2023 although she stepped down from her role 
on 31 December 2023 following her appointment as chief executive officer of Stagecoach. Janine 
Goodchild stepped down as employee director on 31 December 2023.

Remuneration policy for 2024

As a result of the current policy (approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM) reaching the end of 
its three-year shareholder approved life, a new policy is required in 2024.

Following a review of Capita’s current policy to ensure it continues to support the business and 
delivery of the business strategy at the current time, the committee’s main conclusion is that the 
current policy should be rolled over at the 2024 AGM with minor changes. While the committee did 
consider whether Capita should switch back from RSAs to Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards 
from 2024, the committee concluded that 2024 feels premature for the following two reasons:

•  The committee wishes to ensure that the new CEO has sufficient opportunity to provide his input 

in respect of Capita’s strategy and how this impacts the policy structure, performance metrics and 
targets following an appropriate period of time in the role; and

•  Capita’s current share price volatility means that granting LTIP awards, which are typically double 

RSA levels, will create dilution/share usage issues and increase the risk of windfall gains.

Major shareholders were consulted on the proposed approach towards the end of 2023 and 
the majority confirmed support. The committee will keep the policy under review and should the 
committee conclude that Capita should switch back from RSAs to LTIPs in the future, a new policy 
would be taken to the relevant AGM following a shareholder consultation exercise with our 
major shareholders.

The committee’s intended approach to the implementation of the policy for 2024 is set out below.

Fixed remuneration: Adolfo Hernandez was appointed on a salary of £700,000 (ie lower than the 
salary of Jon Lewis on retirement of £748,000). Jon Lewis and Tim Weller will not receive salary 
increases in 2024. No changes will be made to benefit provision and executive directors will continue 
to receive a workforce-aligned pension allowance (5% of salary) in line with other employees.

2024 annual bonus: The maximum potential will continue to operate at 200% (CEO) and 175% (CFO) 
of salary based on 80% financial (based on sliding scale revenue, profit and cash flow targets) and 
20% strategic (focussed on improvement in the customer net promoter score (cNPS) targets.

2024 RSAs: The 2024 RSAs to be granted to executive directors in 2024 will:

•  be set at a maximum of 125% of salary for the new CEO (ie lower than the previous CEO’s 150% 

salary award) and 100% of salary for the CFO;

•  vest after three years from the grant date, subject to continued employment, satisfactory individual 
performance and a positive assessment of performance against the underpins (including three-year 
TSR to be positive). No shares can normally be sold until at least six years from grant, other than 
those required to settle any taxes.

The actual number of shares under award will be determined just prior to the date of grant and details 
will be set out in the RNS issued immediately following grant.

99

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Shareholder views

Concluding thoughts

The committee engaged with our major shareholders and the main representative bodies towards the 
end of 2023 and early 2024 in advance of the 2024 AGM. Our major shareholders confirmed that they 
were supportive of the new proposed policy in respect of the committee’s conclusions. As such, no 
changes were made to the proposals following consideration of the feedback received.

The committee considers that our remuneration policy continues to remain appropriate and 
was pleased with the level of support it received during the consultation exercise with our major 
shareholders and the main representative bodies. That said, this will be kept under review given 
the recent appointment of our new CEO.

Employee engagement

In 2023, Jon Lewis regularly communicated with all employees, including on our 2022 financial results. 
Employees are able to submit any questions about the Company, including in relation to the directors’ 
remuneration policy and report, pay and benefits, both online and during live employee briefings.

During 2023, the employee non-executive director attended committee meetings by invitation and 
was therefore able to provide colleague perspective on remuneration to the Board.

Over the last couple of years, the committee has established a process of engaging with the 
workforce on how executive remuneration aligns with wider company pay policy, in compliance 
with the Code. The purpose and content of the sessions are clearly articulated and publicised to 
encourage a wide range of attendees and questions. A session was held with the chairs and co-chairs 
of the Capita employee network groups and members of the leadership council in mid-2023. In 
addition, a further session was held with a cross-section of employees from different levels, divisions 
and territories within the Capita Group in December 2023. Both sessions were chaired by Georgina 
Harvey and covered: the work of the committee; executive pay in the UK; and at Capita how 
executive remuneration is linked to performance; strategy on workforce pay and progression; and 
how Capita executive pay policy links to wider Company pay policy including how each element of the 
remuneration package cascades down the business and future pay strategy. These sessions provide 
an opportunity for questions and answers and the provision of feedback is encouraged. Further 
workforce engagement sessions will take place during 2024 following a similar structure.

I hope you find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding our remuneration practices and 
that you will be supportive of the binding vote to approve the rollover of current policy and the 
advisory vote to approve the annual report on remuneration.

Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders for their ongoing support.

Georgina Harvey
Chair

Remuneration Committee

5 March 2024

100

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Directors’ remuneration policy

This part of the remuneration report sets out our proposed remuneration policy which will be put 
to shareholders for approval at the 2024 AGM. The information provided in this section of the 
remuneration report is not subject to audit.

The proposed policy is a rollover of current policy with minor amendments and, subject to shareholder 
approval, will take formal effect from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM. A summary of the changes 
from the policy approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM is as follows:

Consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders. It considers the 
AGM to be an opportunity to communicate with shareholders, giving them the opportunity to raise any 
issues or concerns they may have. In addition, the committee seeks to engage directly with major 
shareholders and the main representative bodies, should any material changes be proposed to 
the policy.

•  Reflecting the new CEO’s 125% of salary RSA level (ie lower than the 150% of salary received by 

Jon Lewis), the maximum RSA in the policy table has been reduced to 125% of salary. Connected 
to this, the maximum variable remuneration for a new executive director appointment has been 
reduced from 350% to 325% of salary in the Directors’ recruitment and promotions section;

As detailed on pages 99 and 100, the committee consulted with major shareholders and shareholder 
representatives on the proposal to rollover the current policy and the majority confirmed support. 
As such, no changes were made to the proposed approach following consideration of the 
feedback received.

Consideration of our people
When determining executive director remuneration policy and practices, the committee reviews 
workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture 
to ensure that workforce pay and conditions are taken into account when setting the pay of executive 
directors and senior management.

•  Enhancing the disclosure under the policy table in respect of committee discretion to make it clear 
that, consistent with best practice, the committee retains absolute discretion to override formulaic 
outcomes in the bonus, RSA and any other remuneration arrangements where relevant; and

•  References to the employee non-executive director have been removed following the Board’s 
decision that from 1 January 2024, the Board will constitute seven directors (comprising the 
chairman, two executive directors, and four independent non-executive directors).

Responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee
The committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy 
for the executive directors, executive team members, and the Chief General Counsel and Company 
Secretary role, including setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance framework 
and determining each remuneration package. In addition, the committee reviews remuneration for 
the wider workforce and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture. 
The committee also sets the Chairman’s fee.

In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, executive team members and the Chief 
General Counsel and Company Secretary role, the committee ensures that the arrangements are 
in the best interest of both the Group and its shareholders, by taking into account the following 
general principles:

•  To ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in design so that they are valued 

by participants.

•  To ensure that total remuneration strongly reflects performance.

•  To balance performance-related pay between: the achievement of financial performance objectives 
and delivering sustainable performance; creating a clear connection between performance and 
reward; and providing a focus on sustained improvements in profitability and returns.

•  To provide a material proportion of remuneration in shares, allowing senior management to build a 
significant shareholding in the business and, therefore, aligning management with shareholders’ 
interests and the Group’s performance, without encouraging excessive risk taking.

101

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration policy table
The following table sets out the key aspects of the policy.

Base salary

Purpose and link to strategy 
To attract and retain talent by 
ensuring base salaries are 
sufficiently competitive.

Operation 
Normally reviewed annually. The committee may award salary increases 
at other times of the year if it considers it to be appropriate. The review 
takes into account:

•  Salaries in similar companies and comparably-sized companies

•  Remuneration policy

•  Economic climate

•  Market conditions

•  Group performance

•  The role and responsibility of the individual director

•  Employee remuneration across the broader workforce.

Benefits

Purpose and link to strategy 
Designed to be consistent with 
benefits available to employees 
in the Group.

Operation 
Benefits may include car allowance, private medical insurance, travel and 
property hire. Executive directors can also participate in all-employee 
share plans.

The committee has discretion to add additional benefits which are not 
currently provided, such as relocation expenses.

Maximum opportunity 
There is no prescribed maximum monetary annual 
increase to base salaries. Any annual increase in 
salaries is at the discretion of the committee, taking 
into account the factors stated in this table and the 
following principles:

•  Salaries would typically be increased at a rate 
consistent with the average salary increase 
(in percentage of salary terms) for the 
broader workforce.

•  Larger increases may be considered appropriate 

in certain circumstances (including, but not limited 
to, a change in an individual’s responsibilities or in 
the scale of their role or in the size and complexity 
of the Group).

•  Larger increases may also be considered 
appropriate if a director has been initially 
appointed to the Board at a lower than 
typical salary.

Maximum opportunity 
Benefit provision varies between different executive 
directors. While there is no maximum level set by the 
committee, benefits provision will be set at a level 
the committee considers appropriate and be based 
on individual circumstances.

Participation in the Company’s HMRC-approved 
all-employee share plan will be limited by the 
maximum level prescribed by HMRC.

Performance framework
Individual and business performance are considerations in 
setting base salaries.

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

Pension

Purpose and link to strategy 
Consistent with benefits available 
to employees in the Group.

Operation 
Pension contributions are paid into the Group’s defined contribution 
scheme and/or as a cash allowance.

Maximum opportunity 
5% of salary. 

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

102

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Annual bonus

Purpose and link to strategy 
Performance measures are 
selected to focus executives on 
delivery of the Group’s business 
plan for the financial year.

Restricted share awards

Purpose and link to strategy 
Designed to reward and retain 
executives over the longer term, 
while aligning their interests with 
those of shareholders.

To link reward to longer-term 
performance.

To encourage share ownership.

Shareholding guidelines

Purpose and link to strategy 
To align interests of management 
and shareholders and promote a 
long-term approach to 
performance and risk 
management. 

Maximum opportunity 
200% of salary.

Operation 
The bonus measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure 
that bonus opportunity and performance measures are appropriately 
stretching and continue to support the business plan.

Performance against targets is reviewed following completion of the final 
accounts for the period under review.

50% of any bonus earned (net of tax) is normally delivered in shares 
deferred for three years, with the remainder delivered in cash or deferred 
shares at the executive director’s discretion.

An additional payment may be made at the time of vesting in respect 
of dividends that would have accrued on deferred shares during the 
deferral period.

Malus and clawback provisions apply to all annual bonus and deferred 
bonus share awards for a period of up to three years after the 
determination of the annual bonus.

Operation 
Awards normally vest after three years from grant and, once vested, 
shares may not normally be sold until at least six years from the grant 
date (other than to pay relevant taxes).

Dividends or dividend equivalents may accrue over the vesting period and 
any holding period but only to the extent awards vest.

Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards for a period up to the fifth 
anniversary of grant.

Maximum opportunity 
125% of salary. 

Performance framework
Performance is normally measured over a one-year period 
relative to challenging targets for selected measures of 
Group financial, strategic and/or individual performance.

The majority of the bonus will be determined by 
measure(s) of Group financial performance.

A sliding scale is set for each Group financial measure: 
50% of the bonus will be paid at target performance, 
increasing to 100% for maximum performance.

Any bonus payout is ultimately at the discretion of the 
committee, and the amount of any bonus that would be 
determined based on performance may be reduced if the 
committee believes this better reflects the underlying 
performance of Capita over the relevant period.

Performance framework
Vesting will be subject to: (i) continued employment; 
(ii) satisfactory personal performance during the relevant 
vesting periods; and (iii) a positive assessment of 
performance against one or more underpins.

In addition, the committee may reduce the extent to 
which an award vests if it believes this better reflects the 
underlying performance of Capita over the relevant period.

Operation 
Shareholding guidelines require executive directors to reach a specified 
shareholding. Executive directors are required to retain 100% of any 
shares from deferred bonus awards, RSAs (or LTIPs as granted under the 
previous policy) on vesting (net of tax) until the guideline level is achieved.

Post-cessation guidelines apply to share awards granted following the 
2020 AGM. In determining the relevant number of shares to be retained 
post cessation, shares acquired from own purchases, any buyout awards 
and share awards granted prior to the 2020 AGM will not be counted.

Maximum opportunity 
In employment: 300% of salary (CEO); 200% of 
salary (CFO).

Post cessation: 100% of the relevant guideline 
between cessation and the second anniversary of 
cessation (or the actual shareholding if the guideline 
has not been met at cessation).

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

103

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Non-executive director (NED) fees

Purpose and link to strategy 
Market competitive fees are set  
to attract and retain non-
executive directors with the 
required skills, experience and 
knowledge so that the Board 
can effectively carry out its 
responsibilities.

Operation 
Reviewed periodically by the Board. Fee levels set by reference to market 
rates, taking into account the individual’s experience, responsibilities, time 
commitment and pay decisions for the broader workforce. NED fees 
comprise payment of an annual basic fee and additional fees for further 
Board responsibilities such as:

•  Senior independent director

•  Audit and Risk Committee chair

•  Remuneration Committee chair

•  The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.

Additional fees/allowances may also be paid for intercontinental travel 
for business purposes where appropriate. No NED participates in the 
Group’s incentive arrangements or pension plan or receives any other 
benefits other than where travel to the Company’s registered office is 
recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive 
grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.

The annual bonus performance measures are Group financial, strategic or individual measures which are selected annually 
to be consistent with key priorities for the Group.

Targets are normally set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations 
for the Company.

Only modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial 
outperformance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year.

The committee operates share-based arrangements for the executive directors in accordance with their respective scheme 
rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant. The committee, consistent with market practice and the 
scheme rules, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans. 
These include (but are not limited to) the following:

•  Who participates

•  The form in which the award is granted and settled (eg shares, nil cost options, cash)

•  The timing of the grant of award and/or payment

•  The size of an award (up to individual and plan limits) and/or a payment

•  Discretion relating to the measurement of any performance target/underpin and pro-rating of awards in the event of 

a ‘good leaver’ scenario or a change of control or restructuring of the Company

•  Determination of whether or not a person is characterised as a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) 

for incentive plan purposes

•  Adjustments required in certain circumstances (eg share capital variation, rights issues, demerger, corporate 

restructuring, special dividends)

•  The ability to vary or substitute any performance condition(s)/underpins if circumstances occur which cause it to 

determine that the original condition(s) have ceased to be appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is 
fair, reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition (in its opinion). In the event that the 
committee were to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next remuneration report

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

Maximum opportunity 
As per the executive directors, there is no prescribed 
maximum monetary annual increase. Fees are 
limited to an aggregate annual sum of £1m 
increased only to take account of the effect of 
inflation as measured by the retail price index or 
such index as the directors consider appropriate or 
such other amount as the Company may by ordinary 
resolution decide.

In all cases, the committee retains absolute discretion to override formulaic outcomes in the bonus, RSA and any other 
remuneration arrangements (eg to ensure that any payouts reflect underlying Company performance and the broader 
stakeholder experience).

The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and/or payments for loss of office (including 
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with 
the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: (i) before the policy set out above came into effect, 
provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors’ remuneration policy in 
force at the time they were agreed; or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in 
the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company. 
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to 
an award over shares, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted. The committee retains 
discretion to make minor amendments to the policy set out in this policy report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax 
or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for 
that amendment.

104

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Illustrations of the application of our remuneration policy

The scenarios in the above graphs for the newly appointed CEO and CFO are based on the following:

CEO remuneration chart 

3500

3000

2500

2000

1500

1000

500

0

38%

30%

32%

Target
£2,330

100%

Minimum
£755 

Fixed pay

Annual Bonus

RSA

Share price growth

CFO remuneration chart 

29%

46%

25%

13%

25%

40%

22%

Minimum
•  Base salary at 1 January 2024 (or appointment if later)

Maximum

On-target

•  Estimated value of benefits

•  5% of salary pension

Fixed pay

Annual bonus

CEO max: 200% of salary

CFO max: 175% of salary

0%

50% of max

100% of max

RSA

CEO max: 125% of salary1

CFO max: 100% of salary1 0%

100% of max

100% of max

Maximum with share price

100% of max
100% of maximum 
with a 50% share 
price growth 
assumption 
on RSAs

Maximum
£3,030

Maximum with share price growth
£3,468

1. This is the maximum award level permitted. The actual number of shares under award in 2024 will be determined just 

prior to the date of grant. Except as stated above in relation to RSA, figures for share based awards do not include any 
share price movements or any dividends or dividend equivalents.

3500

3000

2500

2000

1500

1000

500

0

34%

30%

36%

Target
£1,614

100%

Minimum
£592

26%

46%

28%

12%

23%

40%

25%

Maximum
£2,091

Maximum with share price growth
£2,364

Fixed pay

Annual Bonus

RSA

Share price growth

Malus and clawback
Malus and clawback provisions apply to all incentive awards granted to executive directors. These 
provisions permit the committee to reduce or recover bonus awards (including deferred shares) for 
up to three years after the determination of the annual bonus and to reduce or recover RSA awards 
(and LTIP awards granted under the previous policy) up to the fifth anniversary of grant. The potential 
circumstances in which malus or clawback provisions can be applied include:

•  material misstatement of a Group company’s financial results

•  a participant deliberately misleads relevant parties regarding financial performance

•  serious misconduct or conduct which causes significant financial loss

•  overpayments due to material abnormal write-offs of an exceptional basis

•  an error was made, or inaccurate or misleading information was used to determine the value of 

an award

•  reputational damage

•  material failure of risk management

•  corporate failure or the occurrence of an insolvency event.

105

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Application of our remuneration policy
When determining executive director remuneration policy and practices, the committee reviews 
workforce remuneration and related policies, and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture.

Share awards are granted to senior management in order to encourage a high level of employee share 
ownership, albeit remuneration is more heavily weighted towards long-term variable pay for executive 
directors than other employees. This is to ensure that there is a clear link between the value created 
for shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive directors. The committee did 
not consult with employees formally in respect of the design of the policy, although the employee 
non-executive director who attended the committee by invitation during 2023 was involved in 
the committee’s discussions.

The committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard 
policy to meet the individual circumstances of recruitment when:

•  An interim appointment is made to fill an executive director role on a short-term basis.

•  Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a non-executive director takes on 

an executive function on a short-term basis.

In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will 
normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for non-executive directors. However, 
the committee (or the Board as appropriate) may include any element listed in the policy table or any 
other element which the committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances 
excluding any variable elements, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.

Directors’ recruitment and promotions
The committee takes into account the need to attract, retain and motivate the best person for each 
position, while at the same time ensuring a close alignment between the interests of shareholders 
and management.

If a new executive director were to be appointed on a permanent basis, the committee would 
seek to align their remuneration package with other executive directors in line with the policy table. 
However, flexibility would be retained to make buyout awards or payments in respect of remuneration 
arrangements and contractual terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In such circumstances, 
the committee would look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and, 
in doing so, would take account of relevant factors including the nature of the remuneration and 
contractual terms, performance conditions and the time over which they would have vested or 
been paid.

If appropriate, a new appointee’s incentives in their year of joining may be subject to different targets 
than for other executive directors. The committee may also agree that the Company will meet certain 
relocation and incidental expenses, as it considers appropriate.

The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted (excluding awards to compensate 
for remuneration arrangements and contractual terms forfeited on leaving the previous employer) to 
new executive directors in the year of recruitment shall be limited to 325% of salary (the maximum 
limit permitted within the policy table).

The initial notice period for a service contract may be up to 24 months, which is longer than that 
stated in the policy of a 12-month notice period, provided it reduces to 12 months within a short 
space of time.

For an internal appointment or an appointment following the Company’s acquisition of or merger with 
another company, any incentive amount awarded in respect of a prior role may be allowed to vest on 
its original terms, or adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. Any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations or terms and conditions existing prior to appointment may continue.

Directors’ service agreements and payments for loss of office
The committee regularly reviews the contractual terms of the service agreement to ensure these 
reflect best practice.

The service contracts for executive directors are for an indefinite period and provide for a 12-month 
notice period. They do not include provisions for predetermined compensation on termination that 
exceed 12-months’ salary, pension and benefits. There are no arrangements in place between the 
Company and its directors that provide for compensation for loss of office following a takeover bid. 
All directors are appointed subject to annual re-election at the annual general meeting.

In circumstances of termination on notice, the committee will determine an equitable compensation 
package, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case. The committee reserves the 
right to make payments in connection with a director’s cessation of office or employment where the 
payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages 
for breach of such an obligation) or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in 
connection with the cessation of a director’s office or employment. Any such payments may include, 
but are not limited to, paying any fees for outplacement assistance and/or the director’s legal and/or 
professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment. The committee has 
discretion to require notice to be worked or to make payment in lieu of notice or to place the director 
on garden leave for some or all of the notice period. Any payment in lieu of notice will be reduced for 
any period of time worked post notice being given or received.

The annual bonus may be payable for a good leaver (as defined in the plan rules) in respect of the 
period of the bonus plan year worked by the director; there is no provision for an amount in lieu of 
bonus to be payable for any part of the notice period not worked. Bonus payments would normally 
be paid at the normal payment date.

On cessation, an executive director’s share plan entitlements will be determined in accordance with 
the rules of the relevant plan.

106

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Unvested deferred share awards will normally lapse on the earlier of notice being given/received and 
cessation. However, the committee has discretion to allow awards to instead continue to vest in full 
on the normal vesting date (or earlier at the discretion of the committee) for a good leaver (as defined 
in the relevant plan rules).

In respect of RSAs/LTIPs, unvested awards will normally lapse on the earlier of notice being given/
received and cessation. However, the committee has discretion to allow awards to instead continue 
to vest on the normal vesting date (or earlier at the discretion of the committee) to the extent any 
performance conditions/underpins attached to the relevant award are satisfied at vesting. In such 
cases awards will, other than in exceptional circumstances, be scaled back on a time pro-rated 
basis and post-vesting holding periods would normally apply.

In the event of a change of control, all unvested LTIP awards/RSAs would (unless rolled over) vest, 
to the extent that any performance conditions/underpins attached to the relevant awards have 
been achieved. Awards would normally be subject to time pro-rating (unless the committee 
determines otherwise).

Unvested deferred share awards would vest in the event of a change of control (unless rolled over). 
Shares held within the share ownership plan will be removed from the plan or exchanged for 
replacement shares in accordance with the scheme rules and HMRC guidelines.

Non-executive directors’ terms of engagement
Non-executive directors are appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years. 
Each appointment is terminable by three months’ notice on either side. At the end of the initial period, 
the appointment may be renewed by mutual consent, subject to annual re-election at the AGM.

Inspection of service agreements/letters of appointment
The service agreements and non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office, and available for 
inspection at the AGM.

107

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Annual report on remuneration

Annual report on remuneration
This part of the remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium 
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and paragraphs 
9.8.6R and 9.8.8 of the Listing Rules. The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2024 AGM. The information on pages 108 to 118 has been audited 
as indicated.

FIT Remuneration LLP (FIT) was appointed by the committee during 2020 to provide independent 
advice on executive remuneration matters. During the year, the committee received independent and 
objective advice from FIT primarily on market practice, governance updates, the operation and review 
of the remuneration policy, shareholder/proxy feedback on policy proposals, remuneration-related 
disclosure within the accounts and the retirement of Jon Lewis and appointment of Adolfo Hernandez 
as CEO. FIT’s fees were £123,106 (excluding VAT) during 2023 for its services (charged on a time 
plus expenses basis). The fees were considered appropriate for the work undertaken. No other 
services were provided to the Group by FIT.

FIT is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, operates voluntarily 
under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The committee 
considers FIT’s advice on remuneration to be independent and objective, and there is no connection 
with the Company or individual directors.

The committee also consulted with the CEO, CFO, the Chief People Officer and the Group 
Reward Director to provide further information to the committee on the performance and proposed 
remuneration for the executive directors and other senior management, but not in relation to their 
own remuneration.

The work of the committee is detailed in the annual statement.

Shareholder voting at the AGM
The 2023 directors’ remuneration report will be presented to shareholders at the 2024 AGM. At the 
2023 AGM, the actual voting in respect of the ordinary resolution to approve the remuneration report 
for the year ended 31 December 2022 is set out below together with the vote on the current 
remuneration policy approved at the 2021 AGM.

Directors’ remuneration report, other than the part 
containing the directors’ remuneration policy, for 
the year ended 31 December 2022

Directors’ remuneration policy (2021 AGM) 

Votes cast for
1,120,642,451 

Votes cast against 
43,174,795 

Abstentions1
92,205

96.29% 
1,254,719,423 
97.13% 

3.71%
37,105,242 
2.87%

108,597

1. A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes ‘for’ and ‘against’ 

a resolution.

Policy implementation for 2024
Details of the committee’s intended approach to the implementation of the policy for 2024 is set out in 
the annual statement.

Fees for the Chairman, senior independent director and non-executive directors
A summary of the fees for 2024 which are unchanged from 2023 levels are as follows:

David Lowden, Chairman 
Georgina Harvey, Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair 
Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Audit and Risk Committee Chair 
Nneka Abulokwe 
Neelam Dhawan 

Annual fee from 
1 January 2024
£290,000
£85,500
£75,000
£64,500
£64,500

108

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Directors’ remuneration earned in 2023 – single-figure table (audited)
The table below summarises directors’ remuneration received in 2023 (with prior year comparators).

David Lowden2 

Jon Lewis3,4

Tim Weller3,5 

Georgina Harvey6 

Brian McArthur-Muscroft7 

Nneka Abulokwe8 

Neelam Dhawan9 

Claire Miles10 

Janine Goodchild11 

Former Directors
Sir Ian Powell12 

John Cresswell13

Matthew Lester14 

Lyndsay Browne15 

Joseph Murphy15 

2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 

2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022
2023 
2022 
2023 
2022 

Base salary  
and fees  

£

290,000
213,447 
748,000 
748,000 
545,000 
545,000 
85,500 
80,250 
75,000 
42,875 
64,500 
59,125 
64,500 
64,500 
40,897 
– 
64,500 
32,250 

– 
128,951 
16,125 
64,500 
– 
37,500
– 
32,250
– 
32,250 

Benefits1  

£

1,876 
839 
19,475 
17,986 
17,703 
18,399 
567 
– 
567
– 
567 
193 
8,520 
25,599
311
–
1,021 
– 

– 
16 
1,325 
–
– 
–
– 
 – 
– 
– 

Pension  

Annual bonus  

£

– 
–
37,400 
37,400 
27,250 
27,250 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 –
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
–
–
– 
 –
– 
– 

£

– 
– 
0 
897,600 
0
572,250 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 –
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
 – 
 –
–
– 
– 
– 
– 

LTIP  
£

– 
– 
– 
98,978 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 –
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
 –
– 
– 
–
– 
– 

RSA  
£

Total 
remuneration  

£

Total fixed 
remuneration  

£

Total variable 
remuneration  

£

– 
– 
0 
– 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 – 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
–
– 
– 
– 
– 

291,876 
214,286 
804,875
1,799,964 
589,953 
1,162,899 
86,067 
80,250 
75,567 
42,875 
65,067 
59,318 
73,020 
90,099 
41,208 
– 
65,521 
32,250 

– 
128,967 
17,450 
64,500 
–
37,500
– 
32,250 
– 
32,250 

291,876 
214,286 
804,875 
803,386 
589,953 
590,649 
86,067
80,250 
75,567 
42,875 
65,067
59,318 
73,020 
90,099 
41,208 
– 
65,521 
32,250 

– 
128,967 
17,450 
64,500 
 –
37,500
–
32,250 
– 
32,250 

– 
– 
0
996,578
0
572,250
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

–
– 
– 
– 
–
– 
–
– 
–
– 

109

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

1.  Benefits include all taxable benefits as defined by paragraph 11(1) of the regulations. This includes private medical 

insurance, company car allowance, work travel and the value of matching share awards under the UK all-employee 
share scheme.

2.  David Lowden was appointed Chairman on 11 May 2022 following the stepping down of Sir Ian Powell as Chairman 

and non-executive director on 10 May 2022. David stepped down from the position of senior independent director 
on his appointment as Chairman. Fees for 2022 reflect the change in roles and are shown on a pro-rata basis.

3.  Details of the performance assessment and vesting of the 2021 RSA awards held by Jon Lewis and Tim Weller are set 
out on page 111. RSAs granted to the executive directors in April 2022 and March 2023 with performance underpins, 
will be disclosed in the year ending just prior to the normal vesting date.

4.  The 2020 LTIP awards have been restated in the table above in respect of the prior year from £66,986 (based on a 
three-month average share price to 31 December 2022 of 25.23p) to £98,978 (based on a share price of 37.28p as 
at 14 April 2023 (the working day prior to the 16 April 2023 vesting date).

5.  The benefits figure for Tim Weller for 2022 includes an element of backdated car allowance (£1,342) which was 

underpaid in 2021.

6.  Georgina Harvey was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 July 2022 following David Lowden’s appointment 

as Chairman. Fees for 2022 reflect the change in role part way through the year.

7.  Brian McArthur-Muscroft was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 June 2022 and replaced Matthew Lester as 

Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 July 2022. Fees for 2022 are shown from 1 June 2022 to 31 December 
2022 and reflect his appointment as chair of a committee from 1 July 2022.

8.  Nneka Abulokwe was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 February 2022. Fees for 2022 are shown from 

1 February 2022 to 31 December 2022.

9.  Neelam Dhawan is based outside the UK and receives an allowance for physical attendance at a Board meeting.  

This is shown in the benefits column.

10.  Claire Miles was appointed as a non-executive director on 12 May 2023. Fees for 2023 are shown from 12 May 2023 
to 31 December 2023.Claire stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2023 following her appointment as CEO 
of Stagecoach. She was paid up to 6 January 2024 in line with the terms of the notice period in her service contract. 
These fees will be included in the table in next years’ report.

11.  Janine Goodchild was appointed as employee non-executive director on 1 July 2022. Fees for 2022 are shown from 

1 July 2022 to 31 December 2022. In addition to her fee as an employee non-executive director, she received earnings 
from the Group as an employee amounting to £51,213 for the year ended 31 December 2023. The figures for earnings 
for 2022 are disclosed in footnote 9 of the single figure table in the 2022 report. Janine stepped down from the Board 
on 31 December 2023.

12.  Sir Ian Powell stepped down as Chairman and non-executive director on 10 May 2022. Fees for 2022 are shown from 

1 January 2022 to 10 May 2022 and include an element of accrued holiday pay.

13.  John Cresswell stepped down as a non-executive director on 31 March 2023. Fees for 2023 are shown from 1 January 

2023 to 31 March 2023.

14.  Matthew Lester stepped down as a non-executive director on 30 June 2022. Fees for 2022 are shown from 1 January 

2022 to 30 June 2022.

15.  Lyndsay Browne and Joseph Murphy stepped down as employee directors on 30 June 2022. Fees for 2022 are shown 
from 1 January 2022 to 30 June 2022. The figures for earnings for 2022 are disclosed in footnote 16 of the single figure 
table in the 2022 report.

Annual bonus for 2023 (audited)
The annual bonus for 2023 (200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO) was based 
on a combination of revenue, profit before tax (PBT) and free cash flow targets (equally weighted 
and totalling 80% of maximum bonus) and strategic/individual objectives (20% of maximum bonus).

On a formulaic basis and as set out in the financial targets table below, actual revenue performance 
would have resulted in a payout of 11% of the maximum 80% available for the financial measures 
(equating to c.18% of salary for the CEO and c.15% of salary for the CFO). However, while revenue 
performance was between threshold and target, it was noted that revenue benefited from certain 
non-trading items, the exclusion of which would have resulted in a below threshold performance. 
PBT and free cash flow performance were below threshold.

In light of financial performance, while progress was made against a number of the strategic/individual 
objectives, management recommended to the committee that no management bonuses should be 
paid for the year ended 31 December 2023 and the committee accepted this proposal.

Financial targets (80% of the bonus)

Weighting (% 
of maximum 
bonus)
26.67% 
26.67% 
26.67% 

Threshold target 
(25% vests)
£2,609m 
£58m 
£(90)m 

Target  

(50% vests)
£2,712m 
£73m 
£(65)m 

Stretch  

(100% vests)
£2,848m 
£87m 
£(40)m 

Actual 
performance1

Achievement 
against financial 
performance 
weighting
£2,642m  33% of max4
0%
0%3

 £56m2 
£(115)m 

80% 

11% of max4

Revenue 
PBT 
Free cash flow 
Financial measures 
bonus payout 

1. The targets above have been adjusted to include Tascor which was previously held in Portfolio and has now been 

moved to Public, and to exclude Healthcare Decisions, which has been moved to business exits.

2. In H1 2023 the Group changed its definition of free cash flow, excluding business exits to include the capital element of 

finance lease payments and receipts. The above free cash flow targets have been adjusted to align with this.

3. Costs relating to the cyber incident and restructuring have been treated as exceptional in the calculation of 

PBT performance.

4. Reduced to £nil following management’s recommendation to the committee that no management bonuses 

should be paid for the year ended 31 December 2023.

110

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Strategic/individual objectives (20% of the bonus)
The committee received regular performance updates during 2023 in respect of the strategic/
individual objectives and noted the strong progress made against a number of the strategic/individual 
objectives set out below (including the growth, net zero and role-based measures). However, as a 
result of management’s recommendation not to award bonuses for the year ended 31 December 
2023, the committee did not formally assess the strategic targets post year end.

Threshold
Maintain score

Target
+4 point improvement

Maximum
+8 point improvement

Maintain the current 
gap of 4% to the UK 
2023 benchmark

Close the gap to the 
UK 2023 benchmark 
by 2%

Match the 2023 UK 
benchmark

28%

33%

38%

Aggregate tonnes CO2 
reported is no more 
than 5% higher 
than the target 

Aggregate tonnes CO2 
reported is as per the 
agreed plan; and the 
supply chain target (as 
per the agreed plan) is 
achieved or exceeded

Aggregate tonnes CO2 
reported is at least 5% 
lower than target; and 
the supply chain target 
(as per the agreed 
plan) is achieved 
or exceeded

Objectives and weighting  
(% of maximum bonus)
Customer (4%) – cNPS

Deliver improvement in customer 
net promoter score (cNPS) for 
Capita Group (excluding Portfolio) 
by the end of 2023
Employee (4%) – Deliver 
improvement in the employee 
engagement index for Capita 
Group by the end of 2023
Growth (4%) – Conversion of new 
business (both from existing and 
new clients)
Net zero (4%) – measured by 
reference to the aggregate (sum 
of the 2023 emissions for business 
travel and energy/property (scope 
1 and 2)) tonnes CO2 reported and, 
for target and stretch, supply 
chain targets
Cyber (4%) – Deliver improvement 
in Capita’s cyber resilience posture 
and maturity level during 2023 
(CEO only)
Long-term financing (4%) 
– Review Capita’s long-term 
debt financing position (CFO only)

Restricted Share Awards due to vest in 2024 (audited)
RSAs were granted under the Capita Executive Plan in May 2021 as follows:

Name of director
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller 

Number of  

shares awarded
2,169,100 
1,082,695 

Vesting of the 2021 RSAs in May 2024, is subject to: (i) continued employment; (ii) satisfactory 
personal performance during the relevant vesting periods; and (iii) a positive assessment of 
performance against the following underpins:

•  underpin 1: Capita’s TSR over the three years ended 31 December 2023 must be positive for any 

RSAs granted to executive directors to vest; and

•  underpin 2: the committee must be satisfied with the underlying performance of Capita and that 
there have been no environmental, social or governance issues resulting in material reputational 
damage. If this is not deemed to be met, the committee will consider a reduction to the final 
vesting level of the RSAs (including to nil).

Given that Capita’s share price has fallen over the three years ended 31 December 2023 (ie TSR has 
been negative), the 2021 RSAs lapsed in full post year end.

RSAs granted in 2023 (audited)
RSAs were granted under the Capita Executive Plan in March 2023 as follows:

Name of director
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller 

Number of  

shares awarded
2,744,886 
1,333,300 

Face value  

of RSA
£1,122,000
£545,000 

Percentage  
of salary
150%
100%

Award levels reflect the continued operation of a TSR underpin for a third year in a row. RSAs will 
normally vest after three years from grant subject to: (i) continued employment; (ii) satisfactory 
personal performance during the relevant vesting periods; and (iii) a positive assessment of 
performance against the following two underpins:

•  underpin 1: Capita’s TSR over the three years ending 31 December 2025 must be positive for 

any RSAs granted to executive directors to vest; and

•  underpin 2: the committee must be satisfied with the underlying performance of Capita and that 
there have been no environmental, social or governance issues resulting in material reputational 
damage. If this is not deemed to be met, the committee will consider a reduction to the final 
vesting level of the RSAs (including to nil).

Once vested, shares received may not normally be sold until at least six years from the grant date 
(other than to pay relevant taxes).

111

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Directors’ interests and shareholding guidelines (audited)
Executive directors are expected to hold 200% (300% for the CEO) of salary in shares in the Company. The guidelines include shares held beneficially and also shares within the deferred annual bonus (DAB) 
plan that have been deferred over the three-year period, RSA awards which are not subject to performance conditions/performance underpins and share awards which have vested but not yet been exercised. 
Any shares in the DAB, RSA awards which are not subject to performance conditions/performance underpins and vested but unexercised LTIP awards used for this are calculated net of tax. Share awards 
that are subject to performance conditions are not included.

David Lowden 
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller 
Georgina Harvey 
Brian McArthur-Muscroft 
Nneka Abulokwe 
Neelam Dhawan 
Claire Miles2
Janine Goodchild2 
John Cresswell3 

Beneficially  
held interests at 
31 December 2023
250,000
2,730,255 
818,240 
6,000 
– 
– 
– 
20,000
– 
65,500 

Beneficially  
held interests at 
31 December 2022
150,000 
1,414,538 
270,689 
6,000 
 – 
– 
– 
–
– 
65,500 

Interests in share 
incentive schemes, 
awarded without 
performance conditions 
at 31 December 2023
– 
2,069,612 
1,093,053 
– 
 –
– 
– 
–
– 
– 

Interests in share 
incentive schemes, 
awarded without 
performance conditions 
at 31 December 2022
– 
868,456 
327,276 
– 
 –
–
– 
–
– 
– 

Interests in share 
incentive schemes, 
awarded subject  
to performance 
conditions/underpins at 
31 December 2023
– 
8,395,971
4,953,003
– 
 –
 –
– 
–
– 
– 

Interests in share 
incentive schemes, 
awarded subject to 
performance conditions 
at 31 December 2022
–
7,421,085 
3,619,703 
– 
 –
 –
– 
–
– 
– 

Interests in share  
option schemes where 
performance/vesting 
conditions have been 
met but not exercised at 
31 December 2023
 –
265,500 
– 
– 
 –
 –
– 
–
– 
– 

Interests in share option 
schemes where 
performance/vesting 
conditions have been 
met but not exercised at 
31 December 2022
 –
738,877 
– 
– 
–
 –
–
–
– 
– 

Percentage of 
shareholding target 
requirement at 
31 December 20231
 –
39%
28%
–
–
 –
 –
–
–
–

1. Calculated using the closing share price on 29 December 2023 (22p), being the last working day of 2023.
2. Claire Miles and Janine Goodchild stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2023. Their beneficially held interests are shown as at that date.
3. John Cresswell’s beneficially held interests are shown at the date of his resignation on 31 March 2023.

Between the end of the 2023 financial year and 1 March 2024, Tim Weller acquired 1,642 shares under the Capita share ownership plan, increasing his beneficial interest in ordinary shares of the Company to 
819,882. Although Capita does not have a formal policy on hedging shares, executive and non-executive directors attest annually they have not pledged any shares held in the Company.

112

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Share plans (audited)

DAB plan

A deferred award is the deferred element of an individual’s annual bonus. Any deferral is made 
on a gross basis into deferred shares or as a (net of tax) restricted share award. The deferred 
shares are held for a period of three years from the date of award. This part is not subject to 
performance conditions.

Unvested DAB deferred/restricted awards at 31 December 20231

•  underpin 2: the committee must be satisfied with the underlying performance of Capita and that 
there have been no environmental, social or governance issues resulting in material reputational 
damage. If this is not deemed to be met, the committee will consider a reduction to the final 
vesting level of the RSAs (including to nil).

Satisfaction of options
When satisfying awards made under its share plans, the Company uses newly issued, treasury or 
purchased shares as appropriate.

Name of director
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller 

2022 award2
868,456
327,276

2023 awards3
1,201,156
765,777

Total
2,069,612
1,093,053

Dilution
All awards are made under plans that incorporate the overall dilution limit of 10% in 10 years. 
The estimated dilution from existing awards, including executive and all-employee share awards, 
was approximately 3.82% of the Company’s share capital at 31 December 2023.

1. As a result of no bonus award for 2019 performance and no bonus operating for 2020, there were no deferred bonus 

awards in 2020 or 2021.

2. The value of the 2022 deferred award granted on 25 March 2022 was included in the annual bonus value in the 2021 
single-figure table (and is included in the comparative figures for 2021 in the table on page 111 of the 2022 report). 
This award is due to vest on 25 March 2025.

3. The value of the 2023 deferred award granted on 5 April 2023 was included in the annual bonus value in the 2022 
single-figure table (and is included in the comparative figures for 2022 in the table on page 109). This award is due 
to vest on 5 April 2026.

Executive directors’ service agreements

Executive directors 
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller 

Date of joining the Company 
1 December 2017 
12 May 2021 

Notice period
12 months
12 months

Restricted share awards granted in 2021

Non-executive directors’ terms of engagement

Name of director 
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller

2021 award
2,169,100
1,082,695

As set out on page 111, the TSR underpin for these awards has not been met. The awards therefore 
lapsed in full post year end.

Unvested restricted share awards

Name of director 
Jon Lewis 
Tim Weller 

2022 award
3,481,985
2,537,008

2023 award
2,744,386
1,333,300

There are no performance targets attached to the RSAs. However, vesting is subject to: (i) continued 
employment; (ii) satisfactory personal performance during the relevant vesting periods; and (iii) a 
positive assessment of performance against the following two underpins:

•  underpin 1: Capita’s TSR over the three financial years ending prior to the relevant vesting date 

must be positive for any RSAs granted to executive directors to vest; and

Non-executive directors 
David Lowden 
Georgina Harvey 
Brian McArthur-Muscroft 
Nneka Abulokwe 
Neelam Dhawan
Claire Miles1
John Cresswell2 

Date of joining the Board 
1 January 2021 
1 October 2019 
1 June 2022 
1 February 2022 
1 March 2021
12 May 2023
17 November 2015 

Expiry date of current appointment
9 May 2025
1 July 2025
31 May 2025
31 January 2025
28 February 2027
31 December 2023
31 March 2023

1. Claire Miles stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2023.
2. John Cresswell stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2023.

113

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Board changes
Jon Lewis retired as CEO of Capita and stepped down from the Board on 17 January 2024 although 
he remains an employee until July 2024 to ensure an orderly transition.

Post stepping down from the Board, Jon will continue to receive a base salary, pension and benefits 
up to the end of his notice period in July 2024. Jon will not be eligible to participate in the Group 
annual bonus plan for 2024 although he will be eligible to receive an annual bonus in relation to his 
below Board employment, subject to achievement of performance targets, which will be pro-rated 
to the date of cessation of employment (or commencement of garden leave if relevant). Jon will not 
be entitled to future RSAs.

In respect of Jon’s share awards:

•  Deferred Annual Bonus (DAB): 868,456 shares granted in 2022 in respect of the 2021 annual bonus 
and 1,201,156 shares granted in 2023 in respect of the 2022 annual bonus will continue to vest at 
the normal vesting dates.

•  Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP): 265,500 shares which vested under the 2020 LTIP will need to be 

retained until the expiry of the relevant two year post vesting holding periods.

•  Restricted Share Awards (RSAs): 3,481,985 shares granted under the 2022 RSA and 2,744,886 

shares granted under the 2023 RSA will continue to vest on the normal vesting dates, subject to the 
relevant performance underpins being met and reduced for time pro-rating. To the extent that any 
RSAs vest in the future, reflecting the nature of Jon’s departure (ie a good leaver due to retirement 
after the completion of his 12-month notice period) and consistent with provision 36 of the Code 
and market practice, the net of tax shares will need to be retained for two years post vesting rather 
than the three years applying to normal vestings.

For 24 months following cessation, Jon will be required to retain the lower of Capita plc shares equal 
to 300% of base salary and actual shares held (excluding shares acquired from own purchases and 
any shares received from awards granted prior to the 2020 AGM).

Jon will be reimbursed for legal fees in connection with his retirement.

Capita will make no payment to Jon by way of compensation for loss of office on retirement from 
the Board.

Appointment of Adolfo Hernandez

Adolfo Hernandez was appointed CEO and executive director on 17 January 2024 on a base salary of 
£700,000 which is lower than that of his predecessor (£748,000). Adolfo’s annual bonus maximum is 
200% of salary (pro-rated for 2024) which is subject to performance targets and deferral requirements 
in line with policy. He will receive an RSA in 2024 up to a maximum of 125% (ie lower than his 
predecessor at 150%). Benefits and pension are in line with policy which is unchanged in 2024.

As part of agreeing Adolfo Hernandez’s recruitment and in line with Capita’s policy, the committee 
considered the value of share awards Adolfo would forfeit in order to join Capita. The committee was 
satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to compensate Adolfo Hernandez for part of his loss by 
granting him an award over Company shares on the terms set out below, pursuant to Listing Rule 
9.4.2(2) (the Buy-out Award).

The Buy-Out Award is expected to be granted to Adolfo Hernandez in March 2024 and will be a 
conditional award over a maximum of c.12m shares that will vest in five tranches, subject to continued 
service, as follows:

Tranche
1
2
3
4
5
Total

Shares under award
2,509,709
2,497,467
1,897,585
1,885,343
3,256,501
12,046,605

Normal vesting date
15 July 2024
15 January 2025
15 July 2025
15 January 2026
15 July 2026

114

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Consistent with the awards forfeited, no performance conditions will apply and the vesting dates are 
no earlier than the vesting dates of the forfeited share awards being compensated. Dividend equivalent 
rights do not attach to the Buy-out Award. Clawback may be applied until the fifth anniversary of grant. 
More broadly, the terms of the Capita Executive Plan 2021 apply to the Buy-out Award (such as 
provisions relating to good leaver treatment, change of control treatment, malus and clawback and 
adjustments), except as described below:

•  The Buy-out Award is not pensionable and may not be settled with new issue or treasury shares.

•  The individual and plan limits, and the restrictions relating to when grants may be made, in the 

Capita Executive Plan 2021 do not apply to the Buy-out Award.

•  The provisions relating to how award terms may be amended do not apply. However, the 

Company confirms the number of shares under the Buy-out Award, the basis for determining 
Adolfo Hernandez’s entitlement to shares and the terms relating to adjustment on any capitalisation 
issue, rights issue or open offer, subdivision or consolidation or reduction of capital or any other 
variation of capital of the Company will not be altered to Adolfo Hernandez’s advantage without 
the prior approval of shareholders in a general meeting (except for minor amendments to benefit 
administration, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, 
exchange control or regulatory treatment for Adolfo Hernandez or the Capita group).

Other Board changes

John Cresswell stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2023. No payments were made or 
are payable outside of his normal annual fees up to cessation. Claire Miles stepped down from the 
Board on 31 December 2023 following her appointment as CEO of Stagecoach. She was paid up to 
6 January 2024 in line with the terms of the notice period in her service contract. These fees will be 
included in next years’ report. Janine Goodchild stepped down from the Board as employee non-
executive director on 31 December 2023. No payments were made or are payable outside of her 
normal annual fee up to cessation. She remains an employee and so continues to receive 
remuneration from the Group in this respect.

Payments to former directors (audited)
No payments were made to former directors.

External appointments for executive directors
During the year Jon Lewis served as a non-executive director for Equinor ASA. He received and 
retained fees of NOK854,594 for the period from 1 December 2022 to 30 November 2023. Tim 
Weller was a non-executive director of The Carbon Trust until mid-September 2023 for which he 
received £11,970 up to his resignation date. Tim was appointed as an independent council member 
of the University of Exeter in August 2023 for which he receives no remuneration. The committee 
considers that such roles can benefit Capita through broadening knowledge and experience.

115

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Percentage change in remuneration levels
The table below shows the change in base compensation, benefits and annual bonus for the Board directors in the 2020 to 2023 financial years (excluding directors who left Capita before 2022 details for 
which are set out in previous remuneration reports), compared with the average for all employees of the Company (Capita plc):

Executive directors1
Jon Lewis2 
Tim Weller3 
Non-executive directors1
David Lowden4
Georgina Harvey5 
Brian McArthur-Muscroft6
Nneka Abulokwe6 
Neelam Dhawan7 
Claire Miles8
Janine Goodchild6 
John Cresswell9
Sir Ian Powell10 
Matthew Lester10 
Lyndsay Browne11 
Joseph Murphy11 
Employee population12 

2023

Base  

salary/fees

Taxable 
benefits13

Annual  
bonus

Base  

salary/fees

2022

Taxable 
benefits13

Annual  
bonus

Base  

salary/fees

2021

Taxable 
benefits13

Annual  
bonus

Base  

salary/fees

2020

Taxable 
benefits13

0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
–
0%
0%
–
–
–
–
5.6%

8.3%
-3.8%

123.6%
100%
100%
194%
-66.7%
–
100%
100%
–
–
–
–
0.1%

-100%
-100%

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
-100%

3.2%
0% 

286.7% 
14% 
 –
–
0% 
–
– 
0%
0% 
0% 
0%
0% 
5% 

-4.5% 
23% 

100% 
– 
 –
 – 
540%
–
– 
–
100% 
– 
 – 
– 
7.4% 

150% 
132% 

– 
– 
 –
– 
 –
–
– 
–
– 
– 
– 
– 
38.1% 

14.3% 
– 

– 
14.3% 
 –
– 
 –
–
– 
14.3%
14.3% 
13.9% 
14.3% 
14.3% 
2.8% 

5.1% 
– 

– 
– 
 –
– 
 –
–
– 
–
– 
– 
– 
– 
4.4% 

100%2 
– 

-12.5% 
– 

-36.9% 
–

– 
– 
 –
– 
 –
–
– 
–
– 
– 
– 
–
123. 2%

– 
-12.5% 
 –
–
 –
–
– 
-12.5%
-12.5% 
-12.5% 
-12.5%
 -12.5% 
5.5% 

– 
– 
 –
 –
 –
–
– 
–
-100% 
– 
 –
– 
20.6% 

Annual  
bonus

–
–

–
–
 –
 –
 –
–
–
–
–
–
 –
–
-35.2%

1.  The percentage change shown for the directors is based on the single figure information disclosed on page 109. The increase in salary/fees shown as the comparative for 2021 is due to the voluntary reduction taken by executive and non-executive 

directors in 2020 in response to Covid-19.

2.  Jon Lewis did not receive a bonus in 2020 as the bonus plan was cancelled in response to Covid-19. The increase in 2021 is therefore shown as 100%. As no bonus was awarded in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023 the decrease is 

shown as -100%.

3.  Tim Weller was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2021. Comparative figures for 2021 are therefore unavailable. His salary, benefits and annual bonus for 2021 have been annualised to show an approximate percentage change between 2021 
and 2022. The increase in benefits in 2022 is due to a backdated payment for car allowance (£1,342) which was underpaid in 2021. As no bonus was awarded in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023 the decrease is shown as -100%.
4.  David Lowden was appointed Chairman in May 2022. His fee for 2022 has been annualised to show the percentage change between 2021 and 2022 following his change in role which has a significantly increased time commitment and associated 

fee. His fee for 2023 reflects that there has been no change in his annual fee for the Chairmanship since 2022. David was appointed to the Board during 2021, comparative figures for 2021 are therefore unavailable.

5.  Georgina Harvey was appointed Senior Independent Director in July 2022. Her fee for 2022 has been annualised to show the percentage change between 2021 and 2022 following her change in role. Her fee for 2023 reflects that there has been 

no change in her annual fee for being a non-executive director, chair of the remuneration committee and Senior Independent Director since 2022.

6.  Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Nneka Abulokwe and Janine Goodchild were appointed to the Board during 2022. Comparative figures for 2021 are therefore unavailable. Fees for 2022 have been annualised to show that there has been no increase in 

their annual fee in 2023.

7.  Neelam Dhawan was appointed to the Board during 2021. Comparative figures for 2021 are therefore unavailable. Her fee for 2021 has been annualised to show the percentage change since 2021.The increase in benefits in 2022 is due to 

additional fees payable for physical attendance at board meetings as Neelam is based outside the UK. The reduction in benefits in 2023 is due to fewer meetings attended in person.

8.  Claire Miles was appointed to the Board during 2023. Comparative figures for 2023 are therefore unavailable.
9.  John Cresswell stepped down from the Board during 2023. For comparative purposes, his 2023 fees have been annualised to show the percentage change since 2022.
10.  Sir Ian Powell and Matthew Lester stepped down from the Board during 2022. For comparative purposes, their 2022 fees have been annualised to show the percentage change between 2021 and 2022.
11.  Lyndsay Browne and Joseph Murphy stepped down from the Board during 2022. For comparative purposes, their 2022 fees have been annualised to show the percentage change (in fees as a non-executive employee director) between 2021 and 2022.
12.  The employee population information shown is for UK employees employed in the Capita plc entity.
13.  Taxable benefits were £0 in 2021 but £839 and £16 for David Lowden and Sir Ian Powell in 2022 respectively. The increases are therefore shown as 100%. Taxable benefits were £0 in 2022 but £567, £567 and £1,021 for Georgina Harvey, Brian 

McArthur-Muscroft and Janine Goodchild in 2023 respectively. The increases are therefore shown as 100%.

116

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

CEO pay ratio
The table below compares the single total figure of remuneration for the CEO with that of the Group’s 
employees who are paid at the 25th percentile (lower quartile), 50th percentile (median) and 75th 
percentile (upper quartile) of its UK employee population.

The committee recognises that the 2023 ratios are significantly lower than last year (c.55% decrease) 
for the following reasons:

•  No bonus was paid in respect of 2023 (this compares to an annual bonus award of £897,600 

for 2022).

Year 
2023
20221 
20211
20201 
2019 

Method 
Option B
Option B 
Option B 
Option B 
Option B 

25th 
percentile 
pay ratio
33:1
78:1 
49:1 
61:1 
41:1 

50th 
percentile 
pay ratio
23:1
57:1 
38:1 
44:1 
25:1 

75th 
percentile 
pay ratio
17:1
37:1
24:1
29:1
14:1

1. In accordance with the relevant disclosure regulations, the 2020, 2021 and 2022 CEO single figures and associated pay 

ratios have been updated to reflect LTIP values based on the share prices at the relevant vesting dates.

The 2023 remuneration figures for the employee at each quartile were determined with reference 
to the financial year ending 31 December 2023. Due to the complexity of Capita’s corporate and 
workforce structure, Option B was used to calculate these figures. The committee believes that 
this approach provides a fair representation of the CEO to employee pay ratios and is appropriate 
in comparison to alternative methods, balancing the need for statistical accuracy with internal 
operational constraints.

A full-time and full-year equivalent total pay and benefits figure for 2023 was calculated for each 
quartile point employee using the single figure methodology. This was also sense checked against a 
sample of employees with hourly pay rates either side of the identified individuals to ensure that the 
appropriate representative employee was selected. No adjustments were made to the total pay and 
benefits figures (other than the approximate up-rating of pay elements where appropriate to achieve 
full-time and full-year equivalent values) and no components of pay have been omitted.

The table below sets out the 2023 full-time equivalent salary and total pay and benefits for the three 
identified quartile point employees:

•  No RSA will vest in 2024 (this compares to a value of £98,978 in respect of the 2020 LTIP which 

vested in 2023).

The pay ratios have fluctuated since reporting commenced in 2019, primarily as a result of variability 
in incentive outcomes for the CEO.

Capita is committed to offering its employees a competitive remuneration package. Base salaries 
for employees, including our executive directors, are determined with reference to a range of factors 
including market practice, experience and performance in role. Due to the nature of his role, the 
CEO’s remuneration package has higher weighting on performance-related pay (including the annual 
bonus and historical LTIP/current RSAs) compared to the majority of the workforce. This means 
the pay ratios are likely to fluctuate depending on the outcomes of incentive plans in each year. 
The committee also recognises that, due to the nature of the Company’s business and the flexibility 
permitted within the regulations for identifying and calculating the total pay and benefits for employees, 
the ratios reported above may not be comparable to those reported by other companies. For these 
reasons, the committee considers that the median CEO pay ratio is representative of the 
UK employee base.

Gender pay gap reporting
The Company’s 2023 gender pay gap data will be available on the government website  
https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk from April 2024.

Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below shows the spend on employee costs in the 2023 and 2022 financial years, compared 
with dividends:

2023 
Salary 
Total pay and benefits 

25th 
percentile 
(P25) 
£23,112
£24,586

Median  
(P50) 
£32,659
£34,292

75th 
percentile 
(P75)
£46,592
£48,372

Employee costs 
Dividends 

2023  
£m
1,636.5 
– 

2022  
£m
1,758.1 
– 

%  

change
-6.9%
–

117

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Performance graph and CEO pay
The following chart compares the value of an investment of £100 in the Company’s shares with 
an investment of the same amount in the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE 350 Support Services 
Index over the past 10 years, assuming that all dividend income is reinvested. The FTSE 350 Support 
Services has been chosen as the appropriate comparator as Capita is a constituent of this index.

The total remuneration figures for the CEO for 2023 and the previous nine years are shown in the 
table below based on the single-figure methodology.

Total shareholder return rebased at 100
Source: Datastream (a LSEG product)

250

200

150

100

50

0

The annual bonus payout and LTIP/RSA vesting percentage (in respect of the estimated/actual value 
at vesting in respect of the year ending just prior to the vest date) are also shown for this year.

Year
2023
2022 
2021 
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
2016 
2015 
2014 

CEO – single  
figure of total 
remuneration
£804,875
£1,799,964 
£1,185,415 
£1,196,582 
£789,678 
£2,014,209 
£741,376 
£682,958 
£2,520,428 
£2,558,998 

Annual bonus  
(vs max  

Long-term  
incentive (vs max  

opportunity)
0%
60% 
24.8% 
0% 
0%
85% 
0% 
0% 
50% 
100% 

opportunity)
0%
15%
12.5%
60%
0%
0%
0%
0%
71.4%
67.2%

Note: the vesting percentages for the long-term incentives are averaged between the LTIP and 
the DAB vesting rates for 2015. For 2014, this is the actual vesting for the LTIP as there is no DAB 
maturity in 2014. Figures for 2014–2016 are based on remuneration for Andy Parker. Figures for 2017 
are based on remuneration paid to Andy Parker as CEO until 15 September 2017, to Nick Greatorex 
as interim CEO from 16 September 2017 to 30 November 2017, and to Jon Lewis as CEO from 
1 December 2017. Where relevant, the CEO single figures have been updated to reflect the value 
of the LTIPs based on the share price at the vesting date (rather than an estimate of the share price 
at vesting).

Approval of the directors’ remuneration report
The directors’ remuneration report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2024.

01 Jan 
2014

31 Dec 
2014

31 Dec 
2015

31 Dec 
2016

31 Dec 
2017

31 Dec 
2018

31 Dec 
2019

31 Dec 
2020

31 Dec 
2021

31 Dec 
2022

31 Dec 
2023

Capita Group

FTSE All Share Index

FTSE 350 Support Services Index

Georgina Harvey
Chair

Remuneration Committee

5 March 2024

118

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governance 
Directors’ report

Directors’ report

The Directors present their report, together with the audited accounts for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2023.

Group activities
Capita exists to create better outcomes for all its 
stakeholders. Our business model is based upon 
being a leading provider of business process 
services driven by data, technology and people. 
We deliver innovative solutions to simplify the 
connections between businesses and customers, 
and between government and citizens. We partner 
with clients to transform their businesses and 
services. A review of the development of the 
Group and its business activities during the year 
is contained in the strategic report on pages 1 to 
64. The operational and financial performance of 
its divisions are detailed on pages 14 to 21.

Results and dividends
The Group’s reported loss before tax amounted to 
£(106.6m) from continued operations (2022 profit 
before tax: £61.4m). As previously announced, 
the directors do not recommend the payment of 
a final dividend (2022: nil). The total dividend for 
the year was nil (2022: nil). The employee benefit 
trust, which holds shares for the purpose of 
satisfying employee share scheme awards, has 
waived its right to receive future dividends on 
shares held within the trust.

Share capital
At 5 March 2024, the number of ordinary shares 
of 2 1/15 p each in issue, fully paid up and 
quoted on the London Stock Exchange is 
detailed in the table below:

Issued shares 
Treasury shares 
Total voting rights 
Employee Benefit 
Trust (EBT) shares1 

Number of shares
1,701,273.523 
0 
1,701,273,523

% of issued 
share capital
100%
0%
100%

16,762,775 

1%

1. Shares held in the EBT are used for satisfying employee 

share options.

During the year ended 31 December 2023, 
17,000,000 new ordinary shares were issued. 
These shares were allotted to the EBT in order 
that the EBT can satisfy the exercise of options 
pursuant to the Company’s share schemes. 
Options exercised pursuant to the Company’s 
share schemes were satisfied by the transfer of 
9,496,440 shares from the EBT. No new ordinary 
shares have been allotted under the Company’s 
share option schemes since the end of the 
financial year to the date of this report. 41,137 
shares have been allotted under the Company’s 
share option schemes since the end of the 
financial year to the date of this report.

The share price at close on 29 December 2023 
was 22p. The highest share price in the year 
was 44.86p and the lowest was 15.28p.

The Company was authorised by shareholders at 
the 2023 AGM to replace the existing authority 
(as granted by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting held on 10 May 2022) for Directors to allot 
new shares that represent not more than one 
third of the issued share capital of the Company. 
No shares were allotted under that authority 
during the financial year. The Company is seeking 
to renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM, 
within the limits set out in the notice of that 
meeting. The Company is seeking to renew 
the authority at the forthcoming AGM, within 
the limits set out in the notice of that meeting 
and in line with the recommendations of the 
Pre-Emption Group.

On 11 May 2023, shareholders granted authority 
for the Company to purchase up to 168,427,352 
ordinary shares. This authority will expire at the 
conclusion of the 2024 AGM and the Board will 
seek approval to renew this authority at the 2024 
AGM. No shares were purchased during 2023.

Rights and restrictions attaching 
to shares
Under the Company’s Articles, holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled to participate in the 
receipt of dividends pro rata to their holding. The 
Board may propose and pay an interim dividend 
and recommend a final dividend in respect of any 
accounting period out of the profits available for 
distribution under English law. A final dividend 
may be declared by the shareholders in general 
meeting by ordinary resolution, but no dividend 
may be declared in excess of the amount 
recommended by the Board.

At any general meeting, a resolution put to vote 
shall be decided on a poll, and every member who 
is present in person or by proxy shall have one 
vote for every share of which they are the holder.

No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control 
of the Company. The Company is not aware of 
any agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or on voting rights.

Restrictions on transfer of shares
The Company’s Articles allow directors, in 
their absolute discretion, to refuse to register the 
transfer of a share in certificated form unless the 
instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at 
the registered office of the Company, or at such 
other place as the directors may appoint and 
(except in the case of a transfer by a recognised 
person where a certificate has not been issued 
in respect of the share) is accompanied by the 
certificate for the share to which it relates and 
such other evidence as the directors may 
reasonably require to show the right of the 
transferor to make the transfer. They may also 
refuse to register any such transfer where it is in 
favour of more than four transferees or in respect 
of more than one class of shares.

The directors may refuse to register a transfer of 
a share in uncertificated form in any case where 
the Company is entitled to refuse (or is exempted 
from the requirement) under the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations to register the transfer.

119

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Major shareholders
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR) are published via a Regulatory Information Service. 
At 31 December 2023, the Company had received notification of the following interests in voting 
rights pursuant to Chapter 5 of the DTR.

Shareholder
Schroders plc 
RWC Asset Management LLP 

Number of shares
323,226,980 
272,035,310

% of voting rights at 
31 December 2023
19.00
15.99

Number of shares 
direct
–
272,035,310

Number of shares 
indirect
323,226,980
–

Marathon Asset Management Limited 

81,375,445

4.83

–

81,375,445

1. Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s total voting rights as at the date the Company was notified of 

the change in holding.

On 2 February 2024, notification in accordance with the DTRs was received from Schroders plc that it 
held indirectly 323,598,246 shares, being 19.02% of voting rights.

At 5 March 2024, no further notifications had been received under the DTRs in relation to interests in 
the Company’s shares.

Powers of directors
The business of the Company is managed by the directors who are subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Articles of the Company and any directions given by special resolution, 
including the Company’s power to repurchase its own shares.

The Company’s Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.

Change of control
All the Company’s share schemes contain provisions in relation to a change of control. Outstanding 
options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to 
the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.

Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by its Articles, the Company 
has indemnified each director in respect of 
certain liabilities and costs they might incur in the 
execution of their duties as a director. Qualifying 
third party indemnity provisions (as defined in 
section 234 of the Companies Act 2006) were in 
force during the year and continue to remain in 
force. The directors’ indemnities will be available 
for inspection at the AGM together with directors’ 
service contracts.

Conflicts of interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, directors are 
under an obligation to avoid situations in which 
their interests can or do conflict, or may possibly 
conflict, with those of the Company. A policy and 
procedures are in place for identifying, disclosing, 
evaluating and managing conflicts so that Board 
decisions are not compromised by a conflicted 
director. The Company’s Articles give the Board 
power to authorise matters that give rise to actual 
or potential conflicts. Procedures are reviewed 
annually to ensure they are operating effectively.

All conflicts of interest are reviewed annually by 
the Board and included in year-end attestations 
by the directors. None of the directors of the 
Company has a material interest in any contract 
with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings, 
other than their contracts of employment.

Capita has borrowing facilities provided by banks 
and has issued loan notes to financial investors. 
The borrowing facilities contain change of control 
provisions under which the banks may require 
immediate repayment in full on a change of control 
of Capita plc. The loan notes issued by Capita 
contain similar change of control provisions which 
are likely to require the Group to offer to prepay 
the notes in full if there is a change in control 
of Capita plc.

There are a number of significant client agreements 
which contain provisions relating to change of 
control, which in some cases could present a 
right of termination of the contract.

Appointment, reappointment, and 
retirement of directors
Directors are appointed and may be removed 
in accordance with the Articles of Association 
(Articles) of the Company and the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006. All directors are subject 
to election at the first AGM after their appointment 
and, in accordance with Provision 18 of the 
Code, to annual re-election thereafter. A resolution 
to elect or re-elect each director will therefore be 
proposed at the AGM on 21 May 2024.

No person, other than a director retiring at the 
meeting, shall be appointed or reappointed a 
director of the Company at any general meeting 
unless they are recommended by the directors.

No person, other than a director retiring at 
a general meeting as set out above, shall be 
appointed or reappointed unless between seven 
and 35 days’ notice, executed by a member 
qualified to vote on the appointment or 
reappointment, has been given to the Company 
of the intention to propose that person for 
appointment or reappointment, together with 
notice executed by that person of his/her 
willingness to be appointed or reappointed.

120

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Employment policies, employee 
development and engagement
Information on the Group’s employment policies, 
including for disabled persons, and information 
on employee development, consultation and 
engagement is included in the responsible 
business sections on pages 32 to 37 and 
the engaging with our stakeholders section 
on page 45.

Political donations
The Group did not make any political donations 
or incur any political expenditure during the year 
(2022: nil).

Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, including metrics and methodology, are 
set out on pages 40 to 42 of the strategic report.

Going concern and viability statement
The viability statement is detailed in full on 
page 64. The directors have assessed the 
viability of the Group over the three-year period 
to 31 December 2026, taking into account the 
Group’s current position and the potential impact 
of the principal risks set out in the strategic 
report. Based on this assessment, the directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
and Parent Company will be able to continue 
in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall 
due over the period of the viability assessment.

The Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the 
strategic report on pages 2 to 64. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described 

on pages 22 to 28. In addition, section 4 in 
the financial statements on pages 193 to 206 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial 
risk management objectives, details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities, and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.

In determining the appropriate basis of preparation 
of the financial statements for the year ending 
31 December 2023, the directors are required 
to consider whether the Group can continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, 
being a period of at least 12 months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements.

The Board monitors closely the Group’s funding 
position throughout the year, including monitoring 
compliance with covenants and available facilities 
to ensure it has sufficient headroom to fund 
operations. In addition, to support the going 
concern assumption, the Board conducts a robust 
assessment of the Group’s financial projections 
for the foreseeable future, considering also the 
committed facilities available to the Group. The 
Board has considered risks to the projections 
under a severe but plausible downside. This 
includes the potential adverse financial impacts 
resulting from the following risks: revenue growth 
falling materially short of plan; operating profit 
margin expansion not being achieved; targeted 
cost savings delayed and/or not delivered; 
additional inflationary cost impacts which 
cannot be passed on to customers; unforeseen 
operational issues leading to contract losses 
and cash outflows, volatility in interest rates; 
non-availability of the Group’s non-recourse 
trade receivables financing facility; and 
unexpected financial costs linked to incidents 
such as data breaches and/or cyber-attacks.

The Board has considered the mitigations, under 
the direct control of the Group, that could be 
implemented to address the financial impact 
should these risks materialise. These mitigations 
include reductions or delays in capital investment, 
and substantially reducing (or removing in full) 
bonus and incentive payments. Taking these 
mitigations into account, the Group’s financial 
forecasts, in a severe but plausible downside 
scenario, demonstrate sufficient liquidity 
headroom and compliance with all debt 
covenant measures throughout the going 
concern period to 30 June 2025.

Reflecting the continued benefits from the 
transformation programme delivered over the 
last few years and the Portfolio non-core business 
disposal programme completed in January 2024, 
coupled with the Board’s ability to implement the 
above mitigations should the severe but plausible 
downside materialise, the Board has concluded 
that the Group and Parent Company will continue 
in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall 
due over the period to 30 June 2025.

Accordingly, the directors have formed the 
judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the 
consolidated financial statements on the going 
concern basis. The Board’s assessment is set 
out in more detail in Section 1 of the consolidated 
financial statements.

Read more in the auditor’s report on pages 125 to 146

121

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Directors’ statement of disclosure of 
information to the auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the date 
of approval of this Annual Report confirms that:

•  so far as the Director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware: and

•  the Director has taken all the steps that he/she 
ought to have taken as a Director in order to 
make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions 
of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.

Anti-bribery and corruption
Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery and 
corruption policy, which complies with the 
Bribery Act 2010. Procedures are reviewed 
periodically to ensure continued effective 
compliance in Group businesses around 
the world.

Election to apply FRS 101 – reduced 
disclosure framework
The Parent Company continues to apply UK 
GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial 
statements in accordance with FRS 101 and 
these are contained in section 7 of the financial 
statements on pages 218 to 228. FRS 101 
applies IFRS as adopted by the UK with certain 
disclosure exemptions. No objections have been 
received from shareholders.

Management report
For the purposes of Rule 4.1.5R(2) and Rule 
4.1.8R of the DTRs, this directors’ report and 
the strategic report on pages 1 to 64 comprise 
the management report.

Strategic report

The Company is required to prepare a fair review 
of the business of the Group during the financial 
year ended 31 December 2023 and of the 
position of the Group at the end of the financial 
year, and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (known as a 
strategic report).

The purpose of the strategic report is to enable 
shareholders to assess how the directors have 
performed their duty under section 172 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (duty to promote the 
success of the Company). The Company has 
chosen, in accordance with section 414C (11) 
of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this 
Directors’ report, to include certain matters in its 
strategic report that would otherwise be required 
to be disclosed in this Directors’ report.

The information that fulfils the requirements  
of the strategic report can be found on pages 
2 to 64, and includes an indication of future 
likely developments in the Company, details of 
important events and the Company’s business 
goals, strategy and business model.

Additional disclosures
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ report, and which is incorporated by reference into 
this report, can be located as follows:

Events after the balance sheet date
Future developments
Research and development 

Financial instruments and financial risk management
Greenhouse gas emissions
Corporate governance report, including the corporate governance statement as required by 
Rule 7.2.1 of the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Colleague engagement
Stakeholder engagement
Section 172 statement

Pages
217
8 to 21
22 to 28

193 to 206
41 and 42

72 to 78
45
45 to 47
45 to 48

For the purposes of LR 9.8.4R, and 9.8.6R the following information is located as set out below:

Listing Rule 
9.8.4 (1) 
9.8.4 (12–13) 
9.8.6(8) 

Subject 
Capitalisation of interest 
Shareholder waiver of dividends 
Climate-related financial disclosures consistent with TCFD 41 to 44

Pages
201
119
50 to 56

122

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the annual report and the 
financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts and the Group 
and parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare 
Group and parent Company financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK accounting 
standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework.

Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company 
and of the Group’s profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent 
Company financial statements, the directors 
are required to:

•   select suitable accounting policies and then 

apply them consistently;

•   make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable, relevant and reliable and, in 
respect of the parent Company financial 
statements only, prudent;

•   for the Group financial statements, 

state whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards;

•   for the parent Company financial statements, 

state whether applicable UK accounting 

standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent Company financial statements;

•  assess the Group and parent Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern; and

•   use the going concern basis of accounting 

unless they either intend to liquidate the Group 
or the Parent Company or to cease operations, 
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show 
and explain the parent Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the parent Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are responsible for such internal 
control as they determine is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, and have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and 
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the 
directors are also responsible for preparing 
a strategic report, Directors’ report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and 
those regulations.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

In accordance with Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.16R, the financial 
statements will form part of the annual financial 
report prepared under DTR 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. 
The auditor’s report on these financial statements 
provides no assurance over whether the annual 
financial report has been prepared in accordance 
with those requirements.

Responsibility statement of the directors in 
respect of the annual financial report

We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

•  the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and

•  the strategic report includes a fair review 

of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the issuer and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face.

We consider the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy.

By order of the Board

Claire Denton
Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary

5 March 2024

123

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceFinancial 
statements

Financial statements

125

147

153

218

220

Independent Auditor’s Report

Consolidated financial statements

Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements

Company financial statements

Notes to the Company 
financial statements

229

Additional information

229 Shareholder information

230

Alternative performance 
measures (APMs)

124

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  KPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report

KPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report

To the members of Capita plc

1. Our opinion is unmodified
In our opinion:

•  the financial statements of Capita plc give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023, and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;

•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards;

•  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and

•  the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

What our opinion covers
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of Capita plc (“the Company”) for the year ended 31 December 2023 included in the Annual Report, which comprise:

Group (Capita plc and its subsidiaries)
The consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated 
balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and 
related notes, including the accounting policies in sections 1 to 6 to the Group financial statements.

Parent Company (Capita plc)
The company balance sheet, company statement of changes in equity and the related notes, including 
the accounting policies in section 7 to the Parent Company financial statements. 

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities are described below. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion and matters included in this report are consistent with those discussed and included in our reporting to the Group Audit and 
Risk Committee (“ARC”).

We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public 
interest entities.

125

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

2. Overview of our audit

Factors driving our 
view of risks

Going concern remains a Key audit matter. The Group continued its Portfolio disposal programme 
during FY23, and completed it with the final disposal in January 2024. Refinancing of debt 
also occurred in FY23. However, the Group generated a significant cash outflow in FY23, and 
performance in FY24 is underpinned by a major restructuring programme to reduce costs and to 
make the Group more efficient. Consistent with FY22, the risk is focused on the judgement taken 
in reaching the conclusion of no material uncertainty, and the adequacy of the accompanying 
disclosures.

There continues to be a significant difference between the Group’s market capitalisation 
(based upon the share price at the reporting date, and adjusted for the fair value of net debt), 
and the sum-of-the-parts recoverable amount of the CGUs of the Group, determined using the 
FVLCOD method. In FY23, the significant risk associated with goodwill impairment is specific 
to the Experience cash generating unit (“CGU”). In FY22, a risk also existed over certain of the 
Portfolio CGUs which were subject to the Group’s disposal programme.

The risks associated with revenue recognition (focused upon variations or modifications for the 
Group’s long-term contracts) and the capitalisation and recoverability of contract assets both 
remain stable.

Following the cyber incident in March 2023, the identification, measurement and disclosure of 
actual and potential costs has resulted in considerable audit effort. Whilst we do not consider this 
a significant audit risk, due to the extent of procedures performed, we have included this as a new 
Key audit matter for FY23.

Key audit matters (“KAMs”)

Vs FY22

Item

Going Concern

Impairment of Goodwill

Revenue Recognition

Capitalisation and Recoverability of contract assets

Identification, measurement, and disclosure of actual and 
potential costs related to the cyber incident

Recoverability of the Parent Company’s investments in, 
and amounts due from, its subsidiaries.

4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

4.6

Audit committee 
interaction

For the Parent Company, recoverability of investments in, and amounts due from, its subsidiaries 
remains a Key audit matter, owing to the materiality of these balances and the estimation 
uncertainty of the underlying cash flow forecasts used to determine recoverable amount. 
During the year, the ARC met 6 times. KPMG are invited to attend all ARC meetings and are provided with an opportunity to meet with the ARC in private sessions without the 
Executive Directors being present. For each Key audit matter, we have set out communications with the ARC in section 4, including matters that required particular judgement for each. 
The matters included in the Audit and Risk Committee Chair’s report on pages 90 to 92 are materially consistent with our observations of those meetings. 

Our independence We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in 

accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed 
public interest entities.

We have not performed any non-audit services during FY23 or subsequently which are prohibited 
by the FRC Ethical Standard.

We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2010. 
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 14 financial years ended 31 December 2023.

The Group engagement partner is required to rotate every 5 years. As these are the second set 
of the Group’s financial statements signed by Ian Griffiths, he will be required to rotate off after the 
FY26 audit.

The average tenure of partners responsible for component audits as set out in section 7 is 4 years, 
with the shortest being 2 and the longest being 5. 

Total audit fee
Audit related fees (including interim review)
Other assurance services
Non-audit fee as a % of total audit and audit related fee %
Date first appointed
Uninterrupted audit tenure
Next financial period which requires a rotation
Tenure of Group engagement partner
Average tenure of component signing partners

£5.4m
£0.3m
£0.2m
3.5%
18 August 2010
14 years
2030
2 years
4 years

126

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

Materiality

(Item 6 below)

The scope of our work is influenced by our view of materiality and our assessed risk of 
material misstatement.

Materiality levels used in our audit

Materiality levels used in our audit

We have determined overall materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole at £6.0m 
(FY22: £6.0m) and for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole at £5.5m (FY22: £5.5m).

Consistent with FY22, we determined that Group revenue of £2,814.6m, normalised by excluding 
revenue in relation to business exits of £172.5m, as disclosed in note 2.8, remains the benchmark 
for the Group, of which it represents 0.23% (FY22: 0.21%). This reflects the continuing volatility in 
profit before tax from continuing operations, with total revenues providing a more stable measure 
year on year. Total revenue is also a significant focus for management and external stakeholders.

Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements was determined by reference to total 
Company assets and represents 0.17% of the Company’s total assets (FY22: 0.15%).

Group

GPM

HCM

PLC

LCM

AMPT

0.4

0.3

0.3
0.3

6.0
6.0

3.9
3.9

4.8
4.8

5.5
5.5

Group scope

(Item 7 below)

We have performed risk assessment and planning procedures to determine which of the Group’s 
components are likely to include risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, 
the type of procedures to be performed at these components and the extent of involvement 
required from our component auditors around the world.

Of the Group’s components we subjected 13 (FY22: 15) to full scope audits and performed 
specific risk-focused audit procedures over revenue on 1 component (FY22: 1).

The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.

In addition, we have performed Group level analysis on the remaining components to determine 
whether further risks of material misstatement exist in those components.

FY22 £m

FY23 £m

Group Group materiality 
GPM Group performance materiality 
HCM Highest component materiality 
PLC
LCM Lowest component materiality 
AMPT Audit misstatement posting threshold

Parent Company statutory materiality 

Coverage of Group financial statements

Total revenue
Total profits and losses
Total assets

FY23
88%
80%
92%

FY22
81%
79%
89%

The impact of 
climate change 
on our audit 

We consider the scope of our audit, as communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee, to be 
an appropriate basis for our audit opinion.
We have considered the potential impacts of climate change on the financial statements as part of planning our audit. This included the business sectors the Group operates in, the 
assets and liabilities the Group holds on its balance sheet, and the ways in which the Group maintains and develops its client relations and supplier engagement and manages its people.

As part of our audit, we have made enquiries of management to understand the extent of the potential impact of climate change risk on the Group’s financial statements. We have 
performed a risk assessment of how the impact of climate change may affect the financial statements and our audit. Taking into account the nature of the Group’s operations, our 
assessment is that the climate related risks to the Group’s business, strategy and future results did not have a significant impact on our Key audit matters.

We have also read the Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (“TCFD”) statement in the front half of the annual report and considered consistency with the financial 
statements and our audit knowledge.

127

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

3. Going concern, viability and principal risks and uncertainties
The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded 
that the Group’s and the Parent Company’s financial position means that this is realistic. They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could cast significant doubt over their ability to 
continue as a going concern from the date of approval of the financial statements to 30 June 2025 (“the going concern period”).

Going concern
An explanation of how we evaluated management’s assessment of going concern is set out in the related Key audit matter in section 4.1 of this report.

Our conclusions

Our conclusions based on those procedures described in section 4.1 of this report are:

•  we consider that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate;

•  we have not identified, and concur with the directors’ assessment that there is not, a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that, individually 

or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for the going concern period;

•  we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in section 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going 
concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Parent Company’s use of that basis for the 
going concern period; and

•  The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 64 is materially consistent with the financial statements and our audit knowledge.

However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that 
were reasonable at the time they were made, the above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the Parent Company will continue in operation.
Disclosures of emerging and principal risks and longer-term viability 
Our responsibility

Summary of our conclusions

We found the directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting without any 
material uncertainty for the Group and 
Parent Company to be acceptable.

Our reporting

We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a material inconsistency between the directors’ disclosures in respect of emerging and principal 
risks and the viability statement, and the financial statements and our audit knowledge.

We have nothing material to add or draw 
attention to in relation to these disclosures.

Based on those procedures, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:

•  the directors’ confirmation within the Corporate Governance statement on page 94 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal 

risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity;

•  the risk management and internal control disclosures describing these risks and how emerging risks are identified and explaining how they are being managed 

and mitigated; and

•  the directors’ explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 
considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.

We are also required to review the viability statement set out on page 64 under the Listing Rules.

Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit. As we cannot predict all future 
events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, 
the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Parent Company’s longer-term viability.

We have concluded that these disclosures 
are materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our audit knowledge.

128

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4. Key audit matters

What we mean
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material 
misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on:

•  the overall audit strategy;

•  the allocation of resources in the audit; and

•  directing the efforts of the engagement team. 

We include below the Key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the 
Company’s members, as a body, may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion. These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, for 
the purpose of our audit of the financial statements as a whole. We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

4.1 Going concern (group and parent company)
Financial Statement Elements
Going concern disclosures with no material 
uncertainties – section 1 to the Group 
financial statements

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

Our assessment is that the risk is similar 
to FY22. The risk continues to be focused 
on the judgement taken in reaching the 
conclusion of no material uncertainty, and 
adequacy of the accompanying disclosures. 

Our findings
FY23: We found the Group’s judgement that there was no material uncertainty to be disclosed, 
to be balanced.

We found the going concern disclosure in section 1 without any material uncertainty to be 
proportionate.

FY22: We found the Group’s judgement that there was no material uncertainty to be disclosed, 
to be balanced.

We found the going concern disclosure in section 1 without any material uncertainty to 
be proportionate. 

129

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.1 Going concern (group and parent company) continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
Subjective Judgement

The Group continued its Portfolio disposal 
programme during FY23, and completed it with 
the final disposal in January 2024, to generate 
cash proceeds. The Group was also successful in 
refinancing debt during FY23. However, the Group 
generated a significant cash outflow in FY23, and 
performance in FY24 is underpinned by a major 
restructuring programme to reduce costs and to 
make the Group more efficient. Consistent with 
FY22, the risk is focused on the judgement taken in 
reaching the conclusion of no material uncertainty.

Disclosure quality

The financial statements explain how the Board has 
formed a judgement that it is appropriate to adopt 
the going concern basis of preparation for the 
Group and Parent Company.

That judgement is based on an evaluation of the 
inherent risks to the Group’s and Parent Company’s 
business model and how those risks might affect 
the Group’s and Parent Company’s financial 
resources or ability to continue operations from the 
date of approval of these financial statements through 
to 30 June 2025 (“the going concern period”).

The risks most likely to adversely affect the Group’s 
and Parent Company’s available financial resources 
over this period include, but are not limited to, 
the following:

•  An inability to achieve the growth targets in the 

Group’s business plan.

•  The inability to achieve, or delays related to, 
cost savings following the announcement of 
the Group’s restructuring programme.

Our response to the risk
We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the liquidity or covenant compliance in the going concern period by assessing the directors’ 
sensitivities over the level of available financial resources and covenant thresholds indicated by the Group’s financial forecasts taking account of severe, 
but plausible, adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively.

Our procedures to address the risk included:

Our sector experience: We assessed the projections and assumptions by reference to our knowledge of the business and general market conditions 
including the potential risk of management bias. We critically assessed whether economic headwinds in particular inflation risks, have been sufficiently 
factored in the forecast cash flows, along with the risks and uncertainties associated with the Group’s customers, suppliers and workforce.

We considered the risk factors as set out by the Board in the Principal Risks section of the annual report and accounts, and where relevant assessed 
whether these were sufficiently taken into consideration in the projections prepared to support the base case and the downside risks applied.

Test of detail: We critically assessed the cash flow forecasts by considering the appropriateness of key assumptions used in preparing those 
projections, with a specific focus on the revenue growth assumptions of cost savings derived from the Group’s restructuring programme. We evaluated 
these via enquiries with each of the divisional Finance Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, and inspected the Board’s plans 
and associated papers. We benchmarked the key assumptions behind the cashflow forecasts to third party evidence, and growth vs economic forecasts 
in relation to specific risks.

Historical comparisons: We assessed the ability of the Group to accurately forecast by comparing historical results to forecasts for key metrics. 
We assessed the most recent years’ performance against budget, including sales growth and cost reductions and challenged the assumptions over 
the going concern period based on historical performances.

Funding assessment: We read the Revolving Credit facility (“RCF”) agreement to understand the terms including covenant requirements and any 
restrictions in the use of funds. We re-performed the key financial covenants calculations for 30 June 2024 and 2025 and 31 December 2024, 
assessing compliance at these dates.

We considered the adjustments made in the adjusted EBITDA for the covenant calculations, considering the appropriateness compared to the loan 
agreements and historical accepted practice with the current lenders. In addition, we inspected the correspondence between the Company and the 
private placement lenders that set out the proposed items to be excluded in the adjusted EBITDA definition and compared these against the items 
included in the covenant calculations.

Sensitivity analysis: We critically challenged the downside sensitivities to ensure that these represented severe but plausible scenarios based on 
our knowledge of the business, the associated risk exposure and we considered the most recent trading results to form a holistic view of the Group.

Evaluating directors’ intent: We evaluated the achievability of the actions the directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks 
in the severe but plausible scenario materialise, which included reductions in discretionary spend and capex investment, taking into account the extent 
to which the directors can control the timing and outcome of these. This included consideration of the nature and quantum of historical cost savings 
delivered and the feasibility of implementing these over the going concern period.

130

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.1 Going concern (group and parent company) continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
•  Adverse impact from inflationary pressures, such 

as interest rates.

•  A significant unexpected downturn in 

performance in one of the Group’s businesses.

There are also less predictable but realistic second 
order impacts, such as business disruption in the 
event of a cyber incident, or adverse changes in 
UK government policy.

Our response to the risk
Stress scenario: We also developed a more stressed scenario than the severe but plausible scenario prepared by the Directors. In this more stressed 
scenario, we then assessed the plausibility of the additional mitigations identified by the Directors that could be taken to ensure that liquidity headroom 
and covenant compliance is maintained throughout the going concern period in a more stressed scenario. Our assessment included consideration of 
whether these mitigations were within the control of the Directors and could be implemented in the timeframe required.

Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the matters included in the going concern disclosure give a full and accurate description of the 
directors’ assessment, including the judgements made, identified risks and mitigating actions.

The risk for our audit was whether or not those 
risks were such that they amounted to a material 
uncertainty that may have cast significant doubt 
about the ability to continue as a going concern. 
Had they been such, then that fact would have 
been required to have been disclosed.
Communications with Capita plc’s Audit and Risk Committee

Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee included:

•  Going concern period of assessment.

•  Assessment of the level of refinancing risk faced by the Group.

•  Assessment of the risk and potential mitigations in the downside case, including directors’ intent and the extent to which mitigating actions are within their control, should risks materialise.

•  Assessment of historical forecasting accuracy and current performance.

Areas of particular auditor judgement

We identified the following as the areas of particular auditor judgement:

•  The level of severity in the downside assumptions and if the proposed mitigations are executable and within control of the Group.

Our findings

We found the Group’s judgement that there was no material uncertainty to be disclosed, to be balanced (FY22: balanced).

We found the going concern disclosure in section 1 without any material uncertainty to be proportionate (FY22: proportionate).

4.2 Impairment of goodwill
Financial Statement Elements

FY23

FY22 

Risk remains as stable vs FY22

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

Goodwill (Total as per 
financial statements) 

£495.7m

£605.9m

Our findings
FY23: balanced

FY22: balanced

131

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

Our response to the risk
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the nature of the balance is such that we 
would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

Our procedures to address the risk included:

Tests of detail: We tested the principles and integrity of the Group’s discounted cash flow model. We compared the cash flows used in 
the impairment model to the output of the Group’s budgeting process and against the understanding we obtained about the business areas 
through our audit and assessed if these cash flows were reasonable.

Historical comparison: We assessed the historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the Group’s impairment model by considering 
actual performance against prior year budgets, recognising the impacts of the current macro-economic environment. We also assessed the 
forecast revenue growth with reference to the most recent results for 2022 and 2023, and evaluated the assumed impact on future cashflows 
from the ongoing cost restructuring programme.

Benchmarking assumptions: We used external data and our own internal valuation models to evaluate the key inputs and assumptions 
for growth.

Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity and break-even analyses for the key inputs and assumptions and identified those  
cash-generating units we considered most sensitive to impairment.

Comparing valuations: As an overall stand-back test we compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Group’s market capitalisation 
and assessed the rationale for the differences. We also compared the implied share price derived from the recoverable amount at the year 
end to the Company’s share price throughout 2023 and assessed the reasonableness of the factors identified by the Board to explain 
the differences.

Methodology implementation: We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used in the current period, including consideration 
of the estimate made in respect of costs of disposal, and whether the forecast benefits from future phases of the restructuring programme 
qualified for inclusion in the value in use model.

Assessing transparency: We evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures related to the estimation uncertainty, judgements made and 
assumptions over the recoverability of goodwill, assessing the level of detail included in the disclosures. 

4.2 Impairment of goodwill continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
Forecast-based valuation

We consider the carrying value of goodwill and goodwill 
impairment to be a significant audit risk. This reflects the 
inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash flows, 
which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability.

The focus of our procedures was the Experience CGU 
(goodwill carrying value of £209.3m, FY22: £209.8m) as 
this CGU was most sensitive to changes in the underlying 
assumptions, such as planned revenue growth and the benefits 
of the cost reduction programme not being achieved. In FY22, 
a risk also existed over certain of the Portfolio CGUs which 
were subject to the Group’s disposal programme.

In the current period the estimated recoverable amount was 
measured using a fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) 
methodology, which represented a change from the value in use 
methodology applied previously. The appropriate application of 
the methodology requirements for FVLCD and Value in Use to 
determine the recoverable amount formed part of the risk.

Uncertainty in relation to the current macro-economic 
environment and the execution risk associated with delivery of 
cost savings from the ongoing cost restructuring programme 
may further impact the Group’s activities and performance 
and renders precise forecasting of the underlying 
cashflows challenging.

There continues to be a significant difference between the 
Group’s market capitalisation (based upon the share price at 
the reporting date, and adjusted for the fair value of net debt), 
and the sum-of-the-parts recoverable amount of the CGUs 
of the Group, determined using the FVLCOD method.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk 
assessment for audit planning purposes, we determined that the 
recoverable amount had a high degree of estimation uncertainty, 
with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole. In conducting 
our final audit work, we concluded that reasonably possible 
changes to the recoverable amount would not be expected 
to result in material impairment.

132

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

Our response to the risk

4.2 Impairment of goodwill continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
Disclosure quality

The financial statements (note 3.4) disclose the key 
assumptions underlying the goodwill impairment 
calculation and the sensitivity of the calculation 
to changes in these assumptions.

There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not 
sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive the 
valuations, and the key sensitivities that the Board has 
considered. This is particularly important given the current 
uncertainty surrounding the macro-economic environment.
Communications with Capita plc’s Audit and Risk Committee

Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee included:

•  Our determination of whether a significant risk remains in 2023, and our conclusions on the appropriateness of the assumptions in the valuation models.

Areas of particular auditor judgement

We identified the following as the areas of particular auditor judgement:

•  The cash flow forecasts, in particular those in respect of cost savings expected from the delivery of the restructuring programme, were deemed to be a significant assumption for the estimate.

•  The determination of the basis to estimate the recoverable amount of the CGU.

•  Adequacy of sensitivity disclosures and the assessment as to what would constitute a reasonably possible downside scenario for each CGU.

Our findings

We found the Group’s conclusion that there is no impairment of Experience CGU goodwill to be balanced (FY22: balanced).

We found the Group’s disclosures in the description of the assumptions and estimates to be proportionate (FY22 finding: proportionate) and disclosures of the sensitivity of the valuation of goodwill to 
changes in those assumptions and estimates to be proportionate (FY22 finding: proportionate). 

4.3 Revenue recognition 
Financial Statement Elements

Long-term contractual revenue 
Deferred Income 

FY23
£2,104.0m
£538.3m

FY22 
£2,236.2m
£640.7m

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

Risk remains stable vs FY22, reflecting 
the volume and magnitude of contractual 
changes in the period. 

Our findings
FY23: balanced

FY22: balanced

133

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.3 Revenue recognition continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
Subjective Judgement

The Group has many complex and bespoke contract 
arrangements which can span many years and involve the 
provision of more than one performance obligation. These 
long-term contracts are held within the Public Service and 
Experience divisions of the Group.

Significant contract variations or modifications may give 
rise to judgement as to the impact for revenue recognition. 
These can arise throughout the year.

In the event of a full or partial termination, judgement arises 
in determining the effective date to trigger re-profiling of 
deferred income held, particularly where services are 
being handed back or across to another provider.

Professional standards require us to make a rebuttable 
presumption that the fraud risk associated with revenue 
recognition is a significant risk. The incentive/pressures 
on management to achieve bonus targets and/or market 
consensus increase the risk of fraudulent revenue 
recognition. The opportunity is considered to apply to 
these long-term contracts, given the factors noted above.

Disclosure quality

There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not 
sufficient to explain the revenue recognition accounting 
policies to enable the users of the financial statements 
to understand how key judgements are applied. 
Communications with Capita plc’s Audit and Risk Committee

Our response to the risk
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the nature of the balance is such that we would 
expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

Our procedures to address the risk included:

Tests of detail: We obtained and inspected a sample of the contractual agreements to understand the contract terms and conditions that 
underpin the revenue and the profit recognition assumptions and to identify conditions under which variable revenue can arise. For the major 
contracts selected through our scoping exercise, where relevant, we also assessed the accounting papers prepared by the Group that set out 
the key judgements to apply.

Where contract negotiations are ongoing in relation to variable consideration, we made enquiries on the current status with those involved in the 
discussions and by reference to the associated signed contract or any variation amendments. Where significant variable consideration had been 
recognised, we obtained and inspected the contractual agreements to understand the contract terms and conditions that underpin the revenue 
recognition assumptions. Where relevant we inspected correspondence with customers or other supporting documentation in relation to the 
variations or scope change.

We identify contracts where there has been a significant modification, termination, or partial termination, through our inquiries with the Group, and 
corroboration through our inspection of the contract models. We assessed the contract terms including any correspondence from the customer, 
to challenge the effective date of the modification or termination. We also challenged the judgements applied as to whether, in the case of a 
partial termination, any deferred income should be recognised immediately or spread forward by assessing the inter dependencies of the 
performance obligations, and the initial contractual terms.

We challenged whether the key contract judgements made by the Board are appropriate based upon the underlying contractual terms and 
evidence obtained.

Assessing transparency: We considered the disclosures in the financial statements to check that these were sufficient and provided 
proportionate detail of the revenue and profit recognition policies and of the key judgements applied. This included an assessment of whether 
notes 2.1 and 2.2 set out the impacts arising from the accounting policies applied in relation to the long-term contracts provided by the Group.

Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee included:

•  Assessment of judgements linked to contract modifications and estimates in the year.

•  Adequacy of accompanying disclosures in respect to revenue recognition in notes 2.1 and 2.2 to the financial statements.

Areas of particular auditor judgement

We identified the following as the areas of particular auditor judgement:

•  Timing of accounting for contract modifications and basis for revenue recognition applied across the long-term contract portfolio.

Our findings

In determining the treatment of revenue recognition, the Group has applied accounting policies based on the requirements of IFRS15. In applying these policies there is room for judgement and we found that 
within that the Group’s judgement was balanced (FY22: balanced). We found the disclosures associated with the IFRS15 policies to be proportionate (FY22: proportionate). 

134

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.4 Capitalisation and recoverability of contract assets 
Financial Statement Elements

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

The risk associated with capitalisation 
and recoverability of contract assets 
remains stable.

Our findings
FY23: balanced

FY22: balanced

Non-Current Contract 
Fulfilment Assets (“CFA”)
Onerous Contract Provisions 
(“OCP”)

Description of the Key Audit Matter
Accounting application

FY23

FY22 

£257.0m

£263.0m

£43.3m

£52.8m

A contract fulfilment asset (“CFA”) is recorded for costs incurred on a contract 
or an anticipated contract that generate or enhance the resources of an 
entity that will be used in satisfying future obligations under the contract.

Subjective estimate

Note 2.1 sets out the outsourcing model operated by the Group and 
explains how typically the early stages of a contract (‘pre-inflection’) will 
reflect a period when the contract fulfilment assets are created as the 
contract delivery is established. Judgement may be required in determining 
whether the costs incurred are appropriate to be capitalised, and this leads 
to a risk that costs may be incorrectly capitalised as a result of error or fraud. 
A risk of fraud arises as there may be an incentive to capitalise items to 
achieve bonus targets or market consensus.

Where a contract is not performing as expected, the costs capitalised may 
not be recoverable and an impairment of the asset should be recorded.

Where no CFA has been recorded or the CFA has already been fully 
impaired, there is also a risk that the contract may be onerous, and 
an onerous contract provision (“OCP”) should be recorded.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, 
we determined that the recoverable amount of contract assets and 
completeness and accuracy of the onerous contract provision have a 
high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of possible 
outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.

Disclosure quality

There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not adequate to explain 
the capitalisation criteria that are used to assess whether items of expense 
should be recorded as a contract asset, or the key judgements applied in 
assessment of contract lifetimes and any onerous contract provisions required. 

Our response to the risk
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the nature of the balance is 
such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

Our procedures to address the risk included:

Tests of detail: We tested on a sample basis the costs capitalised as CFAs by reference to the criteria set out in the Group’s 
accounting policy. For the costs sampled we obtained third party support, or for internally generated time we obtained the 
relevant costing rates and records, to support the basis of capitalisation.

We assessed on a sample basis the useful economic lives applied to the CFAs and evaluated the expected contract life by 
reference to the contract terms or where appropriate any agreed extensions to the original contract.

Sensitivity analysis: We considered the assumptions within the business plans and lifetime assessments, checking that 
onerous conditions had been recognised appropriately, particularly on contracts that have had a poor performance in the 
current year and those contracts that are in a pre-inflection phase of transformation. We assessed any ongoing impact of 
inflation on the key assumptions, together with any contract modifications agreed with the customer in response to the 
economic environment, or more widely as part of commercial discussions.

In determining whether a CFA should be impaired or OCPs should be recorded, we assessed contract profitability forecasts 
by analysing historic performance relative to contractual commitments over its full term. This included assessing critically the 
assumptions over future costs including projected savings and the actions required to achieve these by comparison to historical 
cost savings achieved on similar projects. Our assessment considered the levels of uncertainty contained in the forecasts, the 
extent to which Company actions alone could mitigate risks and any dependencies on the customer or other third parties. This 
assessment covered a sample of contracts including those identified by the Board as being high risk and comprising the major 
contracts in a pre-inflection phase.

Assessing transparency: We considered the disclosures in the financial statements to assess whether these provided sufficient 
detail of the criteria used to evaluate whether expenditure should be recorded as a CFA, and on judgements taken in respect of 
recoverability of CFAs, and recognition and measurement of OCPs.

135

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.4 Capitalisation and recoverability of contract assets continued
Communications with Capita plc’s Audit and Risk Committee

Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee included:

•  Assessment of judgements linked to contracts, potentially at risk of becoming onerous, or where an onerous contract provision is already held. This included consideration of recoverability of any CFA held.

•  Adequacy of accompanying disclosures in respect to contract assets in notes 2.1 and 3.1.3 to the financial statements.

Areas of particular auditor judgement

We identified the following as the area of particular auditor judgement:

•  Assessment of the need for onerous contract provision and/or CFA impairment for Major Contracts sensitive to forecast assumptions made in respect to remaining contract term.

Our findings

We found the assumptions and estimates used to assess the CFAs to be recognised, and to determine the need for any impairment of CFAs and recognition of OCPs, to be balanced (FY22: balanced).

We found that the Group’s disclosures in note 2.1 and 3.1.3 to be proportionate (FY22: proportionate). 

4.5 Identification, measurement, and disclosure of actual and potential costs related to the cyber incident
Financial Statement Elements

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

Cyber incident expense disclosure
(Total as per financial statements)

FY23

£25.3m

Newly identified risk for FY23

Our findings
FY23: balanced

136

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.5 Identification, measurement, and disclosure of actual and potential costs related to the cyber incident continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
Presentation appropriateness

Our response to the risk
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group’s controls because the nature of the balance is such that we would 
expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

The Group was subject to a major cyber incident in March 
2023, and has incurred considerable cost associated with 
investigating, rectifying and remediating the impacts of the 
incident. The Directors determined that costs related to the 
cyber incident should be excluded from adjusted results, 
the reasoning behind this presentation is set out in section 
2.4 of the financial statements.

The identification of items of expense that meet the Group’s 
definition of being related to the cyber incident requires 
judgement as to whether the expense fulfil the criteria 
and principles that the Group established.

Disclosure quality

Judgement is required to assess whether actual or potential 
claims, litigation or fines arising from regulatory oversight, or 
from impacted parties, should be recognised as provisions 
within the financial statements or warrant disclosing as 
contingent liabilities.

Where the impact of any present obligations is not probable 
but more likely than remote, or a probable obligation that 
cannot be measured reliably, and thus no provision is 
recorded, failure to adequately disclose the nature of these 
circumstances within the financial statements may distort the 
reader’s view as to the potential risks faced by the Group.

We do not consider the identification, measurement, and 
disclosure of actual and potential costs related to the cyber 
incident to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, or 
to be subject to a significant level of judgement. However, 
due to their materiality in the context of the financial 
statements as a whole and the extent of audit effort devoted 
to this area, this is considered to be one of the areas which 
had the greatest effect on our overall Group audit.

Our procedures to address the risk included:

Assessing principles: We examined the accounting policy implemented by the Group in respect of the determination of costs related to the 
cyber incident for exclusion from adjusted results. We assessed the nature of the categories of expense included within the policy to determine 
if they were related to the cyber incident.

Tests of detail: We tested on a sample basis the costs identified as related to the Cyber incident by reference to the criteria set out in the 
Group’s accounting policy. For the costs sampled we obtained third party support for the cost and, based upon inspection of the support, 
evaluated if the cost met the Group’s accounting policy for exclusion from the adjusted results.

Enquiry of lawyers: We enquired of both internal and external Counsel in respect of the status of interactions with regulatory authorities and 
actual or potential claims from impacted parties.

Our cyber expertise: We used our own cyber security specialists to provide expert knowledge on assessing the initiatives that the Group has 
taken to improve cyber security.

Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the basis of the adjusted financial information is clearly and accurately described and 
consistently applied. We evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s contingent liability disclosures in the financial statements in accordance with 
accounting standards.

137

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.5 Identification, measurement, and disclosure of actual and potential costs related to the cyber incident continued
Communications with Capita plc’s Audit and Risk Committee

Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee included:

•  Our initial and updated risk assessment in respect of this matter.

•  Assessment of the application of the Group’s accounting policy to identify costs related to the cyber incident for exclusion.

•  Adequacy of accompanying disclosures in respect of contingent liabilities.

Areas of particular auditor judgement

We do not consider the identification, measurement, and disclosure of actual and potential costs related to the cyber incident to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant 
level of judgement.

Our findings

We found that the judgement taken in applying the Group’s accounting policy to classify certain items of expense as being related to the cyber incident to be balanced and disclosure of the items of expense 
provided in the annual report and accounts taken as a whole to be proportionate. We found that section 6.2 provides proportionate disclosure of the contingent liabilities in respect of potential claims, 
litigation or fines.

4.6 Recoverability of the parent company’s investment in, and amounts due from, its subsidiaries
Financial Statement Elements

Our assessment of risk vs FY22

Risk is considered stable against FY22. 

Our findings
FY23: proportionate

FY22: proportionate

Investment carrying value
Amounts due from subsidiaries 

FY23
£996.0m

FY22 
£994.3m
£2,270.3m £2,559.2m

Description of the Key Audit Matter
Forecast-based assessment

The carrying amount of the Parent Company’s investment in, and 
amounts due from, its subsidiaries represent 30.2% and 68.9% 
(FY22: 27.3% and 70.4%) of its total assets respectively.

The risk of irrecoverability is focused upon certain investments 
and amounts due from subsidiaries within the Experience division.

The estimated recoverable amount of these balances is subjective 
due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash 
flows, especially forecast revenue growth.

Uncertainty in relation to the current macro-economic environment 
and the execution risk associated with delivery of cost savings from 
the ongoing cost restructuring programme may further impact the 
Group’s activities and performance and renders precise forecasting 
of the underlying cashflows challenging.

Our response to the risk
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on the Parent’s controls because the nature of the balance is such that we 
would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

Our procedures to address the risk included:

Tests of detail: For amounts due from subsidiaries, we first assessed if the counterparty was in default as demonstrated through 
holding a net liability position. This was based upon the subsidiary’s balance sheet as utilised within the consolidation. For investments, 
we assessed if there was an indicator of impairment by comparing the carrying amount with the subsidiary’s net assets within the 
Group consolidation, being an approximation of its minimum recoverable amount. Where required, we then proceeded to assess 
the probability of recovery based upon the entity level discounted cashflow forecasts and the recoverable amount of any indirect 
subsidiaries. We assessed consistency with the cashflows utilised in the goodwill impairment, deferred tax and going concern models.

Historical comparison: For the balances identified as at greatest risk of irrecoverability, we assessed the historical accuracy of the 
forecasts used by considering actual performance against prior year budgets, recognising the impacts of the current macro-economic 
environment. We assessed the forecast revenue and EBITDA growth with reference to the most recent results for 2022 and 2023 and 
evaluating the assumed impact on future cashflows from the ongoing cost restructuring programme. 

138

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

4.6 Recoverability of the parent company’s investment in, and amounts due from, its subsidiaries continued
Description of the Key Audit Matter
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk 
assessment for audit planning purposes, we determined 
that the recoverable amount of the Parent Company’s 
investment in, and amounts due from, its subsidiaries had 
a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential 
range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole. In conducting our 
final audit work, we concluded that reasonably possible 
changes to the recoverable amount would not be 
expected to result in material impairment.

Our response to the risk
Evaluating directors’ intent: We assessed the directors’ intention in respect of the recovery of intercompany debt and based the 
recoverable amount on their intention of expected cashflows.

Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analyses for the key inputs and assumptions which included forecast revenue growth. 
We considered the likelihood of such scenarios materialising and the impact this would have upon the recoverable amount.

Assessing transparency: We evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures related to the estimation uncertainty, judgements made and 
assumptions over the recoverability of the Parent Company’s investment in, and amounts due from, its subsidiaries, checking that the 
sensitivity disclosures provided enough detail and proportionate information to inform a reader of the accounts. 

Disclosure quality

The financial statements (note 7.3.3) disclose the key 
assumptions underlying the investment impairment 
calculation and the sensitivity of the calculation to 
changes in these assumptions.

There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not 
sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive the 
valuations, and the key sensitivities that the Board has 
considered. This is particularly important given the current 
uncertainty surrounding the macro-economic environment.
Communications with Capita plc’s Audit and Risk Committee

Our discussions with and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee included:

•  Assumptions taken in respect to cash flow forecasts, including forecast revenue growth assumption for certain investments.

•  Assessment of the judgement taken in respect of the recoverability of intercompany receivables.

Areas of particular auditor judgement

We identified the following as the areas of particular auditor judgement:

•  For investments where the recoverable amount was determined through the FVLCD basis, the revenue growth within the cash flow forecasts were deemed to be a significant assumption for the estimate.

Our findings

We found the Parent Company’s assessment of the recoverability of the investment in, and amounts due from, subsidiaries to be balanced (FY22: balanced). We found the Company’s disclosures of the 
recoverability of investment held by the Parent Company in, and amounts due from, subsidiaries to be proportionate (FY22: proportionate).

139

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Our ability to detect irregularities, and our response
Fraud – identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud
Fraud risk 
assessment

To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (“fraud risks”) we assessed events or conditions that could indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an 
opportunity to commit fraud.

Our risk assessment procedures included:

•  Enquiring of Directors, the ARC, internal audit and inspection of the Group’s documented high-level policies and procedures to prevent and detect fraud, including the Group’s 

channel for “whistleblowing”, as well as whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud;

•  Reading Board and ARC meeting minutes;

•  Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance targets for management and Directors including the short and long-term incentive plans for management remuneration;

•  Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships; and

•  Using our own forensic specialists to assist us in identifying fraud risks. This included attending the Risk Assessment and Planning Discussion, with the engagement partner and 

engagement key team members, and assisting with designing relevant audit procedures to respond to the identified fraud risks. 

Risk communications We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout the audit. This included communication from the Group 
audit team to component audit teams of relevant fraud risks identified at the Group level and requests to component audit teams to report to the Group audit team any instances of 
fraud that could give rise to a material misstatement at Group level.
As required by auditing standards, taking into account possible pressures to meet profit targets and market consensus and continued ongoing economic uncertainty, and using our 
overall knowledge of the control environment, we perform procedures to address the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraudulent revenue recognition, in particular:

Fraud risks

Link to KAMs

Procedures to 
address fraud risks

•  The risk that Group and component management may be in a position to make inappropriate accounting entries for long-term contracts; and

•  The risk of bias in accounting estimates and judgements such as contract modifications and terminations. 
We also identified fraud risks related to inappropriate capitalisation and recoverability of contract fulfilment assets. Further details in respect of inappropriate capitalisation and 
recoverability of contract fulfilment assets are set out in section 4 of this report.
We performed procedures including:

•  Identifying journal entries and other adjustments to test for all full scope components, based on risk criteria specific to the component, and comparing the identified entries to 
supporting documentation. These included where relevant, those posted by senior finance personnel and those posted to unusual accounts, including unexpected account 
combinations of entries to revenue, expenses, cash and borrowings.

•  Assessing whether the judgement made in accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias, including those over revenue recognition, capitalisation and recoverability of 

contract assets and impairment of goodwill.

140

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

5. Our ability to detect irregularities, and our response continued
Laws and regulations – identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement relating to compliance with laws and regulations
Laws and regulations 
risk assessment

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, 
through discussion with the Directors and other management (as required by auditing standards), and from inspection of the Group’s regulatory and legal correspondence; and 
discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.

As some of the Group’s subsidiaries are regulated, our assessment of risks involved gaining an understanding of the control environment including these entities’ procedures for 
complying with regulatory requirements.

Risk communications We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit. This included communication 

Direct laws context 
and link to audit

Most significant 
indirect law/regulation 
areas

Link to KAMs

Context 
Context of the ability 
of the audit to detect 
fraud or breaches of 
law or regulation

from the Group audit team to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at the Group level, and a request for component auditors to report to the Group audit 
team any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably. The Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial 
statements including financial reporting legislation (including related company legislation), distributable profits legislation, and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of 
compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The Group is subject to many laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, 
for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of some of the Group’s subsidiaries’ license to operate. We identified the following areas as those most likely to have 
such an effect: health and safety, anti-bribery, data protection, employment law, regulatory capital and liquidity (in relation to the financial and regulated nature of certain of the Group’s 
activities in the Life & Pensions and Employee Benefits sectors). Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to 
enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. Therefore, if a breach of operational regulations is not disclosed to us 
or evident from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.
We also identified a Key audit matter related to impact of the cyber incident, more specifically in regards to whether actual or potential claims, litigation or fines arising from regulatory 
oversight, or from impacted parties, should be recognised as provisions within the financial statements or warrant disclosing as contingent liabilities. Further details are set out in 
section 4 of this report.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we 
have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events 
and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it. In addition, as with any audit, 
there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. Our audit 
procedures are designed to detect material misstatement. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all 
laws and regulations.

141

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

6. Our determination of materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set quantitative thresholds and overlay qualitative considerations to help us determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing 
and extent of our procedures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in the aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.

£6.0m

FY22: £6.0m

Materiality for the 
Group financial 
statements as 
a whole

£3.9m

(FY22: £3.9m)

Performance 
materiality

£0.3m

(FY22: £0.3m)

Audit misstatement 
posting threshold

What we mean

A quantitative reference for the purpose of planning and performing our audit.
Basis for determining materiality and judgements applied

Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £6.0m (FY22: £6.0m). Consistent with FY22, this was determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue 
of £2,814.6m, normalised by excluding revenue in relation to business exits of £172.5m, as disclosed in note 2.8. Use of total revenue as the benchmark reflects the continuing 
volatility in profit before tax from continuing operations, with total revenues providing a more stable measure year on year. Total revenue is also a significant focus for management 
and external stakeholders.

Our Group materiality of £6.0m was determined by applying a percentage to the normalised Group revenue. When using this benchmark, KPMG’s approach for listed entities 
considers a guideline range 0.5% – 1% of the measure. In setting overall Group materiality, we applied a percentage of 0.23% (FY22: 0.21%) to the benchmark which is below 
the lower end of the expected range. This acknowledges the low historic margin of the Group.

Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements was set at £5.5m (FY22: £5.5m), determined by reference to total Company assets and represents 0.17% of the Company’s 
total assets (FY22: 0.15%).
What we mean

Our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold, performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk that 
individually immaterial misstatements in individual account balances add up to a material amount across the financial statements as a whole.
Basis for determining performance materiality and judgements applied

Performance materiality for the Group and the Parent Company was set at 65% (FY22: 65%) of materiality for the financial statements as a whole, which equates to £3.9m 
(FY22: £3.9m) for the Group and £3.6m (FY22: £3.6m) for the Parent Company. We applied this percentage in our determination of performance materiality based on the number 
and level of identified misstatements and control deficiencies during the prior period.
What we mean

This is the amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial from a quantitative point of view. We may become aware of misstatements below this 
threshold which could alter the nature, timing and scope of our audit procedures, for example if we identify smaller misstatements which are indicators of fraud.

This is also the amount above which all misstatements identified are communicated to the ARC.
Basis for determining the audit misstatement posting threshold and judgements applied

We set our audit misstatement posting threshold at 5% (FY22: 5%) of our materiality for the Group financial statements. We also report to the ARC other identified misstatements that 
warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.

The overall materiality for the Group financial statements of £6.0m (FY22: £6.0m) compares as follows to the main financial statement caption amounts:

Group revenue

Group profit before tax

Total Group assets

Financial statement caption
Group materiality as % of caption

FY23

FY22
£2,814.6m £3,014.6m
0.20%

0.21%

FY23
£(106.6)m
5.63%

FY22
£61.4m
9.77%

FY23

FY22
£1,997.8m £2,552.6m
0.24%

0.30%

142

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

7. The scope of our audit
Group scope What we mean

How the Group audit team determined the procedures to be performed across the Group.

The Group has 165 (FY22: 209) reporting components. To determine the work performed at the reporting component level, we identified those components which we considered to be of 
individual financial significance and those remaining components on which we required procedures to be performed to provide us with the evidence we required in order to conclude on 
the Group financial statements as a whole.

We determined individually financially significant components as those contributing at least 7.5% (FY22: 7.5%) of total assets or 7.5% (FY22: 7.5%) of total revenue or 7.5% (FY22: 7.5%) of 
the Group profit before tax. We selected total assets, total revenue, and profit before tax because these are the most representative of the relative size of the components. We identified 5 
(FY22: 4) components as individually financially significant components and performed full scope audits on these components.

In addition to the individually financially significant components, we identified 3 (FY22: 3) components as significant, owing to significant risks of material misstatement affecting the Group 
financial statements and performed full scope audits on these components.

In addition, to enable us to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the Group financial statements as a whole, we selected 6 (FY22:9) components on which to perform procedures. 
Of these components, we performed full scope audits for 5 components (FY22: 8) and performed specific risk-focused audit procedures over revenue on 1 component (FY22: 1). The latter 
was not financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.

The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Group’s results, with the prior year comparatives indicated in brackets:

Scope

Full scope audit

Specified audit procedures
Total

Number of components

13 (15)

1 (1) 
14 (26)

Range of  

materiality applied
£5.5m – £0.3m
(£5.5m – £0.4m)
£3m
(£2m)

Group revenue

Total profits and losses 
that made up Group PBT

Total assets

87% (81%)

78% (79%)

92% (89%)

1% (N/A)
88% (81%)

2% (N/A)
80% (79%)

N/A (N/A)
92% (89%)

The remaining 12% (FY22: 19%) of total Group revenue, 20% (FY22: 21%) of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax and 8% (FY22: 11%) of total Group assets is 
represented by 151 (FY22: 193) reporting components. For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement within these.

Full scope audits were performed by component auditors at 11 reporting components in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and Germany, and by the Group audit team over 2 key components 
in the United Kingdom, including the Parent Company (FY22: 13 in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and Germany, and by the Group audit team over 2 key components in the United 
Kingdom, including the Parent Company). Specified audit procedures were performed by the Group audit team in the United Kingdom (FY22: 1 in Guernsey).

The Group audit team has performed testing of IT Systems and certain controls in the shared service centre on behalf of the components and communicated the results of these procedures 
to the component teams. This is because of the centralised systems and processes in place across the Group.

The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back. The Group team 
approved the component materialities, as detailed in the table above, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.

The scope of the audit work performed was predominantly substantive as we placed limited reliance upon the Group’s internal control over financial reporting.

143

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

7. The scope of our audit continued
Group 
What we mean
audit team 
oversight

The extent of the Group audit team’s involvement in component audits.

In working with component auditors, we:

•  Held planning calls with component audit teams to discuss the significant areas of the audit relevant to the components, including the Key audit matters of revenue recognition and 

capitalisation and recoverability of contract assets

•  Issued Group audit instructions to component auditors on the scope of their work, including specifying the minimum procedures to perform in their audit of Journals and long-term contracts

•  Visited the UK component audit teams in-person as the audit progressed to understand and challenge the audit approach and organised frequent video conferences with the partners and 
directors of the Group and component audit teams, including those based overseas. At these meetings the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component audit teams.

•  Inspected the component audit teams’ key work papers (in person and/or using remote technology) to evaluate the quality of execution of the audits of the components with a particular 

focus on work performed by the components on Group-level significant risks and Key audit matters.

8. Other information in the annual report
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, 
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

All other information 
Our responsibility

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our 
financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with 
the financial statements or our audit knowledge. 
Strategic report and Directors’ report 
Our responsibility and reporting

Based solely on our work on the other information described above we report to you as follows:

•  we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors’ report;

•  in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the 

financial statements; and

Our reporting

Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements or inconsistencies in the 
other information. 

•  in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Our responsibility

Our reporting

We are required to form an opinion as to whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 

In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 

144

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

8. Other information in the annual report continued
Corporate Governance disclosures 
Our responsibility

Our reporting

We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a material inconsistency between 
the financial statements and our audit knowledge, and:

Based on those procedures, we have concluded that each of these disclosures is materially consistent 
with the financial statements and our audit knowledge. 

•  the directors’ statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken  

as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy;

•  the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee, including 
the significant issues that the Audit and Risk Committee considered in relation to the financial 
statements, and how these issues were addressed; and

•  the section of the annual report that describes the review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 

management and internal control systems.

We are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the  
Group’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the  
Listing Rules for our review. 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Our responsibility

We have nothing to report in this respect.

Our reporting

Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

We have nothing to report in these respects.

•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for 

our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

•  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 

audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 

145

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsKPMG LLP’s Independent Auditor’s Report continued

9. Respective responsibilities

Auditor’s responsibilities

Directors’ responsibilities

As explained more fully in their statement set 
out on page 123, the directors are responsible 
for: the preparation of the financial statements 
including being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view; such internal control as they determine 
is necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; 
assessing the Group and Parent Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern; 
and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or 
the Parent Company or to cease operations, or 
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
our opinion in an auditor’s report. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
does not guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always  
detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error 
and are considered material if, individually or in 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities 
is provided on the FRC’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

The Company is required to include these 
financial statements in an annual financial 
report prepared under Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rule 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. 
This auditor’s report provides no assurance 
over whether the annual financial report has been 
prepared in accordance with those requirements.

10. The purpose of our audit work and 
to whom we owe our responsibilities
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
the terms of our engagement by the company. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report, and the further matters we are 
required to state to them in accordance with the 
terms agreed with the Company, and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members, as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.

Ian Griffiths 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants

15 Canada Square 
London  
E14 5GL

5 March 2024

146

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsFinancial statements

Structure of the financial statements

Consolidated income statement

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

Consolidated balance sheet

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Consolidated cash flow statement

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Section 1

Basis of preparation

Section 2

Results for the year

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

2.8

2.9

Contract accounting

Revenue including segmental revenue

Operating profit

Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax

Segmental information

Taxation

Earnings/(loss) per share

Business exits and assets held for sale

Cash flow information

Section 3

Operating assets and liabilities

3.1

3.1.1

3.1.2

Working capital

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other payables

3.1.3 Contract fulfilment assets

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets

Goodwill

Right-of-use assets

Provisions

Section 4

Capital structure and finance costs

4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

4.6

4.7

Net debt, capital and capital management

Financial risk

Net finance costs

Leases

Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy

Issued share capital

Group composition and non-controlling interests

Section 5

Employee benefits

5.1

5.2

5.3

Share-based payment plans

Pensions

Employee benefit expense

Section 6

Other supporting notes

6.1

6.2

6.3

Related-party transactions

Contingent liabilities

Post balance sheet events

Company financial statements
Section 7

7.1

7.2

7.3

Company balance sheet

Company statement of changes in equity

Notes to the Company financial statements

Additional information
Section 8

8.1

8.2

Shareholder information

Alternative performance measures

147

Financial statementsCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsConsolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Revenue
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Administrative expenses
Operating loss
Share of results in associates and investment gains
Net finance expense
(Loss)/gain on disposal of businesses
(Loss)/profit before tax
Income tax (charge)/credit
Total (loss)/profit for the year

Attributable to:

Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share
– basic
– diluted

Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted basic earnings per share
Adjusted diluted earnings per share

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Notes

2.2  

2.3, 2.4, 2.8  
2.3, 2.4, 2.8  

4.3   
2.8   
2.4   
2.6   

4.7   

2.7 

2.4   
2.4   
2.7   
2.7   

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

2,814.6 
(2,222.5) 
592.1 
(644.1) 
(52.0) 
— 
(52.2) 
(2.4) 
(106.6) 
(74.0) 
(180.6) 

3,014.6 
(2,298.6) 
716.0 
(795.6) 
(79.6) 
5.8 
(31.7) 
166.9 
61.4 
14.6 
76.0 

(178.1) 
(2.5) 
(180.6) 

(10.60) p  
(10.60) p  

106.5 
56.5 
1.70 p  
1.70 p  

74.8 
1.2 
76.0 

4.47 p
4.40 p

78.0 
49.8 
2.64 p
2.60 p

148

Consolidated financial statementsCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Total (loss)/profit for the year

Other comprehensive expense

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement

Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes

Tax effect on defined benefit pension schemes

(Loss)/gain on fair value of investments

Items that will or may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Exchange differences realised on business disposals

(Loss)/gain on cash flow hedges

Cash flow hedges recycled to the income statement

Tax effect on cash flow hedges

Other comprehensive expense for the year net of tax

Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year net of tax

Attributable to:

Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Notes

5.2  

2.6  

4.2.4  

4.2.4  

2.6  

4.7  

2023 
£m

(180.6)   

(68.2)   

15.9   

(0.1)   

(2.9)   

0.2   

(8.5)   

(2.0)   

2.6   

(63.0)   

(243.6)   

(241.0)   
(2.6)   

(243.6)   

2022 
£m

76.0 

(8.9) 

2.0 

0.2 

(0.6) 

0.3 

11.5 

(5.1) 

(1.6) 

(2.2) 

73.8 

72.6 
1.2 

73.8 

149

Consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December 2023

Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Right-of-use assets
Investments in associates
Contract fulfilment assets
Financial assets
Deferred tax assets
Employee benefits
Trade and other receivables

Current assets
Financial assets
Income tax receivable
Disposal group assets held for sale
Trade and other receivables
Cash

Total assets
Current liabilities
Overdrafts
Trade and other payables
Disposal group liabilities held-for-sale
Income tax payable
Deferred income
Lease liabilities
Financial liabilities
Provisions

Notes

3.2  
3.3  
3.4  
3.5  

3.1.3  
4.5  
2.6  
5.2  
3.1.1  

4.5  

2.8.2  
3.1.1  
4.5.4  

4.5.4  
3.1.2  
2.8.2  

2.2.3  
4.4,4.5  
4.5  
3.6  

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

80.0   
90.0   
495.7   
208.5   
0.2   
257.0   
97.2   
140.3   
32.7   
12.3   
1,413.9   

28.1   
11.6   
38.1   
350.7   
155.4   
583.9   
1,997.8   

95.0   
425.9   
9.7   
1.3   
501.3   
51.1   
10.8   
101.6   
1,196.7   

101.1 
106.0 
605.9 
249.5 
0.2 
263.0 
118.2 
189.5 
42.7 
15.8 
1,691.9 

23.6 
9.9 
— 
430.4 
396.8 
860.7 
2,552.6 

219.6 
492.5 
— 
— 
585.1 
55.6 
84.6 
75.7 
1,513.1 

Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Deferred income
Lease liabilities
Financial liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
Provisions
Employee benefits

Total liabilities
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Share capital
Share premium
Employee benefit trust shares
Capital redemption reserve
Other reserves
Retained deficit

Equity attributable to owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests
Total equity

Notes

3.1.2  
2.2.3  
4.4,4.5  
4.5  
2.6  
3.6  
5.2  

4.6  
4.6  
4.6  

4.7  

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

8.5   
36.2   
312.3   
267.5   
7.2   
48.6   
5.9   
686.2   
1,882.9   
114.9   

35.2   
1,145.5   
(0.7)   
1.8   
(15.0)   
(1,053.8)   

113.0   
1.9   
114.9   

15.1 
55.6 
341.9 
212.6 
6.9 
51.6 
3.1 
686.8 
2,199.9 
352.7 

34.8 
1,145.5 
(4.2) 
1.8 
(4.5) 
(843.2) 

330.2 
22.5 
352.7 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

These consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2024 and 
signed on its behalf by:

Adolfo Hernandez
Chief Executive Officer

Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer

150

Consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2021

Impact of change in accounting standards – amendments to IAS 371

At 1 January 2022 on adoption of IAS 37
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Total comprehensive income for the year
Share-based payment net of tax effects (note 2.6; note 5.1)
Elimination of non-controlling interest on disposal of businesses (note 2.8.1)
Exercise of share options under employee long-term incentive plans (note 4.6; note 5.1)
Dividends paid2
Movement in put-options held by non-controlling interests
At 31 December 2022

Loss for the year
Other comprehensive expense
Total comprehensive expense for the year
Share-based payment net of tax effects (note 2.6; note 5.1)
Reclassification3
Purchase of non-controlling interest
Exercise of share options under employee long-term incentive plans (note 4.6; note 5.1)
Shares issued (note 4.6)
Dividends paid2
Movement in put-options held by non-controlling interests
At 31 December 2023

Share 
capital 
£m
34.8   

—   

34.8   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
34.8   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
0.4   
—   
—   
35.2   

Share 
premium 
£m

1,145.5   

—   

1,145.5   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1,145.5   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1,145.5   

Employee 
benefit trust 
shares 
£m
(8.0)   

Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
1.8   

—   

(8.0)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
3.8   
—   
—   
(4.2)   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
3.9   
(0.4)   
—   
—   
(0.7)   

—   

1.8   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1.8   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1.8   

Retained 
deficit 
£m
(890.6)   

(21.7)   

(912.3)   
74.8   
(6.7)   
68.1   
5.4   
—   
(3.8)   
—   
(0.6)   
(843.2)   

(178.1)   
(52.4)   
(230.5)   
5.8   
15.9   
1.4   
(3.9)   
—   
—   
0.7   
(1,053.8)   

Other 
reserves 
£m
(9.0)   

Total attributable 
to the owners of 
the parent 
£m
274.5   

Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
22.0   

—   

(9.0)   
—   
4.5   
4.5   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(4.5)   

—   
(10.5)   
(10.5)   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(15.0)   

(21.7)   

252.8   
74.8   
(2.2)   
72.6   
5.4   
—   
—   
—   
(0.6)   
330.2   

(178.1)   
(62.9)   
(241.0)   
5.8   
15.9   
1.4   
—   
—   
—   
0.7   
113.0   

—   

22.0   
1.2   
—   
1.2   
—   
(0.3)   
—   
(0.4)   
—   
22.5   

(2.5)   
(0.1)   
(2.6)   
—   
(15.9)   
(1.4)   
—   
—   
(0.7)   
—   
1.9   

Total 
equity 
£m
296.5 

(21.7) 

274.8 
76.0 
(2.2) 
73.8 
5.4 
(0.3) 
— 
(0.4) 
(0.6) 
352.7 

(180.6) 
(63.0) 
(243.6) 
5.8 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(0.7) 
0.7 
114.9 

1. The Group initially applied the amendments to IAS 37 on 1 January 2022 and the cumulative effect of applying the amendments was recognised as an opening balance adjustment to retained earnings.
2. No dividends were declared, paid or proposed in 2023 or 2022 on the Parent Company’s ordinary shares.
3. During the current year it was identified that the non-controlling interest (NCI) proportion of a goodwill impairment charge, which was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2018, had not been previously allocated within the result for that year attributable to NCI. The NCI proportion of 

the impairment has been reclassified to the NCI reserve in the current year.

Retained deficit – Net (losses)/profits accumulated in the Group after dividends are paid.

Share capital – The balance classified as share capital is the nominal proceeds on issue of the Parent 
Company’s equity share capital, comprising 2 1/15 pence ordinary shares.

Share premium – The amount paid to the Parent Company by shareholders, in cash or other 
consideration, over and above the nominal value of shares issued to them less issuance costs.

Employee benefit trust shares – Shares held in the employee benefit trust have no voting rights and no 
entitlement to a dividend.

Capital redemption reserve – The Parent Company can redeem shares by repaying the market value to 
shareholders, whereupon the shares are cancelled. Redemption must be from distributable profits. The 
Capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of the shares redeemed.

Other reserves – This consists of the foreign currency translation reserve deficit of £11.2m (2022: £8.6m 
deficit) and the cash flow hedging reserve deficit of £3.8m (2022: £4.1m surplus).

Non-controlling interests (NCI) – This represents equity in subsidiaries not attributable directly or 
indirectly to the Parent Company.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

151

Consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Cash generated from operations
Income tax paid
Interest received
Interest paid

Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and 

intangible assets

Additions to investments held at fair value through profit and 

loss

Changes to investments at fair value through other 

comprehensive income

Capital element of lease rental receipts

Deferred consideration from sale of subsidiary undertakings

Total proceeds received from disposal of businesses, net of 

disposal costs

Cash held by businesses when sold

Net cash inflow from investing activities

Notes

2.9  

3.2  
3.3  

2023 
£m
8.7   
(7.5)   
6.2   
(47.7)   

(40.3)   

(28.8)   
(32.8)   

2022 
£m
117.8 
(7.9) 
5.0 
(43.0) 

71.9 

(20.6) 
(27.3) 

2.3, 3.2, 3.3  

0.1   

0.5 

Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
Capital element of lease rental payments
Proceeds on issue of private placement loan notes
Cost of cross currency swaps 

Repayment of private placement loan notes and other 

finance 

Proceeds from cross-currency interest rate swaps
Repayment of credit facilities
Debt financing arrangement costs

Notes

2023 
£m

2.9.3  
2.9.3  
2.9.3  

2.9.3  
2.9.3  
2.9.3  
2.9.3  

(0.7)   
(59.1)   
103.5   
(1.6)   

(121.5)   
8.5   
—   
(5.4)   

2022 
£m

(0.4) 
(61.8) 
— 
— 

(237.4) 
10.1 
(46.0) 
(5.2) 

Net cash outflow from financing activities

(76.3)   

(340.7) 

2.8.1  

2.8.1  
2.8.1  

—   

(2.4) 

(0.1)   
6.0   

1.9   

96.8   
(33.4)   

9.7   

0.2 
5.8 

— 

463.4 
(75.5) 

344.1 

(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December

Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash
Overdrafts

Cash, net of overdrafts, included in disposal group assets 

and liabilities held for sale

Total

(106.9)   
177.2   
(2.7)   

67.6   

155.4   
(95.0)   

7.2   

67.6   

4.5.4  
4.5.4  

2.8  

Cash generated from operations before business exits
Free cash flow before business exits1

2.9  
2.9  

41.2   
(115.5)   

75.3 
101.5 
0.4 

177.2 

396.8 
(219.6) 

— 

177.2 

98.4 
(42.4) 

1.  From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital element of lease 

payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

152

Consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1: Basis of preparation

This section sets out the Group’s accounting policies relating to these consolidated financial statements 
as a whole. Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to 
which it relates.

This section also includes details of new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations 
including their effective dates and explanation on the expected impact to the financial position and 
performance of the Group.

For ease of reference, this symbol has been used to denote any accounting policies included within the 
notes to these consolidated financial statements:

AP

Denotes accounting policies

These financial statements consolidate those of Capita plc (the Company or the Parent Company) and all of 
its subsidiaries (the Group). Capita plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales 
whose shares are publicly traded. The principal activities of the Group are given in the strategic report on 
pages 14 to 21.

These consolidated financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2023 were 
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 5 March 2024.

These consolidated financial statements are presented in British pounds sterling and all values are rounded 
to the nearest tenth of a million (£m) except where otherwise indicated.

Statement of compliance
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK's Financial 
Conduct Authority.

Basis of consolidation
These consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group at 31 December 
each year. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until 
control is transferred out of the Group. Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, these consolidated 
financial statements include the results for that part of the reporting year during which Capita plc had control 
and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration 
received and the carrying amount of the net assets (including goodwill) disposed of. Losses applicable to 
the non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results 
in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the 
investment in the entity is stated as a one line item at cost plus the investor’s share of retained post-
acquisition profits or losses and other changes in net assets less any impairment.

Going concern
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2023, the Board is required to consider whether the Group and Parent Company can continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Board has concluded that it is appropriate to adopt 
the going concern basis, having undertaken a rigorous assessment of the financial forecasts, key 
uncertainties, sensitivities, and mitigations as set out below.

Accounting standards require that ‘the foreseeable future’ for going concern assessment covers a period of 
at least twelve months from the date of approval of these financial statements, although those standards do 
not specify how far beyond twelve months a Board should consider. In its going concern assessment, the 
Board has considered the period from the date of approval of these financial statements to 30 June 2025 
(‘the going concern period’), which aligns with a period end and covenant test date for the Group, and has 
also allowed the Board to assess the liquidity impact of the borrowings that mature in January 2025 and 
April 2025 (refer to note 4.5.3 to the consolidated financial statements). There are no other debt maturities 
in the period to 30 June 2025.

The base case financial forecasts used in the going concern assessment are derived from the 2024-2025 
business plans as approved by the Board in December 2023.

The going concern assessment considers the Group’s sources and uses of liquidity and covenant 
compliance throughout the period under review. The value of the Group’s committed revolving credit facility 
(RCF) was £260.7m at 31 December 2023 having been extended to 31 December 2026. The original terms 
of the RCF are substantially unchanged. The value was subsequently reduced to £250m on 23 January 
2024 following receipt of proceeds from the disposal of the Group’s investment in Fera Science Limited.

In July the Group issued £101.9m equivalent of new private placement loan notes across three tranches: 
£50m maturing 25 July 2026, USD45m maturing 25 July 2026 and USD23m maturing 25 July 2028, with an 
average interest rate of 9.45%. The notes rank pari passu with the existing indebtedness of the Group and 
includes financial covenants determined on the same basis as those under the existing private placement 
loan notes.

Financial position at 31 December 2023
As detailed further in the Chief Financial Officer’s review in the strategic report, at 31 December 2023 the 
Group had net debt of £545.5m (2022: £482.4m), net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16)1 of £182.1m (2022: 
£84.9m), available liquidity1 of £282.3m (2022: £405.2m) and was in compliance with all debt covenants 
(refer to note 4.1.2 to the consolidated financial statements).

Board assessment
Base case scenario
Under the base case scenario, the Group’s transformation programme and completion of the Portfolio non-
core business disposal programme in January 2024 has simplified and strengthened the business and 
facilitates further efficiency savings enabling sustainable growth in revenue, profit and cash flow over the 
medium term. When combined with available committed facilities, this allows the Group to manage 
scheduled debt repayments. The most material sensitivities to the base case are the risk of not delivering 
the planned revenue growth and efficiency savings following the announcement of the Group’s restructuring 
programme.

The base case projections used for going concern assessment purposes reflect business disposals 
completed up to the date of approval of these financial statements. The liquidity headroom assessment in 
the base case projections reflects the Group’s existing committed financing facilities and debt redemptions 
and does not reflect any potential future refinancing. The base case financial forecasts demonstrate liquidity 

153

Notes to the consolidated financial statementsCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 1: Basis of preparation continued

headroom and compliance with all debt covenant measures throughout the going concern period to 30 June 
2025.

revenue growth falling materially short of plan;

targeted cost savings delayed or not delivered;

Severe but plausible downside scenario
In considering severe but plausible downside scenarios, the Board has taken account of the potential 
adverse financial impacts resulting from the following risks:
•
• operating profit margin expansion not being achieved;
•
• additional inflationary cost impacts which cannot be passed on to customers;
• unforeseen operational issues leading to contract losses and cash outflows;
• volatility in interest rates;
• non-availability of the Group’s non-recourse trade receivables financing facility; and
• unexpected financial costs linked to incidents such as data breaches and/or cyber-attacks.

The likelihood of simultaneous crystallisation of the above risks is considered by the directors to be low. 
Nevertheless in the event that simultaneous crystallisation were to occur, the Group would need to take 
action to mitigate the risk of insufficient liquidity and covenant headroom. In its assessment of going 
concern, the Board has considered the mitigations, under the direct control of the Group, that could be 
implemented including reductions or delays in capital investment, and substantially reducing (or removing in 
full) bonus and incentive payments. Taking these mitigations into account, the Group’s financial forecasts, in 
a severe but plausible downside scenario, demonstrate sufficient liquidity headroom and compliance with all 
debt covenant measures throughout the going concern period to 30 June 2025.

Adoption of going concern basis
Reflecting the continued benefits from the transformation programme delivered over the last few years and 
the Portfolio non-core business disposal programme completed in January 2024, coupled with the Board's 
ability to implement appropriate mitigations should the severe but plausible downside materialise, the Group 
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these consolidated financial statements. The Board 
has concluded that the Group and Parent Company will be able to continue in operation and meet their 
liabilities as they fall due over the period to 30 June 2025.

1.Refer to alternative performance measures in section 8.2 to the financial statements.

Foreign currency translation
The functional and presentation currency of Capita plc and its UK subsidiaries is the British pound sterling 
(£). Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency exchange rate ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the functional currency exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are 
taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to 
equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement.

Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also taken directly to 
equity. Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rate at the date of initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.

The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro, Indian rupee, South African rand, Polish 
zloty and the US dollar. At the balance sheet date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are 
retranslated into the presentation currency of Capita plc at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet 
date and their income statements are translated using the weighted average exchange rate for the year.

The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity. 
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative foreign currency translation difference 
recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement.

Current versus non-current classification
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on whether they are current or non-
current.

An asset is current when it is:
• Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in the normal operating cycle;
• Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
• Expected to be realised within twelve months after the balance sheet date; or
• Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 

twelve months after the balance sheet date.

All other assets are classified as non-current.

A liability is current when:
•
•
•
• There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the 

It is expected to be settled in the normal operating cycle;
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the balance sheet date; or

balance sheet date.

All other liabilities are classified as non-current.

154

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 1: Basis of preparation continued

Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a non-current asset 
may be impaired. Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the 
asset’s recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s, or cash-generating unit’s, fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, and is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.

Consideration of climate change
The impact of climate change has been considered in the preparation of these consolidated financial 
statements across a number of areas, including our evaluation of the critical accounting estimates and 
assumptions which are detailed below, consistent with the risks and opportunities set out in the strategic 
report on pages 50 to 56. None of these risks had a material effect on the critical accounting estimates and 
assumptions or on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.

The following areas were considered during the preparation of these consolidated financial statements:
• contract judgements made on the Group’s major contracts including contract fulfilment assets;
• going concern and viability of the Group over the relevant respective period;
• cash flow forecasts used in the impairment assessments of non-current assets including the Group’s 

intangible assets such as customer contracts and goodwill;

• carrying value and useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment; and
•

the valuation of assets held within the Group’s pension schemes.

As current legislation stands, there is currently no material short or medium-term1 impact expected from 
climate change on the Group. The Group will continue to monitor it’s climate strategy and the impact that 
policies or changes in legislation may have on the estimates the Group makes, and any subsequent impact 
on assets and liabilities recognised and presented in its consolidated financial statements.

Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles 
requires the directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income 
and expense during the presented periods. Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the 
directors’ best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ.

As described in note 2.1, given the level of judgement and estimation involved in assessing the future 
profitability of contracts, it is reasonably possible that outcomes within the next financial year may be 
different from management’s assumptions and could require a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of contract assets and, onerous contract provisions.

1. As defined in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures section of the Strategic Report

Judgements
The key areas where significant accounting judgements have been made and which have the most 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements, are summarised 
below and set out in more detail in the related note(s):
• Contract accounting (note 2.1):

– Revenue recognition;

• Capitalisation of contract fulfilment assets (note 3.1.3); and
• Adoption of the going concern basis of preparation (section 1).

Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance 
sheet date, which have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year, are summarised below and set out in more detail in the related 
note. The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the consolidated 
financial statements were prepared.

Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market 
changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are incorporated 
into the assumptions when they occur:
• Contract accounting (note 2.1):

– Impairment of contract fulfilment assets;
– Customer and onerous contract provisions;
• Deferred tax asset recognition (note 2.6); and
• Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations (note 5.2).

For ease of reference, the symbols below have been used to denote significant accounting judgements and/
or significant accounting estimates and assumptions where they occur within the notes to these 
consolidated financial statements:

J

E

Denotes significant accounting judgements

Denotes significant accounting estimates and assumptions

155

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 1: Basis of preparation continued

New standards and interpretations adopted
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. In addition, the 
Group has adopted the new, and amendments to, standards listed below. These amendments were either 
not applicable or not material to the Group or Parent Company.

New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has issued the following standards, amendments and 
interpretations with an effective date after the date of these consolidated financial statements. These are 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after the date indicated:

Effective date
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
1 January 2023
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and amendments to IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2) 1 January 2023
1 January 2023
Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments to IAS 8)

Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction 
(Amendments to IAS 12)
International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules (Amendments to IAS 12)

1 January 2023

1 January 2023

International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)

Classification of liabilities as current or non-current and non-current liabilities with 
Covenants - Amendments to IAS 1

Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback - Amendments to IFRS 16

Supplier Finance Arrangements - Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7
Lack of exchangeability - Amendments to IAS 211

Effective date

1 January 2024

1 January 2024

1 January 2024

1 January 2025

1. The effective date is based on the standard or amendment issued by the IASB and are still subject to adoption by the UK Endorsement 

Board.

The Group is assessing the impact of these new standards and the Group’s financial reporting will be 
presented in accordance with these standards from the effective date.

156

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year

This section contains notes related to the financial 
performance of the Group. These include:

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

2.8

2.9

AP

J

E

Contract accounting

Revenue including segmental revenue

Operating profit

Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax

Segmental information

Taxation

Earnings/(loss) per share

Business exits and assets held for sale

Cash flow information

Denotes accounting policies

Denotes significant accounting judgements

Denotes significant accounting estimates and 
assumptions

Key highlights 

Reported revenue

£2,814.6m

(2022: £3,014.6m)

Reported loss before tax

£(106.6)m

(2022: profit £61.4m)

Adjusted revenue1
Aim: Achieve long-term organic revenue growth

£2,642.1m

(2022: £2,609.0m)

Adjusted profit before tax1 
Aim: Achieve long-term growth in profit

£56.5m

(2022: profit £49.8m)

Free cash flow2

£(154.9)m

(2022: £(31.5)m)

Reported basic earnings/(loss) per share (EPS)

(10.60)p

(2022: 4.47p)

Free cash flow before business exits1,2
Aim: Achieve sustainable, long-term positive
free cash flow growth generation

£(115.5)m

(2022: £(42.4)m)

Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS)1 
Aim: Achieve long-term growth in EPS

1.70p

(2022: 2.64p)

1. Definitions of the alternative performance measures and related Key Performance 

Indicators (KPIs) can be found in section 8.2.

2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow excluding business exits is presented after deducting 
the capital element of lease payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-
presented. Refer to note 2.9.2.

157

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year continued

In 2023 the Group’s adjusted revenue1 increased year on year driven by underlying growth from contracts 
such as the Personal Independence Payments contract in Capita Public Service, indexation and the one-off 
benefit relating to a commercial settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions business in Capita 
Experience, offset by the impact of a number of contract losses.

Adjusted profit before tax1 improved year-on-year reflecting the revenue trends noted above, in particular 
the commercial settlement in Capita Experience, and a reduction in bonuses and variable pay, offset by 
increased financing costs.

The higher level of profit was offset by increased working capital outflows, increased capital expenditure 
and spend following the cyber incident, resulting in free cash outflow before business exits1 of £115.5m 
(2022: £42.4m outflow).

The Group had additional cash outflow of £23.1m (2022: £19.5m inflow) arising from those businesses sold 
in the year, and additional pension deficit payments triggered as a result of these disposals totalling £16.3m 
(2022: £8.6m).

Revenue
Adjusted revenue1 increased by 1.3% year-on-year as a result of the following:

• Capita Public Service: growth was underpinned by indexation, scope increases and improved trading on 

a number of contracts including the Royal Navy Training contract and the Personal Independence 
Payments contract. This was offset by contract hand-backs and losses in Local Public Services and non-
recurrence of the contract to provide laptops to teachers in Northern Ireland in 2022; and

• Capita Experience: growth was driven by improved international trading, indexation, and the one-off 
benefit relating to a commercial settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions business, offset by 
contract losses, primarily the loss of the Co-operative Bank contract.

For additional information, which does not form part of these consolidated financial statements, the Chief 
Financial Officer’s review in the strategic report includes information in respect of the changes.

Profit before tax
The adjusted profit before tax1 improved by £6.7m year-on-year to a profit of £56.5m as a result of the profit 
impact of the following:

• Capita Public Service: the beneficial impact of indexation, the scope increases and improved trading on 
a number of contracts discussed above, offset by the impact of contract exits in Local Public Service;
• Capita Experience: reflects the flow through of the revenue benefits noted previously, in particular the 
closed book Life & Pensions contract settlement, as well as higher interest receipts in our pension 
business offset by flow through of prior year contract losses in particular the Co-operative Bank and 
continued attrition in the remaining Life & Pensions business; and

• Capita plc: impact of the reallocation of central costs previously allocated to Capita Portfolio to Capita plc 

in 2022, increased financing cost and the non-recurrence of gains in investments in 2022.

Adjusted profit before tax1 excludes a number of specific items so users of these consolidated financial 
statements can more clearly understand the financial performance of the Group. Reported loss before tax 
was £106.6m (2022: profit £61.4m). The year-on-year reduction has arisen from: a loss on business 
disposals in 2023 compared with a gain in 2022; and, the costs of the cyber incident and the costs to deliver 
the announced cost reduction programme. A reconciliation of the adjusted profit before tax1 to reported loss 
before tax is detailed in note 2.4.

Reported operating loss for the year was £52.0m (2022: loss £79.6m). Details of items charged/credited in 
arriving at the reported operating loss can be found in note 2.3.

For additional information, which does not form part of these consolidated financial statements, the Chief 
Financial Officer’s review in the strategic report includes information in respect of the changes.

Taxation
The adjusted income tax charge for the year was £31.1m (2022: £4.4m) including £30.4m of current tax 
(2022: £6.4m). There is a current tax credit arising on pension deficit contributions recognised in other 
comprehensive income (OCI) rather than the income statement. If the current tax that is flowing through 
OCI is taken into account, the total current charge is more closely aligned to the current tax payable in 
respect of the year.

The reported income tax charge of £74.0m on reported loss before tax of £106.6m (2022: reported income 
tax credit of £14.6m on reported profit of £61.4m), differs from the standard UK weighted average 
corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2022: 19.0%), primarily due to changes in the accounting estimate of 
recognised deferred tax assets, unrecognised current year tax losses and non-deductible goodwill 
impairment. The prior period credit reflected an increase in the recognised deferred tax asset.

Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share1 reduced because the increase in adjusted profit before tax1 was offset by the 
increase in the adjusted income tax charge year on year as detailed above.

The reduction from reported earnings per share to a reported loss per share reflects the reduction in 
reported profit before tax noted above, compounded by the swing from a reported income tax credit to an 
income tax charge as noted above.

Dividend
The Board is not recommending the payment of a final dividend (2022: £nil). However, the Board 
recognises the importance of dividend payments to investors in forming part of their total shareholder return 
and will consider the payment of dividends when the Group is generating sufficient sustainable free cash 
flow.

1. Definitions of the alternative performance measures and related Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) can be found in section 8.2.

158

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year continued

Free cash flow before business exits1

Adjusted operating cash conversion1 decreased to 45% (2022: 63%), driven by:

Adjusted operating profit to free cash flow excluding business exits1,2
Adjusted operating profit1

Add: depreciation/amortisation and impairment of property, plant and 
equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible assets

Adjusted EBITDA
Working capital
Non-cash and other adjustments

Operating cash flow excluding business exits1
Adjusted operating cash conversion1

Pension deficit contributions
Cyber incident
Cost reduction programme

Cash generated from operations excluding business exits1

Net capital expenditure
Interest/tax paid
Net capital lease payments

Free cash flow excluding business exits1,2

2023
£m

106.5 

108.1 

214.6 
(110.7) 
(6.5) 

97.4 

 45  %

(30.0) 
(20.1) 
(6.1) 

41.2 
(58.9) 
(45.1) 
(52.7) 

(115.5) 

2022
£m

78.0 

126.4 

204.4 
(30.7) 
(45.3) 

128.4 

 63 %

(30.0) 
— 
— 

98.4 
(38.0) 
(47.5) 
(55.3) 

(42.4) 

•

•

the reduction in working capital, which reflects the £28.0m benefit in 2022 of a step-up in the usage of the 
Group’s non-recourse facilities in 2022 whereas in 2023 there was a £9.3m reduction in usage, a 
reduction in the accrual for management bonuses and variable pay, and the non-cash nature of the 
commercial settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions business in Experience; and
the lower outflow related to provisions in 2023 reflected in the movement in non-cash and other 
adjustments.

Cash generated from operations excluding business exits1 reflects the above, the direct cash flow impact of 
the cyber incident (£20.1m) announced previously. The £30.0m of pension deficit contributions are in 
accordance with the deficit funding contribution schedule previously agreed with the scheme trustees as 
part of the 2020 triennial valuation.

Free cash flow before business exits1,2 for the year ended 31 December 2023 was an outflow of £115.5m 
(2022: outflow £42.4m). This reflects the reduction in cash generated from operations and increased capital 
expenditure on technology across the Group.

1. Definitions of the alternative performance measures and related Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) can be found in section 8.2.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital element of lease 

payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented

159

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.1 Contract accounting

At 31 December 2023, the Group had the following results and balance sheet items related to long-term 
contracts:

An example, showing the revenue, cost, profit and cash flow of a typical long-term contract lifecycle is as 
follows:

Long-term contractual revenue
Deferred income
Contract fulfilment assets (non-current)
Onerous contract provisions

Notes

2.2  

3.1.3  

2023 
£m

2,104.0   
537.5   
257.0   
43.3   

2022 
£m

2,236.2 
640.7 
263.0 
52.8 

Background
The Group operates diverse businesses. The majority of the Group’s revenue is from contracts greater than 
two years in duration (long-term contractual), representing 75% of Group revenue in 2023 (2022: 74%).

These long-term contracts can be complex in nature given the breadth of solutions the Group offers and the 
transformational activities involved. Typically, Capita takes a customer’s process and transforms it into a 
more efficient and effective solution which is then operated for the customer. The outcome is a high quality 
solution that addresses a customer’s needs and is delivered consistently over the life of the contract.

The Group recognises revenue on long-term contracts as the value is delivered to the customer, which is 
generally evenly over the contract term, regardless of any restructuring and transformation activity required 
to deliver the services to the customer. Capita will often incur greater costs during contract transformation 
phases with costs diminishing over time as the target operating model is implemented and efficiencies 
realised. This results in lower profits or losses in the early years of contracts and potentially higher profits in 
later years as the transformation activities are successfully completed and the target operating model fully 
implemented (the business as usual (BAU) phase). The inflection point is when the contract becomes 
profitable.

Non-current contract fulfilment assets are recognised for those costs qualifying for capitalisation. The 
utilisation of these assets is recognised over the contract term. The timing of cash receipts from customers 
typically matches when the costs are incurred to transform, restructure and run the service. This results in 
income being deferred and released when the Group delivers against its obligations to provide services and 
solutions to its customers.

E

Significant accounting estimates and assumptions

Due to the size and complexity of some of the Group’s contracts, there are significant judgements to be 
applied, specifically in assessing: (i) the recoverability of non-current contract fulfilment assets; and (ii) the 
completeness of the customer and onerous contract provisions. These judgements are dependent on 
assessing the contract’s future profitability and give rise to a key source of estimation uncertainty. It is 
possible that outcomes within the next financial year may be different from management’s assumptions and 
could require a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of contract assets and onerous contract 
provisions.

J

Significant accounting judgements

Significant judgement is exercised by management as to when to recognise revenue from variations or 
scope changes on long-term contracts. There is a risk that revenue may be recognised even though it is not 
probable that consideration will be collected, which could be due to uncertainties over contractual terms and 
ongoing negotiations with clients. Judgement is also required when customers request scope changes to 
determine if there is a contract modification or a contract termination followed by a new contract. Contract 
terminations can lead to the immediate recognition of any deferred income being held for recognition in 
future periods. Refer to note 2.2 for the Group’s accounting policies.

160

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.1 Contract accounting continued

Assessing contract profitability
In assessing a contract’s future lifetime profitability, management must estimate forecast revenue and costs 
to both transform and run the service over the remaining contract term. The ability to accurately forecast the 
outcomes involves estimates in respect of: costs to be incurred; cost savings to be achieved; future 
performance against any contract-specific key performance indicators (KPIs) that could trigger variable 
consideration or service credits; outcome of any commercial negotiations; and impact of inflation on the cost 
base and the indexation of revenue.

The level of uncertainty in the estimated future profitability of a contract is directly related to the stage in the 
life-cycle of the contract and the complexity of the performance obligations. Contracts in the transformation 
stage are considered to have a higher level of uncertainty because of:
•
•

the ability to accurately estimate the costs to deliver the transformed process;
the dependency on the customer to agree to the specifics of the transformation: for example, where they 
are involved in certifying that the new process or, the new technical solution, designed by Capita meets 
their specific requirements; and
the assumptions made to forecast expected savings in the target operating model.

•

Those contracts which are in BAU tend to have a much lower level of uncertainty in estimating future 
profitability.

Recoverability of non-current contract fulfilment assets and completeness of onerous contract provisions
Management first assesses whether contract assets are impaired and then further considers whether an 
onerous contract exists. For half and full year reporting, the Audit and Risk Committee specifically reviews 
the material judgements and estimates, and the overall approach to this assessment in respect of the 
Group’s major contracts, including comparison against previous forecasts. Major contracts include those 
that are material in size or risk to the Group’s results. An assessment of which contracts are major contracts 
is performed twice a year, and to enable comparability the prior period amounts below are re-presented to 
reflect the same scope as the current period. Other contracts are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee 
as deemed appropriate. These contracts are collectively referred to as ‘major contracts’ in the remainder of 
this note.

The major contracts contributed £1.1 billion (2022: £1.1 billion) or 42% (2022: 42%) of Group adjusted 
revenue. Non-current contract fulfilment assets at 31 December 2023 were £257.0m (2022: £263.0m), of 
which £125.1m (2022: £109.7m) relates to major contracts with ongoing transformational activities. The 
remainder relates to contracts post transformation and includes non-major contracts.

The major contracts, both pre- and post-transformation, are rated according to their financial risk profile, 
which is linked to the level of uncertainty over future assumptions. For those that are in the high and 
medium rated risk categories the associated non-current contract fulfilment assets were, in aggregate, 
£52.8m at 31 December 2023 (2022: £42.2m). The recoverability of these assets is dependent on no 
significant adverse change in the key contract assumptions arising during the next financial year. The 
balance of deferred income associated with these contracts was £109.5m at 31 December 2023 (2022: 
£116.2m) and is forecast to be recognised as performance obligations continue to be delivered over the life 
of the respective contracts. Onerous contract provisions associated with these contracts were £37.3m at 
31 December 2023 (2022: £42.5m).

Following these reviews, and reviews of smaller contracts across the business, as outlined in note 3.1.3, 
non-current contract fulfilment asset impairments of £3.4m (2022: £3.8m) were identified and recognised 
within adjusted cost of sales, of which £nil (2022: £0.5m) relates to non-current contract fulfilment assets 
added during the period, and net onerous contract provisions of £7.1m (2022: £1.7m) were identified and 
recognised in adjusted cost of sales.

Given the quantum of the relevant contract assets and liabilities, and the nature of the estimates noted 
above, management has concluded it is reasonably possible, that outcomes within the next financial year 
may be different from management’s current assumptions and could require a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of contract assets and onerous contract provisions. However, as noted above, £125.1m of 
non-current contract fulfilment assets relates to major contracts with ongoing transformational activities; 
and, £52.8m of non-current contract fulfilment assets and £37.3m of onerous contract provisions relate to 
the highest and medium rated risk category. Due to the level of uncertainty, combination of variables and 
timing across numerous contracts, it is not practical to provide a quantitative analysis of the aggregated 
judgements that are applied, and management do not believe that disclosing a potential range of outcomes 
on a consolidated basis would provide meaningful information to a user of the financial statements. Due to 
commercial sensitivities, the Group does not specifically disclose the amounts involved in any individual 
contract.

Certain major transformation contracts have key milestones during the next twelve months and an inability 
to meet these key milestones could lead to reduced profitability and a risk of impairment of the associated 
contract assets. These include contracts with the BBC, Transport for London, Department for Work and 
Pensions and the City of London Police.

Additional information, which does not form part of these consolidated financial statements, on the results 
and performance of the underlying divisions including the outlook on certain contracts is set out in the 
divisional performance review in the strategic report.

161

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year continued

2.2 Revenue including segmental revenue

AP

Accounting policies 

Revenue
The Group operates a diverse range of businesses and accordingly applies a variety of methods for 
revenue recognition, based on the principles set out in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

The revenue and profits recognised in any period are based on the delivery of performance obligations and 
an assessment of when control is transferred to the customer.

Revenue is recognised either when the performance obligation in the contract has been performed (‘point-
in-time’ recognition) or ‘over-time’ as control of the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.

For all contracts, the Group determines if the arrangement with a customer creates enforceable rights and 
obligations. This assessment results in certain Master Service Agreements (MSA) or Frameworks not 
meeting the definition of a contract under IFRS 15 and as such the individual call-off agreements, linked to 
the MSA, are treated as individual contracts.

The Group enters into contracts which contain extension periods, where either the customer or both parties 
can choose to extend the contract or there is an automatic annual renewal, and/or termination clauses that 
could impact the actual duration of the contract. Judgement is applied to assess the impact that these 
clauses have when determining the appropriate contract term. The term of the contract impacts both the 
period over which revenue from performance obligations may be recognised and the period over which non-
current contract fulfilment assets and capitalised costs to obtain a contract are expensed.

For contracts with multiple components to be delivered such as transformation, transitions and the delivery 
of outsourced services, management applies judgement to consider whether those promised goods and 
services are:
(i) distinct – to be accounted for as separate performance obligations;
(ii) not distinct – to be combined with other promised goods or services until a bundle is identified that is 

distinct; or,

(iii) part of a series of distinct goods and services that are substantially the same and have the same 

pattern of transfer to the customer.

At a contract’s inception the total transaction price is estimated, being the amount to which the Group 
expects to be entitled and has rights to under the contract. This includes an assessment of any variable 
consideration where the Group’s performance may result in additional revenues based on the achievement 
of agreed Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Such amounts are only included based on the expected 
value, or the most likely outcome method, and only to the extent that it is highly probable that no revenue 
reversal will occur.

The transaction price does not include estimates of consideration resulting from change orders for 
additional goods and services unless these are already agreed.

After the total transaction price is determined, the Group allocates this to the identified performance 
obligations in proportion to their relative standalone selling prices and recognises revenue when (or while) 
those performance obligations are satisfied.

The Group infrequently sells standard products with observable standalone prices due to the specialised 
services required by customers, consequently the Group applies judgement to determine an appropriate 
standalone selling price. More frequently, the Group sells customers bespoke solutions, and in these cases 
the Group typically uses the expected cost-plus margin or a contractually stated price approach to estimate 
the standalone selling price of each performance obligation.

The Group may offer price step downs during the life of a contract, but with no change to the underlying 
scope of services to be delivered. In general, any such variable consideration, price step down or discount 
is included in the total transaction price to be allocated across all performance obligations unless it relates 
to only one performance obligation in a contract.

For each performance obligation to be recognised over-time, the Group applies a revenue recognition 
method that faithfully depicts the Group’s performance in transferring control of the goods or services to the 
customer. This decision requires assessment of the real nature of the goods or services that the Group has 
promised to transfer to the customer. The Group applies the relevant output or input method consistently to 
similar performance obligations in other contracts.

When using the output method, the Group recognises revenue on the basis of direct measurements of the 
value to the customer of the goods and services transferred to date relative to the remaining goods and 
services under the contract. This is a faithful depiction of the transfer of services since the service delivered 
to the customer is unchanged. Where the output method is used, in particular for long-term service 
contracts where the series guidance is applied, the Group often uses a method of time elapsed which 
requires minimal estimation. Certain long-term contracts use output methods based upon estimations of: 
user numbers; service activity levels; or fees collected.

When transfer of control is most closely aligned to Group efforts in delivering the service, the input method 
is used to measure progress and revenue is recognised in direct proportion to costs incurred. This is a 
faithful depiction of the transfer of services because costs (or other inputs) most accurately reflect the 
incremental benefits received by the customer from efforts to date.

If performance obligations in a contract do not meet the over-time criteria, the Group recognises revenue at 
a point-in-time when the service or good is delivered.

Contract modifications
The Group’s contracts are often amended for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract 
modifications exist when the amendment either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and 
obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and the Group’s measure of 
progress for the performance obligation to which it relates, is recognised as an adjustment to revenue in 
one of the following ways:
a) prospectively as an additional performance obligation (this is typically when new distinct goods or 

services are provided on an existing contact);

b) prospectively as a termination of the existing contract and creation of a new contract;
c) as part of the original contract using a cumulative catch up (this is typically where the modification 

changes the services provided to date); or,

d) as a combination of (b) and (c).

In respect of contracts for which the Group has decided there is a series of distinct goods and services that 
are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer where revenue is recognised over-time, 
the modification will always be treated under either (a) or (b); (d) may arise when a contract has a part-
termination and a modification of the remaining performance obligations.

162

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year continued

2.2 Revenue including segmental revenue continued

Judgement is applied in relation to the accounting for such modifications where the final terms or legal 
contracts have not been agreed prior to the period end because management needs to determine if a 
modification has been approved and if it either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and 
obligations of the parties. Depending upon the outcome of such negotiations, the timing and amount of 
revenue recognised may be different in the relevant accounting periods. Modification and amendments to 
contracts are undertaken through an agreed formal process. For example, if a change in scope has been 
approved but the corresponding change in price is still being negotiated, management uses judgement to 
estimate the change in total transaction price. Importantly, any variable consideration is only recognised to 
the extent that it is highly probable that no revenue reversal will occur. For example, if pricing is subject to 
indexation based on an external metric (such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI) or the Retail Price Index 
(RPI)) then the revenue related to the indexation will only be recognised once the relevant indexation is 
confirmed. Future indexation will not be recognised because it is not highly probable that a significant 
reversal of an indexation adjustment will not occur.

Principal versus agent
The Group has arrangements with some of its customers whereby it needs to determine if it acts as a 
principal or an agent because more than one party is involved in providing the goods and services to the 
customer. The Group is a principal if it controls a promised good or service before transferring that good or 
service to the customer. The Group is an agent if its role is to arrange for another entity to provide the 
goods or services. Factors considered in making this assessment are most notably: the discretion the 
Group has in establishing the price for the specified good or service; whether the Group has inventory risk; 
and whether or not the Group is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to deliver the service or good.

This assessment of control requires judgement particularly in relation to certain service contracts. An 
example is the provision of certain recruitment and learning services where the Group may be assessed to 
be agent or principal dependent upon the facts and circumstances of the arrangement and the nature of the 
services being delivered.

Where the Group is acting as a principal, revenue is recorded on a gross basis. Where the Group is acting 
as an agent, revenue is recorded on a net basis, recognising only the commission or fee earned as 
revenue.

Licences
Software licences delivered by the Group can either be right to access (active) or right to use (passive) 
licences, which determines the timing of revenue recognition. The assessment of whether a licence is active 
or passive involves judgement.

The key determinant of an active licence is whether or not the Group is required to undertake continuing 
activities that significantly affect the licensed intellectual property (or the customer has a reasonable 
expectation that it will do so) and the customer is, therefore, exposed to positive (or negative) impacts 
resulting from those changes. Where the Group is responsible for any maintenance, continuing support, 
updates and upgrades, then the sale of the initial software is not distinct. All other licences which have 
significant standalone functionality are treated as passive licences.

When software upgrades are sold as part of the software licence agreement (ie software upgrades are 
promised to the customer), the Group applies judgement to assess whether the software upgrades are 
distinct from the licence (ie a separate performance obligation). If the upgrades are considered fundamental 
to the ongoing use of the software by the customer, the upgrades are not considered distinct and not 
accounted for as a separate performance obligation.

For each contract that includes a separate licence performance obligation, the Group considers all the facts 
and circumstances in determining whether the licence revenue is recognised over-time (active) or at a point-
in-time (passive) from the go-live date of the licence.

Deferred and accrued income
The Group’s customer contracts include a diverse range of payment schedules dependent upon the nature 
and type of goods and/or services being provided. This can include performance-based payments or 
progress payments as well as regular monthly or quarterly payments for ongoing service delivery. Payments 
for transactional goods and services may be at delivery date, in arrears or part payment in advance. The 
long-term service contracts tend to have higher cash flows early in the contract to cover transformational 
activities.

Where payments received are greater than the revenue recognised up to the balance sheet date, the Group 
recognises a deferred income contract liability for this difference. Where payments received are less than 
the revenue recognised up to the balance sheet date, the Group recognises an accrued contract income 
asset for this difference.

At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that accrued contract 
income assets may be impaired by considering whether or not any revenue reversal could occur. Where an 
indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. 
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired 
and is written down to its recoverable amount.

Contract types
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by contract type, because management 
believe this best depicts how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of the Group’s revenue and cash 
flows are affected by economic factors. Categories are: long-term contractual – greater than two years; 
short-term contractual – less than two years; and transactional. The years being measured from the service 
commencement date.

Long-term contractual – greater than two years
The Group provides a range of services under contracts with a duration of more than two years. The nature 
of contracts or performance obligations within this revenue type includes:
(i)
(ii) active software licence arrangements.

long-term outsourced service arrangements in the public and private sectors; and

The majority of long-term contractual agreements form part of a series of distinct goods and services 
because they are substantially the same service; and have the same pattern of transfer, since the series 
constitutes services provided in distinct time increments (eg daily, monthly, quarterly or annually), and 
therefore treats the series as one performance obligation.

Short-term contractual – less than two years
The nature of contracts or performance obligations within this revenue type includes:
(i) short-term outsourced service arrangements in the public and private sectors; and
(ii) software maintenance contracts.

163

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year continued

2.2 Revenue including segmental revenue continued

The Group has assessed that maintenance and support (ie on-call support, remote support) for software 
licences is a performance obligation that can be considered capable of being distinct and separately 
identifiable in a contract if the customer has a passive licence. These recurring services are substantially 
the same because the nature of the promise is for the Group to ‘stand ready’ to perform maintenance and 
support when required by the customer. Each day of ‘standing ready’ is distinct from each subsequent day 
and is transferred in the same pattern to the customer.

Transactional (point-in-time) contracts
The Group delivers a range of goods or services in all reportable segments that are transactional services 
for which revenue is recognised at the point-in-time when control of the goods or services has transferred to 
the customer. This may be at the point of physical delivery of goods or services and acceptance by the 
customer or when the customer obtains control of an asset or service in a contract with customer-specified 
acceptance criteria.

The nature of contracts or performance obligations within this revenue type includes:
(i) provision of computing hardware goods;
(ii) passive software licence agreements; 
(iii) commission received as agent from the sale of third-party software; and
(iv) fees received in relation to the delivery of professional services.

2.2.1 Segmental revenue
The Group’s operations are managed separately according to the nature of the services provided, with each 
segment representing a strategic business division offering a different package of client services across the 
markets the Group serves. Capita plc is a reconciling item and not an operating segment. A description of 
the service provision for each segment can be found in the strategic report on pages 14 to 21. Inter-
segmental pricing is based on set criteria and is either charged on an arm's length basis or at cost.

The tables below present revenue for the Group’s business segments as reported to the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker. The Group now comprises two divisions - Capita Public Service and Capita Experience - 
following the completion of the Group’s exit of the non-core businesses in the Capita Portfolio division. 
Comparative information has been re-presented to reflect businesses exited during 2023, and accordingly 
the Capita Portfolio division is no longer disclosed as a division. Comparative information has also been re-
presented to reflect the move of businesses between segments during 2023 to enable comparability.

Adjusted revenue, excluding results from businesses exited in both years (adjusting items), was £2,642.1m 
(2022: £2,609.0m), an increase of 1.3% (2022: increase 1.7%).

Year ended 
31 December 2023
Continuing operations
Long-term contractual
Short-term contractual
Transactional (point-in-time)
Total segment revenue
Trading revenue
Inter-segment revenue

Total adjusted segment revenue
Business exits – trading
Total segment revenue

Year ended 
31 December 2022 
Continuing operations
Long-term contractual
Short-term contractual
Transactional (point-in-time)
Total segment revenue
Trading revenue
Inter-segment revenue

Total adjusted segment revenue
Business exits – trading
Total segment revenue

Capita 
Public 
Service 
£m

Notes

Capita 
Experience 
£m

Total 
adjusted 
£m

Adjusting 
items 
£m

Total 
reported 
£m

  1,206.6   
195.9   
56.1   

875.9    2,082.5   
484.3   
288.4   
75.3   
19.2   
  1,458.6    1,183.5    2,642.1   
  1,507.9    1,221.9    2,729.8   
(87.7)   

(38.4)   

(49.3)   

2.8  

  1,458.6    1,183.5    2,642.1   
—   
  1,458.6    1,183.5    2,642.1   

—   

—   

  1,166.8   
236.8   
51.2   

987.6    2,154.4   
387.3   
150.5   
67.3   
16.1   
  1,454.8    1,154.2    2,609.0   
  1,497.0    1,194.4    2,691.4   
(82.4)   

(42.2)   

(40.2)   

2.8  

  1,454.8    1,154.2    2,609.0   
—   
  1,454.8    1,154.2    2,609.0   

—   

—   

21.5    2,104.0 
19.1   
503.4 
207.2 
131.9   
172.5    2,814.6 
194.4    2,924.2 
(109.6) 
(21.9)   

—    2,642.1 
172.5   
172.5 
172.5    2,814.6 

81.8    2,236.2 
107.5   
494.8 
283.6 
216.3   
405.6    3,014.6 
490.0    3,181.4 
(166.8) 
(84.4)   

—    2,609.0 
405.6   
405.6 
405.6    3,014.6 

Geographical location
The Group generates revenue largely in the UK and Europe. The table below presents revenue by 
geographical location.

2023

2022

United 
Kingdom 
£m

Europe 
£m

 2,526.0    282.5   

Other 
Total 
£m
£m
6.1   2,814.6 

United 
Kingdom 
£m

Europe 
£m

 2,731.2    270.8   

Other 
£m

Total 
£m
12.6   3,014.6 

Revenue

164

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.2 Revenue including segmental revenue continued

2.2.2 Order book
The tables below show the order book for each division, categorised into long-term contractual (contracts 
with length greater than two years) and short-term contractual (contracts with length less than two years). 
The length of the contract is calculated from the service commencement date. The figures represent the 
aggregate amount of currently contracted transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are 
unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied. Revenue expected to be recognised upon satisfaction of these 
performance obligations is as follows: 

Order book 
31 December 2023
Long-term contractual
Short-term contractual
Total

Order book 
31 December 2022
Long-term contractual
Short-term contractual
Total

Capita 
Public 
Service 
£m

3,381.1   
164.9   
3,546.0   

Capita 
Public 
Service 
£m

2,916.7   
68.3   
2,985.0   

Capita 
Experience 
£m

2,111.2   
188.2   
2,299.4   

Capita 
Experience 
£m

2,465.3   
61.4   
2,526.7   

Capita 
Portfolio 
£m
—   
37.2   
37.2   

Capita 
Portfolio 
£m
201.9   
91.6   
293.5   

Total 
£m
5,492.3 
390.3 
5,882.6 

Total 
£m
5,583.9 
221.3 
5,805.2 

The table below shows the expected timing of revenue to be recognised from long-term contractual orders 
at 31 December 2023: 

Time bands of expected revenue recognition from long-term contractual 
orders
< 1 year
1–5 years
> 5 years 
Total

Capita 
Public 
Service 
£m
765.2   
2,155.6   
460.3   
3,381.1   

Capita 
Experience 
£m
574.2   
1,378.5   
158.5   
2,111.2   

Total 
£m
1,339.4 
3,534.1 
618.8 
5,492.3 

Prior year comparative information is not presented for the expected timing of revenue recognition because 
it is a forward looking disclosure and therefore management does not believe that such disclosure provides 
meaningful information to a user of the consolidated financial statements.

The order book represents the consideration that the Group will be entitled to receive from customers when 
the Group satisfies its remaining performance obligations under the contracts. However, the total revenue 
that will be earned by the Group will also include non-contracted volumetric revenue, future indexation 
linked to an external metric, new wins, scope changes, and anticipated contract extensions. These 
elements have been excluded from the above tables because they are not contracted. Additionally, revenue 
from contract extensions is excluded from the order book unless they are pre-priced extensions whereby 
the Group has a legally binding obligation to deliver the performance obligations during the extension 
period. The total revenue related to pre-priced extensions included in the tables above amounted to 
£513.8m (2022: £577.0m). The amounts presented do not include orders for which neither party has 
performed, and each party has the unilateral right to terminate a wholly unperformed contract without 
compensating the other party.

Of the £5.5 billion (2022: £5.6 billion) revenue to be earned on long-term contracts, £3.4 billion (2022: £4.2 
billion) relates to major contracts. This amount excludes revenue that will be derived from frameworks 
(transactional ‘point-in-time’ contracts), non-contracted volumetric revenue, non-contracted scope changes 
and future unforeseen volume changes from these major contracts, which together are anticipated to 
contribute an additional £0.6 billion (2022: £0.7 billion) of revenue to the Group over the life of these 
contracts.

The Group performs various services for a number of UK Government ministerial departments and 
considers these individual ministerial departments to be separate customers due to the limited economic 
integration between each ministerial department. Revenues of £319.8m from one customer in the Capita 
Public Service division represented more than 10% of the Group’s total revenues (2022: no customer 
represented more than 10% of the Group’s total revenues)

In February 2024, the Group extended and expanded its contract with a major European telecoms provider. 
The new contract is based on expected volumes, and therefore treated as a framework contract under IFRS 
15. As a result, £365m included in the Capita Experience order book at 31 December 2023 relating to the 
previous contract has been released. The new contract is expected to be worth up to £420m to 2030.

2.2.3 Deferred income
The Group’s deferred income balances solely relate to revenue from contracts with customers. Revenue 
recognised in the reporting period that was included in the deferred income balance at the beginning of the 
period was £599.0m (2022: £744.2.m).

Movements in the deferred income balances were driven by transactions entered into by the Group in the 
normal course of business during the current and prior year, other than the accelerated revenue recognised 
of £9.9m which primarily relates to an early termination of a contract in Capita Experience (2022: £nil).

165

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.3 Operating profit

2.3.1 Items charged/(credited) to reported operating profit

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Impairment/(reversal of impairment) of right-of-use assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Impairment of intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment of disposal group assets held for sale
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles
Income from foreign exchange differences
Contract fulfilment asset utilisation, impairment and derecognition
Contract termination gains

The net of: accelerated deferred income unwind, and contract 
fulfilment asset utilisation

Onerous contract provisions (net of additions and releases)

Notes

3.2  
3.5  
3.2  
3.5  
3.3  
3.3  
3.4  
2.8  
2.9.1  

3.1.3  

2.3.2 Fees payable to auditors
The amounts included in the table below relate to fees payable to KPMG LLP and its associates:

Audit and audit-related services

The audit of the Parent Company and the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements
The audit of the financial statements of the Group’s subsidiary companies  

Total audit and audit-related services

Non-audit services

Other assurance services
Audit-related assurance services

Total non-audit services

Total audit and non-audit services

2023
£m

4.5   
0.9   

5.4   

0.2   
0.3   

0.5   

5.9   

2022 
£m

5.1 
1.0 

6.1 

— 
1.6 

1.6 

7.7 

The non-audit fees in respect of 2023 related to the review of interim results, ISAE 3402 assurance 
reporting on controls operated by a subsidiary, and ISAE 3000 assurance reporting over non-financial 
metrics reported within the Annual Report and Accounts. In respect of 2022, the non-audit fees related to 
the review of interim results, and services as reporting accountant for the disposal of Pay360 Limited.

2023
£m
31.2   
48.3   
10.8   
15.7   
29.3   
0.9   
42.2   
18.1   
0.7   
5.1   
84.5   
6.0   

9.8   

7.1   

2022
£m
40.9 
56.0 
4.7 
(2.7) 
41.5 
5.9 
169.0 
— 
3.5 
6.9 
85.7 
— 

— 

1.7 

Contract termination gains: customer contracts usually contain provisions to compensate the Group for 
exit costs and future profits in the event of early termination. During 2023, customer contract terminations in 
Capita Experience, for customer convenience, led to associated exit fees being earned by Capita of £6.0m 
(2022: nil) and recorded as income during the year.

The net of: accelerated deferred income unwind and contract fulfilment asset utilisation: during 2023 
the Group recognised a gain of £9.8m (2022: no gains or losses) related to the net of accelerated deferred 
income unwinds and non-current contract fulfilment asset utilisation. This primarily related to Capita 
Experience where a contract was terminated earlier than planned.

Onerous contract provisions: during 2023 the Group recognised a net loss of £7.1m related to onerous 
contract provisions (refer to note 3.6) in Capita Experience (2022: £1.7m loss related to contracts in Capita 
Experience).

166

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.4 Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax

AP

Accounting policies

IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements permits an entity to present additional information for specific 
items to enable users to better assess the entity’s financial performance.

The Board has adopted a policy to disclose separately those items that it considers are outside the 
underlying operating results for the particular year under review and against which the Group’s performance 
is assessed internally. In the Board’s judgement, these need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their 
nature, size and/or incidence, for users of the consolidated financial statements to obtain an understanding 
of the financial information and the underlying performance of the Group. In general, the Board believes that 
alternative performance measures (APMs) are useful for investors because they provide further clarity and 
transparency of the Group’s financial performance and are closely monitored by management to evaluate 
the Group’s operating performance to facilitate financial, strategic and operating decisions. Accordingly, 
these items are also excluded from the discussion of divisional performance in the strategic report. This 
policy is kept under review by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee. Refer to Section 8.2 for further 
details of the Group’s APMs.

The Board considers APMs to be helpful to the reader, but notes that APMs have certain limitations, 
including the exclusion of significant recurring and non-recurring items, and may not be directly comparable 
with similarly titled measures presented by other companies.

Those items excluded from the adjusted income statement are: business exits; amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangibles; impairment of goodwill; certain mark-to-market valuation changes that impact net 
finance expense/income; the costs associated with the cyber incident in March 2023, and the costs 
associated with the cost reduction programme announced in November 2023.

The items below are excluded from the adjusted results:

Reported

Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles
Impairment of goodwill
Net finance expense/(income)
Business exits
Cyber incident
Cost reduction programme

Notes

3.3  
3.4  
4.3  
2.8  

Operating 
(loss)/profit

2023 
£m
(52.0)   

0.2   
42.2   
—   
36.4   
25.3   
54.4   

2022 
£m
(79.6) 

5.1 
169.0 
— 
(16.5) 
— 
— 

(Loss)/
profit 
before tax

2023 
£m
(106.6)   

2022 
£m
61.4 

0.2   
42.2   
2.2   
38.8   
25.3   
54.4   

5.1 
169.0 
(3.4) 
(182.3) 
— 
— 

Adjusted

106.5   

78.0 

56.5   

49.8 

1. Adjusted operating profit increased by 36.5% (2022: increased 232.4%) and adjusted profit before tax increased by 13.5% (2022: increased 
160.1%). Adjusted operating profit of £106.5m (2022: profit £78.0m) was generated on adjusted revenue of £2,642.1m (2022: £2,609.0m) 
resulting in an adjusted operating margin of 4.0% (2022: 3.0%).

2. The tax charge on adjusted profit before tax is £31.1m (2022: £4.4m charge) resulting in adjusted profit after tax of £25.4m (2022: £45.4m 

profit).

3. The adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax for 2022 have been re-presented for the impact of business exits during 2023 and 
the change in adjusting items. This has resulted in adjusted operating profit decreasing from £102.9m to £78.0m and adjusted profit before 
tax decreasing from £73.8m to £49.8m

Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets: the Group recognised acquired intangible 
amortisation of £0.2m (2022: £5.1m). These charges are excluded from the adjusted results of the Group 
because they are non-cash items generated from historical acquisition related activity. The charge is 
included within administrative expenses.

Impairment of goodwill: the Group carries on its balance sheet significant balances related to goodwill. 
Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing and any impairment charges are reported separately 
because they are non-cash items generated from historical acquisition related activity. The charge is 
included within administrative expenses.

Net finance costs: net finance costs excluded from adjusted profits relate to movements in the mark-to-
market value of forward foreign exchange contracts to cover anticipated future costs and therefore have no 
equivalent offsetting transaction in the accounting records, also refer to note 4.2.2.

Business exits: the trading result of businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, and the gain or 
loss on disposals are excluded from the Group's adjusted results. Note 2.8 provides further detail regarding 
which income statement line items are impacted by business exits.

Cyber incident: As detailed in the Chief Financial Officer's review, the Group has incurred exceptional 
costs associated with the cyber incident. These costs comprise specialist professional fees, recovery and 
remediation costs and investment to reinforce Capita’s cyber security environment. A charge of £25.3m has 
been recognised in the year ended 31 December 2023, which excludes any potential insurance receipts 
because they had not met the criteria for recognition. Please also refer to note 6.2 contingent liabilities. The 
charge is included within administrative expenses.

Cost reduction programme: As detailed in the Chief Financial Officer’s review, the Group announced the 
implementation of a significant cost reduction programme in November 2023. A charge of £54.4m has been 
recognised in the year ended 31 December 2023 for the costs to deliver the cost reduction programme. This 
includes redundancy and other costs of £23.3m to deliver a significant reduction in indirect support function 
and overhead roles, and property related costs of £31.1m arising from the associated rationalisation of the 
Group’s property estate with impairment of right-of-use assets and property, plant & equipment, and 
provisions in respect of onerous property costs (refer to notes 3.2, 3.5 and 3.6). The charge is included 
within administrative expenses.

Refer to note 2.9.1 for the cash flow impact of the above.

167

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.5 Segmental information

The Group’s operations are managed separately according to the nature of the services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business division offering a different package of client outcomes across the 
markets the Group serves. Capita plc is a reconciling item and not an operating segment. A description of the services provided by each segment can be found in the strategic report on pages 14 to 21. The tables below 
present profit for the Group’s business segments. The Group now comprises two divisions - Capita Public Service and Capita Experience - following the completion of the Group’s exit of the non-core businesses in the 
Capita Portfolio division. For segmental reporting, the costs of the central functions have been allocated to the segments using appropriate drivers such as adjusted revenue, adjusted profit or headcount. Comparative 
information has been re-presented to reflect businesses exited during 2023, and accordingly the Capita Portfolio division is now not disclosed as a division, and central functions’ costs that were allocated to Capita 
Portfolio have been reallocated to the Capita plc segment. Comparative information has also be re-presented to reflect the move of businesses between segments during 2023 to enable comparability. Information on 
segmental revenue can be found in note 2.2.

Year ended 
31 December 2023

Adjusted operating profit

Cost reduction programme

Business exits – trading

Total trading result

Non-trading items:

Business exits – non-trading

Other adjusting items

Operating profit/(loss)

Interest income

Interest expense

Share of results in associates and investment gains

(Loss)/gain on business disposal

(Loss)/profit before tax

Supplementary Information
Depreciation and amortisation

Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and right-of-use assets

Year ended 31 December 2023

Year ended 31 December 2022

Capita 
Public 
Service 
£m

Notes

Capita 
Experience 
£m

Capita 
plc 
£m

Total 
adjusted 
£m

Adjusting 
items 
£m

Total 
reported 
£m

Capita 
Public 
Service 
£m

Capita 
Experience 
£m

Capita 
plc 
£m

Total 
adjusted 
£m

Adjusting 
items 
£m

Total 
reported 
£m

2.4   89.3   

50.9   (33.7)    106.5   

—    106.5    93.7   

35.7   (51.4)    78.0   

—    78.0 

2.4  

(7.0)   

(37.3)   (10.1)    —   

(54.4)    (54.4)    —   

—    —    —   

—    — 

2.8

2.8

2.4

4.3

4.3

2.8

3.2
3.3
3.5

  82.3   

13.6   (43.8)    106.5   

(57.8)    48.7    93.7   

35.7   (51.4)    78.0   

39.7    117.7 

(3.4)   

(3.4) 

39.7    39.7 

  —   

(33.0)    (33.0) 

  —   

(67.7)    (67.7) 

  106.5    (158.5)    (52.0) 

  —   

(23.2)    (23.2) 

  —    (174.1)   (174.1) 

  78.0    (157.6)    (79.6) 

8.7 

  (60.9) 

  — 

(2.4) 

 (106.6) 

8.9 

  (40.6) 

5.8 

  166.9 

61.4

  42.5   

57.8    3.6    103.9   

4.9    108.8    38.2   

66.5    14.6    119.3   

19.1    138.4 

1.5   

2.6    0.1   

4.2   

23.2    27.4    —   

7.7    (0.6)   

7.1   

0.8   

7.9 

Non-current contract fulfilment assets utilisation, impairment and derecognition

3.1.3   59.8   

16.0    —    75.8   

8.7    84.5    67.2   

16.3    —    83.5   

2.2    85.7 

Onerous contract provisions

2.3   —   

7.1    —   

7.1   

—   

7.1    —   

1.7    —   

1.7   

—   

1.7 

Geographical location
The table below presents the carrying amount of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax, financial assets and employee benefits) by the geographical location of those assets.

Non-current assets

United  
Kingdom 
£m

1,112.6   

Europe 
£m
14.1   

Other 
£m
17.0   

Total 
£m
1,143.7 

United  
Kingdom 
£m

1,320.9   

Europe 
£m
11.7   

Other 
£m
8.9   

Total 
£m
1,341.5 

2023

2022

168

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.6 Taxation

AP

Accounting policies

Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income 
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive 
income.

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax 
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in 
respect of previous years.

Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences:
• except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill;
• except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 

•

transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred tax asset to be utilised.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

E

Significant accounting judgements and assumptions

Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax 
assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax 
losses can be utilised, except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference 
arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination 
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. This 
involves an assessment of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not 
there will be sufficient taxable profits available to offset the assets when they do reverse. This requires 
assumptions regarding future profitability and is therefore inherently uncertain. To the extent assumptions 
regarding future profitability change, there may be an increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in 
respect of deferred tax assets as well as in the amounts recognised during the year in which the change 
occurs.

Sensitivities and additional information relating to deferred tax assets/liabilities are provided in note 2.6.2.

169

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 2: Results for the year continued

2.6 Taxation continued

2.6.1 Income tax charge
The reported income tax charge for the period is £74.0m on reported loss before tax of £106.6m (2022: 
reported income tax credit of £14.6m on reported profit of £61.4m), and an adjusted income tax charge for 
the period of £31.1m on adjusted profit before tax of £56.5m (2022: adjusted tax charge of £4.4m on 
adjusted profit of £49.8m). The most significant reconciling items, explaining the difference from the 
standard UK weighted average corporation tax rate of 23.5% for the period (2022: 19.0%) are changes in 
the accounting estimate of recognised deferred tax assets, unrecognised current year tax losses carried 
forward and non-deductible goodwill impairment.

The forecast future adjusted effective tax rates, before and assuming no material changes to tax laws in the 
jurisdictions in which Capita operates, are expected to be broadly similar to the UK corporation tax rate, with 
an increase for taxable profits in higher tax rate jurisdictions.

The major components of the income tax charge/(credit) are set out below:

Consolidated income statement
Current income tax

2023

2022

Total
reported
£m

Included in
adjusted 
profit
£m

Not 
included in
adjusted 
profit
£m

Total
reported
£m

Included in
adjusted 
profit1
£m

Not 
included in
adjusted 
profit1
£m

Current income tax charge/(credit)
Adjustment in respect of prior years

  26.2   
4.0   

26.4   
4.0   

(0.2)    14.0   
(1.2)   

—   

7.6   
(1.2)   

6.4 
— 

Deferred tax

On origination and reversal of temporary 
differences

Effect of changes in tax rate on deferred tax 
balances
Adjustment in respect of prior years

  43.9   

0.8   

43.1    (36.7)   

(11.3)   

(25.4) 

(0.4)   
0.3   

(0.4)   
0.3   

—   
—   

3.0   
6.3   

3.0   
6.3   

— 
— 

Total charge/(credit)

  74.0   

31.1   

42.9    (14.6)   

4.4   

(19.0) 

1. To enable a like-for-like comparison of adjusted results, the 2022 comparatives have been re-presented to exclude the businesses classified 

as business exits during 2023 from adjusted profit. Refer to note 2.8.

The reconciliation between the total tax charge/(credit) and the accounting profit multiplied by the UK 
weighted average corporation tax rate is as follows:

(Loss)/profit before tax

Notional (credit)/charge at UK weighted average 
corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2022: 19.0%)

Adjustments in respect of current income tax of prior 
years
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of prior years

Non-deductible expenses/(non-taxable income) – 
adjusted
Non-deductible expenses – business exit
Non-deductible expenses – specific items
Loss/(profit) on disposal of businesses
Non-deductible goodwill impairment
Difference in rate recognition of temporary differences
Tax provided on unremitted earnings

Attributable to different tax rates in overseas 
jurisdictions
Movement in unrecognised temporary differences
Fixed asset temporary differences
Current tax impact on other temporary differences
Carry forward of losses in current period

At the effective total tax rate of (69.4)% (2022: 
(23.8)%) and the effective current tax rate of (28.3)% 
(2022: 20.8%)

Tax charge/(credit) reported in the income 
statement

Total tax

Current tax

2023 
£m

  (106.6)   

2022 
£m
61.4 

2023 
£m

  (106.6)   

2022 
£m
61.4 

(25.1)   

11.7 

(25.1)   

11.7 

a  
b  

4.0   
0.3   

(1.2) 
6.3 

4.0   
—   

(1.2) 
— 

c*  

d*  
e*  

 f

g  
note 
2.6.2  

h  

0.2   
4.9   
1.7   
0.6   
9.9   
(0.4)   
0.2   

(4.3)   
82.0   
—   
—   
—   

(2.3) 
2.3 
— 
(31.6) 
32.0 
3.0 
1.4 

0.5 
(36.7) 
— 
— 
— 

0.2   
4.9   
1.7   
0.6   
9.9   
—   
—   

(2.9)   
—   
5.7   
(0.4)   
31.6   

(2.3) 
2.3 
— 
(31.6) 
32.0 
— 
— 

0.5 
— 
6.8 
(6.4) 
1.0 

i

74.0   

(14.6) 

30.2   

12.8 

74.0   

(14.6) 

30.2   

12.8 

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated statement of changes in equity
Deferred tax movement on cash flow hedges

Deferred tax movement in relation to actuarial changes on defined benefit 
pension schemes
Current income tax movement on defined benefit pension scheme contributions
Deferred tax movement in relation to share-based payments
Current income tax deduction on the exercise of share options

Total credit

2023 
£m
(2.6)   

3.3   
(19.2)   
(0.1)   
(0.2)   

(18.8)   

2022 
£m
1.6 

5.2 
(7.2) 
— 
— 

(0.4) 

i

*

a

b

These £15.4m (2022: £2.7m) of reconciling items relate to the reported tax charge only, with no impact on the adjusted tax charge. Further 
details are given below.
The £4.0m prior year charge adjustment includes: (i) £0.2m for additional uncertain tax positions provided against; (ii) £0.3m credit which 
has a corresponding impact within deferred tax of prior years; and (iii) a £4.1m charge to adjust for finalisation of submitted tax returns for 
which there is no opposite deferred tax credit in relation to the temporary difference true-up because these are unrecognised.
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of prior years mainly relate to £0.3m of charges which have a corresponding impact within current 
income tax of prior years.
c*
Business exit: relates to non-deductible closure costs associated with the sale of entities. Refer to note 2.8 for further details.
d* Relates to the application of the tax exemption on accounting losses from the sale of entities. Refer to note 2.8.1 for further details.
e* Relates to the goodwill impairments as detailed further in note 3.4.
f
g
h

Movement on the deferred tax liability recognised on the unremitted earnings of those subsidiaries affected by withholding taxes.
Mainly relates to tax payable at lower rates, eg in the Isle of Man.
Relates to the carry forward of tax losses in the current period, most of which arise in relation to adjusting items (cost reduction programme 
and cyber incident) and deductible pension contributions in the period.
The current tax charge of £30.2m (2022: £12.8m) results in an effective current tax rate of (28.3)%, which is different from the UK weighted 
average statutory rate of tax of 23.5% predominantly due to: non-deductible goodwill impairment; and unrecognised losses carried 
forward. The impact of differing overseas tax rates is covered in footnote g.

170

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.6 Taxation continued

2.6.2 Deferred tax
A change to the main UK statutory corporation tax rate was substantively enacted on 24 May 2021. The 
rate applicable from 1 April 2023 increased from 19% to 25%. The net UK deferred tax assets for the period 
to 31 December 2023, and the prior period, have been calculated based on this rate.

Deferred tax relates to the following:

Credited/(charged) to

At 
1 January 
£m

Income
statement
£m

OCI and
changes in
equity
£m

Other 
movements2 
£m

At 
31 December 
£m

Deferred tax assets

Fixed assets which qualify for tax relief

90.8   

(1.2)   

—   

(2.4)   

87.2 

Provisions and other temporary 
differences
Pension schemes
Share-based payments
Tax losses1

Jurisdictional netting
Net deferred tax assets

Deferred tax liabilities
Acquired intangibles
Contract fulfilment assets
Unremitted earnings

Jurisdictional netting
Net deferred tax liabilities

10.5   
5.9   
1.3   
81.4   
189.9   
(0.4) 
189.5   

(0.2)   
(2.2)   
(4.9)   
(7.3)   
0.4 
(6.9)   

(1.5)   
(0.6)   
0.1   
(42.5)   
(45.7)   

2.6   
(3.3)   
0.1   
—   
(0.6)   

(0.3)   
(0.2)   
—   
(2.2)   
(5.1)   

(45.7)   

(0.6)   

(5.1)   

0.1   
2.0   
(0.2)   
1.9   

—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   

1.9   

—   

—   

11.3 
1.8 
1.5 
36.7 
138.5 
1.8 
140.3 

(0.1) 
(0.2) 
(5.1) 
(5.4) 
(1.8) 
(7.2) 

Net deferred tax

182.6   

(43.8)   

(0.6)   

(5.1)   

133.1 

1. Mainly trading losses available to shelter future profits and deferred interest.
2. Other movements includes business disposals.

The main movement in the net deferred tax asset is the income statement tax charge arising on the change 
in the accounting estimate of deferred tax.

For the purpose of recognising deferred tax on the pension scheme surplus, withholding tax at 35% would 
apply for any surplus being refunded to the Group at the end of the life of the scheme. Corporation tax at 
25% would apply for any surplus expected to unwind over the life of the scheme. Management have 
concluded that the corporation tax rate should apply to the recognition of deferred tax on the pension 
scheme surplus, reflecting the Group’s intention regarding the manner of recovery of the asset.

Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the assets can be utilised. The recoverability of deferred tax assets is supported by 
the deferred tax liabilities against which the reversal can be offset and the expected level of future taxable 
profits available to offset the assets when they reverse.

The recognition of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2023 has been based on the forecast accounting 
profits in the 2024-2026 business plans (BP) approved by the Board. This is the same plan used to derive 
forecast cash flows for the goodwill impairment test (refer to note 3.4). A long-term growth rate of 1.7%, as 
used for impairment test purposes, has been applied to the years beyond 2026. A reducing probability 
factor has also been applied to future profits for the potential decrease in reliability of forecasts extrapolated 
for later years, such that profits beyond seven years of the balance sheet date have not been considered 
probable for the purpose of assessing deferred tax asset recognition.

Unused tax losses make up the majority of the temporary differences available to be utilised in future 
periods. These losses mainly arose due to the historic adoption of IFRS 15, previous Covid-19 related 
downward pressures on profits and tax deductible restructuring costs, and in the current year due to tax 
deductible cost reduction programme expenses, cyber costs and pension contributions. Based on the 
forecast accounting profits, management have concluded that some of the deductible temporary differences 
and unused tax losses are not recognisable due to uncertainty in their recoverability. Therefore, there is a 
decrease in the amounts previously recognised in respect of deferred tax assets, along with further 
unrecognised temporary differences arising during the year. The impact of this is a charge to the income 
statement of £45.2m. This is included in the movement in unrecognised temporary differences of £82.0m in 
the tax reconciliation table in section 2.6.1 above, which also includes unrecognised current year temporary 
differences (mainly losses) of £36.8m. The reported income statement charge includes £45.5m change in 
the deferred tax asset estimate due to the reduction in future taxable profits on disposal of taxable 
subsidiaries, reflected in the tax arising on business exits (see Note 2.8).

Deferred tax asset recognition depends on the reliability of management’s forecasts and the assumptions 
that underlie them. Management have considered the severe but plausible downsides applied to the base-
case projections for assessing going concern and viability, to gauge sensitivity and identify a reasonable 
possible alternative result. This scenario identified a further potential reduction in recognised deferred tax 
assets of approximately £16m.

171

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.6 Taxation continued

The Group has unrecognised tax losses and other temporary differences that are available for offset against 
future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses or other temporary differences arose, but have 
not been recognised because their recoverability is uncertain. The table below shows the amounts split 
between UK and non-UK jurisdictions.

UK:
Tax losses
Other temporary timing differences

Non-UK:
Tax losses
Other temporary timing differences

Total

2023
 £m 
Gross Amount

2022
 £m 
Gross Amount

628.7   
140.2   
768.9   

67.4   
11.2   
78.6   
847.5   

332.7 
113.9 
446.6 

60.8 
11.6 
72.4 
519.0 

The £328.5m increase in unrecognised tax losses and other temporary differences reflects the decrease in 
the amounts previously recognised in respect of deferred tax assets, and unrecognised temporary 
differences arising during the year due to tax deductible cost reduction programme expenses, cyber costs 
and pension contributions.

Assets have no time expiry, but some losses are subject to specific loss restriction rules. £28.8m (2022: 
£39.9m) of the losses were incurred by companies acquired by the Group and are not a result of the 
Group’s trading performance.

Dividends received from subsidiaries are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to dividend 
withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries operate. The gross 
temporary differences of those subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is £48.4m (2022: £58.4m). A 
deferred tax liability of £5.1m (2022: £4.9m) has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of those 
subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes because the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and 
it is anticipating dividends to be distributed. The earnings remitted during the year have resulted in a 
reduction in the closing deferred tax liability.

2.6.3 Uncertain tax positions
The Group files income tax returns in several jurisdictions and some of these returns are open to, or subject 
to, tax authority audits or examinations. Tax returns contain matters that could be subject to differing 
interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations; and the resolution of tax positions, through 
negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can take several years. Tax uncertainties are 
assessed throughout the year and specifically at the year-end with any associated provisions recognised 
considering the specific circumstances of each risk, including the merits of technical aspects, previous 
experience with tax authorities, recent tax law and if relevant, external specialist advice. The Group applies 
judgement in quantifying uncertainties over income tax treatments in accordance with this criteria.

At 31 December 2023 the net income tax receivable of £10.3m is net of a £3.1m (2022: £2.9m) liability in 
relation to uncertain tax positions. During 2023 the Group provided for tax on additional risks of £0.2m 
(2022: £1.2m release).

Expiry under the statute of limitations, or conclusion of tax audits could result in a further release of the 
provision in the next financial year. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome in some cases, and 
there are a range of different outcomes, the Group does not currently anticipate that there will be any 
material impact on the Group’s financial position in the next financial year.

2.6.4 Global minimum tax
The Group is within the scope of the Pillar Two top-up tax that applies in the UK. The first period for which a 
Pillar Two return will be required is the accounting period ending on 31 December 2024.

The Group has applied the mandatory exception to recognising and disclosing information about deferred 
tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.

The Group is in the process of the necessary analysis in preparation for complying with the Pillar Two 
model rules for the accounting period ending on 31 December 2024. Based on the analysis derived from 
information in respect of prior periods, the Group has identified potential exposure to Pillar Two top-up taxes 
in Poland and Switzerland.

Since the stated jurisdictions either have a low tax rate and no material profits are expected for 2024; or, an 
expected effective tax rate close to 15%; it is not expected that the Pillar Two top-up tax will have a material 
impact on the Group tax liability.

2.6.5 Capita’s responsible approach to taxation
Capita has an open and positive working relationship with HMRC, has a designated customer compliance 
manager, and is committed to prompt disclosure and transparency in all dealings with HMRC and overseas 
tax authorities. The Group does not have a complex tax structure, and continues to progress well with its 
legal entity rationalisation programme. Nor does it pursue aggressive tax avoidance activities. The Group 
has a low-risk rating from HMRC, and has been awarded the Fair Tax Mark for its tax disclosures from 2018 
to 2022. The Group has operations in a number of countries outside the UK. All such operations outside the 
UK are trading operations and pay the appropriate local taxes on these activities. Further detail, regarding 
Capita's tax strategy can be found on the Policies & Principles area of the Capita website (https://
www.capita.com/our-company/about-capita/policies-and-principles).

172

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.7 Earnings/(loss) per share

AP

Accounting policies

Basic earnings/(loss) per share are calculated by dividing net profit for the period attributable to ordinary 
equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the year.

Diluted earnings/(loss) per share are calculated by dividing the net (loss)/profit for the period attributable to 
ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on 
the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.

Basic earnings/(loss) per share

Diluted earnings/(loss) per share

– reported
– adjusted
– reported
– adjusted

2023

pence
(10.60)   
1.70   
(10.60)   
1.70   

2022

pence
4.47 
2.64 
4.40 
2.60 

The following tables show the earnings and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per 
share calculations:

Reported (loss)/profit before tax for the period
Income tax (charge)/credit
Reported (loss)/profit for the period
Less: Non-controlling interest
Total (loss)/profit attributable to shareholders

Adjusted profit before tax1 for the period
Income tax (charge)/credit
Adjusted profit for the period 
Less: Non-controlling interest
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 

2.6.1  

2.4  
2.6.1  

2023

£m
(106.6)   
(74.0)   
(180.6)   
2.5   
(178.1)   

56.5   
(31.1)   
25.4   
3.1   
28.5   

2022
£m
61.4 
14.6 
76.0 
(1.2) 
74.8 

49.8 
(4.4) 
45.4 
(1.2) 
44.2 

1. Definitions of the alternative performance measures and related Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) can be found in section 8.2.

Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding Employee Benefit 
Trust shares) for basic earnings per share
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Employee share options

2023
m

2022 
m

1,680.9  

1,671.7 

—   

30.0 

Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding Employee Benefit 
Trust shares) adjusted for the effect of dilution

1,680.9   

1,701.7 

At 31 December 2023 35,795,731 (2022: nil) options were excluded from the diluted weighted average 
number of ordinary shares calculation because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Under IAS 33 
Earnings per Share, potential ordinary shares are treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion 
into ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing 
operations.

The earnings per share figures are calculated based on earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders of 
the Parent Company, and therefore exclude non-controlling interest. The earnings per share is calculated 
on a total reported and an adjusted basis. The earnings per share for business exits and specific items are 
reconciling items between total reported and adjusted basic earnings per share.

There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the 
balance sheet date and the date on which these consolidated financial statements were authorised for 
issue.

173

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.8 Business exits and assets held for sale

AP

Accounting policies

Business exits
Business exits are businesses that have been sold, exited during the period, or are in the process of being 
sold or exited in accordance with the Group's strategy. None of these business exits meets the definition of 
‘discontinued operations’ as stipulated by IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations, which requires comparative financial information to be restated where the relative size of a 
disposal or business closure is significant, which is normally understood to mean a reported segment.

However, the trading result of these businesses, non-trading expenses, and any gain/loss on disposal, have 
been excluded from adjusted results. To enable a like-for-like comparison of adjusted results, the 2022 
comparatives have been re-presented to exclude the businesses classified as business exits during 2023.

Assets held for sale
The Group classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be 
recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continued use. For this to be the case, the asset 
(or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that 
are usual and customary for sales of such assets (or disposal groups) and its sale must be highly probable. 
For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell 
the asset (or disposal group), and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have 
been initiated. Further, the asset (or disposal group) must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is 
reasonable in relation to its current fair value, and, the sale should be expected to be completed within one 
year from the date of classification.

Based on the above requirements, individual businesses will only reach the criteria to be treated as held for 
sale when their disposal is seen to be highly probable, and expected to complete within the following twelve 
months. At 31 December 2023 one business (the Group’s 75% shareholding in Fera Science Limited 
(Fera)) was deemed to have met this threshold. At 31 December 2022 no disposals were deemed to have 
met this threshold.

2023 business exits
Business exits at 31 December 2023 primarily comprised the following business disposals:

Business
Resourcing
Security Watchdog
PageOne
Software
Enforcement
Travel
Fera

Disposal completed on
31 May 2023
31 May 2023
31 July 2023
31 July 2023
31 July 2023
14 November 2023
17 January 2024

In addition to the above disposals, the Group decided to exit a business in Capita Public Service in the 
second half of the year, and the trading result and non-trading expenses of this business have been 
excluded from adjusted results.

Income statement impact
Revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit

Administrative expenses

Operating (loss)/profit

Net finance costs

(Loss)/gain on business disposal

(Loss)/profit before tax
Taxation

(Loss)/profit after tax

2023

Non-trading
£m
—   

—   

—   

Trading
£m

172.5   

(110.7)   

61.8   

(65.2)   

(33.0)   

(3.4)   

(33.0)   

Total
£m
172.5 

(110.7) 

61.8 

(98.2) 

(36.4) 

2022 (Re-presented)1

Trading
£m

405.6   

(284.6)   

121.0   

Non-trading
£m
—   

Total
£m
405.6 

—   

—   

(284.6) 

121.0 

(81.3)   

(23.2)   

(104.5) 

39.7   

(23.2)   

—   

—   

(3.4)   

0.3   

(3.1)   

—   

— 

(1.1)   

—   

(2.4)   

(35.4)   

(43.9)   

(79.3)   

(2.4) 

(38.8) 

(43.6) 

(82.4) 

—   

166.9   

38.6   

(7.3)   

31.3   

143.7   

26.0   

169.7   

201.0 

16.5 

(1.1) 

166.9 

182.3 

18.7 

1. To enable a like-for-like comparison of adjusted results, the 2022 comparatives have been re-presented to include the businesses classified 

as business exits during 2023.

Trading revenue and costs represent the current period trading performance of the above businesses up to 
the point of being disposed or exited, and in the comparative period those businesses disposed of during 
2022 (AMT Sybex, Secure Solutions and Services, Trustmarque, Speciality Insurance, Real estate and 
infrastructure consultancy, Optima Legal Services, Pay360, and Capita Translation and Interpreting).

Trading expenses primarily comprise payroll costs of £121.0m (2022: £307.2m), information technology 
costs of £18.5m (2022: £50.0m), and the de-recognition of non-current contract fulfilment assets on the 
early termination of a customer contract within the business being exited in Capita Public Service of £8.2m 
(2022: £nil).

Non-trading administrative expenses include: asset impairments of £25.4m (2022: £nil); disposal project 
costs of £5.6m (2022: £14.4m); other costs including staff and redundancy costs of £2.6m (2022: £8.7m); 
and, other income of £0.6m (2022: £nil). The asset impairments arising in 2023 include goodwill within 
assets held for sale of £18.1m, property, plant and equipment of £7.1m (refer to note 3.2) and right-of-use-
assets of £0.2m (refer to note 3.5).

174

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.8 Business exits and assets held for sale continued

The net cash inflow was determined as follows:

2.8.1 Disposals
During 2023 the Group disposed of six businesses: Resourcing, Security Watchdog, PageOne, Software, 
Enforcement and Travel. During 2022 the Group disposed of eight businesses: AMT Sybex, Secure 
Solutions and Services, Trustmarque, Speciality Insurance, Real estate and infrastructure consultancy, 
Optima Legal Services, Pay360 and Capita Translation and Interpreting. 

The (loss)/gain arising was determined as follows:

Net cash inflow

Proceeds received
Less disposal costs:

income statement charge

Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Right-of-use assets
Income tax recoverable and deferred tax assets
Contract fulfilment assets
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Disposal group assets held for sale1
Trade and other payables
Deferred income
Lease liabilities
Capita group loan balances
Income tax payable and deferred tax liabilities
Provisions
Disposal group liabilities held for sale1

Net identifiable assets sold
Non-controlling interests

Sales price:

received in cash
deferred receivable
Less: disposal costs

Net sales price

Realisation of cumulative currency translation difference

(Loss)/gain on disposal of businesses

2023 
£m
0.3   
8.6   
3.2   
0.2   
0.8   
—   
78.6   
14.6   
78.2   
(36.6)   
(3.9)   
(0.2)   
(42.7)   
(1.1)   
—   
(33.5)   

66.5   
—   

66.5   

68.4   
11.4   
(15.5)   

64.3   

(0.2)   

(2.4)   

2022 
£m
0.2 
20.4 
178.3 
0.2 
7.6 
2.8 
136.6 
55.9 
143.0 
(127.0) 
(38.6) 
(0.3) 
(102.3) 
(0.7) 
(0.4) 
(135.4) 

140.3 
(0.3) 

140.0 

330.0 
10.5 
(33.3) 

307.2 

(0.3) 

166.9 

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

68.4   

330.0 

(15.5)   

(8.1)   

52.0   
—   

96.8   

(33.4)   
—   

(33.4)   

63.4   

(33.3) 

9.9 

102.3 
54.5 

463.4 

(55.9) 
(19.6) 

(75.5) 

387.9 

change in accrued disposal costs during the year

Settlement of receivables due from disposed businesses:

disposal of businesses in the period
disposal of businesses classified as held for sale

Total proceeds received net of disposal costs paid

Total cash held by businesses when sold

Cash held by businesses when sold
Cash held by businesses classified as held for sale

Total cash held by businesses when sold

Net cash inflow

1. 2023 balances in respect of disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale relate to three businesses (PageOne, Software and 

Enforcement) that were transferred to held for sale on 30 June 2023, and were subsequently sold on 31 July 2023. 2022 balances relate to 
three businesses (AMT Sybex software, Secure Solutions and Services (SSS), and Speciality Insurance) that were held for sale at 31 
December 2021, and were subsequently sold during 2022.

Disposal costs of £11.0m, relating to businesses disposed of in the year, were recognised in prior years and 
are excluded from the above loss on disposal of businesses.

175

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.8 Business exits and assets held for sale continued

2.8.2 Disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale
At 31 December 2023, the Fera business was deemed to have met the threshold to be treated as held for 
sale (2022: no disposals were deemed to have met the held for sale threshold).

2.8.3 Business exit cash flows
Businesses exited and being exited had a cash generated from operations outflow of £16.2m (2022: cash 
inflow of £28.0m).

Property, plant and equipment
Goodwill
Trade and other receivables
Accrued income
Prepayments
Cash and cash equivalents
Income tax receivable and deferred tax assets

Disposal group assets held for sale

Trade and other payables
Other taxes and social security
Accruals
Deferred income
Income tax payable and deferred tax liabilities

Disposal group liabilities held for sale

2023 
£m
5.1   
15.0   
3.3   
6.1   
1.4   
7.2   
—   

38.1   

2.1   
1.6   
1.8   
3.6   
0.6   

9.7   

2022  
£m
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 

176

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.9 Cash flow information

AP

Accounting policies

Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in-hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. In the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits net of outstanding bank overdrafts and include cash and overdrafts within disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale. Cash at bank earns interest at fixed and 
floating rates based on prevailing bank deposit rates.

2.9.1 Additional cash flow information

Cash flows from operating activities:
Reported operating loss
Less: business exit operating loss/(profit)
Total operating loss

Adjustments for non-cash items:

Depreciation

Amortisation of intangible assets
Share-based payment expense
Employee benefits

Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets
Amendments and early terminations of leases
Impairment of assets held for sale
Impairment of non-current assets
Other adjustments:
Movement in provisions
Pension deficit contributions
Other contributions into pension schemes

Movements in working capital:
Trade and other receivables
Non-recourse trade receivables financing
Trade and other payables
VAT deferral
Deferred income
Contract fulfilment assets (non-current)

Cash generated from operations

2.4  
2.8  

3.2
3.5  
3.3  
5.1  
5.2  

2.3  

2023

Excluding 
business 
exits1,2 
£m

2022

Excluding 
business 
exits1,2 
£m

Reported 
£m

Notes

Reported 
£m

(52.0)   
—   
(52.0)   

(52.0)   
36.4   
(15.6)   

(79.6)   
—   
(79.6)   

(79.6) 
(16.5) 
(96.1) 

Adjustments for free cash flows:
Income tax paid
Interest received
Interest paid

2023

Excluding 
business 
exits1,2 
£m

2022

Excluding 
business 
exits1,2 
£m

Reported 
£m

Notes

Reported 
£m

(7.5)   
6.2   
(47.7)   

(3.6)   
6.2   
(47.7)   

(7.9)   
5.0   
(43.0)   

(10.9) 
5.0 
(41.6) 

79.5   
29.3   
5.5   
7.7   

0.7   
3.0   
18.1   
69.6   

78.1   
26.0   
5.5   
7.7   

0.7   
3.0   
—   
62.3   

96.9   
41.5   
5.4   
9.0   

93.8 
30.6 
5.4 
9.0 

3.5   
(4.7)   
—   
176.9   

3.5 
(4.7) 
— 
176.1 

Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities

(40.3)   

(3.9)   

71.9   

50.9 

Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of intangible assets 

3.2  
3.3  

(28.8)   
(32.8)   

(27.4)   
(31.6)   

(20.6)   
(27.3)   

(11.2) 
(27.3) 

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets
Capital element of lease rental receipts
Capital element of lease rental payments

Free cash flow2

0.1   

0.1   

0.5   

0.5 

6.0   
(59.1)   

6.0   
(58.7)   

5.8   
(61.8)   

5.8 
(61.1) 

(154.9)   

(115.5)   

(31.5)   

(42.4) 

5.2  

23.0   
(46.3)   
(9.2)   

15.3   
(30.0)   
(9.2)   

(42.1)   
(38.6)   
(10.0)   

(48.5) 
(30.0) 
(10.0) 

(30.1)   
(9.2)   
(8.5)   
—   
(77.4)   
5.0   

(5.6)   
(9.2)   
(6.0)   
—   
(81.8)   
—   

(41.0)   
28.0   
84.8   
(14.9)   
(116.0)   
18.7   

37.0 
28.0 
20.9 
(14.9) 
(122.0) 
20.3 

8.7   

41.2   

117.8   

98.4 

1. Definitions of the alternative performance measures and related Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) can be found in section 8.2.
2. From 1 January 2023 free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are presented after deducting the capital element of lease 

payments and receipts. Comparative amounts have been re-presented. Refer to note 2.9.2.

Cyber incident: In relation to the exceptional cyber incident costs referred to in note 2.4, the cash outflow 
during the year ended 31 December 2023 was £20.1m and is included within free cash flow excluding 
business exits, and cash generated from operations excluding business exits.

Cost reduction programme: In relation to the implementation of the cost reduction programme detailed in 
note 2.4, the cash outflow during the year ended 31 December 2023 was £6.1m and is included within free 
cash flow excluding business exits, and cash generated from operations excluding business exits. A further 
outflow of approximately £21m associated with the programme announced in November 2023 is expected 
in 2024.

177

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.9 Cash flow information continued

A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt is included in note 2.9.3.

2.9.2 Free cash flow and cash generated from operations (alternative performance measures - refer 
to section 8.2)
The Board considers free cash flow, and cash generated from operations excluding business exits, to be 
alternative performance measures because these metrics provide a more representative measure of the 
sustainable cash flow of the Group.

Following feedback from investors the Board has revised its definition of the free cash flow and free cash 
flow excluding business exits alternative performance measures. From 1 January 2023, both these metrics 
have been presented after deducting the capital element of lease payments and receipts, since this 
provides a more relevant and comparable measure of the cash generated by the Group’s operations and 
available to fund operations, capital expenditure, non-lease debt obligations, and potential shareholder 
distributions. Comparative amounts have been re-presented.

These measures are analysed below:

Reported (including business exits)

Business exits

Pension deficit contributions triggered by 
disposals

Excluding business exits

Free cash flow

Cash generated/(used) by 
operations

2023 
£m
(154.9)   
23.1   

2022 
£m
(31.5)   
(19.5)   

16.3   

8.6   

(115.5)   

(42.4)   

2023 
£m
8.7   
16.2   

16.3   

41.2   

2022 
£m
117.8 
(28.0) 

8.6 

98.4 

Business exits: the cash flows of businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, and the proceeds 
from disposals, are disclosed outside the adjusted results. The 2022 results have been re-presented for 
those businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, during 2023 to enable comparability of the 
adjusted results.

Pension deficit contributions triggered by disposals: the Trustee of the Group’s main defined benefit 
pension scheme has agreed with the Group to accelerate the payment of future agreed deficit contributions 
on a pound for pound basis in the event of disposal proceeds being used to fund mandatory prepayments of 
debt. The disposal of Pay360 and Capita Translation and Interpreting in the second half of 2022 and 
Resourcing in 2023 resulted in accelerated deficit contributions totalling £16.3m being paid into the Scheme 
during 2023. Additionally, as a result of the Trustmarque disposal in March 2022, a further £14.5m of 
accelerated deficit contributions is required by March 2024 (2022: Pension deficit contributions of £8.6m 
triggered by: the disposal of the Trustmarque business which led to accelerated deficit contributions of 
£5.9m; and the disposal of the Axelos business in 2021 which led to accelerated deficit contributions of 
£2.7m).

178

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
Section 2: Results for the year continued

2.9 Cash flow information continued

2.9.3 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt

Year ended 31 December 2023

Net debt at 
1 January 
£m

Cash flow 
movements 
£m

Amortisation 
£m

Change in 
fair value 
£m

Note

Interest 
£m

New 
leases 
£m

Lease 
terminations 
£m

Lease 
modifications 
£m

Exchange 
movements 
£m

Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts

4.5.4  

177.2   

(106.9)   

Private placement loan notes
Unamortised transaction costs on debt issuance
Carrying value of private placement loan notes
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Fair value of private placement loan notes

Other finance
Lease liabilities
Total net liabilities from financing activities
Deferred consideration payable

(289.5)   
4.0   
(285.5)   
24.8   
(260.7)   

(0.7)   
(397.5)   
(658.9)   
(0.7)   

4.5  
4.5  

4.5  
4.4  

4.5  

Net debt

4.1.1  

(482.4)   

17.5   
5.4   
22.9   
(6.9)   
16.0   

0.5   
81.4   
97.9   
—   

(9.0)   

—   

—   
(4.9)   
(4.9)   
—   
(4.9)   

—   
—   
(4.9)   
—   

(4.9)   

—   

3.7   
—   
3.7   
(4.3)   
(0.6)   

—   
—   
(0.6)   
—   

(0.6)   

Year ended 31 December 2022

Net debt at 
1 January 
£m

Cash flow 
movements 
£m

Amortisation 
£m

Change in 
fair value 
£m

Note

Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts

4.5.4  

101.5   

75.3   

Private placement loan notes
Unamortised discount on debt issuance
Unamortised transaction costs on debt issuance
Carrying value of private placement loan notes
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Fair value of private placement loan notes

Other finance
Credit facilities
Lease liabilities
Total net liabilities from financing activities
Deferred consideration payable

(513.4)   
(2.1)   
2.6   
(512.9)   
28.0   
(484.9)   

(1.3)   
(46.0)   
(448.4)   
(980.6)   
(0.7)   

236.8   
—   
5.2   
242.0   
(10.1)   
231.9   

0.6   
46.0   
84.4   
362.9   
—   

4.5  
4.5  

4.5  

4.4  

4.5  

Net debt

4.1.1  

(879.8)   

438.2   

—   

—   
2.1   
(3.8)   
(1.7)   
—   
(1.7)   

—   
—   
—   
(1.7)   
—   

(1.7)   

—   

(6.9)   
—   
—   
(6.9)   
6.9   
—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
(22.3)   
(22.3)   
—   

(22.3)   

Interest 
£m

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
(22.5)   
(22.5)   
—   

(22.5)   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
(17.2)   
(17.2)   
—   

(17.2)   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
2.6   
2.6   
—   

2.6   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
(11.9)   
(11.9)   
—   

(11.9)   

(2.7)   

1.3   
—   
1.3   
—   
1.3   

0.1   
1.5   
2.9   
—   

0.2   

New 
Leases 
£m

Lease 
terminations 
£m

Lease 
modifications 
£m

Exchange 
movements 
£m

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
(15.3)   
(15.3)   
—   

(15.3)   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
6.5   
6.5   
—   

6.5   

—   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

—   
—   
(0.3)   
(0.3)   
—   

(0.3)   

0.4   

(6.0)   
—   
—   
(6.0)   
—   
(6.0)   

—   
—   
(1.9)   
(7.9)   
—   

(7.5)   

Total 
Non-cash 
movement 
£m

Net debt at 
31 December 
£m

(2.7)   

5.0   
(4.9)   
0.1   
(4.3)   
(4.2)   

0.1   
(47.3)   
(51.4)   
—   

67.6 

(267.0) 
4.5 
(262.5) 
13.6 
(248.9) 

(0.1) 
(363.4) 
(612.4) 
(0.7) 

(54.1)   

(545.5) 

Total 
Non-cash 
movement 
£m

Net debt at 
31 December 
£m

0.4   

177.2 

(12.9)   
2.1   
(3.8)   
(14.6)   
6.9   
(7.7)   

—   
—   
(33.5)   
(41.2)   
—   

(289.5) 
— 
4.0 
(285.5) 
24.8 
(260.7) 

(0.7) 
— 
(397.5) 
(658.9) 
(0.7) 

(40.8)   

(482.4) 

Overdrafts comprise the aggregate value of overdrawn bank account balances within the Group’s notional interest pooling arrangements. These aggregate overdrawn amounts are fully offset by surplus balances within 
the same notional pooling arrangements.

At 31 December 2023, the Group’s £260.7m committed revolving credit facility was undrawn (31 December 2022: undrawn).

179

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities

This section shows the operating assets and liabilities used to 
generate the Group’s trading performance. Liabilities relating 
to the Group’s financing activities are contained in Section 4. 
Current tax and deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in 
note 2.6. Deferred income is shown in note 2.1.

3.1

Working capital 

3.1.1 Trade and other receivables

3.1.2 Trade and other payables

3.1.3 Contract fulfilment assets (non-current)

Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets

Goodwill

Right-of-use assets

Provisions

Denotes accounting policies

Denotes significant accounting judgements

Denotes significant accounting estimates and 
assumptions

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

AP

J

E

Key highlights

Note 

2023
£m

2022
£m

Year on Year
movement
£m

Working capital (current and 
non-current):

3.1  (351.9)   (439.1)   

87.2 

Trade and other receivables

3.1.1   363.0    446.2   

(83.2) 

Trade and other payables

3.1.2  (434.4)   (507.6)   

73.2 

Deferred income

2.1  (537.5)   (640.7)   

103.2 

Contract fulfilment assets

3.1.3   257.0    263.0   

(6.0) 

Property, plant and equipment

3.2   80.0    101.1   

Intangible assets

3.3   90.0    106.0   

(21.1) 

(16.0) 

Goodwill

Right-of-use assets

Provisions

3.4   495.7    605.9   

(110.2) 

3.5   208.5    249.5   

3.6  (150.2)   (127.3)   

(41.0) 

(22.9) 

The decrease in trade and other receivables is primarily driven by a 
reduction in accrued income (£40.8m), trade receivables (£23.1m), 
other receivables (£9.2m) and prepayments (£6.4m). The reduction is 
largely a result of the disposal of businesses during the year (£78.6m), 
partly offset by an increase in current contract fulfilment assets 
(£2.6m).

The Group uses non-recourse trade receivables financing, with 
£35.2m of outstanding invoices sold under these facilities at 
31 December 2023 (2022: £44.4m).

The decline in trade and other payables was primarily driven by a 
£79.9m decrease in the accruals, including the utilisation of the 
furlough repayment accrual, a reduction in the accrual for 
management bonuses and variable pay, and as a result of the disposal 
of businesses during the year. This was partly offset by an increase in 
trade payables (£29.3m).

The decrease in deferred income relates to contract lifecycles resulting 
in deferred income utilisation and accelerated revenue recognised of 
£9.9m, primarily relating to the early termination of a contract in Capita 
Experience. This was partially offset by contracts in transformation 
such as BBC TV Licencing and Transport for London.

Non-current contract fulfilment assets decreased as a result of 
additions of £79.5m predominantly in Capita Public Service on 
contracts in transformation, including TfL Networks and Royal Navy 
training, being more than offset by utilisations of £68.8m, mainly within 
Capita Public Service, derecognition of £12.3m and impairments of 
£3.4m within Capita Experience.

Property, plant and equipment decreased due to depreciation and 
impairment of £42.0m, including £7.1m of impairment on business 
exits, being partially offset by £28.8m of additions, including 
investment in technology across the Group.

Intangible assets decreased due to amortisation and impairment of 
£30.2m and transfer to assets held for sale of £10.0m being only partly 
offset by £32.8m of additions relating primarily to investment in 
capitalised and purchased software.

Goodwill decreased primarily as a result of businesses sold in the year 
(£3.2m), transfers to assets held for sale (£64.3m), and the impairment 
of certain cash generating units in the Capita Portfolio division 
(£42.2m) at the half year.

Right-of-use assets decreased due to depreciation and impairment of 
£64.0m, with impairment primarily related to the properties exited as 
part of the announced cost reduction programme. This has been 
partially offset by additions of £17.2m.

The increase in provisions of £22.9m during the year was 
predominantly due additions totalling £104.0m, with the largest 
addition being in relation to the announced cost reduction programme 
(£35.6m), along with increased claims and litigation provisions 
(£29.9m), additional customer contract provisions (£16.5m) and 
business exit provisions (£10.6m). This is partly offset by releases and 
utilisations totalling £82.9m.

180

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.1 Working capital
3.1.1 Trade and other receivables

AP

Accounting policies

The Group’s accrued income balances solely relate to revenue from contracts with customers. Movements 
in the accrued income balances were driven by transactions entered into by the Group in the normal course 
of business during the year.

Movements in the loss allowance made against receivables were as follows:

Trade receivables: Trade receivables are initially recognised at cost (being the same as fair value) and 
subsequently at amortised cost less any provision for impairment, to ensure the amounts recognised 
represent their recoverable amount.

Impairment: For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9 
Financial Instruments, resulting in trade receivables recognised and carried at original invoice amount less 
an allowance for any uncollectible amounts based on expected credit losses. Where the carrying amount of 
an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.
The Group monitors the level of trade receivables on a monthly basis, continually assessing the risk of 
default by any counterparty. Each customer has an external credit score which determines the level of credit 
provided.

Derecognition: A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of 
similar financial assets) is derecognised (ie removed from the Group’s consolidated balance sheet) when (i) 
the rights to receive the cash flows from the asset have expired; or, (ii) the Group has transferred its right to 
receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Group has 
transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of the asset; or, (b) the Group has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.

Trade receivables that are sold without recourse are derecognised at the point of sale when the risks and 
rewards of the receivables have been fully transferred.
Accrued income: Accrued income in relation to contract assets is recognised when payments received 
from customers are less than the revenue recognised by the balance sheet date.

Trade receivables
Other receivables1
Other taxes and social security
Current contract fulfilment assets2
Accrued income
Prepayments

2023
£m
126.8   
15.5   
2.3   
13.3   
138.3   
54.5   

350.7   

Current

2022
£m
149.9   
23.0   
9.6   
10.7   
179.1   
58.1   

430.4   

2023
£m
—   
4.1   
1.0   
—   
—   
7.2   

12.3   

Non-current

2022
£m
— 
5.8 
— 
— 
— 
10.0 

15.8 

1. Other receivables includes £0.3m (2022: £0.4m) of accrued interest on cross-currency interest rate swaps.

2. Refer to note 3.1.3 for non-current contract fulfilment assets.

Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally on 30-day terms.

At 1 January
Utilised
Provided in the year
Released in the year
Business disposal
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale1

At 31 December

2023 
£m
29.7   
(1.2)   
4.8   
(25.6)   
(1.1)   
(1.1)   

5.5   

2022
£m
19.4 
(4.0) 
15.3 
— 
(1.0) 
— 

29.7 

1. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 represent amounts transferred at 30 June 2023 and 

subsequently sold during the second half of the year.

Ageing of trade receivables
Not due
Overdue by less than three months
Overdue between three and six months
Overdue between six and twelve months
Overdue more than twelve months1
Allowance for doubtful debts1

2023 
£m
79.4   
19.3   
4.9   
5.4   
23.3   
(5.5)   

126.8   

2022
£m
118.5 
26.9 
6.3 
9.9 
18.0 
(29.7) 

149.9 

1. The increase in amounts overdue by more than twelve months and the decrease in the allowance for doubtful debts primarily relate to a 

commercial settlement in the closed book Life & Pensions business which will not be received until a future date.

Under the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, all invoices six months or more past due are fully 
provided for unless there is a specific confirmation from the customer that the invoice will be settled during 
the following month, or there are specific circumstances such that recognition of a provision is not 
appropriate. Additionally, any other invoices where the customer relationship manager has identified 
significant financial problems which mean that customer is unlikely to pay the invoice in the near future are 
also provided for. No material amounts receivable were renegotiated such that they were not past due at 
the balance sheet date.

The Group trades only with third parties that are expected to be creditworthy. It is the Group’s policy that all 
clients who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. The Group manages 
its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable 
steps to seek assurance from the counterparties that they can fulfil their obligations. In addition, receivable 
balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to credit loss remains 
low.

181

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.1 Working capital continued

Non-recourse trade receivable financing
The value of invoices sold under the UK non-recourse trade receivables financing 31 December 2023 was 
£23.7m (2022: £36.9m). Additionally, in Germany the Group uses a non-recourse trade receivable financing 
arrangement for two specific customer contracts, the value of invoices sold under that arrangement at 
31 December 2023 was £11.5m (2022: £7.5m).

The cost of selling such invoices totalled £3.7m (2022: £0.8m) and was included in net finance expense in 
the consolidated income statement (2022: administrative expenses).

3.1.2 Trade and other payables

Trade payables
Other payables
Other taxes and social security
Accruals

2023
£m
164.2   
27.9   
74.4   
159.4   

425.9   

Current

2022
£m
134.9   
32.8   
85.6   
239.2   

492.5   

Non-current

2022
£m
0.1 
6.5 
6.0 
2.5 

15.1 

2023 
£m
0.1   
6.0   
—   
2.4   

8.5   

3.1.3 Contract fulfilment assets (non-current)

AP

Accounting policies

The Group regularly incurs costs to deliver its outsourcing services in a more efficient way (often referred to 
as ‘transformation’ costs). These costs may include process mapping and design, system development, 
project management, hardware (generally within the scope of the Group’s accounting policy for property, 
plant and equipment), software licence costs (generally within the scope of the Group’s accounting policy 
for intangible assets), recruitment costs and training.

Contract fulfilment costs are divided into: (i) costs that give rise to an asset; and (ii) costs that are expensed 
as incurred.

When determining the appropriate accounting treatment for such costs, the Group firstly considers any 
other applicable standards. If those other standards preclude capitalisation of a particular cost, then an 
asset is not recognised under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

If other standards are not applicable to contract fulfilment costs, the Group applies the following criteria 
which, if met, result in capitalisation of costs that: (i) directly relate to a contract or to a specifically 
identifiable anticipated contract; (ii) generate or enhance resources that will be used in satisfying (or in 
continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future; and (iii) are expected to be recovered.

The Group has determined that, where the relevant specific criteria are met, the costs for (i) process 
mapping and design; (ii) system development; and (iii) project management; are likely to qualify to be 
capitalised as contract fulfilment assets.

The incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are recognised as a contract fulfilment asset 
if the Group expects to recover them. The Group incurs costs such as bid costs, legal fees to draft a 
contract and sales commissions when it enters into a new contract.

The Group has determined that the following costs may be capitalised as contract fulfilment assets: (i) legal 
fees to draft a contract after the Group has been selected as preferred supplier; and (ii) sales commissions 
directly related to winning a specific contract.

Costs incurred prior to selection as preferred supplier are not capitalised but expensed when incurred.

Utilisation: The utilisation charge is included within cost of sales. The Group utilises non-current contract 
fulfilment assets over the expected contract period on a systematic basis that mirrors the pattern in which 
the Group transfers control of the service to the customer.

Derecognition: A non-current contract fulfilment asset is derecognised either when it is disposed of or 
when no further economic benefits are expected to flow from its use or disposal.

Impairment: At each balance sheet date, the Group determines whether or not the non-current contract 
fulfilment assets are impaired by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the remaining amount of 
consideration that the Group expects to receive less the costs that relate to providing services under the 
relevant contract. In determining the estimated amount of consideration, the Group uses the same 
principles as it does to determine the contract transaction price, except that any constraints used to reduce 
the transaction price are removed for the impairment test.

J

Significant accounting judgements

Judgement is applied by the Group when determining what costs qualify to be capitalised, in particular when 
considering whether these costs are incremental and when considering if costs generate or enhance 
resources to be used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be 
recoverable. For example, the Group considers which type of sales commissions are incremental to the cost 
of obtaining specific contracts and the point in time when the costs will be capitalised. See note 2.1 for 
further information.

182

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.1 Working capital continued

Movements in non-current contract fulfilment assets were as follows1:

At 1 January
Impact of change in accounting standards – amendments to IAS 372

At 1 January 2022 on adoption of IAS 37

Additions
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale3
Disposal of businesses
Impairment - included in adjusted profit
Impairment - included in business exits
Derecognition - included in adjusted profit
Derecognition - included in business exits
Utilisation - included in adjusted profit
Utilisation - included in business exits
Exchange movement

At 31 December

2023
£m
263.0   
—   

263.0   

79.5   
(0.9)   
—   
(3.3)   
(0.1)   
(4.1)   
(8.2)   
(68.4)   
(0.4)   
(0.1)   

2022
£m
286.7 
(2.4) 

284.3 

67.1 
— 
(2.8) 
(3.8) 
— 
(0.4) 
— 
(79.3) 
(2.2) 
0.1 

257.0   

263.0 

1. Refer to note 3.1.1 for current contract fulfilment assets.
2. The Group initially applied the amendments to IAS 37 at 1 January 2022 and the cumulative effect of applying the amendments was 

recognised as an opening balance adjustment to retained earnings.

3. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 includes £0.9m that was transferred at 30 June 2023 

and subsequently sold during the second half of the year.

Impairment: In 2023, the Group recognised an impairment of £3.4m (2022: £3.8m) in cost of sales, of 
which, £nil (2022: £0.5m) relates to contract fulfilment assets added during the year.

Derecognition: In 2023, £12.3m (2022: £0.4m) was derecognised, primarily in relation to a contract in 
Capita Public Service following the termination of a customer contract and the Group having no further use 
for the assets (£8.2m). Subsequently the Group decided to exit the business this contract was within and 
therefore the derecognition of the contract fulfilment asset has been included within business exits (refer to 
note 2.8). In 2022 the derecognition related to a contract in Capita Experience where the scope of services 
changed due to termination of contracts and the Group had no further use for the assets.

3.2 Property, plant and equipment

AP

Accounting policies

Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.

Depreciation: Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, 
as follows:
• Freehold buildings and long leasehold property – up to 50 years.
• Leasehold improvements – period of the lease.
• Plant and machinery – 3 to 10 years.

Impairment: The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such 
indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are 
written down to their recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the 
greater of net selling price and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. Impairment losses are disclosed as administrative expenses in the consolidated income 
statement.

Derecognition: An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal, or when no future 
economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset (retired). Any gain or loss 
arising on derecognition of the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and 
the carrying value of the asset, is included in the consolidated income statement when the asset is 
derecognised.

183

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.2 Property, plant and equipment continued

Cost
At 1 January
Additions
Disposal of businesses
Disposals – included in adjusted profit
Disposals – included in business exits
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale2
Reclassifications to intangible assets
Asset retirements
Exchange movement
At 31 December
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January
Impact of change in accounting standards – amendments to IAS 371
At 1 January 2022 on adoption of IAS 37
Depreciation charged - included in adjusted profit
Depreciation charged - included in business exits
Disposal of businesses
Disposals – included in adjusted profit
Impairment – included in adjusted profit
Impairment – excluded from adjusted profit
Impairment – included in business exits
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale2
Reclassifications to intangible assets
Asset retirements
Exchange movement
At 31 December
Net book value
At 1 January
At 31 December

Leasehold improvements,
land and buildings
£m

Plant and
machinery
£m

96.0   
10.4   
(0.4)   
(1.0)   
—   
(0.7)   
—   
(22.9)   
(0.4)   
81.0   

42.5   
—   
42.5   
9.0   
0.1   
(0.3)   
(1.0)   
—   
2.8   
7.1   
(0.4)   
—   
(22.9)   
(0.5)   
36.4   

53.5   
44.6   

146.5   
18.4   
(0.6)   
(4.7)   
—   
(9.8)   
(1.2)   
(38.1)   
(1.6)   
108.9   

98.9   
—   
98.9   
20.8   
1.3   
(0.4)   
(4.4)   
0.9   
—   
—   
(3.8)   
(0.6)   
(38.1)   
(1.1)   
73.5   

47.6   
35.4   

2023

Total
£m

242.5   
28.8   
(1.0)   
(5.7)   
—   
(10.5)   
(1.2)   
(61.0)   
(2.0)   
189.9   

141.4   
—   
141.4   
29.8   
1.4   
(0.7)   
(5.4)   
0.9   
2.8   
7.1   
(4.2)   
(0.6)   
(61.0)   
(1.6)   
109.9   

101.1   
80.0   

Leasehold improvements,
land and buildings
£m

Plant and
machinery
£m

99.6   
7.7   
—   
(9.0)   
(0.1)   
—   
1.3   
(3.7)   
0.2   
96.0   

40.5   
—   
40.5   
10.0   
0.1   
—   
(7.3)   
2.0   
—   
—   
—   
0.8   
(3.7)   
0.1   
42.5   

59.1   
53.5   

169.1   
12.9   
(0.4)   
(7.4)   
—   
—   
(1.8)   
(27.9)   
2.0   
146.5   

99.2   
0.5   
99.7   
28.4   
2.4   
(0.2)   
(6.9)   
2.7   
—   
—   
—   
(0.8)   
(27.9)   
1.5   
98.9   

69.9   
47.6   

2022

Total
£m

268.7 
20.6 
(0.4) 
(16.4) 
(0.1) 
— 
(0.5) 
(31.6) 
2.2 
242.5 

139.7 
0.5 
140.2 
38.4 
2.5 
(0.2) 
(14.2) 
4.7 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(31.6) 
1.6 
141.4 

129.0 
101.1 

1. The Group initially applied the amendments to IAS 37 at 1 January 2022 and the cumulative effect of applying the amendments was recognised as an opening balance adjustment to retained earnings.
2. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 includes £1.2m that was transferred at 30 June 2023 and subsequently sold during the second half of the year.

At 31 December 2023, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to £1.4m (2022: £2.7m), relating to building improvements on 
leased property.

As detailed in note 2.4, a charge of £54.4m has been recognised in 2023 for the costs to deliver the cost reduction programme. This includes property related costs of £31.1m arising from the associated rationalisation of 
the Group’s property estate, which includes impairment of leasehold improvements of £2.8m. These costs have been excluded from adjusted profit.

Following the classification of a business as held for sale, a property leased by the Group and part occupied by the business being sold is no longer used by the Group. Following an impairment test, the property’s 
leasehold improvements were impaired by £7.1m, along with an impairment of £0.2m of the right-of-use asset for this property (refer to note 3.5). Since the impairment was triggered by the disposal of a business, the 
charge has been excluded from adjusted profit and included in business exits (refer to note 2.8).

184

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.3 Intangible assets 

AP

Accounting policies

Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition 
are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition. In the case of capitalised software development costs, 
research expenditure is written off to the consolidated income statement when it is incurred. Development 
expenditure is similarly written off until the Group is satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial 
viability of individual projects. Where this condition is satisfied, the development expenditure is capitalised 
and amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.

The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination: on the 
acquisition of a business, the identifiable intangible assets may include licences, customer lists and brands. 
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by 
the asset because in most cases no active market for the assets exists and therefore no observable value 
exists. The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate 
would change the valuation of the intangible assets.

Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or 
indefinite. There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2023 or 2022.

Amortisation: Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives. The amortisation method used reflects the 
expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits and generally amortised on a straight-line 
basis, the amortisation periods used are as follows:
•
•

Intangible assets acquired in business combinations – 1.5 to 20 years.
Intangible assets purchased or internally capitalised – 3 to 20 years.

Impairment: Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level, when there is an indicator of impairment.

Derecognition: Intangible assets are derecognised upon disposal, or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset (retired). Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of 
the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the 
asset, is included in the consolidated income statement when the asset is derecognised.

The assessment of costs capitalised as intangible assets to generate future economic benefits: 
judgement is applied in assessing whether costs incurred, both internal and external, will generate future 
economic benefits. Judgements and estimates are applied in determining the carrying value of the assets, 
including assumptions made in respect of the status of the programme each asset relates to. Given the 
level of judgement and estimation involved in assessing future cash flows, it is reasonably possible that 
outcomes within the next financial year may be different from management’s assumptions and require an 
adjustment to the carrying value of intangible assets, however any adjustment is not expected to be 
material.

185

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.3 Intangible assets continued

Intangible 
assets 
acquired in 
business 
combinations
£m

Capitalised/
purchased
software
£m

Cost
At 1 January
Disposal of businesses
Additions
Disposals – included in adjusted profit
Disposals – included in business exits
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale1
Reclassifications to property, plant and equipment
Asset retirements
Exchange movement
At 31 December
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January
Amortisation charged in the year - included in adjusted profit
Amortisation charged in the year - excluded from adjusted profit
Amortisation charged in the year - included in business exits
Impairment – included in adjusted profit
Impairment – included in business exits
Disposal of businesses
Disposals – included in adjusted profit
Disposals – included in business exits
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale1
Reclassifications to property, plant and equipment
Asset retirements
Exchange movement
At 31 December
Net book value
At 1 January
At 31 December

3.0   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
3.0   

2.3   
—   
0.2   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
2.5   

0.7   
0.5   

194.6   
(15.7)   
32.8   
(2.0)   
—   
(15.3)   
1.2   
(20.4)   
(0.2)   
175.0   

89.3   
25.8   
—   
3.3   
0.9   
—   
(7.1)   
(1.6)   
—   
(5.3)   
0.6   
(20.4)   
—   
85.5   

2023

Total
£m

197.6   
(15.7)   
32.8   
(2.0)   
—   
(15.3)   
1.2   
(20.4)   
(0.2)   
178.0   

91.6   
25.8   
0.2   
3.3   
0.9   
—   
(7.1)   
(1.6)   
—   
(5.3)   
0.6   
(20.4)   
—   
88.0   

Intangible
assets
acquired in
business
combinations
£m

Capitalised/
purchased
software
£m

55.4   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(53.1)   
0.7   
3.0   

49.6   
—   
5.1   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(53.1)   
0.7   
2.3   

5.8   
0.7   

222.7   
(33.0)   
27.3   
(11.7)   
(0.5)   
—   
0.5   
(11.2)   
0.5   
194.6   

81.2   
25.5   
—   
10.9   
5.1   
0.8   
(12.6)   
(10.0)   
(0.5)   
—   
—   
(11.2)   
0.1   
89.3   

141.5   
105.3   

2022

Total
£m

278.1 
(33.0) 
27.3 
(11.7) 
(0.5) 
— 
0.5 
(64.3) 
1.2 
197.6 

130.8 
25.5 
5.1 
10.9 
5.1 
0.8 
(12.6) 
(10.0) 
(0.5) 
— 
— 
(64.3) 
0.8 
91.6 

147.3 
106.0 

105.3   
89.5   

106.0   
90.0   

1. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 includes £9.9m that was transferred at 30 June 2023 and subsequently sold during the second half of the year.

Intangible assets acquired in business combinations comprise committed sales. Intangible assets capitalised or purchased include capitalised software development (net book value 2023: £75.6m; 2022: £90.9m) and 
purchased software (net book value 2023: £13.9m; 2022: £14.4m).

186

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.4 Goodwill

AP

Accounting policies

Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is 
reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off 
directly against reserves and does not get recycled through the consolidated income statement.

At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating units (CGU) which are 
expected to benefit from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined by assessing the 
recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a CGU and 
part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is 
included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the 
operation. Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of 
the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.

Cost
At 1 January
Disposal of businesses
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale1
Exchange movement

At 31 December

Accumulated impairment
At 1 January
Disposal of businesses
Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale1
Impairment – excluded from adjusted profit

Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are 
accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is 
recognised as a result of such transactions. The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a 
proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. Any difference between the price paid or received 
and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and 
attributed to the owners of the Parent company.

At 31 December

Net book value
At 1 January
At 31 December

2023 
£m

2022 
£m

1,423.3   
(199.6)   
(149.0)   
(0.5)   

1,676.8 
(255.0) 
— 
1.5 

1,074.2   

1,423.3 

817.4   
(196.4)   
(84.7)   
42.2   

578.5   

605.9   
495.7   

725.1 
(76.7) 
— 
169.0 

817.4 

951.7 
605.9 

Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (Amended), goodwill was recognised on the 
acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the 
additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the 
transaction.

Impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis, or more 
frequently if required, and this requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of the CGUs to which the 
intangible assets are allocated utilising an estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount 
rate.

1. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 includes £49.3m that was transferred at 30 June 2023 

and subsequently sold during the second half of the year.

187

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.4 Goodwill continued

Cash-generating units
Reflecting the way management exercises oversight and monitors the Group’s performance, the lowest 
level at which goodwill is monitored is at the divisional level for Capita Public Service and Capita 
Experience, and at a sub-divisional level for Capita Portfolio. At 31 December 2023, following the disposal, 
transfer to assets held for sale or transfer to another division of all the businesses that were under Capita 
Portfolio, the Group has two remaining CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing of 
goodwill.

Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs:

CGU

At 1 January

Reclassifications

Disposal of businesses
Transfer to assets held for sale1
Impairment – excluded from adjusted 
profit

Capita Portfolio

Capita  
Public 
Service 
£m

Capita  
Experience 
£m

People 
£m

Software 
£m

Business  
Solutions 
£m

Travel 
£m

Fera 
£m

Total 
£m

  284.6   

209.8    1.7    36.3   

21.7    36.8    15.0   605.9 

1.8   

—    —    —   

(1.8)    —    —    — 

  —   

  —   

—    (1.7)    —   

—    (1.5)    —    (3.2) 

—    —    (36.3)   

(13.0)    —   (15.0)   (64.3) 

  —   

—    —    —   

(6.9)   (35.3)    —   (42.2) 

Exchange movement

  —   

(0.5)    —    —   

—    —    —    (0.5) 

At 31 December

  286.4   

209.3    —    —   

—    —    —   495.7 

1. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 includes £49.3m that was transferred at 30 June 2023 

and subsequently sold during the second half of the year.

Business exits
As set out in note 2.8, six businesses were fully disposed of during the year. Goodwill relating to all of these 
businesses is included within the Group’s brought forward goodwill balances at 1 January 2023, and has 
either been impaired during the course of the year, or derecognised as part of business disposals.

The Group’s shareholding in Fera Science Limited was deemed to have met the threshold to be treated as 
held for sale at 31 December 2023, with goodwill relating to this business (Fera) reclassified to disposal 
group assets held for sale.

One business within the Capita Public Service division met the criteria to be treated as a business exit at 
31 December 2023, however there is no goodwill attributable to this business.

The impairment test
In undertaking the annual impairment review, the directors considered both internal and external sources of 
information, and any observable indications that may suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may be 
impaired. This included a comparison with the Group’s share price and market capitalisation.

The Group’s impairment test compares the carrying value of each CGU with its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of fair value less cost of disposal, and its value in use. As the 
Group implements the Group-wide cost reduction programme announced in November 2023 and referred to 
in the strategic report and note 2.4, and continues to be committed to evaluating additional cost savings 
opportunities, it has been determined that at 31 December 2023, fair value less costs of disposal will 
generate the higher recoverable amount.

The valuation of CGUs under fair value less costs of disposal assumes that a third-party acquirer will 
undertake a similar plan to derive similar benefits in the business going forward. The enterprise value of 
each CGU is dependent on the successful implementation of the cost reduction programme.

Fair value less costs of disposal for each CGU has been estimated using discounted cash flows. The fair 
value measurement was categorised as a Level-3 fair value based on the inputs in the valuation technique 
used. The costs of disposal have been estimated based on the Groups’ significant disposals in recent 
years.

At 30 June 2023, a goodwill impairment of £35.3m was recognised in respect of the Travel CGU. This 
impairment arose primarily due to the expectation of acquirers factoring in additional investment and costs 
required to run the businesses outside of the Group, and general macroeconomic conditions. The Travel 
CGU was disposed of in the second half of 2023.

In addition, an impairment of £6.9m was recognised at 30 June 2023 in respect of a business in the 
Business Solutions group of CGUs in Capita Portfolio. Since the disposal process for this business was less 
far advanced, the recoverable amount of the CGU, being its value-in-use, was calculated based on 
operating the business into perpetuity. The goodwill impairment arose primarily due to a negotiated exit of 
an end customer, which negatively impacted the forecast financial performance of the business. In the 
second half of 2023 this business was moved into the Capita Public Service division and CGU.

At 31 December 2023, the estimated recoverable amount of each remaining Group of CGUs exceeded its 
respective carrying value. The key inputs to the calculations are described below, including changes in 
market conditions.

188

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.4 Goodwill continued

Forecast cash flows
The cash flow projections prepared for the impairment test are derived from the 2024-2026 business plans 
(BP) approved by the Board, which are prepared on a nominal basis. Key assumptions in the BP include the 
delivery of planned revenue growth and the benefits that the cost reduction programme is anticipated to 
deliver, in particular in the Capita Experience CGU given recent past performance.

Discount rates
Management estimates discount rates using nominal pre-tax rates of comparator companies for each CGU 
or group of CGUs. The discount rates reflect the latest market assumptions for the risk-free rate, the equity 
risk premium and the net cost of debt, and which are all based on publicly available external sources.

The table below presents the pre-tax discount rates applied to the cash flows for 2023 and 2022.

revenue growth falling materially short of plan;

The going concern severe but plausible downside scenarios have taken account of the potential adverse 
financial impacts resulting from the following risks, which include the key assumptions noted above:
•
• operating profit margin expansion not being achieved;
•
• additional inflationary cost impacts which cannot be passed on to customers;
• unforeseen operational issues leading to contract losses and cash outflows; and
• unexpected financial costs linked to incidents such as data breaches and/or cyber-attacks.

targeted cost savings delayed or not delivered;

As such, the below sensitivity analysis includes assessing the impact of these crystallising on the 
impairment test performed.

Other than for movements in deferred income and contract fulfilment assets, cash flows are adjusted to 
exclude working capital movements since the corresponding balances are not included in the CGU carrying 
amount.

Allocation of central function costs
The Board has considered an appropriate methodology to apply when allocating central function costs. The 
methodology applied for the 2023 impairment test was aligned to that applied in reporting segmental 
performance (refer to note 2.5). The remaining Group related costs of Capita plc, which have not been 
allocated as part of segmental reporting, are allocated to CGUs for impairment testing purposes based on 
2024 forecast Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA).

Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is based on economic growth forecasts by recognised bodies and this has been 
applied to forecast cash flows for years four and five (2027 and 2028) and for the terminal period. The 2023 
long-term growth rate is 1.7% (2022: 2.2%).

2023
2022

Capita Public 
Service
 11.0 %
 11.8 %

Capita 
Experience
 9.2 %
 10.4 %

Sensitivity analysis
The impairment testing as described is reliant on the reliability of management’s forecasts and the 
assumptions that underlie them; and on the selection of the discount and growth rates to be applied. To 
gauge the sensitivity of the result to a change in any one, or combination of the assumptions that underlie 
the model, a number of scenarios were developed to identify the range of reasonably possible alternatives 
and measure which CGUs are the most susceptible to an impairment should the assumptions used be 
varied.

The sensitivity scenarios applied estimate potential impairments required (with all other variables being 
equal) through: an increase in discount rate of 1%, or a decrease of 1% in the long-term growth rate (for the 
terminal period) for the Group in total and each of the CGUs; or, through the severe but plausible downsides 
applied to the base-case projections for assessing going concern and viability, without mitigations, for 2024 
to 2026, and the long-term growth rate (1.7%) applied to the 2026 downside cash flows to generate 
projected cash flows for 2027, 2028, and the terminal period. We have also considered the impact of all of 
the scenarios together, which is also a reasonable possible alternative.

No potential impairments have been identified under any of these sensitivity scenarios, including the 
combination sensitivity scenario.

Comparison to share price and market capitalisation
The company’s market capitalisation indicates an enterprise value that continues to be significantly less 
than the Group’s sum-of-the-parts CGU valuation based upon the model prepared for impairment testing 
purposes at 31 December 2023. The directors gave consideration as to why this might be the case and the 
reasonableness of the assumptions used within the impairment model, and whether these points could 
indicate additional indicators of impairment in respect of the Group’s goodwill balances.

The factors considered included: the differing basis of valuations (including that third parties value the 
services sector on income statement multiples versus long-term view using a discounted cash flow for the 
basis of impairment testing under accounting standards), sum-of-the-parts view and the multiples achieved 
on recent disposals, general market assumptions of the sector which can ignore the liquidity profile and 
specific risks of an entity, and other specific items impacting the market’s view of the Group at the moment.

Taking these points into consideration, the Board are comfortable that there is no impairment in respect of 
goodwill to be recognised at 31 December 2023, despite the continuing low market capitalisation of the 
Group.

189

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.5 Right-of-use assets 

AP

Accounting policies

At the inception of the lease, the Group recognises a right-of-use asset at cost, which comprises the present 
value of minimum future lease payments determined at the inception of the lease. Right-of-use assets are 
depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of estimated life or the lease term. Amendments 
to lease terms resulting in a change in payments or the length of the lease results in an adjustment to the 
right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability. Right-of-use assets are reviewed for impairment when 
events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.

Right-of-use assets exclude leases with low values and terms of twelve months or less. These leases are 
expensed to the consolidated income statement when incurred.

Following the classification of a business as held for sale, a property leased by the Group and part occupied 
by the business being sold is no longer used by the Group. The part of the leased property used by, and 
sub-leased to, the business held for sale (£31.3m) has remained a right-of-use asset and the remainder of 
the property (£0.2m) which is used by other third parties, was reclassified to investment property. The right-
of-use asset leased to the business held for sale will be transferred to lease receivables on completion of 
the disposal in January 2024.

Following an impairment test, the investment property was written down to £nil and is included within the 
property category in the table opposite. Since the impairment was triggered by the disposal of a business, 
the charge has been included within business exits. Refer to note 2.8.

As detailed in note 2.4, a charge of £54.4m has been recognised in 2023 for the costs to deliver the cost 
reduction programme. This includes property related costs of £31.0m arising from the associated 
rationalisation of the Group’s property estate, which includes impairment of right-of-use assets of £13.1m. 
These costs have been excluded from adjusted profit.

Other movements include amendments to existing leases.

Net Book Value
At 1 January 2022

Addition of new leases

Depreciation charged - included in adjusted profit

Depreciation charged - included in business exits
Impairment - included in adjusted profit
Disposal of businesses
Disposals - included in adjusted profit
Disposals - included in business exits
Exchange movement
Other movements

At 31 December 2022

Addition of new leases

Depreciation charged - included in adjusted profit

Impairment - included in adjusted profit

Impairment - excluded from adjusted profit

Impairment - included in business exit

Transfer to disposal group assets held for sale

Disposal of businesses

Disposals - included in adjusted profit

Exchange movement

Other movements

At 31 December 2023

Property
£m
265.6   

12.9   

(45.2)   

(0.6)   
2.4   
(0.2)   
(6.2)   
(0.1)   
1.4   
7.0   

Motor
vehicles
£m
15.4   

2.4   

(6.0)   

—   
—   
—   
(1.6)   
—   
—   
0.4   

237.0   

10.6   

12.9   

(40.5)   

(2.4)   

(13.1)   

(0.2)   

(1.0)   

(0.2)   

(0.2)   

(1.9)   

9.7   

200.1   

1.8   

(5.9)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(0.7)   

—   

0.1   

5.9   

Equipment
£m
6.9   

Total
£m
287.9 

—   

15.3 

(4.2)   

—   
0.3   
—   
(0.5)   
—   
—   
(0.6)   

1.9   

2.5   

(55.4) 

(0.6) 
2.7 
(0.2) 
(8.3) 
(0.1) 
1.4 
6.8 

249.5 

17.2 

(1.9)   

(48.3) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(0.7)   

—   

0.7   

(2.4) 

(13.1) 

(0.2) 

(1.0) 

(0.2) 

(1.6) 

(1.9) 

10.5 

2.5   

208.5 

190

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.6 Provisions 

AP

Accounting policies

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation arising from past 
events, it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it, and the amount can be estimated reliably.

If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using the yield on government 
bonds which have a similar timing and currency of cash flows to the provision being discounted. Where 
required adjustments are made to the yields to reflect the risks specific to the cash flows being discounted. 
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a financing cost in the consolidated income statement.

The value of the provision is determined based on assumptions and estimates in relation to the amount, 
timing and likelihood of actual cash flows, which are dependent on future events. Where no reliable basis of 
estimation can be made, no provision is recorded. However, contingent liabilities disclosures are given 
when there is a greater than remote probability of outflow of economic benefits. See note 6.2.

On an ongoing basis, management monitor provisions and their accurate estimation when compared to final 
outcomes.

E

Denotes significant accounting estimates and assumptions

As detailed in note 2.1, in respect of onerous customer contract provisions, due to the level of uncertainty, 
combination of variables and timing across numerous contracts, it is not practical to provide a quantitative 
analysis of the aggregated estimates and assumptions that are applied, and management do not believe 
that disclosing a potential range of outcomes on a consolidated basis would provide meaningful information 
to a user of the financial statements. Due to commercial sensitivities, the Group does not specifically 
disclose the amounts involved in any individual contract.

Provisions
The movements in provisions during the year are as follows:

At 1 January
Provisions in the year
Releases in the year
Utilisation

Discount unwind on 
provisions

Transfer to disposal group 
liabilities held for sale1
Reclassification between 
categories

Cost 
reduction 
provision 
£m
—   
35.6   
—   
(6.1)   

Business exit 
provision 
£m
10.7   
10.6   
(3.3)   
(10.2)   

Claims and 
litigation 
provision 
£m
17.0   
29.9   
(3.5)   
(2.8)   

Property 
provision 
£m
18.7   
3.9   
(6.3)   
(7.4)   

Customer 
contract 
 provision 
£m
73.5   
16.5   
(12.3)   
(21.4)   

Other 
provisions 
£m
7.4   
7.5   
(2.7)   
(6.9)   

Total 
£m
127.3 
104.0 
(28.1) 
(54.8) 

—   

—   

—   

—   

2.3   

—   

2.3 

—   

—   

—   

—   

(0.5)   

—   

—   

(0.5) 

—   

0.8   

(0.6)   

(0.1)   

(0.1)   

— 

At 31 December

29.5   

7.8   

41.4   

7.8   

58.5   

5.2   

150.2 

Current
Non-current

31 December 2023
 £m
101.6
48.6

31 December 2022
 £m
75.7
51.6

150.2

127.3

1. Transfers to disposal group assets held for sale in the year ended 31 December 2023 includes £0.5m that was transferred at 30 June 2023 

and subsequently sold during the second half of the year

Cost reduction provision: The provision represents the cost of reducing headcount where communication 
to affected employees has crystallised a valid expectation that roles are at risk and it is likely to unwind over 
the next twelve months. Additionally, it relates to unavoidable running costs of leasehold properties, such as 
insurance and security, and dilapidation provisions, where properties are exited as a result of the cost 
reduction programme. These provisions are likely to unwind over periods of up to four years. Refer to note 
2.4 for further details on the cost reduction programme.

Business exit provision: The provision relates to the cost of exiting businesses through disposal or 
closure including professional fees related to business exits and the costs of separating the businesses 
being disposed. These are likely to unwind over a period of one to four years.

Claims and litigation provision: The Group is exposed to claims and litigation proceedings arising in the 
ordinary course of business. These matters are reassessed regularly and where obligations are probable 
and estimable, provisions are made based on the Group’s best estimate of the expenditure to be incurred. 
Due to the nature of these claims, the Group cannot give an estimate of the period over which this provision 
will unwind.

191

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.6 Provisions continued

Property provision: The provision relates to unavoidable running costs, such as insurance and security, of 
leasehold property where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used, and dilapidation costs, for 
ongoing operations, and not the cost reduction programme detailed in note 2.4 (where such costs are 
included in the cost reduction provision). The expectation is that this expenditure will be incurred over the 
remaining periods of the leases which vary up to 23 years.

Customer contract provision: The provision includes onerous contract provisions in respect of customer 
contracts where the costs of fulfilling a contract (both incremental and costs directly related to contract 
activities) exceeds the economic benefits expected to be received under the contract, claims/obligations 
associated with missed milestones in contractual obligations, and other potential exposures related to 
contracts with customers. Customer contract life-time reviews are used to determine the value of an 
onerous contract provision. The life-time contract review reflects the forecast of the best estimate of external 
revenues and costs over the remaining contract term. These provisions are forecast to unwind over periods 
of up to six years.

The customer contract provision includes £53.3m (2022: £59.7m) in respect of closed book Life & Pensions 
contracts in Capita Experience. The closed books and contractual dynamics have led to onerous conditions 
to service certain of these contracts. Management has been required to assess the likely length of these 
contracts, given the pattern and experience of contract terminations while also recognising the evergreen 
clauses (which potentially allow the customer to extend the contracts indefinitely until the run-off of the 
underlying life and pension books is complete). Accordingly, the Group has, in prior years, provided for the 
onerous contract conditions based on the best estimate of the remaining contract terms and the period and 
likely costs to support the final handover of services. At 31 December 2023, the provision was increased to 
provide cover for contracts to extend out to December 2028 (ie a five year rolling period).

Other provisions: Relates to provisions in respect of other potential exposures arising as a result of the 
nature of some of the operations that the Group provides, including supplier audit and regulatory provisions. 
These are likely to unwind over periods of up to five years.

192

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 4: Capital structure and financing costs

This section outlines the Group’s capital structure and 
financing costs. The Group defines its capital structure as its 
cash and cash equivalents, non-current interest bearing loans 
and borrowings and equity. The Group aims to manage its 
capital structure to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns 
to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The 
Group manages its capital structure to maintain a sustainable 
mix of debt and equity that ensures that the Group can pursue 
its strategy. The Group makes adjustments to its capital 
structure in light of changes in economic conditions and 
strategic operational risk. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders 
through dividends and share buy backs, sell assets, raise 
additional equity, or arrange additional debt facilities.

Net debt, capital and capital management

Financial risk 

Net finance costs

Leases

Key highlights

Net financial debt to adjusted EBITDA1 (both pre-IFRS 16)
Aim: Maintain the ratio of net financial debt to adjusted EBITDA1 
(both pre-IFRS 16) at ≤1.0x times over the medium term

1.2x

(2022: 0.5x)

Available liquidity1

£282.3m

(2022: £405.2m)

Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy

1. Details of all alternative performance measures and related Key Performance Indicators 

(KPIs) can be found in section 8.2.

Issued share capital

Group composition and non-controlling interests

Denotes accounting policies

Denotes significant accounting judgements

Denotes significant accounting estimates and 
assumptions

Capital strategy
The Group’s capital strategy is to build a strong and flexible balance 
sheet, which supports the Group’s strategic objectives, the investment 
needed to grow the business and allows for contributions required to 
reduce pension liabilities.

The Board aims to maintain the ratio of net financial debt to adjusted 
EBITDA, both on a pre-IFRS 16 basis at ≤1.0x times over the medium 
term.

4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

4.6

4.7

AP

J

E

Liquidity
Available liquidity1 at 31 December 2023 was £282.3m (2022: 
£405.2m) and during 2023 net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) increased 
by £97.2m from £84.9m to £182.1m.

Liquidity remains a key area of focus, and in June 2023 the Group 
extended its revolving credit facility (RCF) to 31 December 2026 at 
£284m, reducing to £250m by 1 January 2025 as a consequence of 
specified transactions. The RCF was not drawn upon at 31 December 
2023 and had a total committed value of £260.7m. This was 
subsequently reduced to £250m on 23 January 2024 following receipt 
of proceeds from the Fera disposal (refer to note 6.3).

A sustainability component has been included in the extended facility 
that can adjust the margin by up to five basis points conditional upon 
achieving agreed Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are:
1. Scope 1, Scope 2 (market based), and Scope 3 (business travel) 

absolute emissions reduction.
2.  Employee engagement index.
3. Gender diversity at senior management level.

Additionally, in July 2023 the Group issued £101.9m equivalent of new 
private placement loan notes across three tranches: £50m maturing 
25 July 2026, USD45m maturing 25 July 2026 and USD23m maturing 
25 July 2028.

The RCF extension and private placement loan note issuance are a 
demonstration of debt providers' confidence in Capita and have 
enabled the Group to extend significantly the average maturity of its 
debt funding.

Net finance costs
Net finance costs increased by £20.5m to £52.2m (2022: £31.7m). 
£6.8m of this change relates to movements in the value of non-
designated foreign exchange forward contracts, £2.3m to discount 
unwind on provisions, and the remainder is attributable to the higher 
interest rate environment and run-off of low-coupon debt.

193

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.1 Net debt, capital and capital management

4.1.1 Net debt and capital
The components of the Group’s net debt and undrawn available liquidity are summarised below.

Cash and cash equivalents
Overdraft
Lease liabilities
Private placement loan notes1
Other finance
Cross currency interest rate swaps
Deferred consideration

Net debt
Undrawn available financing facilities

Capital

Notes
4.5.4  
4.5.4  
4.4.1  
4.5.2  
4.5.2  
4.5.2  
4.5.2  

4.5.2b  

2023
£m
(162.6)   
95.0   
363.4   
262.5   
0.1   
(13.6)   
0.7   

545.5   
260.7   

806.2   

2022
£m
(396.8)   
219.6   
397.5   
285.5   
0.7   
(24.8)   
0.7   

482.4   
288.4   

770.8   

Year on Year
movement
234.2 
(124.6) 
(34.1) 
(23.0) 
(0.6) 
11.2 
— 

63.1 
(27.7) 

35.4 

1. Private loan notes include US dollar and British pound sterling private placement loan notes.

A reconciliation of net debt shown above to cash flow can be found in note 2.9.3.

The overdrafts are part of a notional cash pooling arrangements in which the balances are fully offset by 
cash balances within the same arrangements.

During the year, USD and GBP private placement loan notes of £32.7m and £42.1m were repaid at maturity 
in January 2023 and October 2023 respectively. The associated currency and interest rate swaps also 
expired on these dates, such that the combined net cash outflow for these repayments was £66.3m. 
Additionally, as a result of mandatory prepayment provisions related to disposal proceeds, £16.0m of Euro 
private placement loan notes were repaid in February and March. The remaining £30.2m balance of these 
Euro notes, originally due for payment in November 2027, were early settled in August.

4.1.2 Capital management
Capital management forms an important component of Board meetings, including reviews of forecast 
gearing, key covenant tests, and the mix of funding sources, thereby ensuring sustainability and flexibility. 
Shareholder returns are reviewed in accordance with the Group’s generation of sustainable free cash flow.

The Group’s capital management process ensures that it meets the financial covenants of its borrowing 
arrangements. There are two separate sets of covenant tests underlying the Group’s financial instruments 
with the key difference being the treatment of IFRS 16. Under the test for the bank facilities and US private 
placement loan notes these covenants are based on maintaining minimum ratios associated with adjusted 
net debt to adjusted EBITDA and annualised interest cover. There have been no breaches in the financial 
covenants of any loans or borrowings during the reporting period.

The committed RCF provides the liquidity needed to cover the cash fluctuations of the business cycle, 
allowing a buffer for contingencies.

Capita plc supports the obligations of its various regulated financial services businesses. The board of each 
regulated firm is responsible for ensuring it has embedded capital management frameworks that ensure the 
availability of adequate financial resources at all times, and all of them complied with all externally imposed 
financial services regulatory capital requirements applicable to them.

In the UK, to provide working capital funding at an economically favourable rate versus the RCF, the Group 
uses a non-recourse trade receivables financing, the value of invoices sold under this arrangement at 
31 December 2023 was £23.7m (2022: £36.9m). Additionally, in Germany the Group uses a non-recourse 
trade receivable financing arrangement for two specific customer contracts, the value of invoices sold under 
that arrangement at 31 December 2023 was £11.5m (2022: £7.5m).

4.2 Financial risk 

Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s Board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s 
risk management framework, which is outlined on pages 57 to 63 of the strategic report. The Group’s 
principal financial instruments comprise cash, bank loans, private placement loan notes, lease assets and 
liabilities, and derivatives. The purpose of these is to fund and provide liquidity for the Group’s operations 
and to manage its financial risks. The Group has various other financial instruments including trade 
receivables and trade payables arising from its operations.

Derivatives comprise cross-currency interest rate swaps, and forward foreign currency contracts executed 
with its relationship banks, all of which have investment grade credit ratings. The derivatives’ purpose is to 
manage interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is 
the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments is undertaken.

The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, interest 
rate risk, and credit risk. The Board periodically reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks, which 
are summarised below.

194

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.2 Financial risk continued

4.2.1 Liquidity risk
The Group monitors the risk of a liquidity shortage through its business plan and liquidity cycle forecasts 
and analysis, taking into consideration the maturity of the Group’s financial instruments, projected cash 
flows from operations and an allowance for contingencies.

The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to fund the Group’s 
operations and its medium-term plans. Multiple sources of funding are used to maintain a balance between 
continuity of funding and flexibility without placing reliance on sources that are not contractually committed.

The Group’s committed bank facilities provide liquidity for the cash fluctuations of the business cycle and an 
allowance for contingencies. In June 2023, the Group extended its RCF to 31 December 2026 at £284m, 
reducing to £250m by 1 January 2025 as a consequence of specified transactions. As such at 31 December 
2023 the RCF commitment had been reduced to £260.7m (2022: £288.4m) and was subsequently reduced 
to £250.0m on 23 January 2024 following receipt of proceeds from the Fera disposal (refer to note 6.3).

The RCF was not drawn upon at 31 December 2023 (2022: undrawn).

The Group’s core funding is provided by private placement loan notes, and to mitigate the risk of needing to 
refinance in challenging conditions, these have been arranged with a spread of maturities to July 2028.

The bank facilities and private placement loan notes all include provisions that would require repayment in 
the event of a change of control, which are typical of these arrangements.

In February 2023, the Group executed a committed bridge facility with three of its relationship banks 
providing additional liquidity from 1 January 2024. This was cancelled in July 2023.

The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual 
undiscounted cash flows. All balances are stated based on the prevailing foreign exchange rates and the 
contractual interest rates at the balance sheet date.

At 31 December 2023
Overdraft*

Private placement loan 
notes
Interest on loan notes
Lease liabilities
Deferred consideration  

Put options of non-
controlling interests

Cross-currency 
interest rate swaps

Cash flow hedges
currency swaps

Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps

Other financial 
instruments

Within 
1 year 
£m
95.0   

Between 
1–2 years 
£m
—   

Between 
2–3 years 
£m
—   

Between 
3–4 years 
£m
—   

Between 
4–5 years 
£m
—   

More than 
5 years 
£m
—   

—   
15.0   
71.3   
—   

88.0   
13.3   
55.0   
—   

119.1   
11.7   
42.9   
0.7   

8.5   

—   

—   

1.2   

1.2   

1.2   

45.3   
2.3   
35.8   
—   

—   

—   

18.1   
1.5   
30.9   
—   

—   

—   

—   
—   
276.1   
—   

—   

—   

Total 
£m
95.0 

270.5 
43.8 
512.0 
0.7 

8.5 

3.6 

5.0   

5.0   

5.0   

1.7   

1.7   

—   

18.4 

1.7   

1.7   

0.1   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

3.4 

0.1 

197.8   

164.2   

180.6   

85.1   

52.2   

276.1   

956.0 

*

The Group has a notional cash pool under which the bank may net cash balances with overdrafts held by other Group companies in the 
arrangements. The overdraft balances shown are fully offset by credit balances in the same arrangement.

At 31 December 2022
Overdraft*

Private placement loan 
notes
Interest on loan notes
Lease liabilities
Deferred consideration  

Put options of non-
controlling interests

Cross-currency 
interest rate swaps

Other financial 
instruments

Within 
1 year 
£m
219.6   

Between 
1–2 years 
£m
—   

Between 
2–3 years 
£m
—   

Between 
3–4 years 
£m
—   

Between 
4–5 years 
£m
—   

More than 
5 years 
£m
—   

75.0   
9.6   
76.1   
—   

—   
7.9   
64.9   
—   

91.4   
6.2   
49.0   
—   

34.7   
4.5   
39.7   
—   

94.0   
2.6   
33.6   
0.7   

—   
—   
296.7   
—   

9.2   

—   

—   

—   

0.8   

0.8   

0.8   

0.8   

0.7   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

Total 
£m
219.6 

295.1 
30.8 
560.0 
0.7 

9.2 

3.2 

0.7 

391.0   

73.6   

147.4   

79.7   

130.9   

296.7    1,119.3 

195

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.2 Financial risk continued

4.2.2 Foreign currency risk
The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency transaction risk with two exceptions.

Firstly, services are provided by the Group’s operations in India, South Africa and Poland and incurred in 
Indian rupee (INR), South African rand (ZAR) and Polish zloty (PLN). The Group seeks to mitigate the short 
term effect of this exposure by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the British pounds 
sterling (GBP) cost of highly probable transactions.

At 31 December 2023, the Group held forward foreign exchange contracts against forecast internal monthly 
INR, ZAR and PLN costs expected in the periods up to and including December 2024, August 2028, and 
December 2026 respectively. These forecast costs have been determined on the basis of the underlying 
cash flows associated with the delivery of services under executed customer contracts.

Secondly, the Group holds foreign exchange forwards against committed costs relating to the purchase of 
cloud software services in US dollars (USD) in the periods up to and including October 2028.

To maximise hedge effectiveness, forward foreign exchange contracts are executed with terms matching 
the underlying cash flows.

The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s profit before tax and equity to a 5% 
strengthening/(weakening) in INR, ZAR, PLN, and USD exchange rates, assuming all other variables are 
unchanged, that would arise from the resulting changes in the fair value of the Group’s forward exchange 
contracts.

USD
INR
ZAR
PLN

2023

2022

Effect on profit 
before tax 
£m
0.6   
—   
0.5   
—   

Effect on 
equity 
£m
4.8 
3.4 
3.8 
0.2 

Effect on profit 
before tax 
£m
—   
—   
1.8   
0.1   

Effect on 
equity 
£m
0.8 
0.3 
— 
— 

4.2.3 Interest rate risk
The Group manages its interest rate exposure, which arises from the Group’s private placement loan notes, 
cash, deposits and RCF drawings at variable interest rates through cross-currency interest rate swaps and 
interest rate swaps. The cross currency interest rate swaps are designated in a mix of fair value and cash 
flow hedges against the fair value changes of the private placement loan notes and variability in future cash 
flows.

The net level of floating rate interest exposure is managed, to arrive at an acceptable overall interest rate 
risk profile. The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was as follows:

Nominal amounts

At 31 December 2023
Fixed rate

Private placement 
loan notes
Floating rate

Cash in hand
Overdraft

Nominal amounts

At 31 December 2022
Fixed rate

Private placement 
loan notes
Floating rate

Cash in hand
Overdraft

Private placement 
loan notes

Within 
1 year 
£m

Between 
1–2 years 
£m

Between 
2–3 years 
£m

Between 
3–4 years 
£m

Between 
4–5 years 
£m

More than 
5 years 
£m

Total 
£m

—   

75.9   

119.4   

40.9   

18.1   

—   

254.3 

(162.6)   
95.0   

—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

(162.6) 
95.0 

Within 
1 year 
£m

Between 
1–2 years 
£m

Between 
2–3 years 
£m

Between 
3–4 years 
£m

Between 
4–5 years 
£m

More than 
5 years 
£m

Total 
£m

27.5   

—   

29.7   

18.6   

71.2   

—   

147.0 

(396.8)   
219.6   

—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

(396.8) 
219.6 

38.8   

—   

46.2   

15.5   

17.1   

—   

117.6 

A sensitivity analysis to changes in interest rates shows that a 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rates, 
assuming all other variables are held constant, results in a £nil (2022: £0.6m) increase or decrease to profit 
before tax, and no impact on the Group’s equity.

196

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.2 Financial risk continued

4.2.4 Hedges

Fair value hedges
The Group’s fixed rate USD and GBP private placement loan notes are hedged through a combination of 
cross-currency interest rate swaps. The cross-currency interest rate swaps hedge the exposure to changes 
in the fair value of US dollar denominated loan notes. The loan notes and their corresponding swaps have 
the same critical terms including nominal values and maturity dates.

The total loss in the year on the fair value hedges of £11.1m (2022: £3.2m loss) was equal to the loss on 
the hedged items resulting in no net gain or loss in the income statement apart from hedge ineffectiveness 
from credit risk and currency basis risk. This effect of hedge ineffectiveness resulted in a £1.0m credit 
(2022: £0.2m debit) to the consolidated income statement, shown in net finance costs, note 4.3.

The impact of the hedged item and the related financial derivatives on the consolidated balance sheet at 
31 December 2023 is as follows:

Cash flow hedges
The Group holds the following foreign exchange contracts to manage various exposures across its business 
operations:
• non-deliverable forward foreign exchange contracts (NDFs), that are designated as hedges of the highly 
probable transactions in INR of the Group’s Indian operations. The terms of the NDFs match the terms of 
these commitments.
foreign exchange forward contracts against committed costs relating to the purchase of cloud software 
services in USD for the periods up to and including October 2028.
foreign exchange forward contracts against committed costs to manage foreign exchange exposure on 
services provided by the operations in South Africa, incurred in ZAR, and Poland incurred in PLN.

•

•

Additionally, during 2023 the Group executed currency and interest rate swaps to mitigate its foreign 
exchange and interest rate exposure on the private placement loan notes.

Notional
amount of the
hedging instrument

Carrying
amount of the
hedging instrument

Fair value hedges

Hedged risk

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Cross-currency interest 
rate swaps

Foreign 
exchange 
risk/ Interest 
rate risk

  63.3   

15.5    14.5   

(0.9) 

Change in fair
value used for
measuring
ineffectiveness
£m

(11.1) 

Line item in
the balance
sheet

Financial 
assets/
Liabilities

Cash flow hedges

Foreign exchange forward 
contracts
 - forecasted purchases

Interest rate swaps
 - private placement loan 
notes

Cross currency swaps
 - private placement loan 
notes

Hedged risk

Foreign 
exchange 
risk

Interest 
rate risk
Foreign 
exchange 
risk

Private placement loan notes

262.5   

13.6 

Financial Liabilities

11.1 

Carrying 
amount
£m

Accumulated fair
value adjustment
£m

Line item in the
balance sheet

Change in fair value
used for measuring
ineffectiveness
£m

Notional
amount of the
hedging instrument

Carrying
amount of the
hedging instrument

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

  50.2    149.9   

1.8   

(3.6) 

  32.6   

46.2   

0.1   

(0.6) 

  —   

51.9    —   

(1.2) 

  82.8    248.0   

1.9   

(5.4) 

Line item in
the balance
sheet

Financial 
assets/
liabilities

Financial 
assets/
liabilities
Financial 
assets/
liabilities

Change in fair
value used for
measuring
ineffectiveness
£m

(7.3) 

(0.6) 

(1.2) 

(9.1) 

The fair value of cash flow hedging instruments held at 31 December 2023 is shown in note 4.5.2.

197

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.2 Financial risk continued

4.3 Net finance costs

The cash flow hedges have been assessed to be highly effective. The cash flow hedging reserve comprises 
the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the hedging instruments. The following 
table provides an analysis of components of equity resulting from cash flow hedge accounting:

At 1 January

Change in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement of other 
comprehensive income
Reclassified to the consolidated income statement:

recognised in administrative expenses

Change in tax

At 31 December

2023
£m
4.1   

(8.5)   

(2.0)   
2.6   

(3.8) 

2022
£m
(0.7) 

11.5 

(5.1) 
(1.6) 

4.1

4.2.5 Credit risk
The carrying values of the Group’s financial assets and contract assets represent its maximum credit 
exposure.

The mark-to-market movement on derivatives includes the extent to which the fair value of these 
instruments has been affected by the perceived change in the creditworthiness of the counterparties (ie the 
expected credit losses) to those instruments and that of the Group itself (own credit risk). The Group is 
comfortable that the risk attached to those counterparties is not significant and believes that the swaps 
continue to act as an effective hedge against the movements in the fair value of the Group’s private 
placement loan notes.

The table below shows the composition of net finance costs, including those excluded from adjusted profit:

Notes

5.2   

3.1.1  

3.6   

Interest income

Interest on cash
Interest on finance lease assets
Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes

Total interest income

Interest expense

Private placement loan notes1
Bank loans and overdrafts
Cost of non-recourse trade receivables financing
Interest on finance lease liabilities
Discount unwind on provisions

Total interest expense
Net finance expense included in adjusted profit

Included within business exits
Bank loans and overdrafts

Interest on finance lease liabilities

Other items excluded from adjusted profits

Non-designated foreign exchange forward contracts – change 
in mark-to-market value
Fair value hedge ineffectiveness2

4.2.4  

Net finance expense/(income) excluded from adjusted profit

Total net finance expense

2023 
£m

(1.9)   
(4.1)   
(2.7)   

(8.7)   

16.3   
14.1   
3.7   
22.3   
2.3   

58.7   
50.0   

—   
—   

3.2   
(1.0)   

2.2   

52.2   

2022 
£m

(1.1) 
(4.2) 
(3.6) 

(8.9) 

12.0 
8.4 
— 
22.5 
— 

42.9 
34.0 

1.0 

0.1 

(3.6) 
0.2 

(2.3) 

31.7 

1. Private placement loan notes comprise US dollar and British pound sterling private placement loan notes, and the euro fixed rate bearer 

notes which were repaid during 2023.

2. Fair value hedge ineffectiveness arises from changes in currency basis, and the movement in a provision for counterparty risk associated 

with the swaps.

198

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.4 Leases

AP

Accounting policies

The Group leases various assets, comprising land and buildings, equipment and motor vehicles.

The determination whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on whether the contract 
conveys a right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

Lease payments comprise fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments such as service charges 
and variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the minimum index 
or rate at inception date. The payments also include any lease incentives and any penalty payments for 
terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option.

The lease term determined comprises the non-cancellable period of the lease contract. Periods covered by 
an option to extend the lease are included if the Group has reasonable certainty that the option will be 
exercised, and periods covered by an option to terminate are included if it is reasonably certain that this will 
not be exercised.

The following sets out the Group’s lease accounting policy for all leases with the exception of leases with 
low value and term of twelve months or less which are expensed to the consolidated income statement.

The Group has elected to apply the practical expedient in IFRS 16 Leases paragraph 15 not to separate 
non-lease components such as service charges from lease rental charges.

The Group as a lessee – Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
The accounting policy for right-of-use assets is included in note 3.5.

The Group recognises lease liabilities where a lease contract exists and right-of-use assets representing the 
right to use the underlying leased assets.

At the commencement of a lease, the Group recognises the lease liability measured at the present value of 
the lease payments to be made over the lease term.

In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the 
lease commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After 
the commencement date, the amount of the lease liability is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and 
reduced for the lease payments made. The incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Group 
would have to pay to borrow, over a similar term and with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain 
an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. Incremental 
borrowing rates are determined monthly and depend on the term, country, currency and commencement 
date of the lease. The incremental borrowing rate is determined based on a series of inputs including: the 
risk-free rate based on swap market data; a country-specific risk adjustment; a credit risk adjustment; and 
an entity-specific adjustment where the entity risk profile is different to that of the Group.

The lease liability is subsequently remeasured (with a corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use 
asset) when there is a change in future lease payments due to a renegotiation or market rent review, a 
change of an index or rate or a reassessment of the lease term.

Lease payments are apportioned between a finance charge and a reduction of the lease liability based on 
the constant interest rate applied to the remaining balance of the liability. Interest expense is included within 
net finance costs in the consolidated income statement.

The Group as a lessor
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease commencement whether the lease is a finance 
lease or an operating lease.

To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers to the lessee 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership in relation to the underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease 
is a finance lease. If not, then it is an operating lease.

The Group acts as an intermediate lessor of property assets and equipment. When the Group is an 
intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease separately. It assesses 
whether the sub-lease is a finance or operating lease in the context of the right-of-use asset arising from the 
head lease.

In instances where the Group is the intermediate lessor and the sub-lease is classified as a finance lease, 
the Group recognises a net investment in sub-leases for amounts recoverable from the sub-lessees while 
derecognising the respective portion of the right-of-use asset. The lease liability is retained on the balance 
sheet. The net investment in sub-leases is classified as current or non-current finance assets in the 
consolidated balance sheet according to whether or not the amounts will be recovered within twelve months 
of the balance sheet date. Finance income recognised in respect of net investment in sub-leases is 
presented within net finance costs in the consolidated income statement and the capital element of lease 
rental received is presented within investing activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.

The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term. The Group accounts for finance leases as finance lease receivables, using an 
incremental borrowing rate where the interest rate implicit in sub-lease is not easily determinable.

199

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.4 Leases continued

4.4.1 The Group as a lessee

Amounts recognised on the balance sheet

Lease liabilities

2023
£m

2022
£m

Type of financial 
instrument

363.4   

397.5 

Financial 
liabilities

The lease liability includes £7.3m (2022: £5.0m) of future lease payments (undiscounted) for leases with 
termination options that could be exercised but are recognised at full term. The potential future cash 
outflows of £10.5m (2022: £13.2m) (undiscounted) have not been included in the lease liability because the 
Group is reasonably certain that the leases will not be extended. The total cash outflow for leases was 
£81.4m (2022: £84.4m) consisting of interest paid of £22.3m (2022: £22.6m) and capital element of £59.1m 
(2022: £61.8m).

Right-of-use assets are disclosed in note 3.5, the maturity analysis of lease liabilities is included in 
note 4.2.1 and interest expense in note 4.3.

4.4.2 The Group as a lessor

Amounts recognised on the balance sheet

Lease receivables

2023
£m

70.3   

2022
£m

Type of financial 
instrument

Financial 
assets

76.3 

The maturity analysis of lease receivables, including the undiscounted lease payments to be received, is as 
follows:

Within 1 year
Between 1-2 years
Between 2-3 years
Between 3-4 years
Between 4-5 years
More than 5 years
Total undiscounted lease payments receivable
Unearned finance income
Net investment in lease receivables

2023
£m
9.9   
8.2   
7.7   
4.0   
4.0   
65.5   
99.3   
(29.0)   
70.3   

2022
£m
9.8 
9.7 
8.2 
7.7 
4.0 
70.2 
109.6 
(33.3) 
76.3 

Change in finance lease receivables during the year

At 1 January
Payments received
Interest accrued (see note 4.3)

At 31 December

2023
£m

76.3   
(10.1)   
4.1   

70.3   

2022
£m

82.1 
(10.0) 
4.2 

76.3 

The expenses related to short-term leases, leases of low-value assets and income from sub-leases are 
immaterial and therefore there is no separate disclosure.

During 2020, the Group sublet a leased property. The sub-lease includes an option for the lessee to 
terminate the lease earlier than the Group’s lease with its landlord. Management assessed it was 
reasonably certain that the break clause will not be exercised and, accordingly, determined that the sub-
lease is a finance lease. This resulted in the recognition of a finance lease receivable. This judgement was 
based on a number of factors as prescribed within IFRS 16 such as incentive to lessee, importance of the 
location to the lessee’s operations, shorter non-cancellable period of the lease, and the lessee’s 
modifications to, and customisation of, the property. At 31 December 2023, the lease receivable was 
£66.3m and is included in the balance above.

200

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy

AP

Accounting policies

Financial instruments – classification of financial instruments
The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following measurement categories:
•

those to be measured subsequently at fair value, either through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or 
through profit or loss (FVPL); and
those to be measured at amortised cost.

•

The classification depends on the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets and the 
contractual terms of the cash flows.

Financial instruments – initial recognition
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial instrument at its fair value plus, in the case of a 
financial instrument not at FVPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the 
financial instrument. Transaction costs of financial instruments carried at FVPL are expensed in the 
consolidated income statement.

Financial instruments with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether 
their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest.

Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on their trade date (ie the date the Group 
commits to purchase or sell the instrument). Financial instruments are derecognised when the rights to 
receive/pay cash flows from the financial instrument have expired or have been transferred such that the 
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.

Debt instruments
Debt instruments are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are 
subsequently remeasured depending on the Group’s business model for managing the instrument and the 
cash flow characteristics of the debt instrument. There are three measurement categories into which the 
Group classifies its debt instruments:
• Amortised cost: instruments that are held for collection/payment of contractual cash flows are measured 
at amortised cost where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Interest 
income/expense from these financial instruments is included in net finance costs using the effective 
interest rate method.

• FVOCI: instruments that are held for collection/payment of contractual cash flows and for selling the 
financial instrument are measured at FVOCI where the instrument’s cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through consolidated 
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest 
income and foreign exchange gains/losses, which are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
When the financial instrument is derecognised, the cumulative gain/loss previously recognised in OCI is 
reclassified to the consolidated income statement and recognised in other gains/(losses).

• FVPL: instruments that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A 
gain/loss on a debt instrument that is measured at FVPL is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement and presented within net finance costs.

The Group reclassifies debt instruments when, and only when, its business model for managing those 
instruments changes.

Equity instruments
Investments in equity instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at 
fair value with the movement recognised through the consolidated income statement, except where an 
election has been made for the movement to be recognised through OCI. An election can be made on initial 
recognition of equity instruments that are neither held-for-trading or instruments acquired as part of a 
business combination. Once an election has been made all movements in fair value, with the exception of 
dividends, are presented through OCI and there is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains/losses 
to the consolidated income statement following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends from such 
investments continue to be recognised in the consolidated income statement as other income when the 
Group’s right to receive payment is established.

Impairment
The Group assesses, on a forward looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its financial 
instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied depends on 
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

Derivatives
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value at the end of each reporting period with the movement recognised through the consolidated income 
statement, except where derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. The effective proportion of cash 
flow hedges is recognised in OCI and presented in the hedging reserve within equity. The cumulative gain/
loss is subsequently reclassified to the consolidated income statement in the same period that the relevant 
hedged transaction is realised.

Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that 
necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part 
of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. 
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.

4.5.1 Fair value hierarchy
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are classified based on the following fair value hierarchy:
• Level-1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level-2: other techniques for which inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are 

based on observable (directly or indirectly) market data. With the exception of current financial 
instruments (which have a short maturity), the fair value of the Group’s level-2 financial instruments were 
calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The valuation 
models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate 
curves. In the case of floating rate borrowings the nominal value approximates to fair value because 
interest is set at floating rates where payments are reset to market values at intervals of less than one 
year.

• Level-3: other techniques for which inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are not 

based on observable market data.

Other financial instruments, where observable market data is not available, are carried at either amortised 
cost or cost (undiscounted cash flows) as a reasonable approximation of fair value.

During the year ended 31 December 2023, there were no transfers between fair value levels.

201

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy continued

4.5.2 Financial instruments and their fair value hierarchy classification
The following table analyses, by classification and category, the carrying value of the Group’s financial instruments and identifies the level of the fair value hierarchy for the instruments carried at fair value:

At 31 December 2023
Financial assets

Lease receivables
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swaps 
Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Originated loans receivable
Financial assets at fair value through P&L
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
Deferred consideration receivable

Other financial assets

Cash
Cash included within disposal group assets held for sale

Total financial assets

Financial liabilities

Private placement loan notes
Other finance
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts
Cash flow hedges – currency swaps
Cash flow hedges – interest rate swaps
Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Deferred consideration payable
Put options of non-controlling interests 

Other financial liabilities

Overdrafts
Lease liabilities

Total financial liabilities

Note

4.4.2
4.2.4
4.2.4

a

4.5.4
2.8

a

4.2.4
4.2.4
4.2.4

a

c

4.5.4
4.4.1

Fair value
hierarchy

FVPL
£m

FVOCI
£m

Derivatives
used for
hedging
£m

Amortised
cost
£m

n/a  
Level-2  
Level-2  
Level-2  
Level-2  
n/a  
Level-3  
Level-3  
n/a  

n/a  
n/a  

n/a  
n/a  
Level-2  
Level-2  
Level-2  
Level-2  
Level-2  
n/a  
Level-3  

n/a  
n/a  

—   
—   
—   
0.3   
—   
—   
16.9   
—   
—   

17.2   

—   
—   

17.2   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
0.2   
—   
—   
—   

0.2   

—   
—   

0.2   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
0.7   
—   

0.7   

—   
—   

0.7   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
8.5   

8.5   

—   
—   

8.5   

—   
1.8   
0.1   
—   
14.5   
—   
—   
—   
—   

16.4   

—   
—   

16.4   

—   
—   
3.6   
1.2   
0.6   
—   
0.9   
—   
—   

6.3   

—   
—   

6.3   

70.3   
—   
—   
—   
—   
0.7   
—   
—   
20.0   

91.0   

155.4   
7.2   

253.6   

262.5   
0.1   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
0.7   
—   

263.3   

95.0   
363.4   

721.7   

Total
£m

70.3 
1.8 
0.1 
0.3 
14.5 
0.7 
16.9 
0.7 
20.0 

125.3 

155.4 
7.2 

287.9 

262.5 
0.1 
3.6 
1.2 
0.6 
0.2 
0.9 
0.7 
8.5 

278.3 

95.0 
363.4 

736.7 

Current
£m

Non-
current
£m

6.3   
1.4   
0.1   
0.3   
—   
—   
—   
—   
20.0   

28.1   

155.4   
7.2   

190.7   

—   
0.1   
1.5   
—   
0.6   
0.1   
—   
—   
8.5   

10.8   

95.0   
51.1   

156.9   

64.0 
0.4 
— 
— 
14.5 
0.7 
16.9 
0.7 
— 

97.2 

— 
— 

97.2 

262.5 
— 
2.1 
1.2 
— 
0.1 
0.9 
0.7 
— 

267.5 

— 
312.3 

579.8 

202

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy continued

The Group’s key financial liabilities are set out below:

Financial assets measured at amortised cost consist of cash, lease receivables, originated loans and 
deferred consideration receivable. The carrying value of cash is a reasonable approximation of its fair value 
due to the short-term nature of the instruments. Lease receivables, originated loans and deferred 
consideration receivable are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Included 
in other investments are £0.7m (2022: £0.8m) of strategic investments in unlisted equity securities which 
are not held-for-trading and the Group elected to recognise at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive 
Income (FVOCI). During the period no dividends were received from, and no disposals were made of, 
strategic investments.

The financial assets at Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVPL) relate to the Group’s minority 
shareholding in companies as part of Capita Scaling Partners. The assets are revalued when reliable 
information on fair value becomes available, which is normally at each funding round.

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost consist of loan notes, overdrafts, lease liabilities, credit 
facilities and deferred consideration payable. With the exception of certain series within the fixed rate 
private placement loan notes, the carrying value of financial liabilities are a reasonable approximation of 
their fair value. This is because either the interest payable is close to market rates or the liability is short-
term in nature. The private placement loan note series, for which this approximation does not apply, are 
those that are subject to longer term fixed rate of interest – these have an underlying carrying value of 
£173.9m (2022: £144.9m) and a fair value of £166.3m (2022: £130.2m). Lease liabilities and deferred 
consideration payable are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.

a. Private placement loan notes
The private placement loan notes were issued in USD and GBP. The Group manages its exposure to 
foreign exchange and interest rate movements through cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate 
swaps, and forward foreign exchange contracts.

b. Bank facilities
Details of the Group’s bank facilities are provided in the liquidity section above. At 31 December 2023, the 
total value of committed facilities was £260.7m, of which none was drawn (2022: total facilities of £288.4m 
of which none was drawn). The committed facilities were subsequently reduced to £250m on 23 January 
2024 following receipt of proceeds from the Fera disposal (refer to note 6.3).

c. Put options of non-controlling interests
The liability at 31 December 2023 represents the present value of the cost to acquire the non-controlling 
interest in Fera Science Limited. The option held by the non-controlling shareholder of Fera Science Limited 
has been exercisable since April 2021. A sensitivity analysis assuming a 10% increase/decrease in the 
earnings potential of the business results in a £0.9m increase/decrease in the valuation. The put option 
expired without being exercised on completion of the sale of the Group’s shareholding in Fera Science 
Limited on 17 January 2024 (refer to note 6.3), and the related liability was de-recognised. Upon inception 
of the option agreements, management determined that changes in the carrying amount would be 
recognised within equity. This has been applied consistently.

203

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy continued

At 31 December 2022
Financial assets

Lease receivables
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts
Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Originated loans receivable
Financial assets at fair value through P&L
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
Deferred consideration receivable

Other financial assets

Cash

Total financial assets

Financial liabilities

Private placement loan notes
Other finance
Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Deferred consideration payable
Put options of non-controlling interests

Other financial liabilities

Overdrafts
Lease liabilities

Total financial liabilities

Fair value
hierarchy

FVPL
£m

FVOCI
£m

Derivatives
used for
hedging
£m

Amortised
cost
£m

Note

4.4.2
4.2.4

a

n/a  
Level-2  
Level-2  
Level-2  
n/a  
Level-3  
Level-3  
n/a  

4.5.4

n/a  

a

a

c

n/a  
n/a  
Level-2  
Level-2  
n/a  
Level-3  

4.5.4
4.4.1

n/a  
n/a  

—   
—   
5.3   
—   
—   
17.2   
—   
—   

22.5   

—   

22.5   

—   
—   
0.1   
—   
—   
—   

0.1   

—   
—   

0.1   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
0.8   
—   

0.8   

—   

0.8   

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
9.2   

9.2   

—   
—   

9.2   

—   
5.4   
—   
25.8   
—   
—   
—   
—   

31.2   

—   

31.2   

—   
—   
—   
1.0   
—   
—   

1.0   

—   
—   

1.0   

76.3   
—   
—   
—   
0.5   
—   
—   
10.5   

87.3   

396.8   

484.1   

285.5   
0.7   
—   
—   
0.7   
—   

286.9   

219.6   
397.5   

904.0   

Total
£m

76.3 
5.4 
5.3 
25.8 
0.5 
17.2 
0.8 
10.5 

141.8 

396.8 

538.6 

285.5 
0.7 
0.1 
1.0 
0.7 
9.2 

297.2 

219.6 
397.5 

914.3 

Current
£m

5.9   
3.0   
4.4   
8.3   
—   
—   
—   
2.0   

Non-
current
£m

70.4 
2.4 
0.9 
17.5 
0.5 
17.2 
0.8 
8.5 

23.6   

118.2 

396.8   

420.4   

74.6   
0.7   
0.1   
—   
—   
9.2   

84.6   

219.6   
55.6   

359.8   

— 

118.2 

210.9 
— 
— 
1.0 
0.7 
— 

212.6 

— 
341.9 

554.5 

204

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Financial instruments and the fair value hierarchy continued

The following table shows the movement from the opening balances to the closing balances for Level-3 fair 
values.

Put options of 
non-controlling
interests
£m

Investments
 FVPL and
 FVOCI
£m

At 1 January 2022

Change in put-options recognised in other comprehensive income

Additions

Reclassification from other investment categories

Gain in fair value recognised in income statement

Gain in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

At 31 December 2022

Change in put-options recognised in other comprehensive income

Disposals

Loss in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

At 31 December 2023

8.6   

0.6   

—   

—   

—   

—   

9.2   

(0.7)   

—   

—   

8.5   

9.2 

— 

2.3 

0.4 

5.9 

0.2 

18.0 

— 

(0.3) 

(0.1) 

Maturity
22 January 2025
22 April 2025
25 July 2026
27 October 2026
22 January 2027

Total GBP denominated

22 January 2025
25 July 2026
27 October 2026
22 January 2027
25 July 2028

17.6 

Total USD denominated1

4.5.3 Borrowings
Details of the Group’s current RCF facility are shown in the above liquidity section (see note 4.5.2b).

Borrowing costs of £5.4m were capitalised in the year (2022: £5.2m). At 31 December 2023, the Group’s 
private placement loan note series had a GBP equivalent underlying carrying value of £250.2m (2022: 
£260.5m) (see note 4.5.2a) analysed as follows:

Denomination

GBP  
GBP  
GBP  
GBP  
GBP  

GBP

USD  
USD  
USD  
USD  
USD  

USD

Interest rate
%
3.540   
3.670   
9.350   
2.770   
3.580   

3.650   
8.000   
3.590   
3.800   
8.210   

Nominal value
Ccy’m
7.4 
22.3 
50.0 
18.6 
23.8 

122.1 

74.3 
45.0 
19.3 
27.5 
23.0 

189.1 

1. USD denominated loan notes have a GBP equivalent underlying carrying value of £131.1m. The Group has entered into a combination of 

cross currency and interest rate swaps to achieve a GBP fixed rate of interest. Further disclosure on the Group’s use of hedges is included in 
note 4.2.

4.5.4 Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts 
The Group has a notional cash pool with its bank under which the bank is able to net overdrafts against 
cash balances held by other Group companies within the same notional pool. The overdraft balances shown 
below are fully offset by cash balances within the same notional pool. Since the pool is notional, the Group’s 
gross cash and overdraft position is presented below:

Cash and cash equivalents
Overdrafts

Cash, net of overdrafts, included in disposal group assets and liabilities 
held for sale

Total cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts

2023
£m
155.4   
(95.0)   

2022
£m
396.8 
(219.6) 

60.4   

177.2 

7.2   

67.6   

— 

177.2 

Of total cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts, £46.0m (2022: £60.4m) is restricted cash, which includes 
cash required to be held under FCA regulations, cash held in foreign bank accounts, and cash represented 
by non-controlling interests.

205

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.6 Issued share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 2 1/15p each

At 1 January
Issue of share capital

At 31 December

Share premium
Ordinary shares of 2 1/15p each

At 1 January

At 31 December

2023
№ m

2022
№ m

1,684.1   
17.0   

1,701.1

1,684.1   
—   

1,684.1  

4.7 Group composition and non-controlling interests

2023
£m

34.8   
0.4   

35.2   

2023
£m

2022
£m

34.8 

— 

34.8 

2022
£m

1,145.5   

1,145.5 

1,145.5   

1,145.5 

The Group’s subsidiaries are listed in notes 7.3.3 and 7.3.16 of the Parent Company financial statements on 
pages 221, 222 and 225 to 228. 

The Group holds a majority of the voting rights in all of its subsidiaries and the directors have determined 
that, other than the entity commented on below, in each case the Group exercises de facto control.

On 23 September 2014, the Secretary of State for the Department for Energy and Climate Change granted 
Smart DCC Limited (DCC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, a licence to establish and manage the 
smart metering communications infrastructure, governed by the Smart Energy Code. Each year the Group 
reassess whether it has control over DCC as required under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Group’s ability to control the relevant activities of DCC is restricted by DCC’s operating licence. The 
power that the Group has over DCC’s relevant activities by virtue of owning it is limited (given the 
restrictions in the licence). That power is held by the board of DCC where the Group has minority 
representation in compliance with the licence. Consequently, the Group has not consolidated DCC in its 
Group financial statements. The disclosure of related party transactions with DCC is included in note 6.1.

Employee benefit trust shares
Ordinary shares of 2 1/15p

At 1 January
Shares purchased
Issued on exercise of share options

At 31 December

2023
№ m

9.3
17.0   
(9.5)   

16.8

2022
№ m

18.1  
—   
(8.8)   

9.3  

2023
£m

(4.2)   
(0.4)   
3.9   

(0.7)   

2022
£m

(8.0) 
— 
3.8 

(4.2) 

The Group will use shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) shares to satisfy future requirements 
for shares under the Group’s share option and long-term incentive plans. On 2 June 2023, 17m ordinary 
2 1/15 pence shares (2022: nil) were allotted to the EBT for an aggregate nominal value of £351,332 to 
satisfy exercises under the Group’s share plans. The total consideration received in respect of these shares 
was £351,332. During the year, 9,496,440 (2022: 8,770,217) shares with a value of £3.9m (2022: £3.8m) 
were transferred out of the EBT to satisfy exercises under the Group's share option and long-term incentive 
plans. The total consideration received in respect of these shares was £nil (2022: £nil).

The Group has an unexpired authority to repurchase up to 9.9% of its issued share capital.

206

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Employee benefits

This section details employee related items that are not 
explained elsewhere in the financial statements.

Key highlights 

5.1

5.2

5.3

AP

J

E

Share-based payment plans

Pensions

Employee benefit expense

Denotes accounting policies

Denotes significant accounting judgements

Denotes significant accounting estimates and 
assumptions

Additional funding into 
the defined benefit schemes

£46.3m

(2022: £38.6m)

Net defined benefit pension accounting surplus

£26.8m

(2022: surplus £39.6m)

Employee benefit expense

£1,636.5m

(2022: £1,758.1m)

Net defined benefit pension asset
Defined benefit obligation
Fair value of plan assets

2023
£m

2022
£m

  (1,178.3)    (1,136.1)   
  1,205.1    1,175.7   

Movement
£m
(42.2) 
29.4 

Net defined pension asset after 
effect of asset ceiling limit

26.8   

39.6   

(12.8) 

The net defined benefit pension position on an accounting basis 
remained a net asset but reduced slightly by 31 December 2023.

The main reasons for the movement in the net defined benefit pension 
position are (i) the decrease in the yields available on corporate bonds 
(used to value the pension obligation); (ii) assets returning less than 
expected over the period; and (iii) these were partially offset by the 
deficit funding contributions (£46.3m) paid into the Group’s main 
defined benefit scheme (HPS) (formerly known as CPLAS) (plus 
£0.5m deficit funding contribution in respect of other schemes). The 
schemes are highly sensitive to the change in discount rates (with a 
0.5% pa change resulting in an approximate £89.8m impact) and 
change in future inflation expectations (with a 0.5% pa change 
resulting in an approximate £48.1m impact).

The valuation of liabilities for funding purposes differs from the 
valuation for accounting purposes due to the different requirements. 
Management estimate that at 31 December 2023 the surplus of the 
HPS scheme was around £81m on a funding basis (ie the funding 
assumption principles adopted for the full actuarial valuation at 
31 March 2023), compared to a surplus of £29m on an accounting 
basis.

207

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
Section 5: Employee benefits continued

5.1 Share-based payment plans

The Group operates a number of executive and employee equity-settled share schemes.

AP

Accounting policies

The fair value of the equity instrument granted under these schemes is measured at grant date and is 
recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined using an option pricing model, only taking into 
account vesting conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).

No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of not meeting performance or 
service conditions. Where all service and performance vesting conditions have been met, the awards are 
treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, since market conditions 
were reflected in the fair value of the equity instruments.

At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to 
which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of 
non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an 
instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in 
cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.

Where the terms of an award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled 
award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting 
period adjusted for the incremental fair value of any modification ie the difference between the fair value of 
the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the 
modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.

Where an award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not 
yet recognised in the consolidated income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any 
compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from 
equity, with any excess over the fair value being treated as an expense in the consolidated income 
statement.

The expense recognised for share-based payments (before tax) in respect of employee services received 
during the year to 31 December 2023 was £5.5m (2022: £5.4m), all of which arises from equity-settled 
share based payment transactions. Details of the schemes are as follows:

Deferred annual bonus plan
This scheme is applicable to executive directors. Under this scheme, awards are made annually consisting 
of only deferred shares, which are linked to the payout under the annual bonus scheme (details of which are 
contained in the directors’ remuneration report on page 96 to 118).

The value of deferred shares is determined by the pay-out under the annual bonus scheme: half of the 
annual bonus is paid in cash and the remainder is deferred into shares under the deferred annual bonus 
plan or the Capita executive plan. Directors have the option to defer up to 100% of their annual bonus into 
deferred shares or net bonus into a restricted share award. The deferred/restricted shares are held for a 
period of three years from the date of award, during which they are not forfeitable, except in the case of 
dismissal for gross misconduct.

The weighted average share price of options at the date of exercise in 2023 was £0.33 (2022: £0.22). The 
weighted average share price during the year was £0.26 (2022: £0.26).

The total cash value of the deferred shares awarded during the year was £0.7m (2022: £0.2m).

Long-term incentive plans (LTIPs)
The structure of the Group’s LTIP schemes was approved at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) in 2017. From 2021, no new awards will be granted under the LTIP with the final awards under the 
scheme (the 2020 grant) having vested in April 2023.

The 2020 award was split into three equal tranches that vested on the first, second and third anniversary of 
the grant date. The first tranche in 2020 was subject to a retention element which would vest in full on each 
annual vesting date, with the remaining 50% subject to a performance condition of net debt. Threshold 
vesting (25%) was dependent on net debt falling to £872m, target vesting (50%) was dependent on net debt 
falling to £822m and maximum vesting (100%) was dependent on net debt being below £772m. Tranches 2 
and 3 were subject to the retention element only apart from the CEO’s award which was subject to relative 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and responsible business scorecard measures.

Details of the 2020 LTIP award outturn and vesting levels for executive directors are set out in the 2022 
directors’ remuneration report, on page 115 of the 2022 Annual Report.

All of the above awards are subject to a performance underpin assessment of the underlying financial and 
operational performance of Capita over the performance period.

208

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 5: Employee benefits continued

5.1 Share-based payment plans continued

Capita Executive Plan 2021
The Capita Executive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM. Under this plan, restricted 
share awards (RSAs) are granted to executives.

With the exception of the executive directors, RSAs granted in 2021, 2022 and 2023 are split into three 
equal tranches that vest on the first, second and third anniversary of the grant date. The awards are not 
subject to specific performance conditions, however there is a general underpin regarding Remuneration 
Committee satisfaction with underlying financial and operational performance of Capita over the 
performance period.

Details of the Capita Executive Plan RSAs made to executive directors and the associated underpins are 
set out in the directors’ remuneration report, on page 111.

Outstanding at 1 January
Awarded during the year
Exercised
Lapses

Outstanding at 31 December

Exercisable at 31 December

2023
№ m
41.7   
16.6   
(9.5)   
(7.6)   

41.2   

—   

2022
№ m
46.4 
28.5 
(8.8) 
(24.4) 

41.7 

— 

The weighted average remaining contractual life of the above shares outstanding at 31 December 2023 was 
1.1 years (2022: 1.3 years).

All schemes
The fair value of the options granted/awarded during the year was £0.38 per share (2022: £0.22 per share). 
None of the existing option schemes have exercise prices.

The fair value for current share scheme issues is effectively the market price of a Capita share at the date of 
grant. Accordingly, no assumptions have been disclosed.

The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is 
indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.

5.2 Pensions

AP

Accounting policies

Defined contribution pension schemes
The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group 
has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised 
as an employee benefit expense in the consolidated income statement when the related service is provided 
and as they fall due.

Defined benefit pension schemes
In addition, the Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes and participates in a number of other 
defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-
administered funds. The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for 
each scheme using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current 
period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement.

When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future 
obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future 
entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial 
assumptions and the resultant gain/loss recognised in the consolidated income statement during the period 
in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.

Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset/liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the 
return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are 
recognised immediately in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to the consolidated 
income statement. The Group generally determines the net interest expense/income on the net defined 
benefit asset/liability for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit 
obligation at the beginning of the year to the then net defined benefit asset/liability, taking into account any 
changes in the net defined benefit asset/liability during the year as a result of contributions and benefit 
payments. However, due consideration is given to events which require the net interest expense/income on 
the net defined benefit asset/liability to be remeasured over the course of the year.

Current and past service costs are charged to operating profit while the net interest cost is included within 
net finance costs.

The net asset/(liability) in the consolidated balance sheet with respect to the defined benefit pension 
schemes comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less the fair value of assets 
out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. The policy to determine fair value of assets is detailed 
in the note below. Where applicable the value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present 
value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or reductions in the future 
contributions.

209

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued

Pension expense included in the consolidated income statement

E

Significant accounting estimates and assumptions

Measurement of defined benefit obligations – the accounting cost of these benefits and the present value of 
pension liabilities involve judgements about uncertain events including such factors as the life expectancy of 
members, the salary progression of current employees, price inflation and the discount rate used to 
calculate the net present value of the future pension payments. The Group uses estimates for all of these 
factors in determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in the consolidated financial statements. 
The assumptions reflect historical experience and judgement regarding future expectations.

The Group continued to set Retail Price Inflation (RPI) in accordance with the market break-even 
expectations less an inflation risk premium, which has remained at 0.25% pa. For Consumer Price Inflation 
(CPI), the Group reduced the assumed difference between RPI and CPI to an average of 0.60% pa.

Short-term inflation expectations continued to remain high due to the global economic recovery from the 
initial phase of Covid-19, combined with supply constraints in certain sectors such as energy. Current 
inflation levels continue to be higher than recent norms. This will have an impact on pension increases that 
are linked to inflation and this impact, where applicable, has been reflected in the disclosures. It should be 
noted that a material proportion of pension increases are capped (at different levels, but the main cap is 
5.0% pa) with some caps applying annually and others applying over a period of years.

The impact of Covid-19 on the effects of future life expectancy continues to be uncertain. The pandemic is 
likely to have an impact on the setting of appropriate life expectancy assumptions and models for future 
improvements will need to consider whether the experiences since 2020 are a short-term phenomenon, and 
if the pandemic will influence future mortality in other ways. For example, the pressure on health services 
may mean that progress against other causes of death such as cancer is slower than previously expected, 
meaning an assumption of a lower rate of mortality improvements might be appropriate. Alternatively, the 
surviving population may be in better health than those dying from Covid-19, meaning that it might be 
expected that the remaining members live slightly longer. In June 2023, the Continuous Mortality 
Investigation (CMI) published a new model (CMI 2022) that includes population experience up to 2022. This 
latest version of the model could be heavily impacted by Covid-19 with the core version of the model placing 
a 25% weighting on 2022 experienced data and a 0% weighting on both 2020 and 2021 experienced data. 
The core version of the model reflects the fact that 2022 excess deaths remain higher than pre-Covid levels.

The Group is aware of the 2023 high court case that considered the validity of deeds where no Section 37 
certificate (confirming that the minimum level of benefits had not been breached) was attached to the deed; 
and further understands that the case is being appealed with judgement expected in 2024. The HPS 
Trustee Board has received legal advice regarding this matter, which is to await the outcome of the appeal 
and any Government intervention prior to assessing what, if any, impact there might be on the scheme. The 
Group considers this approach reasonable and appropriate.

Defined contribution scheme
Defined benefit schemes

Current service cost
Administration costs
Past service cost
Termination benefits
Effect of settlements
Interest cost

Total defined benefit schemes

2023
£m
51.7   

2.5   
4.4   
0.6   
0.2   
—   
(2.7)   
5.0   

2022
£m
55.2 

4.4 
3.9 
0.6 
— 
0.1 
(3.6) 
5.4 

Total charged to profit before tax in the consolidated income 
statement

56.7   

60.6 

At 31 December 2023, retirement obligations were disclosed in relation to eight (2022: nine) defined benefit 
pension schemes.

The Group’s main defined benefit scheme (HPS)
The Group’s main defined benefit scheme closed to future accrual for most members in 2017 (with around 
175 members continuing to accrue benefits – out of a total membership of around 16,500 members). Details 
of the HPS and other schemes net surplus/(deficit) position are given at the bottom of the table below which 
shows the movements from the opening to the closing balance of the net defined benefit asset/(liability). 
Events occurred in the HPS that have led to its income statement being remeasured during the year.

Responsibility for the operation and governance of the HPS lies with a corporate Trustee which is 
independent of the Group. The Trustee Board is required by law to act in the interest of the HPS’s 
beneficiaries in accordance with the rules of the HPS and relevant legislation (which includes the Pension 
Schemes Act 1993, the Pensions Act 1995 and the Pensions Act 2004). The nature of the relationship 
between the Group and the Trustee Board is also governed by the rules of the HPS and relevant legislation. 
The Trustee Board is chaired by an independent Trustee.

The assets of the HPS are held in a separate fund (administered by the Trustee Board) to meet long-term 
pension liabilities to beneficiaries. The Trustee Board invest the assets in accordance with its Statement of 
Investment Principles, which is regularly reviewed. The Trustee Board has delegated its investment strategy 
decisions to a fiduciary manager, however, the Trustee Board maintains overall oversight of the investment 
strategy.

A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the 
Trustee Board, with the last full actuarial valuation carried out at 31 March 2023. The purpose of that 
valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that the HPS has sufficient assets available to meet future 
benefit payments, based on assumptions agreed between the Trustee Board and the Group. The 31 March 
2023 actuarial valuation showed a funding surplus of £51.4m (31 March 2020: £182.2m deficit). This 
equates to a funding level of 105% (31 March 2020: 89%).

210

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued

Given the funding position of the HPS, the Group and the Trustee Board agreed that no further deficit 
recovery contributions from the Group are required other than those already committed1 as part of the 
31 March 2020 actuarial valuation. In accordance with the schedule of contributions put in place following 
the 31 March 2020 actuarial valuation, the Group has paid £30m of regular deficit contributions during 2023 
and £16.3m of accelerated deficit funding contributions and other contributions triggered by the disposal of 
certain businesses in the second half of 2022 and 2023. The Group will pay a further £21m of contributions 
in 2024, with no further deficit contributions in 2025 and beyond.

The next full actuarial valuation is due to be carried out with an effective date of 31 March 2026 and as part 
of that valuation the contribution requirements will be reviewed, and if necessary, amended. For the 
purpose of these accounts, an independent qualified actuary projected the results of the 31 March 2023 
actuarial valuation to 31 December 2023 taking account of the relevant accounting requirements.

Approximate funding updates are produced at each scheme anniversary when a full actuarial valuation is 
not being undertaken. The next funding update is scheduled to be as at 31 March 2024.

The valuation of liabilities for funding purposes (the actuarial valuation) differs from the valuation for 
accounting purposes (which is shown in these financial statements) due to different assumptions used and 
different market conditions at the different valuation dates (the effective date for the actuarial valuation of 
the HPS is 31 March). The assumptions used for funding purposes are scheme specific and allow for an 
appropriate amount of prudence, with the discount rate being based on the actual assets of the pension 
scheme. While for accounting purposes the assumptions are determined on a best estimate basis in 
accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, with the discount rate being based on the yields available on 
high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currencies and terms. Management estimate that at 
31 December 2023 the net assets of the HPS scheme were around £50m higher on a funding basis (ie the 
funding assumption principles adopted for the full actuarial valuation at 31 March 2023) than on an 
accounting basis.

The Group contributed £52.5m to the HPS during 2023. This includes the ongoing cost of benefit accrual, 
contributions towards running the pension scheme, deficit contribution (including those accelerated on a 
pound for pound basis due to disposal proceeds being used to fund mandatory prepayments of debt) and 
other contributions as a result of disposal activities.

In addition, during 2023, the £5.0m held in escrow was released to HPS.

1. These include additional, non-statutory, contributions to meet a secondary funding target with the objective of having sufficient assets to 

invest in a portfolio of low-risk assets with a low dependency covenant that will generate income to pay members’ benefits as they fall due.

Other defined benefit schemes
The total employer contributions to the ‘Other’ schemes during 2023 were £3m.

Other UK schemes
• Three segregated sections in an industry-wide scheme under which defined benefits are not continuing to 
accrue. The latest full actuarial valuations (at 31 December 2021) showed that one of these sections was 
in surplus and therefore no deficit contributions were required. One section showed a small deficit 
resulting in the Group being required to pay £28,000 during 2025. The third section showed a deficit of 
£3.45m resulting in the Group being required to pay £0.8m pa until 2026. The next actuarial valuations 
are due as at 31 December 2024 and as part of those valuations the contribution requirements will be 
reviewed, and if necessary, amended. There is no cross subsidy with other employer sections.

• Participation in a non-associated multi-employer scheme under which defined benefits are not continuing 
to accrue. The latest full actuarial valuation (at 30 September 2020) resulted in the Group being required 
to pay deficit contributions of initially £0.4m pa (which increase by 5.5% pa) until 2028. The next full 
actuarial valuation is being carried out with an effective date of 30 September 2023 and as part of that 
valuation the contribution requirements will be reviewed, and if necessary, amended. If the Group were to 
cease to be a participating employer in this scheme there would be an exit debt payable. At 
30 September 2022, this was estimated at £6.0m.

Overseas defined benefit schemes
The Group is responsible for an Irish defined benefit scheme which is classed as a cross-border scheme 
where the beneficiaries of the scheme have their liabilities, and the trustees hold assets, denominated in 
euro. The scheme is governed under UK regulations and subject to further requirements applying to cross-
border schemes. There are two segregated sections in the scheme. The latest full actuarial valuation (at 
31 March 2023) showed a funding surplus for both the main section and the other section, and 
consequently, no deficit contributions are required for either section. There are no members left accruing 
benefits.

The Group is also responsible for two Swiss schemes that provide defined contribution benefits but with 
certain guarantees (and are therefore reported as defined benefit schemes under IAS 19). They are 
administered and governed through collective foundations which are separate legal entities. Benefits are 
continuing to accrue in these schemes.

Additional defined benefit schemes
There are a further 36 (2022: 46) defined benefit pension arrangements in which various Capita businesses 
participated during 2023. Of these arrangements 32 (2022: 41) relate to participation in funded and 
unfunded public sector schemes (referred to as Admitted Body Arrangements), however, contractual 
protections are in place allowing actuarial and investment risk to be passed to the end customer via 
recoveries for contributions paid. The nature of these arrangements vary from contract to contract but 
typically allow for the majority of contributions payable to the schemes in excess of an initial rate agreed at 
the inception to be recovered from the end customer, as well as exit payments (for funded schemes) 
payable to the schemes at the cessation of the contract, such that the Group’s net exposure to actuarial and 
investment risk is immaterial.

Approximately £10m of employer contributions were paid into these 36 schemes during 2023.

211

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued

Risks associated with the Group’s pension schemes
The defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to various risks, with the key risks set out below:

Investment risk: the schemes invest in a wide range of assets with a view to provide long-term investment 
returns at particular levels. There is a risk that investment returns are lower than expected which, in 
isolation, could result in a worsening of the funding position of the schemes.

Interest rate risk: the IAS 19 discount rate is derived based on the yields available on good quality 
corporate bonds of suitable duration. If these yields decrease then, in isolation, this would increase the 
value placed on the IAS 19 obligation and result in a worsening of the funding position of the schemes.

Inflation risk: the liabilities of the schemes are linked to future levels of inflation. If future inflation is higher 
than expected then this would result in the cost of providing the benefits increasing and thereby worsening 
the funding position of the schemes.

Longevity risk: if members live longer than expected, then pensions will be paid for a longer time which will 
increase the value placed on the liabilities and therefore worsen the funding position of the schemes.

Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) risk: ESG risk relates to these issues having a detrimental 
impact on financial returns. The fiduciary manager has policies in place to reduce this risk, although there is 
a higher risk in older externally held assets.

To manage these risks, the Group and the trustees carry out regular assessments of them. For HPS, the 
main defined benefit scheme, the following actions have been taken:
• The HPS Trustee Board has entered into two bulk annuity contracts with an insurer in respect of a small 

number of high individual liability pensioner members with total value included in the assets at 
31 December 2023 of £47.0m (2022: £50.1m).

• The HPS Trustee Board has entered into a Liability Driven Investment programme. The level of risk that 

is managed by this programme is set by various market-related and funding trigger points. 

Together, these actions have led to the Trustee Board hedging (interest rate and inflation) a high proportion 
of the HPS’s liabilities. At 31 December 2023 HPS’s liabilities measured on the Trustee Board’s long-term 
funding basis were broadly fully hedged.

The hedging aims to match the value of the assets to the movement in liabilities (on a funding basis) arising 
from changes in market expectations of future inflation rates and future gilt yields. This is to help protect and 
reduce volatility in funding valuations which are used to determine the cash contribution requirements to the 
scheme. Since these accounting disclosures use the yields available on corporate bonds to determine the 
accounting liabilities, the hedging may not have the same impact for accounting purposes as they do for a 
funding valuation. Credit spreads (the difference between the yields available on long-dated corporate 
bonds and long-dated government bonds) narrowed during the year meaning that the hedge had a different 
impact on the funding position of the scheme and the accounting disclosures at the year-ends (the funding 
position on the accounting basis worsened slightly while the funding position on the funding basis improved 
slightly).

To illustrate how sensitive the value of the defined benefit obligations is to different market conditions, the 
table below shows what the resulting defined benefit obligation would be if the assumptions were changed 
as shown (assuming all other assumptions remain constant):

Change in assumptions compared with 31 December 2023 actuarial assumptions
Base defined benefit obligation
0.5% pa decrease in discount rate
0.5% pa increase in salary increases
0.5% pa increase in inflation (and related assumption, eg salary and pension increases)
1 year increase in life expectancy

Group total

£m
1,178.3 
1,268.1 
1,179.7 
1,226.4 
1,213.0 

212

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued

Assets and liabilities
Under IAS 19, pension scheme assets must be valued at their fair value at the balance sheet date. The 
scheme assets are made up of quoted and unquoted investments, and asset valuations have been sourced 
from the respective scheme’s investment managers and custodians, based on their pricing sources and 
methodologies. Unquoted investments require more judgement because their values are not directly 
observable. The assumptions used in valuing unquoted investments are affected by current market 
conditions which could result in changes in fair value after the measurement date.

For the main asset categories:
• Equities listed on recognised stock exchanges are valued at closing bid prices.
• Bonds are measured using a combination of broker quotes and pricing models making assumptions for 

credit and market risks and market yield curves.

• Properties are valued on the basis of an open market value or are valued using models based on 

discounted cash flow techniques.

• Assets in investment funds are valued at fair value which is typically the net asset value provided by the 

investment manager.

• Certain unlisted investments are valued using a model based valuation such as discounted cash flow.
• The value of bulk annuity contracts has been assessed by discounting the projected cash flows payable 

under the contracts (projected by an actuary, consistent with the terms of the contract) and is equal to the 
corresponding liability calculated by reference to the IAS 19 assumptions.

The assets and liabilities of all of the defined benefit pension schemes (excluding additional voluntary 
contributions) at 31 December are:

Debt securities:
– UK Government
– UK Corporate
– Overseas Government
– Overseas Corporate
– Emerging Markets
– Private Debt
– Secured Loans

Property
Infrastructure
Credit Funds
Hedge Funds
Absolute Return Funds
Insurance Contracts
Cash
Other

Scheme assets at fair value:
Equities:
– UK
– Overseas
– Private

Quoted
£m

Unquoted*
£m

2023

Total
£m

Quoted
£m

Unquoted*
£m

0.1   
1.5   
0.1   
1.7   

3.0   
34.3   
—   
37.3   

3.1   
35.8   
0.1   
39.0   

0.2   
2.0   
0.2   
2.4   

2.5   
24.8   
—   
27.3   

Group total

2022

Total
£m

2.7 
26.8 
0.2 
29.7 

Total

Present value of scheme liabilities
(before effect of asset ceiling limit)

Net surplus
(before effect of asset ceiling limit)

Effect of asset ceiling limit

Present value of scheme liabilities
(after effect of asset ceiling limit)

Net surplus
(after effect of asset ceiling limit)

*

Some investments are in funds which are in themselves not traded in active markets.

Quoted
£m

Unquoted*
£m

2023

Total
£m

Quoted
£m

Unquoted*
£m

Group total

2022

Total
£m

1.2    539.7    482.0   
  538.5   
0.4   
45.8   
45.7   
0.1   
10.1   
21.7   
9.8   
11.9   
0.3    211.7    212.0   
3.1   
0.4   
2.7   
—    110.5    110.5   
—   
—   
—   

—   
11.6   
11.4   
0.9    101.0   
0.5   
27.3   
—    134.5   
39.8   
—   
  549.1    383.7    932.8    493.9    325.6   
88.2   
—   
—   
2.1   
—   
71.4   
34.3    133.2   
(8.5)   
(1.1)   
32.7    293.8   

482.0 
12.0 
21.5 
101.9 
27.8 
134.5 
39.8 
819.5 
90.8 
1.5 
2.7 
2.1 
0.1 
71.4 
167.5 
(9.6) 
326.5 
  641.5    563.6   1,205.1    529.0    646.7    1,175.7 

48.0   
45.8   
1.0   
—   
1.6   
—   
1.1   
1.1   
0.2   
—   
69.7   
69.7   
20.4    101.7   
10.0   
5.6   
90.7    142.6    233.3   

2.2   
1.0   
1.6   
—   
0.2   
—   
81.3   
4.4   

2.6   
1.5   
2.7   
—   
0.1   
—   

 (1,178.3) 

  (1,136.0) 

26.8 

— 

 (1,178.3) 

26.8 

39.7 

(0.1) 

  (1,136.1) 

39.6 

213

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued
The HPS Trustee Board invests in Liability Driven Investments (LDIs) as part of a risk hedging strategy. The 
aim of the strategy is to match the value of the assets to the movement in liabilities (on a funding basis) 
arising from changes in market expectations of future inflation rates and future gilt yields. To achieve this, 
LDIs invest in a variety of instruments including gilts, synthetic gilts (combination of repurchase agreement, 
reverse repurchase agreements and total return swaps) and cash. In the table above, the LDI at 
31 December 2023 (approximately £546.3m) has been mapped as 95.4% Quoted UK Government Bonds, 
1.5% Quoted Overseas Government Bonds, 2.3% Quoted Cash and 0.8% Quoted Other. 

The assets do not include any directly owned financial instruments issued by the Group.

Within the Private Debt allocation above, approximately £79.0m relates to adjusted lagged valuations at 
31 December 2023. In arriving at this figure, allowance has been made for broad market movements and 
distributions between 30 September 2023 (the most recent valuation of these assets) and 31 December 
2023.

In accordance with the HPS Trustee Board’s focus on financially material considerations, it is acknowledged 
that Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) factors can impact security prices. The HPS Trustee 
Board has discussed their views on ESG factors, and considered the Group’s perspective, and developed 
responsible investment beliefs. These can be found in the HPS’s Statement of Investment Principles (on its 
website at https://www.horizonpensionscheme.com/library).

IFRIC 14
The Group has considered the impact of IFRIC 14 IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum 
Funding Requirements and their Interaction on the various schemes (in relation to either recognising a 
surplus or allowing for the impact of any funding commitments made) and has concluded, based on its 
interpretation of the rules for each of the schemes, that IFRIC 14 would not affect the balance sheet position 
at this reporting date for any of the schemes. For clarity the HPS, the Group’s main defined benefit scheme, 
IFRIC 14 would not limit the surplus or increase the deficits shown at the reporting date because the Group 
has an unconditional right to a refund assuming the gradual settlement of the scheme liabilities over time 
until all members have left the scheme.

Reconciliation of retirement benefits
Explanation of constituents of the consolidated income statement.

The cost of providing the retirement benefits during the year is broken down as follows, with due 
consideration being made for events which require the income statement to be re-measured over the 
course of the year:
• Service cost is the cost to the Group of future benefits earned by contributing members over the current 

financial period.

• Past service cost represents the change in the present value of scheme liabilities in the current period in 

relation to prior years’ service.

• Administration costs are those entailed by the pension schemes over the current period.
•

Interest expense/(income) is made up of the interest on pension liabilities and assets over the current 
period generally based on the discount rate adopted at the start of the period. An allowance for interest 
on the asset ceiling is recognised where applicable as at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.
• Termination benefits are employee benefits payable as a result of either: (a) the Group’s decision to 

terminate an employee’s employment before the normal retirement date; or (b) an employee’s decision to 
accept an offer of benefits in exchange for the termination of employment.

214

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued

All schemes are partly or wholly funded, and the following table shows the components of the movements 
from the opening to the closing balances for the net defined benefit asset:

Defined benefit obligation

Fair value of plan assets

Net defined benefit asset

2023
£m

2022
£m

  (1,136.1)    (1,791.5) 

2023
£m

2022 
£m
  1,175.7    1,797.3 

2023
£m
39.6   

2022
£m
5.8 

HPS
Other schemes

Schemes in a net deficit

Other schemes

Group total

Schemes in a net surplus

Defined benefit obligation

Fair value of plan assets

Net defined benefit asset

Group total

2023
£m

2022
£m

2023
£m

2022 
£m

2023
£m

  (1,125.0)    (1,087.0) 
(15.2) 
  (1,140.8)    (1,102.2) 

(15.8)   

  1,154.4    1,126.3 
18.6 
  1,173.5    1,144.9 

19.1   

29.4   
3.3   
32.7   

2022
£m

39.3 
3.4 
42.7 

(37.5)   
(37.5)   

(33.9) 
(33.9) 

31.6   
31.6   

30.8 
30.8 

(5.9)   
(5.9)   

(3.1) 
(3.1) 

At 1 January

Included in the consolidated 
income statement:
Current service cost
Administration costs
Past service cost
Termination benefits
Effect of settlements
Interest income/(expense)*

Sub-total in consolidated 
income statement

Included in other comprehensive 
income:
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from:
– demographic assumptions
– financial assumptions
– experience adjustments

– changes in asset ceiling/
minimum liability

Return on plan assets excluding 
interest

Sub-total in other 
comprehensive income
Employer contributions
Contributions by employees
Benefits paid

Exchange movement - recognised 
in other comprehensive income

(2.5)   
(4.4)   
(0.6)   
(0.2)   
—   
(53.4)   

(4.4) 
(3.9) 
(0.6) 
— 
0.1 
(44.0) 

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
56.1   

— 
— 
— 
— 
(0.2) 
47.6 

(2.5)   
(4.4)   
(0.6)   
(0.2)   
—   
2.7   

(4.4) 
(3.9) 
(0.6) 
— 
(0.1) 
3.6 

At 31 December

  (1,178.3)    (1,136.1) 

  1,205.1    1,175.7 

26.8   

39.6 

*

Includes impact of asset ceiling on net interest of £nil in 2023 (2022: £0.1m).

Of the total pension cost of £5.0m (2022: £5.4m), £3.3m (2022: £5.1m) was included in cost of sales, £4.4m 
(2022: £3.9m) was included in administrative expenses, and £2.7m of net interest income (2022: £3.6m of 
net interest income) was included in net finance costs.

(61.1)   

(52.8) 

56.1   

47.4 

(5.0)   

(5.4) 

Breakdown of liabilities for the HPS
Information about the defined benefit obligation for the HPS:

6.9   
(28.5)   
(6.9)   

6.8 
706.1 
(50.4) 

—   

2.3 

—   
—   
—   

—   

— 
— 
— 

— 

6.9   
(28.5)   
(6.9)   

6.8 
706.1 
(50.4) 

—   

2.3 

Active members
Deferred members
Pensioners

Total percentage / average duration

Proportion of 
overall liability

% Duration (years)

Proportion of 
overall liability
%

Duration (years)

2023

5   
54   
41   

100   

2023
17.1   
18.3   
10.8   

15.1   

2022

6   
59   
35   

100   

2022
16.9 
18.0 
10.6 

15.5 

—   

— 

(39.7)   

(673.7) 

(39.7)   

(673.7) 

(28.5)   
—   
(2.1)   
50.4   

664.8 
(0.2) 
(1.7) 
47.8 

(39.7)   
60.5   
2.1   
(50.4)   

(673.7) 
48.7 
1.7 
(47.8) 

(68.2)   
60.5   
—   
—   

(8.9) 
48.5 
— 
— 

(0.9)   

(2.5) 

0.8   

2.1 

(0.1)   

(0.4) 

Duration is a weighted average of when benefits are expected to be paid from a pension scheme. It is 
sensitive to the interest rate used to calculate it. The increase in yields in recent years has acted to reduce 
the duration of the HPS (because less weight is placed on the pension cash flows stretching far out into the 
future).

At 31 December

  (1,178.3)    (1,136.1) 

  1,205.1    1,175.7 

26.8   

39.6 

215

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Employee benefits continued

5.2 Pensions continued

Financial and demographic assumptions

Main assumptions1:
Rate of price inflation – RPI
Rate of price inflation – CPI
Rate of salary increase
Rate of increase of pensions in payment2:
– RPI inflation capped at 5% per annum
– RPI inflation capped at 2.5% per annum
– CPI inflation capped at 5% per annum
Discount rate
Expected take up maximum available tax free cash

2023
%
3.05   
2.45   
3.05   

3.00   
2.15   
2.45   
4.55   
85.00   

2022
%
3.15 
2.50 
3.15 

3.05 
2.15 
2.50 
4.75 
85.00 

5.3 Employee benefit expense

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Pension costs
Share-based payments

Notes

5.1  

2023
£m

1,431.0   
140.6   
59.4   
5.5   

2022
£m
1,536.1 
152.4 
64.2 
5.4 

1,636.5   

1,758.1 

During 2021, the Group furloughed employees unable to work as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, and 
applied to the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (CJRS) operated by the UK Government. Amounts 
received under CJRS were treated as a government grant. In May 2022, the Group announced its intention 
to repay the amounts received in 2021 under CJRS at the end of the Group's publicly stated disposal 
programme and no later than the end of June 2023, accordingly £4.9m was accrued in 2022 and repaid in 
June 2023.

1. Different assumptions apply to non-UK schemes, for example: the discount rate for the Irish Schemes is 3.7% pa, and for the Swiss 

schemes it is 1.5% pa in 2023.

2. There are other levels of pension increase which apply to particular periods of membership.

The aggregate amount of directors’ remuneration (salary, bonus and benefits) is shown on page 109 of the 
directors’ remuneration report. 

The average future life expectancy from age 65 (in years) for mortality tables used to determine scheme 
liabilities for the various different schemes at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 are as follows:

HPS1
Other Schemes

HPS1
Other Schemes

Member currently aged 65 (current life expectancy)

2023
21.9   

21.0 to 22.9

Male

2022
22.4 
21.1 to 22.7

2023
23.9   

23.4 to 24.6

Female

2022
24.3 
23.7 to 24.5

Member currently aged 45 (life expectancy at 65)

2023
22.6   

22.2 to 25.1

Male

2022
22.3 
22.3 to 25.0

2023
25.2   

24.9 to 26.6

Female

2022
25.2 
25.2 to 26.5

1. The assumptions used for the HPS are tailored for each member. The assumptions adopted make allowance for an increase in the longevity 
in the future (CMI 2022 core model Sk=7.0) with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa, an ‘A’ parameter of 0.25% for both males and 
females and no weighting applied to 2020 and 2021 data, 25% weighting on 2022 data). The rate for members currently aged 65 is derived 
from the pensioner membership and the rate for members reaching age 65 in 20 years' time is derived from non-pensioner membership.

The average number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
Sales
Administration
Operations

2023
Number

380   
2,405   
45,104   

47,889   

2022
Number
598 
3,093 
47,509 

51,200 

216

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 6: Other supporting notes

This section includes disclosures of those items that are not explained elsewhere in the 
financial statements.

6.1

6.2

6.3

AP

Related-party transactions

Contingent liabilities

Post balance sheet events

Denotes accounting policies

6.1 Related-party transactions 

Compensation of key management personnel

Short-term employment benefits
Pension
Share-based payments

2023
£m
7.6   
0.1   
1.7   

9.4   

2022
£m
7.6 
— 
2.2 

9.8 

Gains on share options exercised in the year by Capita plc executive directors were £nil (2022: £119,102) 
and by key management personnel £252,312 (2022: £396,621), totalling £252,312 (2022: £515,723).

During the year, the Group rendered administrative services to Smart DCC Limited (DCC), a wholly-owned 
subsidiary which is not consolidated (refer to note 4.7). The Group received £119.2m (2022: £112.0m) of 
revenue for these services and at the balance sheet date had receivables of £9.0m (2022: £9.2m) from 
DCC. The services are procured by DCC on an arm’s length basis under the DCC licence. The services are 
subject to review by Ofgem to ensure that all costs are economically and efficiently incurred by DCC.

The Group is reviewing its position in respect of a number of its closed book Life & Pensions contracts. The 
outcomes and timing of this review, which are uncertain, could result in no change to the current position, 
the continuation of contracts with amended terms or the termination of contracts. If an operation is 
terminated, the Group may incur associated costs, accelerate the recognition of deferred income or the 
impairment of contract assets.

Following the cyber incident in March 2023 detailed in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review, Capita has 
been working closely with all appropriate regulatory authorities and with customers, suppliers and 
employees to notify those affected and take any remaining necessary steps to address the incident. At the 
date of approval of these consolidated financial statements, we remain in dialogue with the Information 
Commissioner’s Office (ICO) and are responding to their information requests. While we anticipate that 
there will be further additional requests as part of ICO’s review, no formal action has been taken by the ICO 
in connection with the cyber incident and there have been no preliminary findings regarding fault that could 
lead to any potential regulatory penalty. The Group has received notification of potential claims for damages 
by or on behalf of individuals whose data may have been exfiltrated as part of the incident. At the date of 
approval of these consolidated financial statements, the Group has received no substantive claims in 
relation to the cyber incident. Whether any such claims will be received is uncertain, but the Group will 
vigorously defend any such claims and, at the date of approval of these financial statements, it is not 
possible to reliably estimate the potential value of any potential future claim or penalty against the Group.

The Group’s entities are parties to legal actions and claims which arise in the normal course of business. 
The Group needs to apply judgement in determining the merit of litigation against it and the chances of a 
claim successfully being made. It needs to determine the likelihood of an outflow of economic benefits 
occurring and whether there is a need to disclose a contingent liability or whether a provision might be 
required due to the probability assessment.

At any time there are a number of claims or notifications that need to be assessed across the Group. The 
disparate nature of the Group’s entities heightens the risk that not all potential claims are known at any point 
in time.

6.3 Post balance sheet events

The following events occurred after 31 December 2023, and before the approval of these consolidated 
financial statements, but have not resulted in adjustment to the 2023 financial results:

HPS (Capita’s main defined benefit pension scheme) is a related party of the Group. Transactions with the 
Scheme are disclosed in note 5.2.

Disposal of Fera

6.2 Contingent liabilities 

Contingent liabilities represent potential future cash outflows which are either not probable or cannot be 
measured reliably.

The Group has provided, through the normal course of its business, performance bonds and bank 
guarantees of £22.5m (2022: £34.0m). At 31 December 2023 there was an additional guarantee of £15m in 
relation to the disposed Travel businesses, which has since reduced to £9.5m in January 2024. Capita plc’s 
exposure is counter-indemnified by Clarity Travel Limited.

The disposal of the Group’s 75% shareholding in Fera Science Limited (Fera) to a fund managed by 
Bridgepoint Development Capital completed on 17 January 2024.

Cash proceeds of £62m were received on completion, which included the settlement of intercompany 
balances owed by Fera to the Group of £0.1m. Net assets of c.£28m were disposed of on completion, 
alongside the derecognition of non-controlling interests of c.£9m. Total costs of disposal are estimated to be 
c.£9m, of which £3.5m were recognised in 2022 and 2023.

Contract with major European telecoms provider

In February 2024, the Group extended and expanded its contract with a major European telecoms provider. 
The new contract is based on expected volumes, and therefore treated as a framework contract under IFRS 
15. As a result, £365m included in the Capita Experience order book at 31 December 2023 relating to the 
previous contract has been released. The new contract is expected to be worth up to £420m to 2030.

217

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements

This section presents the company only financial statements for Capita plc (the Company).

Notes

2023
£m

2022
£m

7.1

7.2

7.3

AP

J

E

Company balance sheet

Company statement of changes in equity

Notes to the Company financial statements

Denotes accounting policies

Denotes significant accounting judgements

Denotes significant accounting estimates and assumptions

Current liabilities
Overdrafts
Trade and other payables
Amounts payable to subsidiary companies
Accruals and deferred income
Financial liabilities
Income tax payable
Provisions

7.1 Company balance sheet

Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investments
Financial assets
Deferred tax assets
Amounts receivable from subsidiary companies

Current assets
Financial assets
Income tax receivable
Trade and other receivables
Amounts receivable from subsidiary companies

Total assets

Notes

7.3.2  
7.3.3  
7.3.4  
7.3.5  
7.3.6  

7.3.4  

7.3.7  
7.3.6  

2023
£m

2022
£m

0.6   
996.0   
14.9   
11.8   
56.4   
1,079.7   

1.2   
—   
2.1   
2,213.9   
2,217.2   
3,296.9   

0.8 
994.3 
20.8 
11.2 
64.4 
1,091.5 

15.7 
33.6 
1.6 
2,494.8 
2,545.7 
3,637.2 

Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Borrowings
Financial liabilities

Total liabilities
Net assets

Capital and reserves
Issued share capital
Employee benefit trust shares
Share premium
Capital redemption reserve
Merger reserve
Cash flow hedging reserve
Retained earnings
Total equity

7.3.8  
7.3.6  

7.3.4  

7.3.9  

7.3.8  
7.3.10  
7.3.4  

7.3.11  
7.3.11  
7.3.11  

53.2   
10.0   
1,810.4   
15.6   
1.6   
16.1   
4.2   
1,911.1   

0.3   
99.5   
4.3   
104.1   
2,015.2   
1,281.7   

35.2   
(0.7)   
1,145.5   
1.8   
44.6   
(2.0)   
57.3   
1,281.7   

14.6 
9.6 
2,302.7 
16.6 
0.1 
— 
4.8 
2,348.4 

— 
44.2 
1.0 
45.2 
2,393.6 
1,243.6 

34.8 
(4.2) 
1,145.5 
1.8 
44.6 
— 
21.1 
1,243.6 

The Company’s profit after taxation was £34.3m (2022: £55.1m loss).

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2024 and signed on its 
behalf by:

Adolfo Hernandez
Chief Executive Officer

Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer

Company registered number: 02081330

218

Company financial statementsCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements continued

7.2 Company statement of changes in equity

At 1 January 2022
Loss for the year
Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive expense for the year
Exercise of share options under employee long-term incentive plans
Share-based payment net of tax effects
At 1 January 2023
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive expense
Total comprehensive income for the year
Shares issued (note 4.6)
Exercise of share options under employee long-term incentive plans (note 4.6; note 5.1)
Share-based payment net of tax effects (note 2.6; note 5.1)
At 31 December 2023

The directors did not declare a dividend in 2023 or 2022.

Share
capital
£m
34.8   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
34.8   
—   
—   
—   
0.4   
—   
—   
35.2   

Employee
benefit trust
shares
£m
(8.0)   
—   
—   
—   
3.8   
—   
(4.2)   
—   
—   
—   
(0.4)   
3.9   
—   
(0.7)   

Share
premium
£m

1,145.5   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1,145.5   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1,145.5   

Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
1.8   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1.8   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
1.8   

Merger
reserve
£m
44.6   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
44.6   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
44.6   

Cash flow
hedging
reserve
£m
(0.7)   
—   
0.7   
0.7   
—   
—   
—   
—   
(2.0)   
(2.0)   
—   
—   
—   
(2.0)   

Retained
earnings
£m
74.6   
(55.1)   
—   
(55.1)   
(3.8)   
5.4   
21.1   
34.3   
—   
34.3   
—   
(3.9)   
5.8   
57.3   

Total
£m
1,292.6 
(55.1) 
0.7 
(54.4) 
— 
5.4 
1,243.6 
34.3 
(2.0) 
32.3 
— 
— 
5.8 
1,281.7 

Share capital – The balance classified as share capital is the nominal proceeds on issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 2 1/15 pence ordinary shares.

Employee benefit trust shares – Shares held in the employee benefit trust have no voting rights and no entitlement to a dividend.

Share premium – The amount paid to the Company by shareholders, in cash or other consideration, over and above the nominal value of shares issued to them less issuance costs.

Capital redemption reserve – The Company can redeem shares by repaying the market value to shareholders, whereupon the shares are cancelled. Redemption must be from distributable profits. The Capital 
redemption reserve represents the nominal value of the shares redeemed.

Merger reserve – The merger reserve arose from the adoption of the exemption under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 not to set up a share premium account in respect of shares issued for the acquisition of 
entities. The amounts attributed to the shares issued for these acquisitions that exceeded their nominal value was transferred to the merger reserve.

Cash flow hedging reserves – This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective cash flow hedge.

Retained earnings – Net profits/(losses) accumulated in the Company after dividends are paid.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

219

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3 Notes to the Company financial statements

7.3.1 Accounting policies

AP

Accounting policies 

Basis of preparation
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure 
requirements of UK-adopted international Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), but makes amendments 
where necessary to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the 
FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101) as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The Company 
has not presented its own income statement as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available in 
relation to share based payments, financial instruments, capital management, the presentation of 
comparative information in respect of certain assets, the presentation of a cash-flow statement, standards 
not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.

The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis and on the going concern basis, 
except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value 
of the consideration given in exchange for the goods and services. The principal accounting policies 
adopted are the same as those set out in Sections 1 to 6 of the consolidated financial statements, except as 
noted below.

(a) Investments in subsidiaries
The Company has investments in subsidiaries which are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment. 
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.

The Company determines whether investments in subsidiaries are impaired based on impairment 
indicators. If an indicator is identified, an impairment test is performed. This involves estimation of the 
enterprise value of the investee which is determined based on the greater of discounted future cash flows at 
a suitable discount rate or through the recoverable value of the investments held by the investee company. 
The Company also assesses whether there are indicators to reverse previously recognised impairment 
losses. Reversals of impairment are only recognised where there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the investment’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.

(b) Pension schemes
The Company participates in a defined contribution pension scheme where contributions are charged to the 
income statement in the year in which they are due. The scheme is funded and the payment of contributions 
is made to a separately administered trust fund. The assets of the scheme are held separately from the 
Company. The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Ltd, a 
subsidiary company, which pays the Group liability centrally. Any unpaid contributions at the year-end are 
accrued in the accounts of that company.

The Company ceased to employ any active members in the Group’s main defined benefit pension scheme 
in November 2022. This meant a Section 75 debt (which is a statutory debt due from a participating 
employer to the trustees of a multi-employer defined benefit pension scheme which is in deficit) became 
due. However, the Trustee Board of the defined benefit pension scheme agreed that the pension liabilities 
attributable to the Company could be transferred to Capita Business Services Ltd (the Principal Employer of 
the defined benefit pension scheme), which eliminates the Section 75 debt due from the Company. This 
Flexible Apportionment Arrangement was finalised in 2023 and consequently, the Company is no longer a 
formal participating employer in the defined benefit pension scheme.

Note 5.2 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements sets out more detail about the Group’s pension 
obligations.

(c) Share-based payments
Subsidiary companies of the Company reimburse the Company through the intercompany account for 
charges attributable to their employees participating in the Company’s share option schemes.

(d) Amounts receivable from and/or payable to subsidiary companies
The amounts receivable from and/or payable to subsidiary companies are shown at cost plus accrued 
interest less any provision for impairment. Amounts receivable from subsidiary companies are reviewed for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may be impaired. The Company determines whether amounts receivable from subsidiary companies 
are impaired by considering if there is an indicator of increased credit risk. The key assumption considered 
is the probability of a subsidiary company going into default at the balance sheet date.

The definition of default used by the Company is that the counterparty is in a net liability position. In this 
case credit risk at the balance sheet date is captured by the definition of default and the probability of 
default occurring on the next day (reflecting the contractual period of an on-demand loan). The policy is to 
assess the net asset/liability position of each investee and then to conclude on the probability of default, and 
quantum of any impairment, by reference to the future discounted cash flows. The key assumptions 
underpinning these cash flows are set out in note 7.3.3. With the contractual arrangements either based on 
repayment on-demand or fixed term loan the future credit risk had a very limited impact on the calculation of 
expected credit losses at the balance sheet date.
The cash shortfalls arising when an amount receivable from a subsidiary company is in default are 
assessed by discounting the expected future cash flows at the original effective interest rate of the 
instrument. Where it is expected that the principal and all associated interest can be recovered at some 
point in the future, no material expected credit loss is recognised.

220

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.2 Property, plant and equipment

Cost
At 1 January 2023
Asset retirements
At 31 December 2023
Depreciation
At 1 January 2023
Charge for the year
Asset retirements
At 31 December 2023
Net book value:
At 1 January 2023
At 31 December 2023

7.3.3 Investments

Net book value
At 1 January 2023
Net impairment reversal1
At 31 December 2023

Short-term 
leasehold 
improvements 
£m

Equipment right-
of-use asset 
£m

1.4   
(0.1)   
1.3   

0.6   
0.2   
(0.1)   
0.7   

0.8   
0.6   

0.4   
(0.4)   
—   

0.4   
—   
(0.4)   
—   

—   
—   

Total 
£m

1.8 
(0.5) 
1.3 

1.0 
0.2 
(0.5) 
0.7 

0.8 
0.6 

Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m

994.3 
1.7 
996.0 

1. During the year ended 31 December 2023, Capita plc impaired its investments in Capita Financial Services Holdings Limited by £0.6m and 
reversed impairment in Capita Life & Pensions Services Limited by £2.0m, Capita Group Insurance PCC Limited by £0.2m and Capita 
Employee Benefits Holdings Limited by £0.1m.

Capita Holdings Limited1
Capita International Limited2

Capita Life & Pensions Regulated 
Services Limited2
Capita International Retirement Benefit 
Scheme Trustees Limited4
Capita Ireland Limited2

Capita Life & Pensions Services 
Limited2
Capita Shared Services Limited5

Investing holding company
1.
2. Outsourcing services company
3.
4. Trustee company for the pension schemes
5.

Internal services company

Insurance captive

Direct investments
Capita Pension Solutions Limited2
Capita Legal Services Limited1

Registered office 

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

Capita Employee Benefits Holdings 
Limited1
Capita Financial Services Holdings 
Limited1
Capita Group Insurance PCC Limited3 Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St. Peter Port, 

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

Proportion of 
nominal value 
of issued 
shares held 
by the 
Company

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

Guernsey, GY1 4AT, Guernsey

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

 100 %

Unit B, West Cork Business & Technology Park, 
Clonakilty, Co. Cork, Republic of Ireland, P85 
YH98

 100 %

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

 100 %

65 Gresham Street, London, England, EC2V 7NQ

 100 %

221

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.3 Investments continued

Certain subsidiaries of the Group have opted to take advantage of a statutory exemption from having an 
audit in respect of their individual statutory accounts. Strict criteria must be met for this exemption to be 
taken and the exemption has been agreed to by the directors of those subsidiary entities.

Listed in note 7.3.16 to the Company’s financial statements are subsidiaries controlled and consolidated by 
the Group, where the directors have taken advantage of the exemption from having an audit of the entities’ 
individual statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2023 in accordance with Section 479A of the 
Companies Act 2006.

To facilitate the adoption of this exemption, Capita plc, the parent company of the subsidiaries concerned, 
undertakes to provide a guarantee under Section 479C of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of those 
subsidiaries. Details of all indirect subsidiaries, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, 
are reported in note 7.3.16 to the Company’s financial statements.

The Company considered whether there was an indicator of impairment in investments in subsidiaries at 
31 December 2023, and due to the Company’s market capitalisation being below the carrying value of the 
Company’s net assets, concluded a trigger existed and performed an impairment test.

The impairment test
The recoverable amount has been determined using fair value less costs of disposal. For non-trading 
subsidiaries this is based on the net asset value of the entity as at 31 December 2023, which is considered 
to not be materially different to the fair value derived by other means. For all other entities, recoverable 
amount is estimated on a discounted cash flow basis. Recoverable amounts will also factor in the the 
recoverable amount of an entity’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.

For discounted cash flow calculations, the cash flow projections used for the impairment test are derived 
from the 2024-2026 business plans approved by the Board of Directors. Key assumptions in the BP include 
the delivery of planned revenue growth and the benefits that the cost reduction programme is anticipated to 
deliver. The enterprise value is then calculated based on the present value of estimated future cash flows 
discounted at the current market rate of return.

The long-term growth rate is based on economic growth forecasts by recognised bodies and this has been 
applied to the forecast cash flows for the terminal period. The 2023 long-term growth rate is 1.7% (2022: 
2.2%).

Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the latest market assumptions for the 
risk-free rate, the equity risk premium and the cost of debt, which are all based on publicly available external 
sources.

The table below presents the pre-tax discount rates applied to the cash flows for 2023 and 2022.

Analysed as:

Current

Non-current

2023
2022

Capita Public 
Service
 11.0 %
 11.8 %

Capita 
Experience
 9.2 %
 10.4 %

At 31 December 2023, an impairment reversal of £1.7m (2022 impairment charge: £7.0m) arose from the 
impairment test performed.

Sensitivity analysis
The impairment testing as described is reliant on the accuracy of management’s forecasts and the 
assumptions that underlie them; and on the selection of the discount and growth rates to be applied. To 
gauge the sensitivity of the result to a change in any one, or combination of the assumptions that underlie 
the model, a number of scenarios were developed to identify the range of reasonably possible alternatives 
and measure which investments are the most susceptible to an impairment should the assumptions used be 
varied. This sensitivity analysis is only applicable to those investments which have not already been fully 
impaired.

The sensitivity scenarios applied estimate potential additional impairments required (with all other variables 
being equal) through: an increase in discount rate of 1%, or a decrease of 1% in the long-term growth rate 
(for the terminal period) for each of the investments; or, through the severe but plausible downsides applied 
to the base-case projections for assessing going concern and viability, without mitigations, for 2024 to 2026, 
and the long-term growth rate (1.7%) applied to the 2026 downside cash flows to generate projected cash 
flows for 2027, 2028, and the terminal period. We have also considered the impact of all of the scenarios 
together, which is also a reasonable possible alternative.

No additional impairments have been identified under any of the sensitivity scenarios, including the 
combination sensitivity scenario.

Management continues to monitor closely the performance of all investments in subsidiaries and consider 
the impact of any changes to the key assumptions.

7.3.4 Financial instruments

Cash flow hedges

Non-designated foreign exchange forwards 
and swaps

Cross-currency interest rate swaps

Financial assets
2023
£m

Financial liabilities
2023
£m

Financial assets
2022
£m

Financial liabilities
2022
£m

—   

1.6   

14.5   

16.1   

1.2   

14.9   

16.1   

1.2   

3.8   

0.9   

5.9   

1.6   

4.3   

5.9   

—   

10.7   

25.8   

36.5   

15.7   

20.8   

36.5   

— 

0.1 

1.0 

1.1 

0.1 

1.0 

1.1 

222

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.5 Deferred tax

7.3.8 Trade and other payables

Trade creditors
Other creditors

7.3.9 Provisions

At 1 January
Provisions in the year
Releases in the year
Utilisation

At 31 December

Current

Non-current

2023
£m
9.6   
0.4   
10.0   

2022
£m
8.9   
0.7   
9.6   

2023
£m
—   
0.3   
0.3   

2023
£m
4.8   
—   
(0.6)   
—   

4.2   

2022
£m
— 
— 
— 

2022
£m
8.2 
1.6 
(1.2) 
(3.8) 

4.8 

The majority of the provisions relate to the claims and litigation provisions of £4.0m. Further detail on these 
provisions can be found in note 3.6 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
Accelerated capital allowances
Tax losses
Other short-term timing differences

2023
£m

3.8   
1.0   
7.0   
11.8   

2022
£m

3.9 
1.0 
6.3 
11.2 

7.3.6 Amounts receivable from and/or payable to subsidiary companies

2023
£m

Current

2022
£m

Non-current

2022
£m

2023
£m

Amounts receivable from subsidiary 
companies

2,213.9   

2,494.8   

56.4   

64.4 

Amounts due within one year are repayable on demand along with any accrued interest. Amounts due after 
more than one year is a fixed term loan. The expected credit loss provision against amounts receivable from 
subsidiary companies is immaterial.

Amounts payable to subsidiary companies

1,810.4   

2,302.7   

2023
£m

Current

2022
£m

Non-current

2022
£m
— 

2023
£m
—   

Amounts payable to subsidiary companies are repayable on demand together with any accrued interest.

7.3.7 Trade and other receivables

Other debtors
Other taxes and social security
Prepayments

Current

Non-current

2023
£m
0.3   
1.3   
0.5   
2.1   

2022
£m
1.1   
0.1   
0.4   
1.6   

2023
£m
—   
—   
—   
—   

2022
£m
— 
— 
— 
— 

223

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.10 Borrowings

Private placement loan notes - principal
Unamortised discount on debt issuance
Unamortised transaction costs on debt issuance

Total borrowings

Maturity analysis is as follows:

In more than 1 years but not more than 5 years
Falling due after more than 5 years

Total borrowings

The Company issued guaranteed unsecured private placement loan notes as follows:

2023
£m
103.4   
—   
(3.9)   

99.5   

99.5   
—   

99.5   

7.3.13 Related-party transactions

2022
£m
47.3 
(1.6) 
(1.5) 

44.2 

— 
44.2 

44.2 

In the following, amounts for purchases and sales are for transactions invoiced during the year inclusive of 
VAT where applicable. All transactions are undertaken at arm’s length prices.

During the year, the Company sold goods/services in the normal course of business to Entrust Support 
Services Limited for £0.1m (2022: £1.2m). The Company purchased goods/services in the normal course of 
business from Entrust Support Services Limited for £1.2m (2022: £0.4m). At the balance sheet date, the net 
amount receivable from Entrust Support Services Limited was £nil (2022: £nil).

Capita Glamorgan Consultancy Limited was sold on 22 September 2022. From 1 January 2022 to 
22 September 2022, the Company sold goods/services in the normal course of business to Capita 
Glamorgan Consultancy Limited for £0.1m.

During the year, the Company sold goods/services in the normal course of business to Fera Science 
Limited for £0.3m (2022: £0.7m). The Company purchased goods/services in the normal course of business 
from Fera Science Limited for £nil (2022: £0.1m). At the balance sheet date, the net amount receivable from 
Fera Science Limited was £nil (2022: £nil).

Private placement loan notes
Private placement loan notes

Private placement loan notes

Interest rate 
(%)

8.000
9.350

8.210

Amounts 
(m)

45.0
50.0 

23.0

USD
GBP  

USD

Maturity

25 July 2026
25 July 2026

25 July 2028

In June 2023, the Company extended the RCF to 31 December 2026 at £284m, reducing to £250m by 
1 January 2025 as a consequence of specified transactions. As such at 31 December 2023 the RCF 
commitment had been reduced to £260.7m (2022: £288.4m) and was subsequently reduced to £250.0m on 
23 January 2024 following receipt of proceeds from the Fera disposal (refer to note 6.3 of the consolidated 
financial statements).The RCF was not drawn upon at 31 December 2023 (2022: undrawn).

Further detail on these facilities can be found in note 4.2 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

7.3.11 Share capital

Disclosures about the share capital, share premium, and employee benefit trust shares of the Company 
have been included in note 4.6 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

7.3.12 Contingent liabilities

The Group has provided, through the normal course of its business, performance bonds and bank 
guarantees totalling £22.5m of which the Parent Company has provided £3.3m (2022: £34.0m; Parent 
Company £3.3m). At 31 December 2023 there was an additional guarantee of £15m in relation to the 
disposed Travel businesses, which has since reduced to £9.5m in January 2024. Capita plc’s exposure is 
counter-indemnified by Clarity Travel Limited.

7.3.14 Pension costs

The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension charge for this scheme for the 
year was £0.6m (2022: £1.5m).

7.3.15 Share-based payments

The Company operates several share-based payment plans and details of the schemes are disclosed in 
note 5.1 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

The Group consolidated income statement recognised an expense for share-based payments in respect of 
employee services received during the year to 31 December 2023 of £5.5m (2022: £5.4m), all of which 
arose from equity-settled share-based payment transactions. After recharging subsidiary companies for 
their participation in these transactions, the total Company expense in its income statement in respect of 
share-based payments was £3.1m (2022: £3.0m).

224

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.16 Related companies

The stated address relates to the place of incorporation of the entity, which is the same as its tax residence in all cases other than Capita Group Insurance PCC Limited which is incorporated in Guernsey, but which is tax 
resident in the UK.

Unless otherwise indicated, all shareholdings are owned indirectly by the company and represent 100% of the issued share capital of the subsidiary. Dormant companies are marked (D).

Company name
Akinika Debt Recovery Limited 7
Akinika Limited 7
Akinika UK Limited (in liquidation) 1
Artificial Labs Ltd 2 ●
Brightwave Enterprises Limited (in liquidation) 1
Brightwave Holdings Limited (in liquidation) 1
Brightwave Limited (in liquidation) 1
Capita (210568) Limited 26
Capita (Polska) Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością 12
Capita (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 10
Capita (USA) Holdings Inc. 9
Capita Birmingham Limited 7
Capita Business Services Ltd 7
Capita Business Support Services Ireland Limited 26
Capita Corporate Director Limited (D) 7
Capita Customer Management Limited 7
Capita Customer Services (Germany) GmbH 23
Capita Customer Services AG 16
Capita Customer Solutions (UK) Limited 7
Capita Customer Solutions Limited 26
Capita Cyprus Holdings Limited 25
Capita Dubai Limited 7
Capita Employee Benefits (Consulting) Limited 7
Capita Employee Benefits Holdings Limited (D) 7 *
Capita Energie Services GmbH 18 ►
Capita ESS Holdings Limited (in liquidation) 1
Capita Financial Services Holdings Limited 7 *
Capita Gas Registration and Ancillary Services Limited (in liquidation) 1
Capita GMPS Trustees Limited (D) 7
Capita Group Insurance PCC Limited 20 *

Share class

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£0.000025 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

€0.0012 Ordinary

PLZ50.00 Ordinary

ZAR1.00 Ordinary

US$1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

€1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

€1.00 Ordinary

CHF1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

€1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

€1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 CG1
£1.00 CIC2
£1.00 Ordinary

Company name
Capita Group Secretary Limited (D) 7
Capita HCH Limited 7
Capita Health and Wellbeing Limited 7
Capita Health Holdings Limited 7
Capita Holdings Limited 7 *
Capita India Private Limited 22
Capita Insurance Services Group Limited (in liquidation) 1
Capita Insurance Services Holdings Limited 7
Capita Insurance Services Limited 7
Capita International Limited 7 *
Capita International Retirement Benefit Scheme Trustees Limited (D) 7 *
Capita Ireland Limited 26 * 
Capita IT Services (BSF) Limited 7
Capita IT Services Holdings Limited 7
Capita IT Services Limited 21
Capita Justice & Secure Services Holdings Limited 7
Capita Learning Limited (in liquidation) 1
Capita Legal Services Limited 7 * 
Capita Life & Pensions Regulated Services Limited 7 *
Capita Life & Pensions Services Limited 7 *
Capita Life and Pensions International Limited 7
Capita Life and Pensions Services (Isle of Man) Limited (D)19
Capita Managed IT Solutions Limited 14
Capita Mclarens Limited (in liquidation) 11
Capita Mortgage Administration Limited 7
Capita Mortgage Software Solutions Limited 7
Capita Norman + Dawbarn Limited (in liquidation) 4 □
Capita Offshore Services Private Limited (in liquidation) 22
Capita One Limited 7
Capita Pension Solutions Limited 7 * 

Share class

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

INR10.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

€1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

NGN1.00 Ordinary

INR10.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

225

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.16 Related companies continued

Company name
Capita Property and Infrastructure (Structures) Limited 7
Capita Property and Infrastructure Consultants LLC (in liquidation) 3 ♦
Capita Property and Infrastructure Holdings Limited 7
Capita Property and Infrastructure International Holdings Limited (D) 7 
Capita Property and Infrastructure International Limited (D) 7  
Capita Property and Infrastructure Limited 7
Capita Retail Financial Services Limited 7
Capita Scotland General Partner (Pension) Limited (in liquidation) 11
Capita Secure Information Solutions Limited 7 
Capita Shared Services Limited 7 *
Capita Southampton Limited 7 
Capita Symonds (Asia) Limited (D) 7
Capita Symonds Saudi Arabia Limited (D) 15 ▲
Capita West GmbH 23
Clinical Solutions Acquisition Limited  (D) 7
Clinical Solutions Finance Limited  7
Clinical Solutions Holdings Limited (D) 7
Clinical Solutions International Limited  7
Clinical Solutions IP Limited  (D) 7
Computerland UK Limited 7
Contact Associates Limited 7
CPLAS Trustees Limited (D) 7 
Cymbio Limited (in liquidation) 1
Daisy Updata Communications Limited 17 ▲
Debt Solutions (Holdings) Limited 7
Dragonfly Technology Solutions Ltd 7 ○  

DSTBTD LIMITED 28 <
Duke 2021 Topco Limited 6 >
E.B. Consultants Limited (D) 7 
Electra-Net (UK) Limited 9
Electra-Net Group Limited (in liquidation) 1
Electra-Net Holdings Limited (in liquidation) 1

Share class

£1.00 Ordinary

AED1,000.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

N/A

€25,000.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary B

£1.00 Ordinary

£0.000001 Ordinary
£0.000001 A Ordinary

£0.001 Ordinary

£1.00 B Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

Company name
Entrust Support Services Limited 24 ▼
Euristix (Holdings) Limited  (in liquidation) 1
Euristix Limited  (in liquidation) 1
Fera Science Limited  7 ■ 
Fire Service College Limited 7
FirstAssist Services Limited  (in liquidation) 1
Full Circle Contact Centre Services (Proprietary) Limited 10
Grosvenor Career Services Limited (D) 7
Level Financial Technology Limited 5 ◙
Liberty Printers (AR And RF Reddin) Limited  (in liquidation) 1
Market Mortgage Limited 7◄
Metacharge Limited (in liquidation) 1
Octal Business Solutions Limited  (in liquidation) 1
RE (Regional Enterprise) Limited 7
Retain International (Holdings) Limited  (D) 7
Retain International Limited (D) 7
SBJ Benefit Consultants Limited (D) 7
SBJ Professional Trustees Limited (D) 7
SDP Regeneration Services 2 Limited  (in liquidation) 1
Smart DCC Limited 7
Tascor E & D Services Limited 7
Tascor Services Limited 7
TELAG AG 13
The G2G3 Group Ltd.  (in liquidation) 11
ThirtyThree APAC Limited (D) 8
Updata Infrastructure (UK) Limited 7
Updata Infrastructure 2012 Limited  (in liquidation) 1
Urban Vision Partnership Limited 9 ►
Ventura (India) Private Limited 27
Ventura (UK) India Limited 7
Voice Marketing Limited 7
Western Mortgage Services Limited 7
Woolf Limited 7

Share class

£1.00 Ordinary X

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary B

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

ZAR0.01 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£0.001 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£0.001 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

CHF1,000.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

HKD1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary B

INR10.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

£1.00 Ordinary

226

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.16 Related companies continued
Footnotes
* Companies directly held by Capita plc.
> Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 0.28% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
< Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 9.14% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
● Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 4.62% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
○ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 8.87% of the issued share capital of subsidiary. 
♦ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 49% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
▲ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 50% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
► Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 50.1% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
▼ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 51% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
◄ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 48.29% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
■ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 75% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
□ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 97.3% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.
◙ Shareholdings owned indirectly by the company and represent 23.61% of the issued share capital of subsidiary.

Registered office address
1. 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, England
2. 10 Bow Lane, London, EC4M 9AL, England
3. 1004 Bin Hamoodah Building, Khalifa St., PO Box 113 740, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
4. 10th Floor, UBA House, No 57, Marina Street, Lagos Island, Lagos, Nigeria
5. 160 Eureka Park Upper Pemberton, Kennington, Ashford, England, TN25 4AZ
6. 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey
7. 65 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7NQ, England
8. 803 Manning House, 38 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong
9. 850 New Burton Road, Suite 201, Dover, DE, 19904, United States
10.8th Floor, Union Castle Building, 55 St Georges Mall, Cape Town, Western Cape, 8001, South Africa
11.Atria One, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8EX, United Kingdom
12.Centrum Biurowe Lubicz ul. Lubicz 23, 31-503 Krakow, Polska
13.Hardturmstrasse 101, Zürich, 8005, Switzerland
14.Hillview House, 61 Church Road, Newtownabbey, Co Antrim, BT36 7LQ, Northern Ireland
15.King Abdul Aziz Street, PO Box 7052, Dammam, Saudi Arabia
16.Konstanzerstrasse 17, Tägerwilen, 8274, Switzerland
17.Lindred House, 20 Lindred Road, Brierfield, Nelson, Lancashire, BB9 5SR, United Kingdom
18.Nassauer Ring 39-41, Krefeld, 47803, Germany
19.PO Box 227, Peveril Buildings, Peveril Square, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM99 1RZ
20.PO Box 33, Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4AT
21.Pavilion Building Ellismuir Way, Tannochside Park, Uddingston, Glasgow, G71 5PW, United Kingdom
22.Plant 6, Gate No. 2, Godrej and Boyce Complex, LBS Marg, Pirojshahnagar, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai, 400079, India
23.Rudower Chaussee 4, Berlin, 12489, Germany
24.The Riverway Centre, Riverway, Stafford, ST16 3TH, United Kingdom
25.Themistokli Dervi 3, Julia House, Nicosia, 1066, Cyprus
26.Unit B, West Cork Business & Technology Park, Clonakilty, Co. Cork, P85 YH98  
27.Upper Ground Level, Level 1, Level 2, & Level 3, Tower B1, Margapatta City SEZ, Margapatta City, Hadapsar, Pune, 411013, India
28.Wsm, Connect House 133-137 Alexandra Road Wimbledon, London, SW19 7JY, United Kingdom

227

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 7: Company financial statements continued

7.3.16 Related companies continued 

Listed below are subsidiaries controlled and consolidated by the Group, where the directors have taken the exemption from having an audit of its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023. This 
exemption is taken in accordance with Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.

Company name

Akinika Debt Recovery Limited

Akinika Limited

Capita Customer Solutions (UK) Limited

Capita Dubai Limited

Capita Employee Benefits Holdings Limited

Capita Financial Services Holdings Limited

Capita HCH Limited

Capita Health Holdings Limited

Capita Insurance Services Holdings Limited

Capita Insurance Services Limited

Capita International Limited

Capita International Retirement Benefit Scheme Trustees Limited

Capita IT Services Holdings Limited

Capita IT Services Limited

Capita Justice & Secure Services Holdings Limited

Capita Life and Pensions International Limited

Capita Life and Pensions Services Limited

Capita Managed IT Solutions Limited

Capita Mortgage Administration Limited

Capita Mortgage Software Solutions Limited

Capita Property and Infrastructure Limited

Company registration

Company name

Company registration

01242485

01613010

07886341

10908066

06722404

10016286

02384029

06413394

06041965

01396443

02683437

02328910

06002593

SC045439

04746912

05952054

04359665

NI032979

02042968

01855353

02018542

Capita Property and Infrastructure (Structures) Limited

Capita Property and Infrastructure Holdings Limited

Capita Property and Infrastructure International Holdings Limited

Capita Property and Infrastructure International Limited

Capita Retail Financial Services Limited

Capita Secure Information Solutions Limited

Computerland UK Limited

Contact Associates Limited

Debt Solutions (Holdings) Limited

E.B. Consultants Limited

Electra-Net (UK) Limited

Fire Service College Limited

Grosvenor Career Services Limited

RE (Regional Enterprise) Limited

Retain International (Holdings) Limited

Retain International Limited

Tascor E & D Services Limited

Tascor Services Limited

Urban Vision Partnership Limited

Ventura (UK) India Limited

Woolf Limited

02082106

03840627

03860653

02752154

05296886

01593831

02275625

05601393

03673307

01106104

03419833

08102633

03119327

08615172

07871708

03061744

09980217

02057887

05292634

05131185

01564535

228

Company financial statements continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 8: Additional information

In this section

8.1

8.2

Shareholder information 

Alternative performance measures

8.1 Shareholder information

In this section we have provided you with some key information to 
manage your shareholding in Capita plc.

Useful websites
Capita (www.capita.com/investors)
Our corporate site is our main external communication channel where 
we showcase our services, solutions and innovations from across the 
Group. It also contains an investor section, where institutional and 
private shareholders can access the latest announcements, financial 
and statutory information and reports.

Shareholder portal (www.capitashares.co.uk)
Capita’s register of shareholders is maintained by Link Group. Our 
shareholder portal is a secure online site where you can manage your 
shareholding quickly and easily. You can manage many aspects, such 
as viewing your holding, updating contact details, managing dividend 
payments, requesting to receive shareholder communications by email 
and registering. To register you will need your investor code, which 
can be found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation.

e-communications
Help us communicate with you in a greener, more efficient and cost-
effective way by switching from postal to email communications, which 
means that we will notify you by email every time a new shareholder 
communication has been placed on the Capita website.

Registering for e-communications is straightforward. Go to our 
shareholder portal www.capitashares.co.uk.

Managing your shareholding
We aim to communicate effectively with our shareholders, via our 
website www.capita.com/investors. Shareholders who have questions 
relating to the Group’s business or wish to receive further hard copies 
of annual reports should contact Capita’s investor relations team on 
+44-(0)772-016-9269 or email: IRTeam@capita.com.

If you have any queries about your shareholding or dividend payments 
please contact the Company’s registrar, Link Group:

Link Group 
10th Floor Central Square 
29 Wellington Street 
Leeds 
LS1 4DL

Email: enquiries@linkgroup.co.uk 

Tel: +44-(0)371-664-0300 (Calls are charged at the standard 
geographic rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the United 
Kingdom are charged at the applicable international rate.)

Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales.

Company contact details

Registered office
Capita plc
65 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7NQ
Tel: 020-7799-1525
Registered in England and Wales with registration number: 02081330

Investor Relations
IRTeam@capita.com
Director of Investor Relations – Helen Parris

Company Secretariat
secretariat@capita.com
Chief General Counsel and Group Company Secretary – Claire 
Denton

Company advisers
Independent auditor
KPMG LLP

Corporate brokers
Barclays Bank plc
Numis Securities Limited

Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
Lloyds Bank plc
National Westminster Bank plc
Citibank, N.A., London Branch
Standard Chartered Bank
Bank of China Limited, London Branch
ING Bank N.V., London Branch
Goldman Sachs International Bank

Corporate communications
Brunswick

Registrars
Link Group

229

Additional informationCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statementsSection 8: Additional information continued

8.2 Alternative performance measures

N

New APM in the year

U

Definition updated in the year

R

Comparatives re-presented

The Group presents various alternative performance measures (APMs) because internally the performance of the Group is reported and measured on this basis. This includes Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) such as 
adjusted revenue, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted basic/diluted earnings per share, free cash flow excluding business exits, and gearing ratios. In general, the Board believes that the APMs are useful for investors 
because they provide further clarity and transparency of the Group’s financial performance and are closely monitored by management to evaluate the Group’s operating performance to facilitate financial, strategic and 
operating decisions. 
These APMs should not be viewed as a complete picture of the Group’s financial performance which is presented in the reported results. The exclusion of certain items may result in a more favourable view when costs 
such as acquired intangible amortisation, costs relating to the cyber incident in March 2023, expenses associated with the cost reduction programme announced in November 2023 and impairments of goodwill are 
excluded. These measures may not be comparable when reviewing similar measures reported by other companies.
APM
Income statement

Definition, Purpose and Reconciliation

Closest equivalent IFRS measure

Adjusted revenue

Revenue

R

Calculated as revenue less any revenue relating to businesses that have been sold, or exited during the year or prior year; or, are in the process of being sold, or exited.
This measure of revenue is used internally in respect of the Group’s continuing business (being the Group’s continuing activities, which exclude business exits) and the Board 
believes it is a good indication of ongoing performance.
The table below shows a reconciliation between reported and adjusted revenue, as well as adjusted revenue growth:

Reported revenue per the income statement
Deduct: business exits (note 2.2.1)
Adjusted revenue
Adjusted revenue growth

2023

2022
 £2,814.6m   £3,014.6m 
  (£172.5m)    (£405.6m) 
 £2,642.1m  £2,609.0m
 1.7 %

 1.3 %

Adjusted operating profit

Operating profit

Calculated as reported operating profit excluding items determined by the Board to be outside underlying operations. These items are detailed in note 2.4.

U

A reconciliation of reported to adjusted operating profit is provided in note 2.4.

Adjusted operating profit margin Operating profit margin

U

Calculated as the adjusted operating profit divided by adjusted revenue.
This measure is an indicator of the Group’s operating efficiency.
The table below shows the components, and calculation, of adjusted operating profit margin:

Adjusted revenue
Adjusted operating profit (note 2.4)
Adjusted operating profit margin

a
b
b/a

2023

2022
 £2,642.1m   £2,609.0m 
£78.0m 
  £106.5m   
 3.0 %

 4.0 %

Adjusted EBITDA

No direct equivalent

U

Calculated as adjusted operating profit for the last twelve months before: depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and right-
of-use assets; net finance costs; and the share of results in associates and investment gains (other than those already excluded from adjusted operating profit).
The directors believe that adjusted Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is a useful measure for investors because it is closely monitored by 
management to evaluate Group and divisional operating performance.
This measure has been calculated pre and post the impact of IFRS 16 to enable investors to understand the impact of the Group’s lease portfolio on adjusted EBITDA.
The table below shows the calculation of adjusted EBITDA:

Post IFRS 16

Pre IFRS 16

Adjusted profit before tax
Add back: adjusted net finance costs (note 4.3)
Add back: adjusted depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 3.2)
Add back: depreciation and impairment of right-of-use assets (note 3.5)
Add back: adjusted amortisation and impairment of intangibles (note 3.3)
Remove: share of results in associates and investment gains (income statement)
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA margin

2023

2022
£49.8m   
£34.0m   
£43.1m   
£52.7m   
£30.6m   
(£5.8m)   

  £56.5m   
  £50.0m   
  £30.7m   
  £50.7m   
  £26.7m   
£—m   

2022
£55.0m 
£15.7m 
£43.1m 
£—m 
£30.6m 
(£5.8m) 
 £214.6m    £204.4m    £146.2m    £138.6m 
 5.3 %

2023
£57.0m   
£31.8m   
£30.7m   
£—m   
£26.7m   
£—m   

 7.8 %

 5.5 %

 8.1 %

230

Additional information continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
Section 8: Additional information continued

8.2 Alternative performance measures continued

APM

Closest equivalent IFRS measure Definition, Purpose and Reconciliation

Income statement continued

Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax
U

Adjusted profit/(loss) after tax
U

Profit/(loss) before tax

Calculated as profit or loss before tax excluding the items detailed in note 2.4, which includes: business exits (trading results, non-trading expenses, and any gain/(loss) on 
business disposal); acquired intangible amortisation; impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles; costs of the cyber incident in March 2023; and expenses associated with 
the cost reduction programme announced in November 2023.

A reconciliation of reported to adjusted profit before tax is provided in note 2.4.

Profit/(loss) after tax

Calculated as the above adjusted profit or loss before tax, less the tax credit or expense on adjusted profit or loss.

The table below shows a reconciliation:

Adjusted profit before tax (note 2.4)

Tax on adjusted profit (note 2.6.1)

Adjusted profit after tax

2023

£56.5m   
(£31.1m)   
£25.4m   

2022

£49.8m 
(£4.4m) 
£45.4m 

Adjusted basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share
U

Calculated as the adjusted profit or loss for the year after tax less non-controlling interests divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the 
year.

The Board believes that this provides an indication of basic earnings per share of the Group on adjusted profit after tax.

For the calculation of adjusted basic earnings per share refer to note 2.7.

Adjusted diluted earnings per 
share
U

Cash flows and net debt

Cash flows generated/(used) by 
operations excluding business 
exits
R

Diluted earnings per share

Calculated as the adjusted profit or loss for the year after tax less non-controlling interests divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the 
period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.

The Board believes that this provides an indication of diluted earnings per share of the Group on adjusted profit after tax.

For the calculation of adjusted diluted earnings per share refer to note 2.7.

Cash generated/(used) by 
operations

Calculated as the cash flows generated from operations excluding the items detailed in note 2.9.2 which includes: business exits (trading results, non-trading expenses) and 
pension deficit contributions which have been triggered by disposals.

A reconciliation of reported to cash generated/(used) by operations excluding business exits is provided in note 2.9.2.

Free cash flow and free cash flow 
excluding business exits
U

Net cash flows from 
operating activities

Free cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations after: capital expenditure; income tax and interest; and, the proceeds from the sale of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets; and the capital element of lease payments and receipts. Free cash flow excluding business exits has the same calculation but is excluding the 
impact of business exits.
Free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits are measures used to show how effective the Group is at generating cash and the Board believes they are useful for 
investors and management to measure whether the Group is generating sufficient cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditure, non-lease debt obligations, and dividends.

A reconciliation of net cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow and free cash flow excluding business exits and a reconciliation of free cash flow to free cash flow 
excluding business exits are provided in note 2.9.2.

231

Additional information continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
Section 8: Additional information continued

8.2 Alternative performance measures continued

APM
Cash flows and net debt continued

Closest equivalent IFRS measure

Operating cash flow and 
operating cash conversion

No direct equivalent

R

Definition, Purpose and Reconciliation

Calculated as operating cash flow excluding business exits divided by adjusted EBITDA.
The Board believes that this measure is useful for investors because it is closely monitored by management to evaluate the Group’s operating performance and to make financial, 
strategic and operating decisions

Reported

Excluding business exits

2023

2022

2023

2022

EBITDA

Add back: EBITDA element of cyber incident and cost reduction programme

Working capital (note 2.9)

Add back: Working capital element of cyber incident and cost reduction programme 

Non-cash and other adjustments (note 2.9)

Add back: Non-cash element of cyber incident and cost reduction programme (note 3.6)

Operating cash flow

Operating cash conversion

a

b

b/a

£—m   

  £144.5m    £235.7m    £214.6m    £204.4m 
£—m 
(£30.7m) 
£—m 

£63.8m   
  (£120.2m)   
£—m   
(£8.1m)   
(£38.9m)   
£30.7m   
(£29.5m)   
£—m   
£81.2m    £156.4m   

£—m   
(£40.4m)    (£102.6m)   
(£8.1m)   
£23.0m   
(£45.3m) 
(£29.5m)   
£—m 
£97.4m    £128.4m 

 56.2 %

 66.4 %

 45.4 %

 62.8 %

Available liquidity

No direct equivalent

Calculated as the sum of any undrawn committed facilities and the net cash, cash equivalents net of overdrafts, less any restricted cash. Restricted cash is defined as any cash 
required to be held under FCA regulations, cash held in foreign bank accounts, and cash represented by non-controlling interests.

Revolving credit facility (RCF) (note 4.5.2b)

Less: drawing on committed facilities (note 4.5.2b)

Undrawn committed facilities

Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts (note 4.5.4)

Less: restricted cash (note 4.5.4)

Available liquidity

2023

2022

  £260.7m    £288.4m 

— 

— 

  £260.7m    £288.4m 
£67.6m    £177.2m 
(£60.4m) 
(£46.0m)   

  £282.3m    £405.2m 

Net debt

Borrowings, cash, derivatives, 
lease liabilities and deferred 
consideration

Calculated as the net of the Group’s: cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts; private placement loan notes; other finance; currency and interest rate swaps; lease liabilities; and 
deferred consideration.

The Board believes that net debt enables investors to see the economic effect of debt, related hedges and cash and cash equivalents in total and shows the indebtedness of the Group.

Net financial debt (pre-
IFRS 16)

No direct equivalent

Calculated as the sum of the Group’s: cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts; the fair value of the Group’s private placement loan notes; other finance; and deferred consideration.

The Board believes that this measure of net debt allows investors to see the Group's net debt position excluding its IFRS 16 lease liabilities.

The calculation of net debt is provided in notes 2.9.3 and 4.1.1

Net debt (note 4.1.1)

Remove: IFRS16 impact (note 4.4)

Net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16)

2023

2022
  £545.5m    £482.4m 
  (£363.4m)    (£397.5m) 
£84.9m 
  £182.1m   

232

Additional information continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8: Additional information continued

8.2 Alternative performance measures continued

APM
Cash flows and net debt continued

Closest equivalent IFRS measure

Definition, Purpose and Reconciliation

Gearing: net debt to 
adjusted EBITDA ratio

No direct equivalent

This ratio is calculated as net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) divided by adjusted EBITDA over a rolling twelve month period including business exits not yet completed at the balance 
sheet date.

U

The Board believes that this ratio is useful because it shows how significant net debt is relative to adjusted EBITDA.
This measure has been calculated including and excluding the impact of IFRS 16 on EBITDA and net debt because the Board believes this provides useful information to enable 
investors to understand the impact of the Group’s lease portfolio on its gearing ratio.

The table below shows the components, and calculation, of the net debt / net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) to adjusted EBITDA ratio:

Post IFRS 16

Pre IFRS 16

Adjusted EBITDA

EBITDA in respect of business exits not yet completed

Adjusted EBITDA (including business exits not yet completed)

Net debt / net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16)

2023

2023

2022 1

2022 1
  £214.6m    £238.8m    £146.2m    £172.3m 
£1.3m 
  £222.8m    £240.1m    £154.4m    £173.6m 
£84.9m 
  £545.5m    £482.4m    £182.1m   

£8.2m   

£8.2m   

£1.3m   

Net debt / net financial debt (pre-IFRS 16) to adjusted EBITDA ratio

2.4x 

2.0x 

1.2x 

0.5x 

No direct equivalent

This ratio is calculated in the same way as gearing above but includes the net proceeds received from the disposal of the Fera business in January 2024.

The Board believes that this ratio is useful because it shows that the gearing ratio would have been below the medium term aim of 1.0x had the proceeds from the disposal of the 
Fera business been received in December 2023 when the sale was agreed.

Gearing including Fera 
proceeds: net debt to 
adjusted EBITDA ratio

N

Adjusted EBITDA

Net financial debt

Cash proceeds received in January on disposal of Fera (note 6.3)

Cash held by Fera at 31 December 23 (note 2.8)

Cash disposal costs expected in 2024 related to Fera disposal

Net proceeds received from Fera disposal in January 2024

Net financial debt including net proceeds received in January 2024

Net financial debt including net proceeds received to adjusted EBITDA ratio

1. To ensure consistent presentation of the ratios between years, the 2022 comparatives have not been restated.

Pre IFRS 16

2023

  £146.2m 
  £182.1m 

£61.9m 
(£7.2m) 
(£4.6m) 
£50.1m 

a

b

c

d = b-c

  £132.0m 

d/a

0.9x 

233

Additional information continuedCapita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Con su ltan cy  and desi gn  by 
B lack  Su n  Gl obal 
www .blacks un-gl obal. com

Pho tograph y by K at ie L ucas

Pr int ed  by  Capita

This  report i s  prin ted  on 
I ns pira paper  and board 
w hich  i s  a P EFC  certifi ed 
pa per  con tain ing  m at eri al 
sourced  from  respons i bl y 
ma naged  fores t. 

I ns pira paper  and board  i s 
ma nufactu red u n der a  st ri ct 
e nv i ronm en tal  m an agem ent 
sy stem   by  an  IS O9001 
c er t ifi ed  paper m il l.

R eg istered  off ice 
Ca pi ta pl c 
65 G res ham  S treet 
London  EC2V  7NQ

www. capita. com

