Viability statement

Viability statement

In accordance with provision 31 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2018, the Board 
has assessed the viability of the Group and 
Parent Company over the three-year period 
to 31 December 2026, aligned with the period 
of the Group’s business planning process. The 
Board believes that a three-year period provides 
sufficient clarity to consider the Group and 
Parent Company’s prospects and facilitates 
the development of a robust base case set of 
financial projections against which severe but 
plausible downside scenario stress testing can 
be conducted.

In its assessment of the Group’s viability, 
the Board has considered the following:

•  Adjusted revenue growth in 2023 of 1.3%.

•  The cost reduction programmes being 

implemented during 2024.

•  The completion of the Portfolio non-core 

business disposal programme in January 2024.

•  The repayment of £113m of financial debt in 
2023, with no further repayments scheduled 
in 2024.

•  The renewal of the revolving credit facility in 

2023 until 31 December 2026 and the issuance 
of £101.9m US private placement debt with a 
mixture of three and five-year maturities.

•  Agreement with the Trustees of the Group’s 
main defined benefit pension scheme that 
no further deficit recovery contributions are 
required from the Group in 2025 and beyond.

The foregoing elements provide the backdrop 
to the three-year business plan approved by the 
Board in December 2023. The main assumptions 
underpinning the base case financial projections 
in the Group’s business plan are set out below:

•  Further adjusted revenue growth beyond 2024 
broadly in line with market trends in each of 
the two core divisions.

•  Operating profit margin expansion over the 
business plan period reflecting the benefit 
of operating leverage coupled with ongoing 
efficiency delivery.

•  Delivery of cost savings.

•  A transition to positive free cash flow generation 

reflecting the above assumptions and the 
cessation of pension deficit contributions 
with effect from 2025.

The most material assumptions, from a 
viability assessment perspective, relate to 
the continuation of adjusted revenue growth, 
operating profit margin expansion, and delivery 
of cost savings.

The three-year base case financial projections 
were used to assess covenant compliance and 
liquidity headroom under different scenarios. This 
analysis included assessing the sensitivity of the 
financial performance of the Group to changes in 
trading conditions in line with those considered 
in the severe but plausible downside case for 
the going concern assessment and from the 
crystallisation of specific risks including those 
set out in the principal risks section of the 2023 
Annual Report and Accounts (refer to section 1 
of the consolidated financial statements).

The risks applied have not been probability 
weighted but rather consider the impact should 
each risk materialise by applying a ‘more likely 
than not’ test. These wide-ranging risks are 
unlikely to crystallise simultaneously and there 
are mitigations under the direct control of the 
Group, including reductions in capital investment, 
substantially reducing (and/or removing in full) 
bonus and incentive payments, and significantly 
reducing discretionary spend, that can be actioned 
to address a combination of risk crystallisations 
that may occur under a severe but plausible 
downside. These have been considered in 
the Board’s viability assessment.

Reflecting the Board’s expectations of 
improving financial performance, as set out 
above, and its confidence in the Group’s ability 
to refinance maturing debt over the viability 
assessment period, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and Parent Company 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
their liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of the viability assessment.

The strategic report was approved by the 
Board and signed on behalf of the Board:

Claire Denton
Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary

5 March 2024

Capita plc

Registered in England and Wales 
No.2081330

64

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Strategic reportCorporate 
governance

Corporate governance

66

68

70

72

79

84

87

96

Chairman’s report

Governance at a glance

Board of Directors

Corporate governance report

Nomination Committee report

ESG Committee report

Audit and Risk Committee report

Directors’ remuneration report

119 Directors’ report

65

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Chairman’s report

Chairman’s report 

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce 
the Company’s corporate governance report for 
the year ended 31 December 2023.

2023 was my first full year as Chairman, following 
my appointment in May 2022.

Corporate governance
This corporate governance report sets out how 
the Company has complied with the 2018 UK 
Corporate Governance Code. It also aims to 
explain the work and activities of the Board, 
and the work of its committees.

Company purpose and culture, and 
Board decision making
We recognise that the Board has ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring an appropriate culture 
is in place across Capita to underpin how the 
business behaves towards all its stakeholders. 
Our culture provides the foundation to deliver our 
strategy for all stakeholders – our people, clients 
and customers, suppliers and partners, investors, 
and society. We fully understand our obligations 
to consider the interest of all our stakeholders 
when making decisions, but we recognise that in 
certain instances the interests of our differing 
stakeholders may conflict, presenting challenging 
decisions for the Board and senior management.

During the year, principal issues for the Board’s 
focus included: responding to the cyber incident 
which occurred in late March; CEO succession 
planning; the Company’s operational and 
financial performance; and capital 
allocation considerations.

The Board considered and approved actions to 
improve the Company’s financial performance 
and position, which is in the interests of all 
stakeholders. This included the issuance of 
the US private placement notes in July and the 
extension of the maturity of the Group’s revolving 
credit facility, improving the Group’s debt profile 
and, in November, commencement of the 
restructuring programme intended to deliver 
£60m of annualised cost savings from Q1 2024.

The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee 
spent considerable time during the year focusing 
on the cyber incident, and the subsequent 
acceleration of investment to improve further 
the cyber maturity profile of the Group. In 
addition, the Company undertook an extensive 
organisational review and, as announced on 21 
November 2023, commenced a consultation 
programme expected to deliver cost savings of 
£60m on an annualised basis from Q1 2024, 
with approximately 900, principally indirect, 
support function and overhead roles ‘at risk’ 
of redundancy. While the Board recognised 
the impact on some of our colleagues, we 
considered that this decision, which would 
contribute to a more sustainable future for 
Capita, was in the long-term interests of the 
Company and our stakeholders as a whole. 
Capita provided support to affected colleagues 
during the initial consultation process, which 
concluded in early 2024.

Our s172 statement, which details how the 
Board considers the views of its stakeholders 
and principal Board decisions during 2023, is 
on pages 45 to 48.

“ The Board strongly believes 
that good governance is a 
key part of the strength of 
our business and that by 
reviewing and monitoring 
our existing practices 
we can ensure that our 
governance continues 
to evolve and is aligned 
to our business and 
its needs”

David Lowden, Chairman

66

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceChairman’s report continued

Board succession planning 
and composition

Chief Executive Officer (CEO) successor

As announced on 31 July 2023, Jon Lewis 
informed the Board in 2022, that he was 
interested in exploring his future options, 
including eventual retirement from Capita and 
handover to a new CEO, once the business had 
pivoted to growth and a potential successor had 
been identified. Following these discussions, the 
Board commenced a succession-planning process.

Jon stood down from his role as CEO and 
from the Board on 17 January 2024, and was 
succeeded by Adolfo Hernandez. Jon will remain 
in the business until July to ensure an orderly 
transition. Adolfo was chosen by the Board 
after a rigorous selection process.

Prior to his appointment as CEO, Adolfo was the 
Vice President of Amazon Web Services Global 
Telecommunications business, which is focused 
on enabling digital transformation to the cloud for 
customers around the globe. During his 30-year 
career in the technology sector, Adolfo has 
achieved an excellent record in accelerating 
revenue growth driven by digital services. We 
were pleased to welcome Adolfo as our CEO 
in January and believe that his experience and 
skillset will be key to delivering our strategic 
priorities. Further information on Adolfo’s skills 
and experience are provided in his biography on 
page 70 of this corporate governance report and 
details of the selection process we followed are 
provided in my Nomination Committee report 
on pages 79 to 83.

On behalf of the Board, I would like to express 
our sincere thanks to Jon and pay tribute to 
his significant commitment and achievements 
at Capita since he joined in December 2017, 
including leading the successful transformation of 
the Group. He has shown outstanding leadership 
and determination in rebuilding Capita from the 
ground up. Jon has refocused, strengthened and 
returned the business to growth, while rebuilding 
client trust and improving colleague engagement. 
I also want to commend him for his leadership 
throughout the period following the cyber incident, 
during which Jon decided to delay his possible 
retirement from Capita.

Non-executive directors

John Cresswell decided to step down from 
the Board on 31 March 2023. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank John for his 
commitment and valuable contribution to the 
Board during his seven-year tenure as a director. 
We welcomed Claire Miles to the Board as an 
independent Non-Executive Director on 12 May 
2023. Shortly after Claire’s appointment to the 
Board, she was offered the position of chief 
executive officer of Stagecoach, the UK’s largest 
bus and coach operator. Due to Claire’s new 
executive role, she informed the Board in 
December that she would be unable to devote 
the appropriate time to her role at Capita and 
would therefore resign as a director. Claire 
stepped down from the Board on 31 December 
2023. The Board fully understood Claire’s 
decision and recognises that each director needs 
to have sufficient time to dedicate to their role. 

The Nomination Committee considers other 
commitments of our directors annually to ensure 
that each director is able to allocate sufficient 
time to Capita to discharge their responsibilities 
and I discuss this with each director during my 
one-to-one meetings with them. The Board does, 
however, recognise that the ability of directors to 
share their experiences and expertise from other 
positions is of value to the Company.

The Board strongly believes that good 
governance is a key part of the strength of our 
business and that by reviewing and monitoring 
our existing practices we can ensure that our 
governance continues to evolve and is aligned 
to our business and its needs. This includes 
assessing our governance structure and, in 
December 2023, having concluded the Portfolio 
disposal programme and streamlined the Group, 
culminating in just two divisions – Public Service 
and Experience, the Board agreed that while 
having an employee director on the Board had 
been successful, this was not suitable for the 
business going forward, and that instead the 
Board should ensure that there is broader 
engagement with colleagues. Consequently, 
Janine Goodchild our Employee Non-Executive 
Director stepped down from the Board on 31 
December 2023. It is the intention of the Board 
to increase its visibility with our wider workforce 
and the Board has appointed Nneka Abulokwe 
as the designated non-executive director to 
engage with our workforce. In addition, individual 
site visits will be arranged for our independent 
non-executive directors to meet with colleagues.

On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Claire and Janine for their valuable contributions.

2024 AGM
Our AGM will be held on 21 May 2024. This 
provides an opportunity for our shareholders to 
meet with our directors and I hope you will be 
able to attend.

Corporate governance and committee 
reports
The following pages in this section consist of our 
corporate governance and committee reports. 
I hope that you will find these and the entire 
Annual Report informative. The Board will be 
pleased to receive any feedback you may have.

David Lowden
Chairman

5 March 2024

67

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceGovernance at a glance 

Governance at a glance

The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Capita’s 
long-term sustainable success, generating value for shareholders, 
and contributing to wider society. To assist in providing effective 
oversight and leadership, the Board has established the 
following committees:

Capita Board

Governance highlights
During 2023 our governance framework supported our strategic delivery in a number 
of ways, including:

Board oversight of the  
completion of the Portfolio  
disposal programme

Consideration and approval of 
extension of revolving credit 
facility and issuance of US 
private placement notes

Group Audit and 
Risk Committee  
(ARC)

Remuneration 
Committee  
(RemCo)

Nomination  
Committee 
(NomCo)

Environmental,  
Social and 
Governance 
Committee 
(ESGCo)

Reviewing the 
Group’s capital  
allocation policy

Reviewing 
the results of  
the triennial 
pension valuation

Executive Team

The Group has an Executive Team to manage Capita’s business day to day. Further information on our governance 
structure is available throughout this corporate governance report.

Board changes during 2023 and 2024 to date

31 March 2023
John Cresswell 
stepped  
down as an 
independent non-
executive director

12 May 2023
Claire Miles was 
appointed as an 
independent non- 
executive director

31 December 
2023
Claire Miles and 
Janine Goodchild 
stepped down from 
the Board

17 January 2024
Jon Lewis stepped 
down as CEO 
and a Director, 
succeeded by 
Adolfo Hernandez

31 July 2023
The Company 
announced 
the proposed 
retirement of Jon 
Lewis as 
CEO and a 
Director, to be 
succeeded by  
Adolfo Hernandez 

Details of succession planning for the new CEO are provided in the Nomination Committee report on pages 79 to 83

Board focus on 
the cyber incident

Conducting an 
internal Board 
and Committee 
evaluation

Reviewing and 
approving  
the supplier 
charter

Reviewing 
the outcome of  
the colleague 
survey

Reviewing the remuneration policy for 
executive directors to be proposed  
to shareholders at the 2024 
annual general meeting

Search and identification of new CEO 
to succeed Jon Lewis upon his retirement 
and appointment of new Independent  
Non-Executive Director

68

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceGovernance at a glance continued

Board composition at 31 December 2023 and 5 March 2024 (the date of this report)

Independence (excluding Chairman)

Tenures

 Gender representation in senior Board positions

Gender diversity

Ethnic diversity

Member
31/12/2023

Independent  

%

Member
05/03/2024

Independent  
% 

Chairman

Chairman

31/12/2023
Years
>4

No.
2

05/03/2024
Years
>4

No.
1

CEO/CFO

62.5

CEO/CFO

67

2–3

5 INEDs
Employee 
Director

4 INEDs

1–2
<1

3

3
1

2–3

1–2
<1

3

2
1

31/12/2023 

05/03/2024

31/12/2023

05/03/2024

31/12/2023

05/03/2024

David Lowden, Chairman
Jon Lewis, CEO
Tim Weller, CFO
Georgina Harvey, Senior 
Independent Director

David Lowden, Chairman
Adolfo Hernandez, CEO
Tim Weller, CFO
Georgina Harvey, Senior 
Independent Director

4 Male 
(44%)

4 Male  
(57%)

7 White 
(78%)

5 White  
(71%)

5 Female 
(56%)

3 Female 
(43%)

2 Persons of 
colour (22%)

2 Persons of 
colour (29%)

1. Claire Miles resigned as a director on 31 December 2023.
2. Janine Goodchild resigned as employee director on 31 December 2023.
3. Adolfo Hernandez was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 17 January 2024, following the retirement of Jon Lewis.

Board skills and experience

Director

David Lowden
Adolfo Hernandez
Tim Weller

Nneka Abulokwe
Neelam Dhawan
Georgina Harvey
Brian McArthur-Muscroft

Government 
contracting

Regulated 
businesses

Business  
process 
outsourcing

Consulting

Account 
management

Technology and/
or digital

Transformation 
and strategy

Cyber security

Finance

International

Sustainability

•
•

•

•
•

•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

• 
•
•

•
• 

•

•
•

•

•
•

69

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceBoard of Directors

Chairman

Executive Directors

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Key to committees

A

Audit and Risk

N

Nomination

R

Remuneration

E

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)

Committee chair

N

E

N

A

N

R

E

David Lowden
Chairman

Adolfo Hernandez
Chief Executive Officer

Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer

Georgina Harvey
Senior Independent Director

Appointed: January 2021 (Independent 
Non-Executive Director); March 2021 (Senior 
Independent Director); May 2022 (Chairman)

Independent at appointment: Yes

Key skills and experience: David is a 
highly experienced non-executive director, 
senior independent director and chair of UK 
listed companies. He was formerly Chair of 
PageGroup plc and Huntsworth plc, Senior 
Independent Director at Berendsen, Chair of 
the Audit and Risk Committee at William Hill, 
Chair of the Audit Committee at Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc and Chief Executive 
of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.

Other current appointments: Chairman 
of Diploma plc; and Senior Independent 
Director of Morgan Sindall plc.

Appointed: January 2024

Appointed: May 2021

Key skills and experience: Adolfo has 
c.30 years’ experience in the technology 
sector, achieving an excellent record in 
accelerating revenue growth driven by 
digital services. Prior to joining Capita, 
Adolfo was Vice President of Amazon Web 
Services Global Telecommunications which 
is focused on enabling digital transformation 
to the cloud for customers across the globe. 
Former positions include: CEO of SDL plc 
(now part of RWS Group); and CEO of 
Acision (now part of Mavenir).

Board responsibilities: managing and 
developing Capita’s business to achieve 
the Company’s strategic objectives.

External appointments: None.

Key skills and experience: before joining 
Capita, Tim was at G4S for five years as 
its CFO and for three years before that as a 
Non-Executive Director. He has many years’ 
experience as a CFO with Innogy, RWE 
Thames Water, United Utilities, Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc and Petrofac. 
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
at KPMG, becoming a partner in 1997. He 
was a Non-Executive Director of The Carbon 
Trust from June 2007 to September 2023.

Board responsibilities: overall control and 
responsibility for all financial aspects of the 
business’s strategy.

External appointments:  
Independent Council Member of the 
University of Exeter.

Appointed: October 2019  
(Non-Executive Director); July 2022 
(Senior Independent Director)

Key skills and experience: Georgina 
has significant experience across highly 
competitive consumer-facing markets and 
of delivering successful transformational 
change. Prior to her current roles, Georgina 
was Managing Director of Regionals and 
a member of the Executive Committee 
of Trinity Mirror plc from 2005 to 2012.

Other current appointments:  
Non- Executive Director of Superdry plc 
and Britvic plc and a director of McColl’s 
Retail Group plc.

70

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceBoard members continued

Independent Non-Executive Directors

A

N

R

A

N

R

E

A

N

R

Brian McArthur-Muscroft

Appointed: June 2022

Nneka Abulokwe OBE

Neelam Dhawan

Appointed: February 2022

Appointed: March 2021

Key skills and experience: Brian 
was formerly the Chief Financial Officer 
of Qontigo, a financial intelligence and 
investment management business. Prior to 
this he was Group Chief Financial Officer at 
Micro Focus International plc, a FTSE 100 
global infrastructure software company. 
Former roles include CFO at Paysafe Group 
plc leading the business to a FTSE 250 
listing in 2016 and Group FD at Telecity 
Group plc. Prior to joining Capita he 
was a Non-Executive Director at Robert 
Walters plc. Brian holds a law degree and 
qualified as a chartered accountant with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in London.

Other current appointments: Brian is the 
Group CFO at IQ-EQ, a Global Investor 
Services company.

Key skills and experience: Nneka has 
significant experience of delivering large-
scale, high profile technology projects for 
governments and private institutions globally. 
She held senior and executive positions with 
Logica (now CGI), Atos and Sopra Steria, in 
a corporate career of more than 25 years, 
before founding MicroMax Consulting, 
where she is currently CEO. Nneka was 
also an External Member of the University 
of Cambridge Audit and Risk Committee. 
Nneka was awarded an OBE in 2019 for 
services to business.

Other current appointments: NED, 
Davies Group; Director of MicroMax 
Consulting Limited; Adviser, Cranfield 
School of Management Advisory Board and 
DoGood Africa. Member of Board of Visitors 
of Oxford University Ashmolean Museum.

Key skills and experience: Neelam has 
c.40 years experience in the IT industry, 
where she held senior positions in Hewlett-
Packard, Microsoft, Compaq and IBM with 
responsibility for a wide range of areas 
including strategy, corporate development, 
software engineering and offshoring. She 
now advises multinationals on business and 
technology transformation and, until recently 
was an advisor to IBM, helping them 
navigate through a business and talent 
transformation in India. Until 2023 Neelam 
was a director of Skylo Technologies Inc. 
and a member of the Koninklijke Philips 
NV Supervisory Board.

Other current appointments:  
Non-Executive Director of ICICI Bank 
Limited, Yatra Online Inc and Hindustan 
Unilever Limited and Capillary Technologies.

Directors who served during 2023

John Cresswell stepped down from 
the Board as Non-Executive Director 
on 31 March 2023.

Claire Miles was appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 12 May 2023 
and stepped down from the Board on 
31 December 2023.

Janine Goodchild stepped down from 
the Board as Employee Non-Executive 
Director on 31 December 2023.

71

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report 

Corporate governance report 

UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
Capita plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the Code) applies to accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and is available from the Financial Reporting Council’s website, 
www.frc.org.uk. The Code sets out the framework of governance for premium listed companies such 
as Capita plc.

The Board and its Committees note the publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024 
(the 2024 Code) published on 22 January 2024, which will apply to accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2025, other than Provision 29, which will apply to accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2026. The Board has commenced a review of the amended provisions contained 
within the 2024 Code.

Together with the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 96 to 118, this report sets out the Board’s 
approach to governance and the work undertaken over the year. During 2023, we complied with all 
relevant provisions set out in sections 1 to 5 of the Code except for Provision 24 which provides that 
audit committees should comprise independent non-executive directors. Janine Goodchild who was a 
member of the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) during 2023 was a non-executive employee director 
and was not considered as independent. However, the Board considered that the formal appointment 
of Janine to ARC continued to demonstrate how the Group values diversity of perspective and that this 
is considered more important than a purely compliance-driven approach to the Code. Janine stepped 
down from the Board on 31 December 2023. Following Janine’s resignation, ARC comprises solely 
independent non-executive directors.

Following Janine’s resignation, the Board has appointed Nneka Abulokwe as designated non-executive 
director for colleague engagement, in compliance with Code Provision 5, and is also considering 
wider engagement with colleagues. Further information is provided on page 67. Our new CEO, 
Adolfo Hernandez, has commenced a series of breakfast meetings at different Capita locations to 
meet with colleagues. In addition, Georgina Harvey, Remuneration Committee chair, has ongoing 
colleague engagement in respect of executive remuneration and considers feedback from these 
meetings which is shared with her fellow Committee members and the Board. Further details are 
included in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 100.

How we apply the principles of the Code

Section 1: Board leadership and Company purpose
Chairman’s introduction
Strategic report
The role of the Board
Purpose and culture
Stakeholder and colleague engagement
Section 2: Division of responsibilities
Board composition
Role of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors, and 
Company Secretary
Time commitment, external appointments, independence and tenure 
Section 3: Composition, succession and evaluation
Appointment to the Board and succession planning
Skills, experience, and knowledge of the Board
Board diversity
Board evaluation
Section 4: Audit risk and internal control
Auditor independence and effectiveness of the audit
Principal and emerging risks
Risk management activities
Fair, balanced, and understandable assessment
Viability statement
Section 5: Remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report

Further information about how the Company has applied the principles of the Code is set out in this 
corporate governance report. Key highlights of the Company’s compliance with the Code together 
with cross references to other sections of the Annual Report are detailed in the table opposite.

Directors’ remuneration policy
Engagement with stakeholders on remuneration

Pages

66 to 67
2 to 64
73
4, 8 to 9
45 to 48

75
74

69, 73, 79

79 to 83
69
69
76

92
59 to 63
57 to 59
89
64

96 to 118

101 to 107
99 to 100

72

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Governance structure and division of responsibilities

The Board

Role of the Board

The Board is responsible for promoting Capita’s long-term success. This is achieved through 
effective governance and keeping the interests of stakeholders at the fore in decision making. 
The Board establishes the Group’s purpose and values and sets the Group’s strategy, ensuring 
alignment with our culture, and overseeing its implementation by management. The Board is 
responsible for oversight of the Group’s governance, financial reporting, internal controls, 
and risk management, including the Group’s risk appetite.

A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision is available in the Corporate 
Governance section of the Company’s website at www.capita.com.

Board composition and election

Our Board currently comprises seven members: the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and four independent Non-Executive Directors who are experienced 
individuals, drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds with the skills to promote 
the long-term sustainable success of the Group.

Board composition is a deliberate balance of newer and longer-standing members and reflects 
the ongoing review and refreshment of Board membership to ensure a balance of skills and 
experience appropriate for the broad nature of Capita’s businesses. The experience and 
breadth of tenure of the non-executive directors means the Board is well positioned to advise, 
challenge, and support executive management as the Group progresses its growth strategy.

All Directors are appointed to the Board for an initial fixed three-year term, subject to  
annual re-election by shareholders at the Company’s AGM. In accordance with the Code, all 
Directors will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election at the 2024 AGM to be held 
on 21 May 2024.

Board independence

Non-executive directors are required to be independent in character and judgement. 
All relationships that may interfere materially with this judgement are disclosed as required 
under the conflicts of interest policy, see page 120. The Board believes that each of the 
non-executive directors has retained independence of character and judgement and has not 
formed associations with management or others that may compromise their ability to exercise 
independent judgement or act in the best interest of the Group. The employee non-executive 
director was not considered as independent during 2023, given her status as an employee of 
the Group.

The Code does not consider a chairman to be independent due to the unique position the role 
holds in corporate governance. David Lowden met the independence criteria outlined in the 
Code when he was appointed as the Group’s chairman in 2022. The Board is satisfied that 
no conflict of interest for any director requires disclosure, see page 120.

Directors’ biographies, tenures, key skills and experience, and external appointments are set out 
on pages 70 to 71.

The Board delegates certain matters to its four principal committees:

Nomination Committee
Chair: David Lowden

Audit and Risk  
Committee
Chair: Brian McArthur-Muscroft

Remuneration  
Committee
Chair: Georgina Harvey

ESG  
Committee
Chair: David Lowden

Membership: 4

All Independent  
Non-Executive Directors

Membership: 3

Chairman and 2 Independent  
Non-Executive Directors

•  Sets remuneration 

•  Oversees the development 

Membership: 6

Chairman, 4 Independent 
Non-Executive Directors + 
CEO

•  Reviews composition of 

the Board.
•  Recommends 

appointments of 
new directors.
•  Ensures plans are 
in place for orderly 
succession to both 
the Board and senior 
management positions.
•  Overseas development 
of diverse pipeline 
for succession.

Membership: 4

All Independent  
Non-Executive Directors

•  Reviews accounting 

policies and contents 
of financial reports.

•  Monitors internal control 

environment.

•  Considers adequacy, 

effectiveness, and scope 
of external and internal 
audit programme.

•  Overseas relationship with 

external auditor.

•  Monitors risk profile and obtains 
assurance that principal risks 
have been properly identified 
and appropriately managed.

policy and principles 
for Board and senior 
management 
remuneration.

•  Approves incentive 
design and setting 
of targets.

•  Approves executive 
directors and senior 
management 
remuneration.

The Nomination 
Committee report can be 
found on pages 79 to 83.

The Audit and Risk Committee 
report can be found on 
pages 87 to 95.

The Directors’ 
remuneration report 
can be found on 
pages 96 to 118.

of the Group’s ESG 
strategy, monitoring its 
performance in relation 
to ESG matters.

•  Considers the adequacy 
of the Group’s ESG 
policies and processes.
•  Oversees and monitors 
the Group’s progress 
against its net zero 
emissions strategy.
•  Oversees and supports 

stakeholder engagement 
on ESG matters.

The ESG Committee 
report can be found on 
pages 84 to 86.

Committee terms of reference are available on the Company’s website at  
www.capita.com/about-capita/corporate-governance.

Executive Team 
Chair: Adolfo Hernandez
The Executive Team is responsible for the execution of the 
Company’s strategy and the day-to-day management of 
the business.

Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee identifies and controls 
inside information or information which could become 
inside information and determines how and when that 
information is disclosed in accordance with applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements. 

The Executive Team operates a number of supporting committees that provide oversight on key business activities 
and risk. These include the executive ethics and risk committee and the Capita investment review committee.

Supporting committees

73

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board leadership and roles
To ensure the Board performs effectively, there is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of the Board and the executive leadership:

Chairman

(David Lowden)

Leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all 
aspects of its roles. This includes:
•  Ensuring there is effective communication between the 

Board, management, shareholders, and the Group’s wider 
stakeholders, while promoting a culture of openness and 
constructive debate;

•  Ensuring that the views of all stakeholders are taken into 

consideration in the Board’s decisions;

•  Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance;
•  Setting the Board’s agenda and ensuring that adequate time 
is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular 
strategic issues;

•  Ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear 

information; and

•  Overseeing the annual Board performance review and 

addressing any actions.

Senior Independent Director 

Independent Non-Executive Directors

(Georgina Harvey)

The responsibility of this role includes:
•  Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman on  

Board-related matters;

•  Chairing meetings in the absence of the chairman;
•  Acting as an intermediary for other directors when necessary;
•  Leading the evaluation of the Chairman’s performance;
•  Being available to shareholders who wish to discuss matters 

which cannot be resolved otherwise; and

•  Leading the search for a new Chair, when necessary.

(Georgina Harvey, Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Nneka Abulokwe 
and Neelam Dhawan)

The responsibility of this role includes:
•  Providing effective and constructive challenge to the Board;
•  Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting 
of performance;

•  Reviewing Group financial information and ensuring there are 

effective systems of governance, risk management and internal 
controls in place;

•  Determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive 

directors; and

•  Having a prime role in appointing executive directors, and in 

succession planning.

Nneka Abulokwe has been appointed as the designated 
non-executive director for colleague engagement.

Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Financial Officer 

Chief General Counsel & Company Secretary

(Adolfo Hernandez)

(Tim Weller)

(Claire Denton)

The role of CEO is separate from that of Chairman to ensure 
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision making. 
The CEO has responsibility for:
•  The day-to-day running of all aspects of the Group’s business;
•  Developing and implementing the Group’s strategy;
•  Ensuring the effective implementation of Board decisions;
•  Leading the Group’s executive team; and
•  Representing the Group to external stakeholders. 

The responsibility of this role includes:
•  Supporting the CEO in developing the Group’s strategy 

and its implementation;

•  Representing the Group to external stakeholders;
•  Ensuing that the Group has the appropriate financing 

structure and internal controls over financial reporting; and
•  Oversight of the following key functions: Finance, Investor 

Relations, Internal Audit and Risk Management, Tax, Treasury, 
Insurance and Commercial.

Claire is available to all directors and is responsible for ensuring 
that all Board procedures are complied with. Claire has direct 
access and responsibility to the chairs of the standing committees 
and open access to all directors, and is secretary to the Board 
and all its committees.
Claire meets regularly with the Chairman and committee chairs and 
briefs them on areas of governance and committee requirements.

Independent advice: All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters relating to their responsibilities as directors and as members of the various committees of the Board at the Group’s expense.

74

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board composition at:

Chairman
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Senior Independent Director
Independent  
Non-Executive Director

Employee Director

Attendance of the directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings is shown below; 
the maximum number of meetings a director could attend is in brackets.

1 January 2023
David Lowden1
Jon Lewis2
Tim Weller
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
John Cresswell3
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-
Muscroft
–
Janine Goodchild5

31 December 2023
David Lowden
Jon Lewis2
Tim Weller
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
–
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-
Muscroft
Claire Miles4
Janine Goodchild

5 March 2024  
(the date of this report)
David Lowden
Adolfo Hernandez2
Tim Weller
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
–
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-
Muscroft
–
–

David Lowden
Jon Lewis1
Tim Weller 
Georgina Harvey2
Brian McArthur-Muscroft3
Nneka Abulokwe
John Cresswell4
Neelam Dhawan5
Janine Goodchild
Claire Miles6

Board
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
6/(7) 
7/(7) 
3/(3) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 
7/(7) 

Audit and Risk 
Committee
N/A
N/A
N/A
5/(5)
6/(6)
N/A
1/(1)
6/(6)
6/(6)
3/(4)

Remuneration 
Committee
N/A
N/A
N/A
5/(5)
5/(5)
5/(5)
N/A
4/(5)
N/A
N/A

Nomination 
Committee
4/(4)
1/(1)
N/A
4/(4)
4/(4)
4/(4)
0/(1)
4/(4)
N/A
1/(2)

ESG  

Committee
6/(6)
N/A
N/A
6/(6)
N/A
6/(6)
3/(3)
N/A
6/(6)
2(3)

1. David Lowden was independent on appointment as chairman in accordance with the Code.
2. Jon Lewis retired as CEO and a director on 17 January 2024, with Adolfo Hernandez appointed as CEO and a director 

on that date.

3. John Cresswell retired as a director on 31 March 2023, having served seven years as a non-executive director.
4. Claire Miles was appointed as a non-executive director on 12 May 2023 and stepped down as a director on 

31 December 2023 following her appointment as chief executive officer of Stagecoach. Claire advised the board that 
due to her new executive position she did not consider that she would have sufficient time to dedicate to Capita to 
appropriately perform her role as a director.

5. Janine Goodchild stepped down as Employee Director on 31 December 2023. Further information is provided on page 67.
6. Further information on these changes and the Company’s compliance with Code Provision 5 regarding the Board’s 

engagement with colleagues is provided in the Nomination Committee report on pages 79 to 83.

Directors’ interests

The interests of directors and their immediate families, who served during the year in the shares of the 
Company, together with details of executive directors’ share options, are contained in the Directors’ 
remuneration report set out on pages 96 to 118.

At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Board meetings and attendance.

During 2023, the Board held seven scheduled meetings. The Board also held an in-depth strategy 
session in Leeds, England where Directors met with clients and colleagues. Additional ad hoc 
meetings were held as required. In 2023, these included several meetings in relation to and following 
the cyber incident on 31 March 2023 which was a principal focus for the Board. Meetings held 
outside the normal schedule need to be flexible and are principally held by video conference.

1. Jon Lewis recused himself from three Nomination Committee meetings during the year which considered succession 

planning for the role of CEO.

2. Georgina Harvey was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 March 2023.
3. Brian McArthur-Muscroft was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a late change in the Board meeting schedule 

which coincided with a prior business engagement.

4. John Cresswell stepped down from the Board and its Committees on 31 March 2023. He did not attend one Nomination 

Committee meeting during the year, recusing himself as this dealt with the appointment of his successor.

5. Neelam Dhawan was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a change in meeting date which 

conflicted with a prior business engagement.

6. Claire Miles joined the Board and the Remuneration, Audit and Risk, and ESG Committees on 12 May 2023. She was 

unable to attend one Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and ESG Committee meeting due to a previous 
business commitment which had been scheduled prior to her appointment as a director.

Any director’s absence from Board or committee meetings was previously agreed with the Chairman 
of the Board or relevant committee and the CEO. Where possible the Chairman or committee chair 
will contact the director who is unable to attend the meeting to obtain their comments on Board and 
committee papers prior to the meeting. The Board and Committee agendas ensure that discussion 
is focused on key strategic issues and responsibilities, as well as reviews of significant issues arising 
during the year.

The chairman and non-executive directors held a closed session without management present at 
the end of several scheduled 2023 Board meetings. Throughout the year, Directors also devoted 
time to interviewing candidates for both executive and non-executive roles. The Chairman also held 
one-to-one individual review sessions with each executive director and each non-executive director.

75

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board effectiveness

The Board carries out effectiveness reviews annually.

The last external evaluation was undertaken by Independent Evaluation in 2021. Internal evaluations 
were performed during 2022 and 2023 and it is expected that the 2024 evaluation will be undertaken 
by an external party.

Key findings of the evaluation performed in 2022 are set out below together with actions taken 
during 2023:

Finding from 2022 evaluation
Strategy – although noting the regular presentations 
from the chief executives (CEs) of Public Service and 
Experience, additional focus was requested by the 
Board on the divisions’ strategic focus on digital 
solutions and margin improvements

Stakeholders – the Board noted that further 
interaction with both clients and senior management 
would be beneficial.

Action in 2023
During the year presentations to the Board from the 
CEs of Public Service and Experience included 
strategic focus on digital solutions and margin 
improvements. The Board discussed and debated 
these matters with the divisional CEs during Board 
meetings and the annual strategy meeting.
During the year several members of the senior 
management team below the Executive Team 
level presented to the Board and/or its committees. 
The Board also attended a site visit to Leeds in 
September 2023, and met with all members of 
the Experience senior leadership team, colleagues 
working at call centres and clients. 

The 2023 Board evaluation, and the evaluation of its committees, was undertaken internally by the 
completion of a questionnaire by each director, followed by a one-to-one meeting with the Chairman. 
The Board received a report from the Chairman on the outcome of the evaluation, including formal 
recommendations which were discussed and approved by the Board. Committee feedback was 
presented to the relevant committee chair. The Chairman was assisted in this process by Claire 
Denton, Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary.

Overall, the performance of the Board and its committees was viewed positively with progress made 
across many areas. Directors found Board and Committee meetings to be open and constructive. 
The relationship with the executive was seen positively, with their addressing of key issues recognised 
and their openness appreciated. The Board also considered its constitution and whether other options 
should be considered in relation to the Board’s engagement with colleagues. Further information is 
included on page 72.

The following four principal areas were identified for actions:

Principal areas identified for action  
in the 2023 Board evaluation
Stakeholders –
The Board requested:
•  additional focus on client feedback.
•  greater exposure of key supplier relationships.
•  increased interaction with colleagues (see below).
Wider engagement with colleagues
•  The Board agreed that following the streamlining 
of the Group, the Board should have broader 
engagement with colleagues to include site 
visits by individual directors.

Board meeting support –
The Board requested further improvement in the quality 
of Board papers and formalisation of the process to 
review previous key decisions made by the Board.
•  The Board requested that the Company focused on 
certain strategic matters for the future to achieve its 
strategic priorities and improved financial performance.

•  The Board noted that the incoming CEO would 

require appropriate support.

Proposed action in 2024
The Executive Team will ensure that the Board 
receives additional client feedback, and has 
greater information on key supplier relationships 
and increased interaction with colleagues.

Site visits to various locations will be arranged 
for directors during 2024, who will then provide 
feedback to the Board.

The Chairman has discussed these matters 
with the Chief General Counsel and Company 
Secretary and actions have been undertaken 
to improve Board meeting support. 
Specific issues are being progressed by the 
new CEO together with relevant members of 
the Executive Team.
A full onboarding programme was developed 
for Adolfo Hernandez who joined Capita as 
CEO on 17 January 2024. Adolfo has met, or 
will meet, with members of the Cabinet Office, 
representatives of major clients, certain major 
shareholders, senior management, and 
colleagues including visiting Capita’s overseas 
locations in India, South Africa, and Germany. 

An update on the 2024 actions will be provided in the Company’s 2024 Annual Report.

76

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Governance and strategy
The Group recognises the contribution made by good governance to the Company’s success, and 
changes made at both Board and Executive Team level demonstrate the importance of embedding 
the right structures with the right people to deliver the Group’s strategy. The connection between 
governance and delivery of strategy is reflected throughout this Annual Report.

In addition to their statutory duties, the directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively 
on all its accountabilities. The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to 
best support the delivery of long-term value, providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate 
framework of rewards, incentives, and controls. The Board is collectively responsible for the success 
of the Company and directors’ roles are set out above. Following presentations by executive and 
divisional management, and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, clear 
decisions on policy or strategy are adopted, and the executive management are fully empowered 
to implement those decisions.

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to act in a way they consider, in good faith, 
would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a 
whole. The Company’s s172 statement together with principal decisions of the Board during 2023 
is on pages 45 to 48.

Stakeholder engagement

As highlighted by the Code, the Board recognises the importance of identifying its key stakeholders 
and understanding their perspectives and values. Through regular dialogue and communication, 
the Board is mindful of all of Capita’s stakeholders when planning or making decisions of 
strategic significance.

During 2023, the Board complied with Code Provision 5, engagement with the workforce, through its 
Employee Director, Janine Goodchild, who was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2022. The Board 
has valued Janine’s contribution. In December 2023, the Board agreed that while having an employee 
director on the Board had been successful this was not suitable for the business going forward, 
and that instead the Board should ensure that there is broader engagement with colleagues. In 
this respect, the Board has appointed Nneka Abulokwe as designated non-executive director for 
colleague engagement. In addition, it has been agreed that directors will visit different sites during 
the year to meet with colleagues. Further information is provided on page 80. In September 2023, 
the Board met with clients and spoke to colleagues in some of the call centres managed by Capita, 
based in Leeds, on behalf of customers in the telecommunications sector. Photographs from this visit 
are included in this report. Following his appointment as CEO on 17 January 2024, Adolfo Hernandez 
has held a series of breakfast meetings with colleagues at various Capita locations.

There is an active engagement programme with the Company’s investors. The executive directors 
meet regularly with institutional shareholders to discuss and obtain feedback on the business, 
performance, strategy, capital structure and allocation and corporate governance, and address any 
issues of concern. This is undertaken through a combination of roadshows, group or one-to-one 
meetings and attendance at investor conferences. This engagement included presentations to 
institutional shareholders and analysts following the release of the Group’s half and full-year results 
(available on the Group’s website www.capita.com). Our Chairman, David Lowden, and Georgina 
Harvey, Senior Independent Director, also met with a number of institutional shareholders during 
the year.

Topics discussed in investor meetings included the cyber incident, free cash flow generation, 
remuneration structure, operating margin improvement and the nomination committee’s process 
for appointment of the new CEO.

The investor relations team has day-to-day responsibility for managing investor communications and 
always acts in close consultation with the Board. The Director of Investor Relations and representatives 
from the Company’s brokers, Deutsche Numis and Barclays are invited to attend Board meetings 
during the year to provide investor feedback. The Investor Relations team also arranged specific ESG 
engagements with investors. All members of the Board, including the non-executive directors, receive 
a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and anonymous feedback that follows the 
annual and half-yearly presentations to investment analysts and institutional investors. Analysts reports 
concerning Capita are circulated to the directors and the Board is kept informed of changes in the 
share register.

At the 2023 AGM, all resolutions were passed, with every resolution receiving more than 95% of votes 
cast in favour. The Board is grateful to shareholders for their continued support.

At the 2024 AGM the Company will be seeking approval of its directors’ remuneration policy. 
In developing the policy, Georgina Harvey, chair of the Remuneration Committee, has engaged with 
our major shareholders and key proxy advisory bodies. Further information is included in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 99 to 107.

Further information on how the Board has engaged with its key stakeholder groups can be found on pages 45 to 48

77

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Annual general meeting
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM. The 2024 AGM of the Company will be held at 
Capita’s offices at 65 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7NQ on 21 May 2024. Details of the meeting 
format and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which will be sent to 
shareholders with the 2023 Annual Report and includes notes explaining the business to be transacted. 
The Notice of Meeting is also available on the Company’s website at www.capita.com.

Risk management and internal control
The Board monitors the Company’s risk management and internal control systems and carries 
out an annual review of their effectiveness. The ARC report contains further details. The monitoring 
and review includes all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls. 
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board. The Group’s key internal control procedures are 
fully documented within the strategic report on pages 57 to 59.

The directors consider that each of the resolutions to be proposed to shareholders is in the best 
interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote 
in favour of all the resolutions.

The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee chairs are expected to attend the 2024 
AGM and will be available to answer any questions from shareholders.

Furthermore, through the operation of the risk governance process, the directors confirm, for the 
purposes of Provision 28 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the emerging 
and principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. A description of those principal risks, what procedures are in place 
to identify emerging risks, and an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated, is set out 
on pages 58 to 63.

Shareholder communications
In addition to the AGM, shareholders can access up-to-date information through the Group’s website 
at www.capita.com. Shareholders can also view their holdings by using the Signal shares shareholder 
portal, a service offered by Link Group, the Group’s registrar, at www.capitashares.co.uk. The Signal 
shares portal is an online service enabling shareholders to easily access and maintain their shareholding 
online. Shareholders can also contact Link by email at shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.co.uk. Link 
also provides a telephone helpline, 0371 664 0300, calls are charged at the standard geographic 
rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate. 
Lines are open between 9.00am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England 
and Wales.

Business relationships
Details regarding relationships with suppliers, clients and others, together with further cross 
references, are provided in the engaging with our stakeholders section on pages 45 to 48.

Remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 96 to 118.

78

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report

Nomination Committee report

Principal role and responsibilities
As set out in the terms of reference, which 
are available on the Company’s website,  
www.capita.com, the Nomination Committee 
is responsible for a number of key matters, 
including to:

•  Identify and nominate appropriate candidates 
for appointment to the Board, having due 
regard to the provisions of the Code and, in 
particular, the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and the diversity of 
its composition.

•  Keep the structure and size of the Board, its 
committees and the leadership requirements 
of the Group under review and ensure that 
plans are in place for orderly succession 
and appointment to the Board.

•  Consider the independence, time commitment 

and performance of the Non-Executive 
Directors.

•  Oversee development of a diverse pipeline 

for succession to the Executive Team.

Areas of focus in 2023
•  Succession planning for the Chief 

Executive Officer.

•  Recruitment and appointment of an 
independent non-executive director.

•  Review of diversity and inclusion activities 

and measures.

•  Review of senior management talent 

and Executive Team succession planning.

•  Consideration of the contributions and 

effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors 
seeking re-election at the 2023 AGM.

•  Reviewing the constitution of the Board.

•  Reviewing the skills and experience of 

the directors and their other commitments.

“ Board succession planning 
has been an important 
area of focus for the 
Committee during 2023”

David Lowden, Chair,  
Nomination Committee

Nomination Committee time allocation

1. Board appointments
2. Employee director appointments
3. Succession planning
4. Diversity
5. Governance

23%
5%
51%
8%
13%

1

2

The time allocation chart is provided for guidance only and other 
matters were also considered by the committee.

5

4

3

79

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report continued

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Nomination Committee (the Committee), I am pleased to present this report, which 
describes how we carried out our responsibilities during 2023. The Committee met four times during 
the year.

Board succession planning
Board succession planning has been an important area of focus for the Committee during 2023.

As noted in my introductory statement, Jon Lewis informed the Board during 2022 that he was 
interested in exploring his future options, including eventual retirement from Capita. As Chair of the 
Committee, and with the support of our Chief People Officer and my fellow Committee members,  
I led the recruitment process for a new CEO, assisted by search firm Lygon Group. On 31 July 2023, 
following the conclusion of the process, we were delighted to announce the appointment of Adolfo 
Hernandez as Capita’s new CEO. Adolfo has an excellent track record in accelerating revenue growth 
driven by digital services. Adolfo joined the Company as CEO and a Director of Capita on 17 January 
2024, with Jon stepping down from the Board on that date. Jon will remain in the business until July 
2024, to ensure an orderly transition. Further information on the appointment process is provided on 
page 81.

During the year and following John Cresswell’s retirement from the Board on 31 March 2023, having 
served as a director for more than seven years, the Committee recommended the appointment of 
Claire Miles as an Independent Non-Executive Director. In our consideration of this appointment, 
we concentrated on identifying candidates who would add to the collective skills, experience, and 
diversity of the Board to improve our ability to support and challenge management as Capita 
develops and evolves. Further information on the appointment process is provided on page 82.

Board changes
On 7 December 2023, the Company announced that Claire Miles would step down from the Board 
on 31 December 2023. Claire’s decision followed her appointment as chief executive officer of 
Stagecoach, Britain’s largest bus and coach operator on 4 October 2023. Claire advised the Board 
that due to her new executive role she would be unable to dedicate sufficient time to enable her to 
contribute to Capita appropriately. While disappointed that Claire was unable to remain on the Board, 
the Committee understood Claire’s reasoning. The Committee itself annually assesses the external 
commitments of each director to ensure that they have sufficient capacity to fulfil their obligations 
to the Board and its committees and to ensure that no director is over-boarded.

Board composition
In December 2023, the Committee in conjunction with the Board, reviewed the Board’s constitution to 
ensure that it continues to be appropriate. The Board concluded that while having employee directors 
on the Board had been successful, this was not suitable for the business going forward, and that 
instead the Board should ensure that there is broader engagement with colleagues. Consequently, it 
was recommended to the Board that Janine Goodchild should step down as Employee Director and 
member of the Board on 31 December 2023. The Board now constitutes seven directors, comprising 
the Chairman, two Executive Directors (the CEO and the CFO) and four Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, which the Board deems appropriate for the business. Following Janine’s resignation, and 
on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board appointed Nneka Abulokwe as the 
designated non-executive director for colleague engagement.

During 2023, we also reviewed the talent pipeline for the Executive Team and completed our annual 
governance processes.

Further details of the Committee’s responsibilities and work undertaken by the Committee during 
2023 are included in the Nomination Committee report. I hope you will find this informative.

David Lowden
Chair

Nomination Committee

5 March 2024

80

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report continued

Nomination Committee members

Member
David Lowden (Chair)
Jon Lewis
Adolfo Hernandez
Georgina Harvey
Nneka Abulokwe
John Cresswell
Neelam Dhawan
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Claire Miles

Member since
1 January 2021
1 July 2022
17 January 2024
1 October 2019
1 February 2022
17 November 2015
1 March 2021
1 June 2022
12 May 2024

Date of retirement from  
the Committee (if applicable)

17 January 2024

31 March 2023

31 December 2023

Board changes
The appointment of our new CEO, Adolfo Hernandez, was a key area of focus for the Committee 
during 2023. In addition, we continued to focus on the evolution of the Board and, prior to the 
retirement of John Cresswell on 31 March 2023, identified a need for an additional Non-Executive 
Director who was an accomplished, growth-oriented business executive and leader. Board 
appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific skills, experience, knowledge and 
independence needed to ensure a rounded board. We seek to ensure a minimum of 40% female 
representation on recruitment shortlists and, where appropriate, to include candidates who may 
not have listed company experience but who possess suitable skills and qualities. We only engage 
executive search firms that have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity 
and best practice.

Recruitment of the CEO
The Committee was assisted in the search for a new CEO, which was led by the Chairman, by the 
search firm, Lygon Group, which has no connection to the Company or individual Directors. Lygon 
Group was not engaged by the Company for any other purpose during 2023. The search process 
was conducted as follows:

First stage

Second stage

Third stage

Development of a 
candidate profile.

Selection and engagement 
of an independent search 
firm carried out via a 
tender process.

The Nomination Committee 
received presentations from 
two search firms, following 
which Lygon Group was 
engaged by the Committee 
to undertake the search.

A long-list of potential 
candidates, identified by Lygon, 
was reviewed by the Chairman 
and Chief People Officer and 
presented to the Committee.

The Committee also considered 
whether there were any potential 
internal candidates for the role.

A short list of candidates 
was reviewed, with candidates 
interviewed by the Chairman, 
Chief People Officer and other 
members of the Board including 
the Senior Independent 
Director and Chief Financial 
Officer.

Final stage

Fifth stage

Fourth stage

A Board meeting was 
convened to approve the 
appointment and offer to 
the preferred candidate, 
Adolfo Hernandez.

The appointment of Adolfo 
Hernandez was announced 
on 31 July 2023, following 
approval by the Board.

Adolfo joined Capita as 
CEO and a Director on 
17 January 2024.

The preferred candidate 
met with all but one director, 
following which the Nomination 
Committee made a 
recommendation to the Board.

A Remuneration Committee 
meeting was convened to 
approve the remuneration 
package subject to Board 
approval of the appointment.

The preferred two candidates 
met with other members of 
the Committee.

A detailed induction plan was created for Adolfo focusing on building his understanding of 
the business.

81

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceNomination Committee report continued

Non-Executive Director appointment

To assist with the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, following John Cresswell’s decision 
to retire, the Committee appointed search firm Spencer Stuart, which has no connection to the 
Company or individual Directors. The Committee reviewed the skills matrix of the directors which 
is updated annually, and a candidate profile was developed to address any identified gaps and to 
complement the needs of the business and the Board as a whole. Spencer Stuart was not engaged 
by the Company for any other purpose during the year. Having considered the shortlist, the Chair and 
fellow committee members interviewed the preferred candidates and recommended the appointment 
of Claire Miles to the Board for approval. The Committee further recommended that, on appointment 
to the Board, Claire was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and ESG Committees.

The appointment of both Adolfo and Claire involved a formal, rigorous, and transparent appointment 
process based on merit and objective criteria, with due consideration being given to a broad range of 
factors such as diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths, 
and the Group’s future strategic direction.

Board of directors’ induction and training
All new directors are provided with a robust induction, tailored to suit their individual needs. This is 
an invaluable step to not only support directors in meeting their statutory duties, but also gives them 
a comprehensive introduction to the business and its strategic priorities.

Ongoing training and briefings are also given to all directors, including external courses as required. In 
addition, all directors are required to undertake online training on the Company’s Code of Conduct 
and cyber and information security awareness, which are also mandatory for all Group employees.

Induction case study – Claire Miles
Claire Miles was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2023. The Company Secretary assisted the 
Chairman with the preparation and delivery of a tailored and comprehensive induction programme, 
designed to give Claire a thorough overview and understanding of our business with a focus on the 
Group’s strategy, and wider business objectives. The induction sessions, which were principally 
virtual, provided Claire with an opportunity to meet with senior management and advisers and build 
an understanding of the key areas of focus for the Board, its committees, and the Group. The 
induction programme was complemented by the Board site visit to Leeds in September 2023, 
which included presentations by members of the Experience senior management team, meetings 
with clients and with the wider workforce.

After 17 April 2023 (the date of the announcement of Claire’s appointment)
Claire was provided with a comprehensive pre-read, including previous Board and relevant 
Committee papers
12 May 2023
Claire was formally appointed to the Board, Audit and Risk, Nomination and ESG Committees
May/June 2023
Claire met with senior executive and functional heads (principally on a one-to-one basis) to 
provide her with an understanding of the Group’s operations, culture, and values. This included 
meetings with all members of the Executive Team, the Director of Investor Relations and the 
Group Director of Financial Control 

Meetings with the Director Internal Audit and Risk, the external auditor and external legal counsel
September 2023
Site visit in Leeds, meetings with clients and colleagues

82

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceSuccession planning and Board composition
A formal succession framework is in place for the Executive Team and the two management layers 
beneath. The purpose of the framework is to apply a fair, objective and consistent methodology to 
identify future potential career paths for individuals within the Group.

Structured development plans are implemented to support individuals in improving their skills and 
experience. The depth of the framework means talent can be identified and nurtured at an early 
stage, and combined with the approach to Board appointments, means the pool of possible future 
candidates for Board roles is sufficiently wide and diverse.

Board evaluation
Details of the annual Board evaluation process are provided in the Chairman’s report on page 76.

Nomination Committee report continued

Diversity and inclusion

Capita’s diversity and inclusion policy is based on a commitment to creating an environment where 
diversity is valued and respected. We believe that business success is a direct result of the experience 
and quality of its people. Inherent within this approach is an acceptance and embracing of diversity in 
all its forms and an endorsement that the entire workforce, including the Board, be representative of the 
communities in which Capita operates. We have met the FCA’s target of 40% female representation 
on the Board and with regards to ethnicity, at least one person of colour, in respect of accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2022. Key aims of the policy are to ensure equality, diversity, 
and inclusion in the workplace and to promote a culture where everyone is treated with respect and 
dignity. Further information on actions taken to address diversity, inclusion and wellbeing across the 
workforce is in the responsible business section on pages 32 to 37.

Disclosures required under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)

At 31 December 2023 (being the reference date selected by the Board for the purposes of this 
disclosure), the Company complied, as detailed below, with the regulatory targets set out in Listing 
Rule 9.8.6(9).

•  The Board was 56% female (43% female at 5 March 2024, the date of this Annual Report, 

following Claire Miles and Janine Goodchild stepping down from the Board on 31 December 2023);

•  The Senior Independent Director (Georgina Harvey) is female; and

•  The Board had two Directors from a minority ethnic background.

The Board continues to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) at 5 March 2024, the date of this report, 
and it is expected that it will comply on 21 May 2024, the date of the Company’s 2024 Annual 
General Meeting. Further details of the Company’s compliance with LR9.8.6(R) at 31 December 2023 
and 5 March 2024 are provided on pages 36 and 69.

While Capita has exceeded the FCA’s 40% target for female representation at Board level, with female 
representation among senior management and direct reports at 40% at 31 December 2023, the 
Board recognises that there is still more to do throughout the organisation.

At 31 December 2023, female representation on the Board was 56% and among senior management1 
was 29%. At 31 December 2023, ethnically diverse representation on the Board and among senior 
management1 was 22% and 14% respectively. Further disclosures on our gender and ethnicity 
diversity and how percentages are calculated and information collated is provided on page 36.

1. The 2018 Code defines senior management as the Executive Team and the Group Company Secretary. Claire Denton, 

Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, is a member of Capita’s Executive Team.

83

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceESG Committee report

ESG Committee report

Overview
The ESG Committee (the Committee) met 
six times during 2023. David Lowden acts 
as ESG Committee chair. Other members of 
the Committee are Georgina Harvey and Nneka 
Abulokwe, Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
John Cresswell and Janine Goodchild stepped 
down from the committee on 31 March 2023 and 
31 December 2023, respectively. Claire Miles 
was appointed as a member of the Committee 
on 12 May 2023 and stepped down on 
31 December 2023 when she resigned 
as a director.

ESG Committee time allocation 

5

4

3

1

2

Responsibilities and activities

Key responsibilities

•  Oversee the development of the Group’s 

•  Review diversity and inclusivity data and 

responsible business strategy and monitor its 
performance in respect of ESG-related matters 
on behalf of the Board.

approve the Group’s gender and ethnicity 
pay gap report.

•  Review and approve the Group’s modern 

•  Oversee and monitor the Group’s progress 

slavery statement.

against its net zero strategy.

Activity in 2023

Net zero:

•  Reviewed the Task Force on Climate-

related Financial Disclosures for inclusion  
in the Capita 2022 Annual Report.

•  Reviewed the Group’s net zero emissions 

and draft low carbon transition plan.

•  Reviewed and approved the Company’s modern 

slavery statement on behalf of the Board.

•  Reviewed the Group’s Speak Up policy.

Strategy:

•  Considered Capita’s responsible business strategy.

•  Considered Capita’s ESG strategy and 

governance structure.

Liaison with the Remuneration Committee  
on ESG-related targets:

•  Considered stakeholder feedback from 
shareholders, customers and regulators.

•  Reviewed and recommended to the 

Remuneration Committee ESG-related 
bonus targets for 2023.

“ During the year, the 
committee focused on 
responsible business 
challenges, and providing 
additional strategic 
oversight, accountability, 
and guidance”

1. Governance/regulatory
2.  Employee-related issues including diversity  

and inclusion

3. Net zero
4. ESG-related bonus targets
5. Strategy

34%
34% 

13%
5%
13%

Approval of external ESG communications:

•  Reviewed the our people and responsible 

business sections of the 2022 Annual Report.

•  Reviewed and approved the 2022 

responsible business report for publication.

David Lowden, Chair,  
ESG Committee

The time allocation chart is provided for guidance only and 
other matters were also considered by the Committee.

Policies and procedures:

•  Reviewed and approved Capita’s supplier 
charter and considered how net zero was 
assessed and monitored within the Group’s 
supply chain.

Our people:

•  Received a presentation on Capita’s 

safeguarding policy, including SafetyNet, a 
Capita specific team and process designed to 
support Capita’s most vulnerable colleagues.

•  Received a presentation on diversity and 
inclusion at Capita, including gender and 
ethnicity pay gap reporting.

•  Received feedback on the response to the 

2023 employee surveys.

Governance

•  Discussed the outcome of the annual evaluation 

of the Committee.

•  Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee.

84

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceESG Committee report continued

Dear shareholders,
I am pleased to present this report on the first full year of the Committee following its formation in 
June 2022.

Role of the Committee
The Committee oversees Capita’s conduct as a responsible business. During the year, it focused 
on responsible business challenges, and providing additional strategic oversight, accountability 
and guidance.

Focus of the Committee
This Committee provides a forum within which all components of Capita’s responsible business 
strategy can be considered on a regular basis. During the year, it focused on the following matters:

Diversity & inclusion

The Committee reviewed and approved the Group’s 2023 UK gender and ethnicity pay gap report. 
2023 was the third consecutive year that Capita voluntarily published its ethnicity pay gap. We believe 
that analysing diversity data and being transparent about the diversity of our workforce is an important 
step in moving towards a fairer, more inclusive workplace.

The Committee was pleased to note that our gender pay gap had improved, with a 5% reduction 
compared with 2022, the largest improvement since we commenced reporting on the gender pay 
gap. This is the result of several years of work within Capita to increase the number of women working 
in our senior leader roles. The committee recognises that there is more to do but is proud that our 
global workforce comprises 50% of females. We were also proud to note that Capita was ranked 
18 out of 400 on the Forbes global list of top employers for women.

We noted that our ethnicity pay gap increased during 2023. While high volumes of recruitment have 
served to increase the representation of ethnic minority talent in our business, this has primarily been 
in more junior and lower paid positions. Capita continues to focus on attracting diverse senior talent, 
and most importantly, on growing, developing and promoting diverse talent from within.

The Committee considered the initiatives undertaken to improve this position, including our RISE 
(reduce inequality strive for equality) programme and our EmbRACE employee network group, which 
aims to address disparity of opportunity and support the progression of those who aspire to move 
into their first manager role.

While pleased with the progress made within the Group on diversity and inclusion matters, 
the Committee recognises that there is more work to be done. We are supportive of the update 
report from the Parker Review, and our Executive Team is considering ethnicity targets for senior 
management. This will remain a key area of focus. We will provide an update on progress made 
in these areas in our 2024 report.

Wellbeing of our colleagues

The health, safety and wellbeing of all our colleagues is a priority for the Committee and the Company. 
The Committee received a presentation from the Senior Medical Officer detailing Capita’s 
safeguarding policy and our SafetyNet initiative, which continues to provide much needed expert 
guidance to our human resources representatives and line managers supporting colleagues with 
complex issues related to wellbeing, safeguarding or vulnerability.

ESG-related bonus targets

We worked closely during the year with the Remuneration Committee on ESG-related bonus targets, 
both reviewing the outturn of the ESG-related targets included in the 2022 management bonus plan 
and reviewing ESG targets for the 2023 management bonus plan, making recommendations to the 
Remuneration Committee. These include traditional measures, such as employee engagement, as 
well as targets that address broader societal concerns, such as climate change, consistent with the 
Board’s responsibility to all stakeholders. Further details are provided in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 96 to 118.

Supplier charter

The Committee reviewed and approved Capita’s supplier charter. Our review included an in-depth 
discussion on how our suppliers assess and manage the impact of their business during their 
transition to net zero, particularly noting that there is often a disproportionate financial impact on 
SMEs compared with our larger suppliers. We noted that Capita’s smaller suppliers may need more 
support during the transition to achieve full net zero.

85

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceESG Committee report continued

Net zero target

In early 2024, the Committee considered and approved a proposal from management to update our 
targets to become fully net zero by 2045. This recognised that a significant amount of our carbon 
emissions originate from our supply chain and that by extending our target by ten years we have 
additional time to engage with our suppliers and work with them to reduce their environmental impact. 
Capita is currently working with the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), the globally recognised 
body for climate-related target setting, to validate our new targets.

As a Committee we have also approved a three-phased approach to full net zero, aiming to reach 
operational net zero by 2030; operational and business travel net zero by 2035; and full net zero 
by 2045.

Further details of our proposals which are subject to validation with the SBTi are detailed in the 
Responsible business report on pages 40 to 42.

Other matters

During the year, the Committee also addressed a range of other strategic and current issues including 
the results of our employee surveys, and discussed the initiatives that are being undertaken by Capita 
in these areas. We considered and approved the Group’s modern slavery statement on behalf of the 
Board and assessed our Speak Up policy, concluding that following its relaunch in 2022 the policy 
was operating effectively.

Going forward and Committee chair
The Committee recognises the need for Capita to respond to a rapidly changing external environment 
including the difficult economic environment, which impacts the way we operate.

In December 2023, we reviewed our refreshed responsible business principles to ensure that they 
focus on the areas of greatest concern to the Group, including making sure that we have the 
appropriate governance structure, reporting processes and risk management. During this review, the 
Committee considered stakeholder views and feedback, including from shareholders, customers and 
regulators.

Capita’s updated responsible business principles will be published later in 2024. We look forward to 
reporting more on these matters and the progress made.

Following the appointment of Nneka Abulokwe as designated non-executive director for colleague 
engagement, it was also proposed by the Nomination Committee that Nneka takes on the role of 
ESG Committee chair on 6 March 2024, following the announcement of Capita’s 2023 full year 
results. This is a natural evolution of the roles of our independent Non-Executive Directors, with Brian, 
Georgina and Nneka acting as chairs of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and ESG Committees 
respectively. I will remain a member of this Committee.

David Lowden
Chair

ESG Committee

5 March 2024

86

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report 

Audit and Risk Committee report

Overview
The Audit and Risk Committee’s (the 
Committee’s) terms of reference set out in full the 
role, responsibilities and authority of the 
Committee and can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.capita.com/about-capita/
corporate-governance. The terms of reference 
are reviewed annually and updated as required.

Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for carrying out 
the audit functions as required by DTR 7.1.3R 
and assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities in respect of the Company and the 
Group. The Committee’s key responsibilities are:

Financial reporting

To review the reporting of financial and other 
information to the Company’s shareholders and 
to monitor the integrity of financial statements, 
including the application of key judgements in 
determining reported outcomes, to ensure 
they are fair, balanced and understandable.

Risk management, internal control 
and compliance

To review and assess the adequacy of systems 
of internal control and risk management, and 
monitor the risk profile of the business.

Internal audit

To approve the annual internal audit plan, review 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
and review all significant recommendations, and 
ensure they are addressed in a timely manner.

External audit

To review the effectiveness and objectivity of the 
external audit process, assess the independence 
of the external auditor and ensure appropriate 
policies and procedures are in place to protect 
such independence.

Effectiveness

To report to the Board on how it has discharged 
its responsibilities.

Audit and Risk Committee 
time allocation

4

3

1

2

1. Risk management, internal control & compliance
2. Financial reporting (incl. external audit)
3. Private meetings with auditors
4. Governance

51%
36%
8%
5%

The time allocation chart is provided for guidance only and 
other matters were also considered by the Committee.

“ Following the decision 
by the Board and the 
Committee to focus on 
optimising the existing 
finance reporting systems, 
further progress has been 
made in improving the 
Group risk and control 
framework and 
financial controls”

Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Chair,  
Audit and Risk Committee

87

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Risk and control framework
The Committee continued to fulfil its role of supporting the Board in its review of the integrity of the 
Group’s financial reporting, monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management 
and internal controls, and overseeing the activities of the Group’s internal audit function and its 
external auditor.

As noted below, further progress was made in strengthening the Group’s controls. In addition, as in 
the prior year, a key control questionnaire process was completed across the Group where business 
leaders attested to compliance with key controls. This enables management to focus attention on 
control areas that need improvement.

Further detail on the risk management and internal control environment is set out later in this report 
on pages 94 and 95.

Controls improvement
Following the decision by the Board and the Committee to focus on optimising the existing finance 
reporting systems, further progress has been made in improving the Group risk and control framework 
and financial controls. These programmes have continued to focus on the simplification of finance 
activities and controls, continuing to embed the enterprise risk management framework, and further 
rationalisation of the overly complex legal structure. Key improvements in 2023 include: designing 
standard access rights to key systems; documenting the key risks and controls over financial 
reporting, considering significant fraud risks; and independent testing by Group Internal Audit of 
the design effectiveness of those key financial controls. In addition, the legal entity rationalisation 
programme progressed well during the year with the number of legal entities in the Group being 
reduced by 50. At 1 January 2024, the Group had 130 legal entities compared with 369 in July 2018. 
The rationalisation programme is ongoing, and the number of legal entities will be significantly 
below 100 by the end of 2024. Further improvements to the Group risk and control framework are 
planned for 2024, including obtaining assurance of management’s process of monitoring operating 
effectiveness of key controls. In 2023 the Group’s controls activity has continued to be supported 
by a Speak Up policy which facilitates whistleblowing across the Group with a function dedicated 
to identifying, preventing and investigating where fraud concerns have been raised. This was 
expanded to Switzerland and Germany in 2023, completing the rollout to all geographies.

The Board and the Committee also recognise the reforms to the UK Corporate Governance Code 
announced in January 2024, specifically the requirement for a Board declaration regarding controls 
from 2026. To date, activity has prioritised those areas which were known to be within the scope of 
the code, specifically the identification, documentation, and testing of the design effectiveness of 
controls over financial reporting and significant fraud risks. The Board and the Committee are now 
considering the provisions of the revised code which will inform future control improvement activity.

Committee membership and attendance
The Committee comprises myself as chair, together with Neelam Dhawan, Georgina Harvey and 
Nneka Abulokwe, independent non-executive directors.

During 2023 Janine Goodchild, employee non-executive director, was also a member of the 
Committee. Although not considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 
(Code), Janine brought valuable insights from the employee perspective into Committee discussions 
and the Board considered that this was important from an employee engagement perspective. Janine 
stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2023, following a review of the 
Board’s constitution by the Nomination Committee and the Board, during which it was agreed that, 
although the employee director position had been successful, it would now be appropriate to adopt 
a wider employment engagement strategy given the more streamlined Group. Further information is 
provided on page 67.

John Cresswell stepped down as a director and member of the Committee on 31 March 2023.  
I would like to thank John for his significant and valuable contribution to the Committee’s 
deliberations. Georgina Harvey, Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair was 
appointed as a member of the Committee upon John’s departure. Claire Miles was appointed as a 
director and a member of the Committee on 12 May 2023. Following the appointment of Claire the 
Committee comprised five directors, with 80% of Committee members considered independent.

As part of her induction programme, Claire Miles met with Ian Griffiths, Audit Partner, KPMG, our 
external auditor, Capita’s Group Director Financial Control and our Director Internal Audit and Risk. 
Georgina Harvey was previously a member of the Committee from October 2019 until June 2022 
when the Board reviewed Committee membership. However, following the retirement of John 
Cresswell, it was decided to reappoint Georgina as a member of the Committee to ensure that the 
Committee has the requisite skills and depth necessary to discharge its duties in accordance with its 
terms of reference. Claire Miles stepped down from the Board and a member of the Committee on 
31 December 2023, following her full-time appointment as chief executive officer of Stagecoach. 
Further information is provided in the Nomination Committee report on page 80. Nneka Abulokwe was 
appointed as a member of the Committee on 27 February 2024. From 1 January 2024, the 
Committee has comprised solely of independent non-executive directors.

The Committee is required to include at least one financially qualified member, this requirement is 
fulfilled by myself as a chartered accountant.

All other Committee members are considered financially literate given their qualifications and 
experience. Neelam has held senior positions in Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Compaq and IBM 
with responsibility for areas including strategy and corporate development. Georgina has significant 
experience across highly competitive consumer-facing markets. She is currently a non-executive 
director of Superdry plc and a member of its audit committee. Nneka is an adviser of Cranfield School 
of Management Advisory Board and was formerly an external member of the audit and risk committee 
of the University of Cambridge. Biographies of the directors, including their skills and experience are 
on page 70 to 71.

88

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

To encourage effective communication, in addition to the above members, the Chairman, CEO, 
CFO, Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Director Financial Control and Group 
Chief Accountant are invited to attend Committee meetings along with certain members of the senior 
management team, the Director Internal Audit and Risk and representatives from KPMG, the Group’s 
external auditor. The Head of Business Integrity provides a report at each meeting to update the 
Committee on speak-up matters and related issues. Opportunity exists at the end of each Committee 
meeting for the representatives of the internal and external audit teams to meet with the Committee in 
the absence of management and both have access to the Committee should they wish to voice any 
concerns outside formal meetings.

Committee performance was assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation, see page 76 for more 
information. The Board is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members, both 
during the year and currently is such that the Committee discharges its responsibilities in an effective, 
informed and challenging manner and that, as a whole, the Committee has competence relevant to 
the sector in which the Company operates. The Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, or 
their nominee, acts as Secretary to the Committee and is available to assist the members of the 
Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed accordingly.

How the Committee operates
The Committee has an annual forward agenda to cover the key events in the financial reporting cycle, 
specific risk matters identified by the Committee and standing items that the Committee is required 
to consider in accordance with its terms of reference. The annual agenda is supported by planning 
meetings held in advance of the principal Committee meetings, led by me with the CFO, members 
of the Group Finance team and the external auditor. I also meet on a regular basis and separately 
with the CFO and Director Internal Audit and Risk. The purpose of these meetings is to identify key 
issues impacting the business that may require consideration by the Committee. Reports are received 
from Group functions, including risk and internal audit, as appropriate. The Group’s Chief Technology 
Officer and/or the Chief Information Security Officer attend every Committee meeting to provide an 
update on the Group’s cyber and IT resilience. The Head of Business Integrity also attends every 
Committee meeting to provide an update on cases reported under the Group’s Speak Up policy. 
Additional reports are provided as may be required. I report to the Board the key matters of 
discussion and make any significant recommendations as necessary.

How the Committee discharged its roles and responsibilities in 2023
The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year and attendance at each meeting is 
shown on page 75. Meetings are planned around the Company’s financial calendar.

Financial reporting

Accounting judgements and significant accounting matters

As part of the process of monitoring the integrity of the financial information presented in the half-year 
results and the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee reviewed the key accounting policies and 
judgements adopted by management to ensure that they were appropriate. The significant areas of 
judgement identified by the Committee, in conjunction with management and the external auditor, 
together with a number of areas that the Committee deemed significant in the context of the 
financial statements, are set out on pages 90 to 92.

Fair, balanced and understandable

At the Board’s request, the Committee considered whether the half-year results and the Annual 
Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the information provided 
was sufficient for a reader of the statements to understand the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. The Committee reviewed both the narrative and financial sections of the 
reports to ensure they were consistent and gave a balanced view of the performance of the business in 
the year and that appropriate weight was given to both positive and negative aspects. The Committee 
also considered the use of alternative performance measures (APMs) and whether the APMs are 
appropriate, including any changes to their definition in the period. The Committee also considered 
whether the full-year announcement was presented clearly.

The Committee considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts enables readers to understand 
the Company’s financial position and prospects, as well as assess its going concern status and 
longer-term viability.

89

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Significant issues in relation to the financial statements considered by the Audit 
and Risk Committee

Going concern and viability assessment

Matter considered

Consideration of the going concern assumption and viability of the Group and Parent Company is the 
responsibility of the Board. The Committee conducted an assessment as part of its support role, 
given the inherent judgements required to assist the Board in evaluating the resilience of the Group.

Action

The Committee considered the projections within the business plan, agreed by the Board in 
December 2023, and the key assumptions underpinning the future cash flow and profit forecasts. The 
Committee received reports from executive management and KPMG (as part of their standard 
reporting to the Committee in the course of performing their duty as statutory auditor) concerning the 
going concern and viability assessments, including the key risks identified. These included details on 
the key assumptions, the forecasting process, the committed facilities available, and the mitigations 
within direct control of the Group. The Committee also considered the risks identified and appraised 
the severity and plausibility of these in setting the downside scenario (see section 1 to the 
consolidated financial statements for details).

The Committee reviewed the disclosures presented in section 1 of the consolidated financial 
statements together with the viability statement on page 64 to ensure there was sufficient detail 
provided to explain the basis of preparation and the Board’s conclusion.

Outcome

The Committee is satisfied that the analysis presented by executive management and KPMG 
provides enough detail to allow a robust assessment of relevant risks and mitigations to be 
undertaken. This supported full discussion of the severe but plausible downsides and allowed the 
Committee to recommend to the Board that the going concern assumption be applied and the 
viability statement be approved.

The Committee is satisfied that section 1 to the consolidated financial statements and the viability 
statement on page 64 include proportionate disclosures to inform users of the assessments 
undertaken by the Board.

Revenue and profit recognition

Matter considered

There is significant risk on long-term contracts related to revenue recognised from variations or scope 
changes, where significant judgement is required to be exercised by management. There is a risk that 
revenue may be recognised even though it is not probable that consideration will be collected, which 
could be due to uncertainties over contractual terms and ongoing negotiations with clients.

Judgement is also required when customers request scope changes to determine if there is a 
contract modification or a contract termination followed by a new contract. Contract terminations can 
lead to the immediate recognition of any deferred income being held for recognition in future periods.

Action

The Committee received regular updates on all major contracts during the year and specifically 
reviewed the material judgements as part of the half-year and year-end close process. The Committee 
has also considered the recognition of onerous contract provisions, where appropriate, and the 
lifetime profitability of contracts.

To aid the reader, the company has included a detailed explanation of the Group’s accounting for 
long-term contracts (see note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements).

Outcome

The revenue recognition policy includes disclosure of the significant judgements and estimates in 
relation to its application and the Committee is satisfied that these have been properly disclosed. 
The Committee is satisfied that the disclosures given within the accounts are sufficient to gain a 
proper understanding of the methodology of accounting for revenue across the Group, including 
the recognition of deferred income at the balance sheet date. The Committee reviewed the disclosure 
and concluded that these provide information that is helpful to allow a fuller understanding of the 
application of IFRS 15 to the Group’s contracts.

Contract fulfilment assets

Matter considered

Costs incurred to deliver a customer contract may be capitalised as contract fulfilment assets in 
accordance with IFRS15. Judgements are involved in assessing whether the costs incurred on a 
contract or an anticipated contract meet the capitalisation criteria as set out under the standard.

In addition, the amortisation of these assets involves estimation of the expected life of the contract, 
and when a contract is in the early years post-inception and undergoing major transformation 
activities, the contract fulfilment assets (CFAs) are at heightened risk of impairment. Judgements are 
involved in assessing whether the costs incurred on a contract or an anticipated contract meet the 
capitalisation criteria as set out under the standard.

Action

The Committee has considered and challenged the significant judgements and estimates involved in 
determining the carrying value of CFAs.

As part of the review of all major contracts, the Committee has also considered the recoverability 
of CFAs.

90

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Outcome

The Committee is satisfied that appropriate judgements and estimates have been made in determining 
the carrying value of CFAs and the extent of impairment of CFAs recognised in these statements is 
appropriate. The Committee is satisfied that the accounting policy note provides sufficient clarity as 
to the policy adopted and that the disclosures provide information to allow a reader to understand 
the risks associated with different stages of a typical long-term Capita contract.

Impairment of Parent Company’s investment in subsidiaries, and recoverability of receivables from 
subsidiary undertakings in the Parent Company

Pensions

Matter considered

The measurement of the defined benefit liabilities in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 
operated within the Group is a complex area, relying on assumptions on inflation, mortality, corporate 
bond yields, expectations of returns on assets and several other key inputs. There is a risk that any 
one of these could lead to misstatement of the Group’s liabilities in respect of pension obligations 
and the pension charge or movement recognised in the income statement or statement of 
comprehensive income.

Matter considered

Action

The Parent Company carries a material balance of investment in, and receivables from, subsidiaries in 
its financial statements. The impairment and recoverability assessments require the application of 
judgement concerning future prospects and forecasts.

The Committee reviewed the disclosure as presented in the accounts. The Committee also challenged 
the key assumptions and reviewed the sensitivity to changes in some of the key assumptions on a 
standalone basis as well as in the context of defined benefit schemes across other external benchmarks.

Action

Outcome

The Committee has reviewed the robustness of the impairment model and challenged the 
appropriateness of assumptions used to calculate and determine the existence of impairment.

The Committee has also reviewed the robustness of the assessment of recoverability of receivables 
from subsidiary undertakings in the parent company and challenged the appropriateness of 
assumptions used to calculate and determine any provisions required.

Outcome

The Committee considered that any impairment of investment in subsidiaries, or any provision against 
amounts receivable from subsidiaries, at the parent company level were appropriate and properly 
accounted for.

The Committee acknowledged the gap between the net assets of the Parent Company and the 
market capitalisation of the Company. The Committee gave consideration as to why this might be the 
case and whether goodwill or assets on the Parent Company balance sheet may be impaired. The 
factors considered included: the differing basis of valuations (including that third parties value the 
services sector on income statement multiples versus long-term view using a discounted cash flow for 
the basis of impairment testing under accounting standards), sum-of-the parts view and the multiples 
achieved on recent disposals, general market assumptions of the sector which can ignore the liquidity 
profile and specific risks of an entity, and other specific items which impact the market’s view of the 
Group at the moment. Taking these points into consideration the Committee is comfortable that there 
is no impairment in respect of the net assets of the Parent Company to be recognised at 
31 December 2023, despite the continuing low market capitalisation of the Company.

The Committee is satisfied that the estimation of the Group’s pension liabilities and the narrative that 
accompanies them gives the required level of information for a reader of the accounts to determine 
the impact on the Group of its pension obligations.

Deferred tax assets

Matter considered

The Group carries significant deferred tax assets. The recoverability assessment requires the 
application of judgement concerning future prospects and forecasts.

Action

The Committee reviewed the disclosure as presented in the accounts. The Committee also challenged 
the key assumptions and reviewed the sensitivity to changes in some of the key assumptions on a 
standalone basis as well as in the context of defined benefit schemes across other external benchmarks.

Outcome

The Committee is satisfied with the amount of deferred tax recognised in these financial statements.

The Committee is also satisfied that the assumptions, methodology and disclosure in note 2.6 to the 
consolidated financial statements are sufficient to give the reader an understanding of the approach 
taken and the sensitivities within the assumptions that could reasonably give rise to a material 
derecognition of deferred tax.

91

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Costs related to the cyber incident

Matter considered

In March, the Group experienced a cyber incident which caused disruption to some client services. As 
stated in the accounting policies, Capita separates its profit between adjusted and reported to provide 
useful disclosure to aid the understanding of the performance of the Group. The costs arising from the 
cyber incident have been excluded from the adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax of 
the Group. The Committee needs to ensure the complete identification, quantification and disclosure 
in the financial statements of the costs arising from the cyber incident.

Action

The Committee considered the nature of the costs that management have disclosed as arising from 
the cyber incident and the process put in place to ensure only those costs are excluded.

The Committee considered the appropriate presentation to apply for costs related to the cyber 
incident which are presented as an adjustment to the reported results.

The Committee reviewed the contingent liability disclosure in note 6.2 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

Outcome

The Committee concurs with management’s view that the presentation of the costs related to 
the cyber incident as an adjustment to the reported results provides useful disclosure to aid the 
understanding of the performance of the Group and agrees that the items excluded meet with the 
stated policy for recognition. Note 2.4 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the nature of 
the costs excluded, and the Committee is satisfied that this provides sufficient information to inform 
a reader.

The Committee reviewed the disclosures within the contingent liability note. It was satisfied that the 
disclosure provided proportionate detail to inform a reader.

Other issues considered in relation to the financial statements

Materiality

Materiality is important in determining the risk attached to any judgement. The Committee considers 
the audit materiality set by the external auditor to ensure that the Committee is informed of individual 
items above a certain threshold that are most likely to have an impact on the financial statements. 
The Committee reviews the external auditor’s report and the individual items that breach the 
materiality thresholds and assesses their relative impact on the reported statements. These are: income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income; balance sheet; statement of changes in equity and 
cash flow; as well as the notes to the accounts.

The Committee requests further clarification from the external auditor, the CFO and Director of Financial 
Control as to the nature of these items and also their relative importance in the financial statements.

After having made such enquiries, the Committee is satisfied that materiality has been applied 
correctly in the accounts.

Disclosure of information to the auditor

The directors who held office at the date of the approval of this directors’ report confirm that, so 
far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and each director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information required for the audit and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.

Statutory auditor

The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group’s auditor (KPMG) and it advises the 
Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the auditor and on fees earned for both 
statutory audit and audit-related work. The Committee discusses the nature, scope and timing of the 
statutory audit with the auditor and, in making a recommendation to the Board on auditor 
reappointment, performs an annual, independent assessment of the auditor’s suitability, performance and 
independence.

The external auditor attends meetings of the Committee and provides updates on statutory reporting, 
audit-related services and fees, and ongoing audit items.

The auditor has the opportunity to raise concerns in private session with the Committee and 
separately with the chair. Specifically, the Committee asks the auditor if discussion of business 
performance in the strategic report is consistent with the auditor’s overall impression of Capita. 
Any material discrepancies are discussed (refer to the independent auditor’s report).

Auditor independence

The Committee has a responsibility to put in place safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence 
and the key measures are:

•  The CFO monitors the independence of the auditor as part of the Group’s assessment of auditor 

effectiveness and reports to the Committee accordingly.

•  The CFO must approve all audit-related engagements – further details are set out in the section 
below on audit-related services. The Committee reviews audit-related fees twice a year and 
considers the implications for auditor objectivity and independence.

•  The auditor must confirm its independence to the Committee every six months.

Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the selection of any third-party 
auditor. Such conflicts may arise across public and private sector clients, and in key supplier 
relationships. They are a key factor in the award process for an external audit assignment.

92

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Audit-related services and fees

Financial Reporting Council: audit quality inspections

The Company’s policy on auditor independence describes the services that may be procured from the 
auditor, namely audit and audit-related services only. To avoid the perception of a conflict of interest, 
the provision of non-audit services is not permitted. Audit-related services include those required 
by laws and regulations, or where it is more practical for the external auditor to perform the service 
(eg reporting accountant role related to certain public company transactions, and audit and other 
assurance services related to public reporting on other information issued by Capita, such as reports 
on information in the front of the annual reports not covered by the auditor’s report on the financial 
statements). KPMG continues to perform the review of interim results which, although technically 
classified as a non-audit service, relates closely to the audit.

Under the policy, which is reviewed annually, executive management has discretion to engage 
the auditor for audit-related services but the nature of such assignments and associated fees 
must be reported regularly to the Committee. All assignments require approval from the CFO. 
Where executive management has any concern that a proposed assignment might threaten 
the auditor’s independence, this is discussed with the Committee chair.

Total non-audit fees during the year were £0.5m and related to the review of interim results, ISAE 
3402 assurance reporting on controls operating by a subsidiary, and ISAE 3000 assurance reporting 
over non-financial metrics reported within the Annual Report and Accounts. Further details are 
provided in note 2.3.2 to the consolidated financial statements.

External auditor performance

The Committee discussed regularly the performance of KPMG during the year and was satisfied that 
the level of communication and reporting was appropriate. These discussions included a review of 
the effectiveness and quality of the audit process, audit planning and a formal post-audit evaluation.

The formal evaluation comprises separate assessments by both management and the Committee of 
the auditor’s role, activity and performance including:

•  Calibre and risk profile of the audit firm;

•  Audit governance, independence and objectivity;

•  Audit scope and strategy;

•  Audit team and relations with management and business; and

•  Audit communications and resolution of audit issues.

Each year, the Audit Quality Review team (AQR) of the FRC issues a report that sets out the principal 
findings arising from the audit quality inspections conducted in the previous calendar year across a 
sample of audits for all major audit firms. The AQR’s objective is to monitor and promote improvements 
in the quality of auditing. The report highlights improvements required to promote audit quality, and 
areas of good practice. The FRC publishes separate reports on the individual firms, including KPMG.

The Committee received a presentation from the KPMG lead audit partner on the findings from the 
FRC Audit Quality Inspection Report for KPMG.

FRC’s Audit Quality Review of the Capita 2022 audit by KPMG

During the year, the 2022 audit of Capita plc by KPMG was reviewed by the Audit Quality Review 
(AQR) team. The FRC routinely monitors the quality of the audit work of certain UK audit firms through 
inspections of sample audits and related procedures at individual audit firms. Certain matters were 
identified relating to how KPMG evidenced its conclusions over the work performed in two specific 
areas of the audit. The AQR also highlighted good practice observations in relation to KPMGs 
challenge over going concern and the robust evaluation of the Company’s going concern assessment.

The Committee and KPMG have discussed the review findings and the agreed actions and are 
satisfied with responses to be implemented by KPMG in the 2023 audit. Overall, the results of the 
review raised no issues which cause doubt on the fundamental quality of Capita’s external audit 
and the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the external audit.

External auditor reappointment

Following a robust and rigorous audit tender process in 2018, the Committee and Board 
recommended the reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Group’s auditor and this was approved 
by shareholders at the 2019 AGM. KPMG was first appointed in 2010, initially as KPMG Audit plc.

The lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis. The current lead audit partner rotated onto the 
audit following the completion of the 2021 audit in March 2022.There are no contractual obligations 
which restrict the Committee’s choice of auditor.

Under the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services Order and the EU Audit Directive and Audit 
Regulation, the provision of audit services should be retendered every 10 years. The complex nature 
of the Group requires that a knowledge base is built up year on year by the incumbent to ensure that 
the external audit is conducted with a proper understanding of the Group’s operations and the nature 
of the risks that it faces. This is an important factor in ensuring audit quality. The Group has complied 
with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order.

A resolution to reappoint KPMG as the external auditor of the Company will be put forward at the 
forthcoming annual general meeting. If approved, KPMG will hold office from the conclusion of this 
meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the 
Company, and its remuneration will be determined by the Committee.

93

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

Review of risk management and internal control

The Committee received reports on the following themes during the year:

Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems is delegated to the Committee by the Board. The principal risks and risk management 
processes are set out on pages 57 to 63.

Effectiveness and efficiency of risk management

During the year, the Committee completed a robust assessment of the principal risks, including 
deep-dive reviews on four of the Group’s principal risks. These reviews focused on principal risks 
related to:

•  Internal controls

•  People, attraction and retention

•  Securing new contracts and extending existing contracts

•  Delivering our contractual obligations

The principal risk assessment also considered any emerging risks that would threaten Capita’s 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The assessment process included regular 
engagement with the Executive Team members accountable for the management of risk falling under 
their remit. As part of each deep dive, the Committee reviewed existing controls and further risk 
reduction actions to ensure they were valid and effective in reducing the overall risk level.

Principal risk refresh

Capita’s principal risks had remained relatively unchanged since 2019. In September 2023, 
the Committee reviewed the principal risk profile, given that since 2019:

•  Capita has changed its business operating model, reducing from six to two divisions.

•  The global Covid-19 pandemic has led to new expectations as employees continue to work 

from home.

•  The geopolitical and political landscape has changed.

•  Recession and macroeconomic uncertainty have led to customers wanting to spend less yet 

continue to seek value for money.

•  Global supply-chain challenges, social and technological changes.

The Committee’s review followed a detailed exercise by the Executive Team and members of their 
senior leadership teams and discussion at the executive risk and ethics committee. Further 
information is provided in the risk section on page 58 of the strategic report.

The Committee considered and challenged management’s assessment of the revised principal risks 
and this matter was also discussed by the Board. Following this assessment the principal risks have 
reduced from 13 to nine. The Committee will continue to receive ‘deep dives’ from management on 
the nine principal risks.

•  Cyber and information security;

•  IT resilience;

•  Internal controls;

•  Finance transformation

•  Securing contracts and extending existing contracts;

•  Risk of failing to deliver on our contractual obligations to our clients;

•  Attracting, developing and retaining our people;

•  Anti-bribery and corruption, including details of matters raised under the Group’s Speak Up policy;

•  Data privacy; and

•  The Group’s legal entity rationalisation programme.

Although cyber and information security was a standing item on the Committee’s agenda prior to 
the cyber incident in late March 2023, the Committee has increased its scrutiny of this topic in the 
wake of the incident. This will remain a principal focus of the Committee for the foreseeable future. 
The Chief Technology Officer and/or the Chief Information Security Officer attend every Committee 
meeting to provide an update on the Group’s cyber security maturity and receive robust challenge 
from Committee members.

The enterprise risk management framework and control environment continues to be enhanced 
and embedded across Capita in the revised operating model. The Committee concluded that risk 
management processes and the system of internal controls were adequate and there were no 
material weaknesses requiring specific disclosure. The Committee reported the conclusions to the 
Board to support the annual confirmation that a robust assessment of the principal risks had been 
carried out.

Effectiveness and efficiency of financial controls

Detail on the status of internal financial controls is in the internal control and risk management section 
of this report and can be found on pages 57 to 63. As detailed on page 88 further improvements 
to the Group risk and control framework, including financial controls were delivered during the year.

The Committee concluded that the Group risk and control framework, including financial controls 
could be relied upon to be materially effective, noting that further improvements to the Group risk and 
control framework are planned for 2024 to ensure that financial controls are appropriately efficient for 
a Group of the scale and complexity of Capita.

Internal audit

The Group internal audit function has an administrative reporting line to the CFO and an independent 
reporting line to me as Chair of the Committee. The function has in place a co-sourcing arrangement 
which adds expertise and breadth to the work of the inhouse audit team. The function is led by the 
Director Internal Audit and Risk who is also responsible for the Group’s non-regulated business risk 
function. Regulated business risk is the responsibility of the CEO, Capita.

94

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceAudit and Risk Committee report continued

The 2024 plan was approved by the Committee in December 2023. The plan focuses on the following 
four areas: (i) risk-based cyclical audits of core ‘business-as-usual’ activities aligned to our principal 
risks; (ii) advisory reviews (iii) progressive assurance and (iv) testing of key controls documented by 
the functions as they strengthen their internal control framework.

Conducting cyclical audits over these risks and processes provides better insight into how risk is 
being managed and provides comparison across business units. The plan is structured to be flexible; 
to provide assurance over core ‘business as usual’ activities aligned to our principal risks; and, to offer 
continued support for ongoing change activities.

Throughout the year, the Group internal audit function provides written reports to the Committee 
on the work carried out to date and the in-flight work to be completed, together with oral updates. 
An annual report is provided each year summarising the key matters arising. Reports set out controls 
and process weaknesses identified during the work, together with any recommendations for action.

In all cases, management responded with appropriate actions to mitigate the associated risks. 
The Committee reviews management’s response to the matters raised and ensures that any action 
is commensurate with the level of risk identified. The Committee receives regular status updates 
on identified actions and provides robust challenge.

As detailed in the 2022 Committee report, as a result of the consistent themes identified during 
audits including a lack of defined policy and procedures over key processes, responsibilities and 
accountabilities of roles not always clear and a lack of evidence to demonstrate monitoring and 
reporting of control activity, a plan was presented and approved by the Committee during 2022 to 
address these issues and further improve the Group’s financial controls framework. The Committee 
received updates on the progress of this project at each Committee meeting and closely monitors 
the progress of this project. Further information is detailed on page 88.

Through regular interaction between the Committee and the Director Internal Audit and Risk, as well 
as reports received from the function, the Committee can assess and satisfy itself that the Group’s 
provision of internal audit is effective.

Anti-bribery and corruption

Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy, which complies with the Bribery Act 
2010. Procedures are reviewed periodically to ensure continued effective compliance in Group 
businesses around the world.

Code of Conduct and Speak Up

Capita’s Code of Conduct was refreshed in 2022, with the relaunch of the Group’s Speak Up policy. 
Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all Group employees including Capita plc directors. The 
Speak Up policy, provides a framework for concerns to be raised in a responsible and effective 
manner. This ensures that concerns are addressed in a manner independent of a colleague’s 
business area, and that concerns can be raised through a facility provided by an independent 
third-party provider. Where concerns are raised, they are escalated to named contact points 
within Capita for further assessment and investigation.

As part of the relaunch of the Speak Up policy in 2022 a 12-month Speak Up communication 
plan was implemented to raise awareness of this policy and stimulate engagement with employees. 
The number of reported cases has again increased during 2023 following this communication plan, 
with significant progress being made in increasing the number of reported cases to a level more 
representative of Capita’s size and its peers.

During 2023, members of the Business Integrity team visited some of Capita’s international 
sites, including South Africa, to reinforce and embed the Speak Up policy in these businesses. 
The Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary also attended some of these meetings via 
video-conference. The Speak Up policy has also recently been introduced in Capita’s businesses 
in Germany following a change in legislation.

While recognising the progress made the Committee recognises that the number of reported cases is 
still low in certain geographies given the size of Capita and further communication will be undertaken.

This is an area of focus for the Committee, which receives a report from Capita’s Head of Business 
Integrity and an update on the current level of reported cases at every meeting. Oversight of these 
arrangements is a matter reserved to the Board and I provide regular updates on the operation of 
the policy to the Board.

Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Chair

Audit and Risk Committee

5 March 2024

95

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report

Directors’ remuneration report

The directors’ remuneration report (excluding the 
policy) will be subject to an advisory shareholder 
vote, and the policy will be subject to a binding 
shareholder vote, at the 2024 AGM.

This report is split into three sections:
•  The annual statement summarises how 
the committee discharged its roles and 
responsibilities in respect of 2023 including 
the review of the directors’ remuneration 
policy and pay decisions for 2024.

•  The directors’ remuneration policy (the policy) 
presents the policy which remains largely 
unchanged from that approved by shareholders 
at the 2021 AGM and will be subject to a 
binding shareholder vote at the 2024 AGM.

•  The annual report on remuneration sets out 

the remuneration arrangements and incentive 
outcomes for the year under review and 
explains how the policy will be operated 
for 2024.

“ The Remuneration 
Committee considers that 
our remuneration policy 
remains appropriate; 
following the recent 
appointment of our 
new CEO this will be 
kept under review”

Remuneration Committee approximated time allocation 

8

1

2

3

7

6
5

4

1. Governance
2. Executive director and executive team remuneration
3. Annual bonus plan
4. Long term incentives
5. Wider workforce/gender and ethnicity pay gap
6. Shareholder consultation/feedback
7. Policy review
8. Committee time only

7%
5%
33%
20%
6%
4%
23%
2%

Georgina Harvey, Chair,  
Remuneration Committee

Remuneration Committee 
membership and attendance
All members of the committee are 
independent non-executive directors. During 
2023 the non-executive employee director 
attended committee meetings by invitation, 
rather than being a member of the committee. 
From 1 January 2024, following the decision 
to change the constitution of the Board, there 
will no longer be a non-executive employee 
director. The number of formal meetings held 
and the attendance by each member is shown 
in the table on page 75.

The committee also held informal discussions 
as required. The Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the 
committee and is available to assist the 
members of the committee as required, 
ensuring that timely and accurate 
information is distributed accordingly.

The committee’s terms of reference set out 
the role, responsibilities and authority of the 
committee and can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.capita.com/investors. These 
are normally reviewed and updated where 
appropriate, on an annual basis.

96

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Annual statement
Dear shareholder,

I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2023.

The committee’s focus in 2023 has been centred on:

•  Reviewing our current remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM: 

considering the appropriate approach for 2024 and future years;

•  Agreeing the remuneration arrangements in respect of Jon Lewis’s retirement as Chief Executive 

Officer (CEO) and the appointment of Adolfo Hernandez as his successor; and

•  Colleague wellbeing and development: embedding Capita pay principles, rolling out our career path 
framework incorporating job sizing and market-informed job pay ranges to deliver transparency on 
pay throughout the Group.

Details of the committee’s approach to remuneration in 2023, and the proposed implementation of 
the policy for 2024, are set out below.

How the committee operates

The committee has an annual agenda covering the key planning and decision events in the annual 
remuneration cycle. Each meeting is supported by an agenda setting discussion held in advance 
with the committee Chair, Chief People Officer and Group Reward Director, to identify issues affecting 
remuneration that may require consideration by the committee. Regular reports, including updates 
on corporate governance and regulatory developments, are received from the committee’s adviser. 
At each committee meeting the members may receive other reports and presentations covering 
wider workforce arrangements which include the annual pay review, incentive scheme arrangements, 
gender pay and ethnicity reporting, engagement on how executive remuneration aligns with wider 
company pay policy, salary proposals for members of the senior team and approval of remuneration 
packages for new members of the executive team.

During 2023, the ESG committee was responsible for making recommendations to the committee 
in respect of setting and assessing ESG targets in the annual bonus.

Committee activities

The key workstreams of the committee during the year included:

•  Reviewing the current policy and agreeing the approach for the policy to be put to shareholders 

for approval at the 2024 AGM.

•  Agreeing the remuneration arrangements in respect of Jon Lewis’s retirement as CEO and the 

appointment of Adolfo Hernandez as his successor.

•  Agreeing the vesting percentage in respect of the 2020 LTIP awards for the performance period 

ended 31 December 2022.

•  Agreeing annual bonus awards for the year ended 31 December 2022.

•  Agreeing 2023 Restricted Share Award (RSA) levels.

•  Agreeing the design and targets for the 2023 annual bonus.

•  Determining the remuneration arrangements for senior management leavers/joiners.

•  Consideration of executive pay arrangements and alignment with those for the wider workforce.

•  Ongoing workforce engagement in respect of executive remuneration.

•  Receiving progress updates in respect of the implementation of wider workforce strategy on pay 

and progression (career path framework).

In addition, the committee has ensured that the remuneration policy (current and proposed) and 
practices are consistent with the six factors set out in Provision 40 of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code):

Clarity – our policy is well understood by our senior management team and has been clearly 
articulated to our major shareholders and representative bodies (both on an ongoing basis and 
during the detailed consultation exercise in respect of the policy review carried out during 2023).

Simplicity – the committee is mindful of the need to avoid overly complex remuneration structures, 
which can be misunderstood and deliver unintended outcomes. A key objective of the committee 
is to ensure our executive remuneration policies and practices are straightforward to communicate 
and operate.

Risk – our policy has been designed to ensure that inappropriate risk taking is discouraged and will 
not be rewarded via: (i) the balanced use of both short-term incentives and long-term share awards; 
(ii) the significant role played by equity in our incentive plans (together with in employment and post 
cessation shareholding guidelines); and (iii) malus/clawback provisions and the committee’s ability 
to use discretion to adjust vesting levels.

Predictability – our incentive plans are subject to annual individual limits, with our share plans also 
subject to a share dilution limit.

Proportionality – there is a clear link between individual awards, delivery of strategy and our long-term 
performance through performance conditions or underpins applied to the annual bonus plan and RSAs. 
In addition, the significant role played by incentive/at-risk pay, together with the structure of the 
executive directors’ service contracts, ensures that poor performance is not rewarded.

Alignment to culture – our executive pay policies are fully aligned to Capita’s culture, including 
elements of fixed pay (executive director pension provision is aligned with the workforce) and through 
the use of performance metrics that measure how we perform against our financial and non-financial 
KPIs. RSAs further increase alignment to Capita’s responsible business strategy by offering a 
narrower range of value outcomes.

97

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration for 2023
A summary of the approach to remuneration in 2023 was as follows:

•  There was no change in the base salary level for the CEO or the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in 2023.

•  The annual bonus operated in line with policy, with a maximum potential of 200% of salary for 

the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO. The bonus was based on revenue, profit before tax and 
free cash flow (all equally weighted and totalling 80% of maximum bonus) and strategic/individual 
objectives (totalling 20% of maximum bonus).

•  RSAs were granted under the Capita Executive Plan in March 2023 at 150% of salary for the CEO 
and 100% of salary for the CFO. Further details of the 2023 RSAs are set out in the annual report 
on remuneration.

Annual bonus for 2023

Following a review of performance against the annual bonus targets, no annual bonuses were 
awarded to the CEO and CFO in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023.

While revenue performance was between threshold and target, it was noted that revenue benefited 
from certain non-trading items, the exclusion of which would have resulted in a below threshold 
performance. PBT and free cash flow performance were below threshold.

In light of this financial performance, while progress was made against a number of the strategic/
individual objectives, management recommended to the committee that no management bonuses 
should be paid for the year ended 31 December 2023 and the committee accepted this proposal. 
Further details in respect of the annual bonus performance assessment are set out on pages 110 
and 111.

2021 RSAs

The RSAs granted to Jon Lewis and Tim Weller in May 2021, which were due to vest in May 2024, 
will lapse in full post year end following the application of the total shareholder return (TSR) underpin.

Total remuneration

The committee is satisfied that total remuneration awarded to the CEO and CFO in respect of 2023 
(ie fixed pay only) was appropriate in the context of the shareholder and broader stakeholder experience.

Use of discretion

The committee retains the right to exercise discretion to override formulaic outcomes and ensure that 
the level of bonus and/or share award payable is appropriate. It may also use its judgement to adjust 
outcomes to ensure that any payments made reflect overall Company performance and stakeholder 
experiences more generally. Where discretion is exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully 
disclosed to shareholders in the relevant annual report. A summary of the discretion exercised by the 
committee over the last four years, is set out below:

Annual bonus 

Share awards 

2020
In light of the impact of Covid-19, the annual bonus plan 
was withdrawn for 2020 for the executive directors (plus 
the executive committee and selected senior managers) 
before the targets were agreed.

2020 LTIP award levels were reduced by around 70% 
compared with normal grant levels. In addition, and to 
reflect underlying financial and operational performance, 
the committee applied downward discretion when 
assessing the vesting of the 2018 LTIP 

2021
No committee discretion exercised.

2022
Annual bonus awards for the CEO and CFO for the year 
ended 31 December 2022 were reduced from 69% to 
60% of the maximum, see page 115 of the relevant 
annual report.

2021 RSA levels were reduced from 
the normal policy grant level by 
around 17%.

The 2022 RSA level for the CEO was reduced from the 
normal award level of 150% of salary to 100% of salary, 
see page 116 of the relevant annual report.

2023
No committee discretion exercised 
(albeit it should be noted that the 
committee accepted management’s 
proposal not to pay an annual bonus 
for 2023).
No committee discretion exercised.

98

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Board changes in 2023

Implementing the policy for 2024

On 31 July 2023 Capita announced Jon Lewis’s intention to retire. Jon Lewis stepped down as CEO 
and an executive director on 17 January 2024 although he remains an employee until July 2024 to 
ensure an orderly transition. Adolfo Hernandez was appointed CEO and executive director on 
17 January 2024. The remuneration arrangements relating to Jon Lewis’s retirement and the 
appointment of Adolfo Hernandez are set out on pages 114 and 115.

John Cresswell stepped down as a non-executive director on 31 March 2023. Claire Miles was 
appointed as a non-executive director on 12 May 2023 although she stepped down from her role 
on 31 December 2023 following her appointment as chief executive officer of Stagecoach. Janine 
Goodchild stepped down as employee director on 31 December 2023.

Remuneration policy for 2024

As a result of the current policy (approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM) reaching the end of 
its three-year shareholder approved life, a new policy is required in 2024.

Following a review of Capita’s current policy to ensure it continues to support the business and 
delivery of the business strategy at the current time, the committee’s main conclusion is that the 
current policy should be rolled over at the 2024 AGM with minor changes. While the committee did 
consider whether Capita should switch back from RSAs to Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards 
from 2024, the committee concluded that 2024 feels premature for the following two reasons:

•  The committee wishes to ensure that the new CEO has sufficient opportunity to provide his input 

in respect of Capita’s strategy and how this impacts the policy structure, performance metrics and 
targets following an appropriate period of time in the role; and

•  Capita’s current share price volatility means that granting LTIP awards, which are typically double 

RSA levels, will create dilution/share usage issues and increase the risk of windfall gains.

Major shareholders were consulted on the proposed approach towards the end of 2023 and 
the majority confirmed support. The committee will keep the policy under review and should the 
committee conclude that Capita should switch back from RSAs to LTIPs in the future, a new policy 
would be taken to the relevant AGM following a shareholder consultation exercise with our 
major shareholders.

The committee’s intended approach to the implementation of the policy for 2024 is set out below.

Fixed remuneration: Adolfo Hernandez was appointed on a salary of £700,000 (ie lower than the 
salary of Jon Lewis on retirement of £748,000). Jon Lewis and Tim Weller will not receive salary 
increases in 2024. No changes will be made to benefit provision and executive directors will continue 
to receive a workforce-aligned pension allowance (5% of salary) in line with other employees.

2024 annual bonus: The maximum potential will continue to operate at 200% (CEO) and 175% (CFO) 
of salary based on 80% financial (based on sliding scale revenue, profit and cash flow targets) and 
20% strategic (focussed on improvement in the customer net promoter score (cNPS) targets.

2024 RSAs: The 2024 RSAs to be granted to executive directors in 2024 will:

•  be set at a maximum of 125% of salary for the new CEO (ie lower than the previous CEO’s 150% 

salary award) and 100% of salary for the CFO;

•  vest after three years from the grant date, subject to continued employment, satisfactory individual 
performance and a positive assessment of performance against the underpins (including three-year 
TSR to be positive). No shares can normally be sold until at least six years from grant, other than 
those required to settle any taxes.

The actual number of shares under award will be determined just prior to the date of grant and details 
will be set out in the RNS issued immediately following grant.

99

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Shareholder views

Concluding thoughts

The committee engaged with our major shareholders and the main representative bodies towards the 
end of 2023 and early 2024 in advance of the 2024 AGM. Our major shareholders confirmed that they 
were supportive of the new proposed policy in respect of the committee’s conclusions. As such, no 
changes were made to the proposals following consideration of the feedback received.

The committee considers that our remuneration policy continues to remain appropriate and 
was pleased with the level of support it received during the consultation exercise with our major 
shareholders and the main representative bodies. That said, this will be kept under review given 
the recent appointment of our new CEO.

Employee engagement

In 2023, Jon Lewis regularly communicated with all employees, including on our 2022 financial results. 
Employees are able to submit any questions about the Company, including in relation to the directors’ 
remuneration policy and report, pay and benefits, both online and during live employee briefings.

During 2023, the employee non-executive director attended committee meetings by invitation and 
was therefore able to provide colleague perspective on remuneration to the Board.

Over the last couple of years, the committee has established a process of engaging with the 
workforce on how executive remuneration aligns with wider company pay policy, in compliance 
with the Code. The purpose and content of the sessions are clearly articulated and publicised to 
encourage a wide range of attendees and questions. A session was held with the chairs and co-chairs 
of the Capita employee network groups and members of the leadership council in mid-2023. In 
addition, a further session was held with a cross-section of employees from different levels, divisions 
and territories within the Capita Group in December 2023. Both sessions were chaired by Georgina 
Harvey and covered: the work of the committee; executive pay in the UK; and at Capita how 
executive remuneration is linked to performance; strategy on workforce pay and progression; and 
how Capita executive pay policy links to wider Company pay policy including how each element of the 
remuneration package cascades down the business and future pay strategy. These sessions provide 
an opportunity for questions and answers and the provision of feedback is encouraged. Further 
workforce engagement sessions will take place during 2024 following a similar structure.

I hope you find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding our remuneration practices and 
that you will be supportive of the binding vote to approve the rollover of current policy and the 
advisory vote to approve the annual report on remuneration.

Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders for their ongoing support.

Georgina Harvey
Chair

Remuneration Committee

5 March 2024

100

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Directors’ remuneration policy

This part of the remuneration report sets out our proposed remuneration policy which will be put 
to shareholders for approval at the 2024 AGM. The information provided in this section of the 
remuneration report is not subject to audit.

The proposed policy is a rollover of current policy with minor amendments and, subject to shareholder 
approval, will take formal effect from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM. A summary of the changes 
from the policy approved by shareholders at the 2021 AGM is as follows:

Consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders. It considers the 
AGM to be an opportunity to communicate with shareholders, giving them the opportunity to raise any 
issues or concerns they may have. In addition, the committee seeks to engage directly with major 
shareholders and the main representative bodies, should any material changes be proposed to 
the policy.

•  Reflecting the new CEO’s 125% of salary RSA level (ie lower than the 150% of salary received by 

Jon Lewis), the maximum RSA in the policy table has been reduced to 125% of salary. Connected 
to this, the maximum variable remuneration for a new executive director appointment has been 
reduced from 350% to 325% of salary in the Directors’ recruitment and promotions section;

As detailed on pages 99 and 100, the committee consulted with major shareholders and shareholder 
representatives on the proposal to rollover the current policy and the majority confirmed support. 
As such, no changes were made to the proposed approach following consideration of the 
feedback received.

Consideration of our people
When determining executive director remuneration policy and practices, the committee reviews 
workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture 
to ensure that workforce pay and conditions are taken into account when setting the pay of executive 
directors and senior management.

•  Enhancing the disclosure under the policy table in respect of committee discretion to make it clear 
that, consistent with best practice, the committee retains absolute discretion to override formulaic 
outcomes in the bonus, RSA and any other remuneration arrangements where relevant; and

•  References to the employee non-executive director have been removed following the Board’s 
decision that from 1 January 2024, the Board will constitute seven directors (comprising the 
chairman, two executive directors, and four independent non-executive directors).

Responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee
The committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy 
for the executive directors, executive team members, and the Chief General Counsel and Company 
Secretary role, including setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance framework 
and determining each remuneration package. In addition, the committee reviews remuneration for 
the wider workforce and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture. 
The committee also sets the Chairman’s fee.

In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, executive team members and the Chief 
General Counsel and Company Secretary role, the committee ensures that the arrangements are 
in the best interest of both the Group and its shareholders, by taking into account the following 
general principles:

•  To ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in design so that they are valued 

by participants.

•  To ensure that total remuneration strongly reflects performance.

•  To balance performance-related pay between: the achievement of financial performance objectives 
and delivering sustainable performance; creating a clear connection between performance and 
reward; and providing a focus on sustained improvements in profitability and returns.

•  To provide a material proportion of remuneration in shares, allowing senior management to build a 
significant shareholding in the business and, therefore, aligning management with shareholders’ 
interests and the Group’s performance, without encouraging excessive risk taking.

101

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration policy table
The following table sets out the key aspects of the policy.

Base salary

Purpose and link to strategy 
To attract and retain talent by 
ensuring base salaries are 
sufficiently competitive.

Operation 
Normally reviewed annually. The committee may award salary increases 
at other times of the year if it considers it to be appropriate. The review 
takes into account:

•  Salaries in similar companies and comparably-sized companies

•  Remuneration policy

•  Economic climate

•  Market conditions

•  Group performance

•  The role and responsibility of the individual director

•  Employee remuneration across the broader workforce.

Benefits

Purpose and link to strategy 
Designed to be consistent with 
benefits available to employees 
in the Group.

Operation 
Benefits may include car allowance, private medical insurance, travel and 
property hire. Executive directors can also participate in all-employee 
share plans.

The committee has discretion to add additional benefits which are not 
currently provided, such as relocation expenses.

Maximum opportunity 
There is no prescribed maximum monetary annual 
increase to base salaries. Any annual increase in 
salaries is at the discretion of the committee, taking 
into account the factors stated in this table and the 
following principles:

•  Salaries would typically be increased at a rate 
consistent with the average salary increase 
(in percentage of salary terms) for the 
broader workforce.

•  Larger increases may be considered appropriate 

in certain circumstances (including, but not limited 
to, a change in an individual’s responsibilities or in 
the scale of their role or in the size and complexity 
of the Group).

•  Larger increases may also be considered 
appropriate if a director has been initially 
appointed to the Board at a lower than 
typical salary.

Maximum opportunity 
Benefit provision varies between different executive 
directors. While there is no maximum level set by the 
committee, benefits provision will be set at a level 
the committee considers appropriate and be based 
on individual circumstances.

Participation in the Company’s HMRC-approved 
all-employee share plan will be limited by the 
maximum level prescribed by HMRC.

Performance framework
Individual and business performance are considerations in 
setting base salaries.

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

Pension

Purpose and link to strategy 
Consistent with benefits available 
to employees in the Group.

Operation 
Pension contributions are paid into the Group’s defined contribution 
scheme and/or as a cash allowance.

Maximum opportunity 
5% of salary. 

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

102

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Annual bonus

Purpose and link to strategy 
Performance measures are 
selected to focus executives on 
delivery of the Group’s business 
plan for the financial year.

Restricted share awards

Purpose and link to strategy 
Designed to reward and retain 
executives over the longer term, 
while aligning their interests with 
those of shareholders.

To link reward to longer-term 
performance.

To encourage share ownership.

Shareholding guidelines

Purpose and link to strategy 
To align interests of management 
and shareholders and promote a 
long-term approach to 
performance and risk 
management. 

Maximum opportunity 
200% of salary.

Operation 
The bonus measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure 
that bonus opportunity and performance measures are appropriately 
stretching and continue to support the business plan.

Performance against targets is reviewed following completion of the final 
accounts for the period under review.

50% of any bonus earned (net of tax) is normally delivered in shares 
deferred for three years, with the remainder delivered in cash or deferred 
shares at the executive director’s discretion.

An additional payment may be made at the time of vesting in respect 
of dividends that would have accrued on deferred shares during the 
deferral period.

Malus and clawback provisions apply to all annual bonus and deferred 
bonus share awards for a period of up to three years after the 
determination of the annual bonus.

Operation 
Awards normally vest after three years from grant and, once vested, 
shares may not normally be sold until at least six years from the grant 
date (other than to pay relevant taxes).

Dividends or dividend equivalents may accrue over the vesting period and 
any holding period but only to the extent awards vest.

Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards for a period up to the fifth 
anniversary of grant.

Maximum opportunity 
125% of salary. 

Performance framework
Performance is normally measured over a one-year period 
relative to challenging targets for selected measures of 
Group financial, strategic and/or individual performance.

The majority of the bonus will be determined by 
measure(s) of Group financial performance.

A sliding scale is set for each Group financial measure: 
50% of the bonus will be paid at target performance, 
increasing to 100% for maximum performance.

Any bonus payout is ultimately at the discretion of the 
committee, and the amount of any bonus that would be 
determined based on performance may be reduced if the 
committee believes this better reflects the underlying 
performance of Capita over the relevant period.

Performance framework
Vesting will be subject to: (i) continued employment; 
(ii) satisfactory personal performance during the relevant 
vesting periods; and (iii) a positive assessment of 
performance against one or more underpins.

In addition, the committee may reduce the extent to 
which an award vests if it believes this better reflects the 
underlying performance of Capita over the relevant period.

Operation 
Shareholding guidelines require executive directors to reach a specified 
shareholding. Executive directors are required to retain 100% of any 
shares from deferred bonus awards, RSAs (or LTIPs as granted under the 
previous policy) on vesting (net of tax) until the guideline level is achieved.

Post-cessation guidelines apply to share awards granted following the 
2020 AGM. In determining the relevant number of shares to be retained 
post cessation, shares acquired from own purchases, any buyout awards 
and share awards granted prior to the 2020 AGM will not be counted.

Maximum opportunity 
In employment: 300% of salary (CEO); 200% of 
salary (CFO).

Post cessation: 100% of the relevant guideline 
between cessation and the second anniversary of 
cessation (or the actual shareholding if the guideline 
has not been met at cessation).

Performance framework
Not performance-related.

103

Capita plc Annual Report and Accounts  Corporate governance