 
At GSK, we unite science, 
technology and talent to
get ahead of disease together.
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people
by the end of the decade, as a successful, growing company
where people can thrive.

Contents

Strategic report

Ahead Together
2023 performance and key 
performance indicators
Chair’s statement
CEO’s statement
Business model
Our external environment
Prevention
Our culture and people
Research and development
Commercial operations:

Performance: Vaccines
Performance: Specialty Medicines
Performance: General Medicines
Operations: Manufacturing 
and supply

Responsible business
Risk management and disclosure 
statements

2023 principal risks summary
Climate-related financial 
disclosures
Nature-related financial disclosures
Non-financial and sustainability 
information statement
Employees by gender
Viability statement
Group financial review

01

02
04
06
08
10
13
14
16
31
33
37
40

43
45

57
59

62
70

75
75
76
77

Investor information
Financial record
Product development pipeline

Products, competition 
and intellectual property
Principal risks and uncertainties
Share capital and control
Dividends
Financial calendar 2024
Annual General Meeting 2024
Tax information for shareholders
Shareholder services and contacts
US law and regulation
Group companies
Glossary of terms

273
277

281
284
295
297
298
298
299
301
303
306
315

Corporate governance
The Board and GSK Leadership 
Team
Chair’s governance statement
Corporate governance architecture
Ahead Together – Board oversight
Continuous engagements and key 
decisions
Board committee reports
Remuneration Committee Chair’s 
annual statement
Annual report on remuneration
Directors’ report

Financial statements
Directors’ statement 
of responsibilities
Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
Financial statements of GSK plc 
prepared under UK GAAP

108
114
116
119

121
128

139
142
161

164
166
180
184

267

Cautionary statement
See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements. 

Non-IFRS measures
We use a number of adjusted, non-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) measures to report the performance of our business. Total reported 
results represent the Group’s overall performance under IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a 
substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 82 and 83 
and reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures are on pages 93 to 95.

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

We are a focused biopharma 
company with strong momentum 
and big ambitions.

We prevent and treat disease with vaccines, 
specialty and general medicines. We focus 
on the science of the immune system and the 
use of new platform and data technologies, 
investing in four core therapeutic areas 
(infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/
immunology and oncology). Our Ahead 
Together strategy means intervening early 
to prevent and change the course of disease, 
helping to protect people and support 
healthcare systems. 

We’re confident in our future. With our 
strong momentum and improving outlook 
for sustained growth through the decade, 
we're confident in our ability to deliver 
human health impact at scale, worldwide.

We’re committed to getting ahead of 
issues that matter for society and for 
the sustainability of our company, too – 
including access to healthcare, diversity, 
equity and inclusion, and the health of 
our planet. We're sector leaders in ESG 
performance, making an impact on some 
of society’s most urgent challenges.   

Our purpose puts our people at the heart 
of our success. Core to our Ahead Together 
ambition is to make GSK a place where 
talented people thrive. Our culture of being 
ambitious for patients, accountable for 
impact and doing the right thing is the 
foundation for how, together, we deliver for 
our patients, shareholders and GSK people.

1

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

2023 performance and key performance indicators

Financial
We delivered strong performance and upgraded our growth outlooks. Broad-based performance drove 
sales, profits and earnings growth. 

Group turnover (£bn)

Turnover by product area (£bn)

£30.3bn AER 3%

CER 5%

2023 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions 12% AER 14% CER  

l Vaccines
£9.9bn AER 24% CER 25%
l Specialty Medicines

£10.2bn AER (9)% CER (8)%
l General Medicines
£10.2bn AER 1%  CER 5%

Total operating profit (£bn)

Adjusted operating profit (£bn)

£6.7bn

AER 5%

CER 10%

£8.8bn

AER 8%1
CER 12%1

 2023 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions 12% AER 16% CER

Total continuing earnings per share (p)

Adjusted earnings per share (p)

121.6p

AER 10%

CER 16%

155.1p

AER 11%2
CER 16%2

2023 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions 16% AER 22% CER  

Cash generated from operations (£bn) 

Free cash flow (£bn)

£8.1bn

£3.4bn

We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be considered 
in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are 
defined on pages 82 and 83. AER – actual exchange rate; CER – constant exchange rate. Excluding COVID-19 solutions as defined on page 85.

(1) Adjusted operating profit +12% (with further positive impact of +4% excluding COVID-19 solutions) at CER. 
(2) Adjusted EPS +16% (with further positive impact of +6% excluding COVID-19 solutions) at CER.

Key performance indicator attributable to continuing operations

Linked to executive remuneration. See pages 142 to 149 for more details

2

24.729.330.32021202220234.46.46.72021202220236.58.28.820212022202382.9p110.8p121.6p202120222023110.3p139.7p155.1p2021202220237.27.98.12021202220233.33.33.4202120222023 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

2023 performance and key performance indicators continued

Research and development

We continued to strengthen the late-stage pipeline with organic R&D delivery and targeted business 
development, supporting future growth. 

£10bn

innovation sales              of products 
launched or with major lifecycle 
innovation expansion in the last 
five years

4

18

major approvals including in infectious 
diseases, HIV and oncology

assets in phase III/registration

71

6

12

assets in the pipeline

major business development deals

at least 12 major product launches 
planned from 20251

Pipeline value and progress            are not reported externally because of their commercial sensitivity.

Responsible business

We continue to be recognised for our environmental and sustainability leadership. Our ESG Performance 
Rating        is on track based on 95% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded. The metrics cover 
our six focus areas: access to healthcare, global health and health security, environment     , diversity, 
equity and inclusion      , ethical standards, and product governance (see pages 45 to 55). 

1st

11

10%

in the pharmaceuticals industry in the 
S&P Global Corporate Sustainability 
Assessment, with a score of 84 (as of 
24 November 2023)

Global Health pipeline assets 
progressed to address priority World 
Health Organization (WHO) diseases 

reduction in operational                
carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2)

Culture

Culture progress       – ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and do the right thing – is measured 
through our employee surveys. Our employee engagement score remained high at 81% in 2023.

+ Read more on page 14

(1) Planned launches of products with non-risk adjusted peak year sales of >=£2 billion. See 'Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and basis of 

preparation related to 2024 guidance, 2021-26 and 2031 outlooks' on inside back cover and FY 2023 results slides on gsk.com.

3

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Chair's statement

In 2023 GSK continued 
to make significant 
progress on its strategic 
transformation.

The programme of change Emma 
and her team are delivering is 
fundamentally improving GSK’s 
competitiveness: sharpening 
operational execution and cost 
discipline; strengthening the pipeline; 
enhancing the Group’s capital 
allocation capacity; and shifting 
GSK’s culture to combine high integrity 
with performance. 

As is also clear from this report, GSK is 
developing a distinctive role and voice 
in prevention of disease, offering clear 
benefits to patients, healthcare 
systems and wider society.

Strategic progress
In 2023, we saw further evidence 
of the success of this transformation. 
Operationally, GSK is performing 
better – and crucially more 
consistently and competitively – 
than at any point in the last 20 years.

Group sales and operating profits 
grew strongly in 2023 and well ahead 
of the outlooks for more than 5 and 
10% CAGR (excluding COVID-19 
solutions) previously set for the 
period to 2026. GSK’s progress 
and momentum is such that we 
have now upgraded these outlooks 
to more than 7 and 11%1 respectively.

Growth is being driven by very strong 
performance across all areas of the 
business, especially Vaccines and 
Specialty Medicines, including in HIV 
and respiratory, where the company 
has built significant leadership 
positions and competitive advantage. 
The exceptional launch of the world’s 
first RSV vaccine, Arexvy, in the US was 
a clear stand out achievement for the 
year.  

Cost discipline across the Group 
continues to improve. Following 
a period of necessary investment 
in product launches, management 
is now focused on delivering further 
improvements in operating margin 
over the coming years. 

As I have previously discussed, 
the demerger of Haleon in 2022 
fundamentally reset and strengthened 
GSK’s balance sheet. During 2023 we 
monetised £1.8 billion of our holding in 
Haleon to enable further investment in 
the pipeline and the future growth of 
the company.

We have also confirmed our 
commitment to shareholder returns 
through a progressive dividend policy. 
The Board agreed to pay shareholders 
an increased dividend of 58p per 
share for 2023, up 3p per share2 on 
a comparable basis.

R&D progress
Executing the company’s late-stage 
pipeline and strengthening our earlier-
stage R&D and technological 
capabilities, remains the company’s 
number one priority. This continues to 
receive significant attention from the 
Board, including through our Science 
Committee, which undertook detailed 
reviews during 2023 of several 
research areas, including vaccines 
& RNA technology, antimicrobial 
resistance (AMR). oligonucleotides, 
antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) 
and liver disease (NASH).

Improving R&D productivity is 
inevitably a long-term programme. 
But I was pleased to see good 
progress made during the year, both 
organically and through targeted 
business development. In total we 
deployed approximately £2 billion to 
R&D business development, including 
acquisitions and partnerships during 
the year. 

As Emma sets out in her letter on 
pages 6 to 7, GSK now has significant 
and potentially very valuable late-
stage R&D programmes in vaccines/
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory 
and specific areas of oncology.  

Successful progression of these 
programmes is vital to support the 
Group’s growth outlook in the second 
half of the decade and beyond. 

(1) See 'Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and basis of preparation related to 2024 guidance, 
2021-26 and 2031 outlooks' on the inside back cover and FY 2023 results slides on gsk.com

(2) GSK group dividend in 2022 was 55p, this is GSK related only and excludes the dividend related to 

Consumer Healthcare in H1 2022.

4

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

I was also pleased to welcome Julie 
Brown as Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) in May last year. Julie brings 
huge experience in life sciences and as 
a CFO of large UK-based companies. 

The GSK Board now has excellent, in 
many cases world-leading, experience 
and expertise including in human 
genetics, vaccines, respiratory and 
infectious disease; advanced 
technologies including in AI and ML; 
biopharma commercial and financial 
expertise and US payer, HCP and 
patient understanding. 

GSK is performing better than it has 
done for many years and has an 
increasingly positive outlook, and this 
is due to the energy, commitment and 
leadership of Emma and her team in 
support of the company’s ambitious 
programme of change. 

Finally, I would also like to thank all 
of our people, partners, customers 
and shareholders for their support 
and commitment through the last year 
and I look forward to another year of 
progress in 2024 for GSK.

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair

Chair's statement continued

Culture and responsibility
I believe that one of the strongest 
drivers of GSK’s long-term 
performance is the culture shift that 
Emma and her team are driving. 

We are seeing significant change here, 
with the focus on developing a clear 
purpose, strengthening leadership, 
and embedding business-relevant 
values and behaviours.

Ensuring environmental, social and 
governance considerations are also 
properly embedded into our strategy 
remains very important. I was 
delighted to see the company 
ranked first in the sector in S&P’s 
2023 assessment of Corporate 
Sustainability.

GSK also continues to lead in our 
approach to ensuring global access 
to our products and in developing 
new medicines and vaccines for 
diseases such as malaria and TB 
which disproportionately affect the 
poorest countries in the world. 

2023 was also the second year of 
operation of our new remuneration 
policy. This is designed to support 
achievement of outperformance 
across strategic, financial and ESG 
goals, and I believe it is helping to 
drive the strong performance 
culture and deep commitment to 
responsibility that is evident at GSK.

Shareholder returns
The Board remains focused on 
delivering strong shareholder returns 
and valuation for GSK over the long 
term.

It is clear from the extensive meetings 
and discussions I have had with 
shareholders over the year, that they 
recognise the significant performance 
improvements that have been 
delivered. Emphasis has now moved 
from the shorter-term outlooks to 
2026, to the medium term to 2031. 
The upgraded outlooks we have given 
for both periods show the confidence 
of the Board and Management in 
GSK’s future. 

The uncertainty around Zantac 
(ranitidine) litigation has clearly 
impacted GSK’s share price 
performance over the 18 months. 
We continue to vigorously defend 
ourselves against the remaining 
claims in the US, including the 
ongoing proceedings in Delaware 
and hope to see greater clarity on 
the litigation during 2024. 

Board evolution
The composition and maturity of the 
Board continues to improve to ensure 
we have the relevant skills and 
experience to provide good oversight 
and support, and constructively 
challenge management as GSK’s 
business develops as a pure 
biopharma company. 

I was pleased to welcome Wendy 
Becker to the Board in October. 
Wendy is a highly experienced 
non-executive director and brings 
excellent business, technology and 
life sciences experience.  

She will also succeed Urs Rohner 
as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee when he steps down 
at the May 2024 AGM. I would like 
to thank Urs for his contribution to 
the GSK Board, particularly the 
development of our new 
remuneration policy, approved 
in 2022, to incentivise and reward 
management performance. He has 
been a consistent and determined 
supporter of GSK and has provided 
huge support to Emma and I.

5

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

CEO’s statement

GSK is delivering on 
its commitments and 
performing to a new 
standard. 

The excellent performance we 
delivered in 2023 provides us with 
clear momentum and we expect to 
deliver another year of meaningful 
growth in 2024, as we continue to 
focus on prevention and changing 
the course of disease.

Delivering on our commitments
In 2021, we set out a series of 
commitments to shareholders, 
including for a 'step-change' in 
performance, following the significant 
transformation in GSK’s structure, 
strategy, capital allocation and 
culture. 

Since then, we have delivered 10 
quarters of consecutive sales growth 
(excluding COVID-19 solutions), and 
around two-thirds of sales are now 
generated from Vaccines and 
Specialty Medicines, a key strategic 
priority. 

At the same time, we have continued 
to strengthen our pipeline. We now 
have 71 vaccines and medicines in 
clinical development and the majority 
of the late-stage assets we highlighted 
in 2021 have moved forward positively.

Since 2021, we have also added 
multiple new opportunities through 
targeted business development, 
securing more than 16 acquisitions 
and alliances for innovative assets 
and new technologies. 

We have achieved all of this whilst 
maintaining a continued sharp focus 
on operating margins and cash flow – 
mindful of the need to both invest for 
the future and to deliver attractive 
returns to shareholders.

Strong 2023 performance
As set out on pages 2 to 3, our 
performance for 2023 demonstrated 
this progress, with sales excluding 
COVID-19 solutions and both total and 
adjusted profits growing at double-
digit levels at CER. 

A clear highlight for the year was the 
exceptional launch of Arexvy, the 
world’s first vaccine for RSV, which 
contributed £1.2 billion of sales in its 
first year. More than 10% of American 
adults aged 60 years and older have 
now been vaccinated against RSV, 
and over two-thirds of those have 
been vaccinated with Arexvy. Over 
time we expect Arexvy to generate 
annual sales of more than £3 billion 
and 2024 sales to be driven by further 
penetration, initial roll out of the 
vaccine in Europe and Japan and 
expansion of Arexvy’s indication to at 
risk individuals aged 50-59 years.

Our shingles vaccine, Shingrix, 
also delivered another very strong 
performance in 2023, with £3.4 billion 
of sales. In Specialty Medicines, our 
HIV business grew strongly, up 13% 
CER, driven by acceleration in our oral 
two-drug and long-acting injectable 
regimens for treatment and 
prevention. We also saw good 
progress in respiratory with our 
market-leading IL-5, Nucala, up 18% 
CER. Lupus treatment Benlysta was 
also a major contributor up 19% CER. 
Overall, sales from new products 
launched since 2017 contributed more 
than £11 billion. 

This level of performance helped us to 
generate free cash flow of £3.4 billion. 
As a consequence of this performance 
and momentum, we were also pleased 
to increase the dividend for the year to 
58 pence per share.

Pipeline strengthening
In R&D, we continued to make 
progress in 2023 both organically and 
through business development, as set 
out on pages 16 to 30. We delivered 
four major product approvals during 
the year: Arexvy; Apretude in HIV 
prevention; Ojjarra for myelofibrosis 
and Jemperli in first-line endometrial 
cancer. With 18 assets now in phase III 
or registrational studies, we are looking 
forward to further significant late-
stage R&D milestones in 2024.

6

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

CEO's statement continued

Targeted business development also 
continued to strengthen the pipeline 
and support future growth. Our activity 
in 2023 included the acquisition of 
Bellus Health and Aiolos Bio1, which 
both further strengthen our respiratory 
pipeline, and the signing of licence 
agreements with Janssen and Hansoh 
Pharma, in infectious diseases and 
oncology.

Upgrading our outlooks
In 2024, we expect another year of 
meaningful growth of sales, adjusted 
operating profit and EPS. We have 
also upgraded the outlooks we 
previously gave for the period 
2021-2026, and 2031.2 

This is all because of the progress we 
have made to develop our portfolio 
and pipeline.

Alongside our current growth drivers, 
we are now planning for at least 12 
major product launches from 2025, 
most of which will be in the next four 
years. 

This includes new potential 
vaccines for meningitis, influenza, 
pneumococcal disease and herpes 
simplex virus (HSV); potential 
medicines for long-acting HIV 
treatment and prevention; a potential 
functional cure for hepatitis B, 
bepirovirsen; and a new portfolio of 
potential anti-infective treatments, 
including gepotidacin. We also have 
potential new medicines for respiratory 
diseases with high burden and unmet 
need: depemokimab and camlipixant. 
And finally, in oncology, we have 
further potential indications for 
Jemperli and potentially CD226 
targeting a variety of cancer types.

Our upgraded outlook for 2021-2026 
is for sales to grow more than 7% and 
adjusted profit by more than 11%, on 
a CAGR basis. And by 2031, we now 
believe we can deliver more than 
£38 billion of sales. This is an increase 
of £5 billion versus the estimate we 
gave in 2021 of more than £33 billion, 
and represents a marked acceleration 
as, in effect, we now expect to reach 
our original 2031 goal by 2026, five 
years earlier.

We will continue to focus strongly on 
margin improvements, while retaining 
flexibility to invest in growth. And we 
will keep working to deliver more, as 
it is important to emphasise that none 
of our forecasts include anticipated 
business development, further progress 
in our early-stage pipeline, or 
additional productivity improvements.

All of that points to a strong outlook 
for GSK with sustained growth through 
the decade.

Building trust
We are committed to making GSK 
a place where talented people can 
thrive, with a culture where we are all 
ambitious for patients, accountable for 
impact and do the right thing. It was 
very positive that engagement scores 
remain high, at 81%, in our latest 
employee engagement survey.

Operating responsibly remains core 
to GSK. We aim to continue delivering 
sector-leading ESG performance, as 
recognised in our latest ranking as 
sector leaders of the S&P’s Global 
Corporate Sustainability Assessment. 
This reflects strong progress across our 
six core ESG areas: Access to 
healthcare, Global health and health 
security, Environment, Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion, Ethical standards and 
Product governance. 

We have long-term goals and key 
metrics in place for all these areas, 
and our overall performance rating for 
2023 was ‘on track,’ based on 95% of 
metrics being met or exceeded. 
Highlights for the year included, 
moving to phase III development for 
our low-carbon Ventolin inhaler 
programme, achieving our leadership 
diversity aspirations two years early, 
and Gavi confirming the roll out of our 
malaria vaccine, Mosquirix, in up to 12 
countries in Africa. Further details are 
set out on pages 45 to 55 and in our 
published standalone ESG 
Performance Report.

Clear momentum as we look ahead
In conclusion, GSK has strong 
momentum and improving outlooks. 
As a standalone biopharma company, 
with expertise in developing innovative 
vaccines and medicines, we have 
enormous opportunity to prevent and 
change the course of disease for 
hundreds of millions of people.  

All of this bodes well. Equally, we also 
know there is much to be done. We 
remain very focused on delivering this 
potential – and more – at continued 
pace for patients, for shareholders 
and for our people.

Finally, as ever, it is our people who 
fuel this momentum and I want to 
thank them for all they have achieved 
during 2023. I am very optimistic for 
the future and excited by what we can 
achieve, to get ahead of disease, 
together. 

Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer

(1) Closed in early 2024.
(2) See 'Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and basis of preparation related to 2024 guidance, 
2021-26 and 2031 outlooks' on the inside back cover and FY 2023 results slides on gsk.com

7

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Business model

We unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together for 
health impact, shareholder returns and thriving people.

Central to our success are our people: experts in science, 
technology, manufacturing, regulation, intellectual property 
and commercialisation...

70,200

>75

GSK people

countries worldwide

£6.2bn

R&D investment in 2023
– up 13% AER, 14% CER1

37

manufacturing sites

22,000

suppliers working directly          
with GSK

4

global R&D centres in the
US, UK, Belgium and Italy

...who are identifying, researching, developing and 
testing ground-breaking discoveries, and manufacturing 
and commercialising...

Vaccines
Our broad vaccines portfolio targets 
infectious diseases at every stage of 
life, helping to protect people from 
meningitis, shingles, RSV, flu, polio 
and many more.

Specialty Medicines
Our specialty medicines prevent 
and treat diseases, from HIV and 
respiratory diseases, to immune-
inflammation diseases like lupus, to 
cancer. Many are first or best-in-class.

General Medicines

We have a portfolio of more than 
150  primary care medicines, including 
our inhaled medicines for asthma and 
COPD, and antibiotics for infections.

...products that prevent and treat disease, improving the 
health of millions of people around the world in our core 
therapeutic areas...

Infectious diseases
Our infectious diseases 
portfolio is the broadest in 
the industry and, including 
HIV, accounts for two thirds 
of our pipeline. 

HIV
We are leaders in HIV, 
focused on ending the 
global epidemic. We 
have an industry-leading 
pipeline, driven by patient 
insights. 

Respiratory/
immunology
We’re pushing the frontiers 
of respiratory science and 
harnessing the science of 
the immune system to 
transform patient outcomes 
in areas of unmet need, 
based on decades of 
innovative research.

Oncology
We have an emerging 
portfolio focused on blood 
and women's cancers, 
and are seeking to 
make transformative 
breakthroughs in 
immuno-oncology. 

(1) Total R&D expenditure includes intangible asset amortisation and impairments plus immaterial amounts of major restructuring and other costs. 

8

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Business model continued

...powered by technology...

Pipeline
We are leveraging new platform and 
data technology at every step of the 
R&D process to be faster, more 
effective, and more predictive in 
discovering and developing innovative 
new medicines and vaccines.

Performance
We use technology to enable 
more productive and efficient 
manufacturing processes, supply chain 
reliability and returns on investment.

People and productivity
Technology is also core to how we 
work. We ensure our people have 
the  tools, analytical capabilities 
and resources to make data-driven 
decisions and do their best work. 

...steered by our long-term priorities...

Innovation
We develop and launch new 
medicines and vaccines where 
they are needed, with better 
and faster R&D.

Performance
Our bold ambitions for patients are 
reflected in our upgraded growth 
outlooks to 2026 and 2031.

...and creating value for:

Patients

2.3bn

packs of medicines and 
doses of vaccines delivered

Shareholders

58p

per share dividend 

Trust
We focus on issues where we can 
have the greatest impact and reduce 
pressure on health systems including 
tackling health challenges and 
inequities, protecting the environment 
and taking action on diversity, equity 
and inclusion.

Society

£1.3bn

corporate income tax paid;                                      
in addition we pay duties, levies, 
transactional and employment taxes

The economy
Disease prevention and earlier intervention to improve health can lessen pressure 
on health systems and support economic productivity.

Our people
We support all our people to grow, be well and do work that really matters.

Reinvestment
The returns we make enable us to reinvest in discovering and developing new vaccines 
and medicines so we can continue getting ahead of disease.  

Company directors are required by law to promote the success of their organisation for the benefit of both shareholders 
and their wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and the community. Information on the issues, factors and 
stakeholders that the Board considers relevant to complying with Section 172 (a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 is in the 
Section 172 statement of the Corporate governance section on page 123.

+ Our business model is supported by our ESG strategy, described on page 46

+ Our strategy is supported by a robust framework for monitoring 

and managing risk, see page 57

9

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Our external environment

Five major themes influenced our external environment in 2023. 
Here, we set out what they mean for us and how we are responding.

Economic growth shows resilience but pressure continues on public finances

The global economy proved to be 
more resilient than expected in 2023. 
But the recovery remained relatively 
fragile and uneven, with prospects 
diverging between regions. 

Many countries continued to grapple 
with persistent inflation, driven by 
factors including tight labour markets. 
Several major central banks 
responded by increasing interest rates, 
adding to the burden of rising costs for 
consumers and businesses. Despite 
sticky inflation and a consequent 
tightening of monetary policy, the 
global economy continued to expand, 
albeit at a slower rate. 

There were notable pockets of 
strength. America’s economy grew in 
2023, buoyed by sustained consumer 
spending and robust government 
spending associated with 
infrastructure investment legislation 
passed in 2021 and 2022. But this 
resilience was not always mirrored 
elsewhere. For example, forecasts for 
the eurozone were revised downwards, 
as the region continued to feel the 
impact of weaker demand and 
higher costs. 

Amid rising levels of debt and political 
volatility, global growth prospects 
remain tepid. 

Public spending – including on health 
– remains under strain. Governments 
face unprecedented pressure on their 
finances due to a string of economic 
shocks, sustained sluggish growth and 
higher debt. Higher interest rates are 
now making it more challenging to 
service those debts. This is compelling 
governments to make tough choices 
about where to direct spending.  

3%

Global growth was forecast 
to slow to 3% in 2023.1

>25%

In August 2023, six further 
countries were invited to join 
the BRICS group. The 
combined economies of an 
enlarged group would be 
worth more than $28.5 trillion 
– more than a quarter of the 
world's economy.2

Geopolitical tensions fuel shifting alliances 

Fragmentation and regionalisation 
continued to grow in 2023, with 
ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and 
the Middle East focusing ever more 
attention on political alliances. 

Tensions between China and the US 
remained, with new export controls 
and investment screening mechanisms 
emerging on both sides, particularly 
focused on critical minerals, AI, 
semiconductors and biotechnologies. 
But there were signs of relations 
improving between the two nations, 
with their presidents meeting for the 
first time in a year on the sidelines 
of the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation summit. 

New alliances also emerged, 
potentially shifting the weight and 
influence of various blocs. A summit 
in August saw the BRICS group of 
countries widen its membership, for the 
first time since 2010, inviting six further 
countries, including Saudi Arabia and 
Iran, to join. 

As countries look to diversify and de-
risk their supply chains in strategic 
sectors including biopharmaceuticals, 
many are looking towards India as 
an alternative supplier to China. 
Yet against this backdrop, activity in 
China's biopharmaceutical sector is 
resilient, recognising the acceleration 
of Chinese innovation and growth 
potential.

More low and middle-income 
countries capitalised on global policy 
forums, such as the UN General 
Assembly, to set the agenda on issues 
related to health, new technologies 
and industrial development. With more 
diverse voices on global platforms, 
inequality is seen as a critical issue 
where governments must collectively 
make progress. In healthcare, there 
are debates around the best measure 
of widening access, with attention 
on equitable distribution of the 
infrastructure, capability and know-
how to make health products, while 
protecting intellectual property rights 
and efficient supply chains. 

(1) https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2023/10/10/resilient-global-economy-still-limping-along-with-growing-divergences.
(2) https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-66525474

10

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Our external environment continued

Changing demographics create opportunity for innovation and prevention

Pressures on health systems continued 
into 2023 amid ongoing efforts to 
recover and rebuild in the aftermath of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Populations 
are ageing, bringing more complex 
health needs. Chronic diseases are 
taking an increasing toll while infectious 
diseases remain a significant threat. 

The individual impact of changing 
demographics and disease patterns 
extends to societies and economies at 
large. Poor health is a significant drag 
on economic growth. Every year, poor 
health costs around 15% of global real 
GDP from premature deaths and lost 
productive potential among working 
age people1. In the UK alone, 131 
million working days are estimated 
to be lost each year due to illness.2

Despite the potential to improve 
individual outcomes and boost 
economic productivity through 
investing in health, particularly through 
prevention and earlier intervention, 
governments continued to look for cost 

savings in health systems. The US 
progressed implementation of the 
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). This 
included selecting the first 10 drugs 
for potential price cuts under a new 
programme enabling Medicare to 
negotiate the price of some of the 
costliest medicines. While this could 
potentially limit future innovation and 
access to currently available 
medicines, the IRA does bring 
meaningful benefits to certain 
Medicare patients, such as access 
to vaccines without having to bear 
part of the cost. 

The EU also took forward legislation 
that could test pharmaceutical 
innovation and competitiveness. 
Meanwhile, the UK agreed a five-year 
deal aimed at reducing medicine costs 
for the NHS by setting an annual limit 
on the allowed growth in sales value of 
branded medicines.  

Even as governments sought ways to 
cut medicine costs, they continued to 

look to the biopharma industry to be 
a driver of innovation and economic 
growth, with the US President's State 
of the Union address underlining an 
appetite for more and better 
treatments, particularly in cancer. 
This highlights the potential for the 
biopharma industry to be a partner 
in recovery, harnessing science and 
technology to provide solutions that 
help prevent and change the course of 
disease and bring value to individuals, 
health systems and societies. 

1.6bn

Societies are ageing, bringing 
different health challenges. 
The number of people aged 65 
years or older worldwide is 
projected to more than double, 
rising from 761 million in 2021 
to 1.6 billion in 2050.3

Balancing potential of tech and data with appropriate use

Rapid advances in science and 
technology continue to shape the life 
sciences sector and R&D. Established 
technologies such as small molecules 
and vaccines remain key. Emerging 
technologies, such as MAPS and 
DNA/RNA therapeutics, including 
oligonucleotides, are gaining ground 
and building market share. Major 
biopharma companies continue to 
increase their focus on artificial 
intelligence and machine learning (AI/
ML) to accelerate drug discovery. 
Progress hinges on diverse patient 
data being available for 
computational research, in particular 
genomic data, linked to health 
information held in clinical records.

Revolutions in data and technological 
capabilities open up new possibilities 
for patients through advances in drug 
discovery, as well as enhancing 
manufacturing and supply of 
medicines. But the possibilities for 
improving health outcomes need to be 
balanced with appropriate regulation 
that supports innovation and ensures 
responsible use by those who develop 
the technology, as well as those who 
use and apply it. During the year, the 
debate around regulation of AI 
gathered pace as governments 
stepped up their efforts to examine the 
technology’s promise and risks. 

In the first legislation of its kind, the EU 
passed the AI Act in June 2023, taking 
a stringent approach that does not 

consider context-specific use of AI in 
healthcare. The US and the UK 
continue to consider how to place 
appropriate guardrails around the use 
of AI, while supporting innovation and 
considering implications for specific 
sectors. At a landmark summit in 
November 2023, the UK, EU, US, 
Australia and China all agreed to work 
together on AI safety research. 

$45bn

In the last five years, biopharma 
has entered into collaborations 
with AI companies which are 
estimated to be worth more than 
$45 billion.4

(1) www.mckinsey.com/industries/healthcare/our-insights/how-prioritizing-health-could-help-rebuild-economies
(2) www.cbi.org.uk/media-centre/articles/boosting-workforce-health-can-help-the-uk-achieve-economic-growth-ambitions-says-cbi/
(3) www.un.org/development/desa/dspd/wp-content/uploads/sites/22/2023/01/WSR_2023_Chapter_Key_Messages.pdf - Chapter Key 

Messages_WSR 2023 (un.org)

(4) www.accenture.com/content/dam/accenture/final/accenture-com/document-2/Accenture-Tech_Vision_Biopharma_Accenture-Merging

%20atoms%20and%20bits%20in%20Life%20Sciences_V14.pdf

11

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Our external environment continued

Pressure increasing on climate and nature action 

Economic pressures and political 
realignments are influencing how 
countries approach global challenges 
that need collective action, including 
climate change and nature loss. The 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change issued a 'final warning' in 
March 2023 to keep the 1.5°C degrees 
target within reach,1 setting out the 
urgency for sufficient and swift climate 
action. Some regions see the need for 
climate action as an opportunity to 
use green policies as a lever for 
growth. For example, the European 
Commission set out a Green Deal 
industrial plan to make Europe a 
centre for clean technology and 
innovation. 

But as policy makers tackled rising 
inflation and increased living costs, 
climate targets came under pressure. 
The UK softened its net zero policies 
and EU environment ministers did not 
increase their target for reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, after 
opposition from some member 
countries. 

At the international climate 
conference COP28 in Dubai, countries 
committed to transition away from 
fossil fuels and to triple renewable 
energy capacity. It also saw the 
climate-health agenda given more 
prominence than ever before, with 123 
governments endorsing the COP28 
Declaration on Climate and Health.

Companies continue to take action to 
reduce their climate impact and protect 
their business model, taking steps to 
ensure their products and supply chains 
remain resilient to the consequences of 
climate change. Scientific evidence of 
the link between climate change and 
human health means we continue to 
see high expectations of the healthcare 
sector to both reduce carbon emissions 
and respond to the health impacts of 
climate change. During the year, 
biopharma companies stepped up their 
commitments, including to strengthen 
locally led adaptation and health 
resilience programmes for vulnerable 
communities affected by climate 
change. 

There's also a growing focus on 
limiting nature loss. The Taskforce on 
Nature-related Financial Disclosures 
released its final recommendations in 
2023, providing a risk management 
and disclosure framework for 
organisations to report and act on 
evolving nature-related risks.

See the Responsible Business section 
on page 45 and Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures on page 62.

100

In further evidence of a 
growing investor interest in 
nature, ‘Nature Action 100’ 
aims to mobilise institutional 
investors to establish a 
common agenda for 
corporate action on nature. It 
will focus on eight sectors, 
including biotechnology and 
pharmaceuticals.

Our position

In a challenging economic and 
political landscape, it's critical that 
we invest in a pipeline of vaccines 
and medicines that prevent and 
change the course of disease, to 
meet changing and unmet healthcare 
needs. At the same time, we have to 
work with governments, regulators and 
industry partners to make sure these 
medicines and vaccines can reach 
patients at scale, bringing value to 
both the people who need them and 
to payers. 

Scientific innovation is a critical lever 
to improve health, boost productivity 
and economic growth, and ease the 
strain on health systems. We continue 
to work with our peers and 
governments to make sure that the 
policy and regulatory environment 
stimulates and sustains innovation. 

(1) https://sciencebasedtargets.org/blog/

ipcc-releases-final-warning-to-keep-1-5-
c-within-reach

This includes, for example, advocating 
for appropriate IP protections; a 
balanced regulatory framework that 
supports the discovery and delivery of 
vaccines and medicines developed 
through emerging technologies; and 
reinforcing the importance of global, 
diversified supply chains. 

As the pricing environment becomes 
tougher, we believe we’re well placed 
to offer a differentiated, high-value 
pipeline across prevention and 
treatment of disease. This is built on 
using transformational new technology 
and techniques to make our R&D 
faster and smarter. Demand for data 
and real-world evidence to support 
continued reimbursement of new 
products is likely to increase. 

We continue to work with payers to 
design innovative solutions that 
manage their risk and uncertainty, 
while also recognising the full health, 
social and economic value of 
innovative medicines and vaccines. 

Populations are ageing, infectious 
diseases are still spreading and 
chronic diseases are taking a greater 
toll. All of this is creating unsustainable 
pressure on health systems. More than 
ever, we believe that getting ahead of 
disease is the best investment – for 
patients, carers, communities, health 
systems and economies. 

We’ll continue to work with 
governments, payers and partners 
to move towards new models of care 
that enable earlier action to prevent, 
diagnose and treat disease. Together, 
we have an opportunity to rethink 
health – not just to treat sickness, but 
to invest in keeping people well.

For more on why and how prevention 
underpins our purpose to get ahead 
of disease, see page 13

12

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

At GSK, we believe prevention is the best medicine

Prevention is at the heart of getting ahead of disease – preventing ill health 
in the first place and stopping disease in its tracks. 

Why is prevention 
important? 

Health systems are stretched 
and health needs are evolving 
as demographics and disease 
patterns change.

>3 million 

premature deaths among 
people under 75 could have 
been avoided through better 
prevention and healthcare 
interventions across OECD 
countries in 2019. This amounts 
to over a quarter of all deaths. 
(source: OECD)

$1 trillion

loss in productivity each year     
in the G20 from preventable 
conditions among people    
aged 50-64. (source: ilcuk)

$7 trillion

In the US alone, health spending 
is projected to reach almost 
$7 trillion by 2030. (source: CMS)

Prevention and earlier 
intervention offer a solution       
to these challenges, helping      
to improve people's health 
outcomes – and bring benefits 
to health systems and 
economies.

$12 trillion

could be added to global GDP 
by 2040 by improving health. 
Around half of the annual 
economic benefits would come 
from a larger and healthier 
workforce. (source: McKinsey)

What does prevention mean to us? 

Preventing and changing the course 
of disease is at the heart of what we 
mean by getting ahead of disease 
together. By harnessing our science 
and technology, we have an 

opportunity to prevent disease in the 
first place, as well as change the course 
of a disease – helping to prevent or 
slow progression of an illness and limit 
long-term complications. 

Prevention is a focus across our pipeline and portfolio including: 

Vaccines
We’ve built one of the broadest vaccine portfolios 
in the industry to help protect people at all stages of life, 
from childhood to older age. With our wide range of 
vaccine technologies like MAPS, mRNA and adjuvants, 
we can take a targeted approach, allowing us to develop 
tailored vaccines for different diseases and individuals – 
see page 18.

HIV 
For decades, we’ve transformed the lives of people living 
with HIV by making breakthroughs in treatment and 
prevention. We’re focusing research on novel treatment 
options that allow people living with HIV to take fewer 
drugs or take them much less often, and we’ve also 
developed a long-acting regimen that can prevent HIV   
– see page 22.

Severe asthma 
Our decades of experience in respiratory care have 
led us to create treatments that could bring patients 
closer than ever before to remission for severe asthma. 
This could free them from exacerbations (attacks) that 
cause cumulative lung damage and could potentially 
avoid hospitalisation – removing the need for oral 
corticosteroids, stabilising lung function and controlling 
symptoms – see page 23.

Hepatitis B
Using the latest AI/ML techniques, our scientists have 
identified biomarkers to help work out which treatment 
combinations fit which patients. This potentially 
increases the likelihood of achieving 'functional cure'        
– when the virus is no longer present in the blood, and 
liver functions have normalised, stopping any future 
damage – see page 19.

We believe that preventing and 
getting ahead of disease is the best 
investment for everyone – for patients, 
carers, communities, health systems 
and economies.

We want to work with patients, policy 
makers and our peers to stop disease in 
its tracks, creating the right conditions 
to champion prevention and enable 
timely, proactive access to preventative 
interventions.

13

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Our culture and people

Our purpose – to unite science, technology and talent to get Ahead 
of disease Together – puts our people at the heart of our success. 

Digital and technology remain core to our purpose and 
delivery of our ambitions. We have built our people's skills 
in this area with global events such as DataCon, where all 
employees can experience immersive sessions to see first-
hand how to apply digital, data and tech tools including 
generative AI to become more digitally fluent. This year, 
more than 7,000 employees took part from every business 
unit and 28 countries. In our Data Academy, employees 
can access resources and online training. We've run 
programmes to develop our senior leaders' leadership 
skills in the digital age. We've also piloted a career hub 
using AI to match employees with mentors, projects and 
potential job opportunities. We will scale this up in 2024. 

In 2023, we enhanced our onboarding experience for new 
joiners by introducing monthly live virtual sessions with our 
CEO and other senior leaders. By having access to senior 
global leaders from the beginning of their career with us, 
we aim to provide a more intimate connection to GSK and 
the patients we serve, creating emotional connection with 
our purpose, strategy and culture, to complement ongoing 
local onboarding activities.

Supporting our people managers 
Our people managers play a crucial role in helping their 
teams to thrive and connecting the contributions the team 
makes to the patient and GSK's broader impact. We expect 
people managers to motivate, focus, care for and develop 
their teams and we deliver training anchored in these four 
areas. In 2023 all of our VPs were invited to attend a four 
day in-person event called Leading Leaders, a programme 
to help leaders bring out the best in their teams and foster 
the culture we need to succeed together. We also continue 
to invest in growing the next generation of senior leaders to 
support our talent and succession needs through bespoke 
development interventions, equipping them with leadership 
skills for the future. 

Our culture
We are committed to making GSK a place where people 
can thrive, with a culture where we are all ambitious for 
patients, accountable for impact, and do the right thing. 
This means we support our people to do things better and 
faster, focusing on what matters most. It means setting clear 
objectives, creating accountability for results and giving 
everyone the support and space they need to succeed. 
It means doing everything responsibly with integrity and 
care, because people and patients around the world count 
on us. Our culture is embedded in everything we do from 
our recruitment and onboarding, training and development, 
to our assessments of performance and promotion.

Our Code sets out our culture as well as the commitments 
GSK and our people make so we can deliver on our 
ambition in the right way. Our people sign up to 
The Code annually and personally commit ‘I’m in’.

+ See The Code on gsk.com1

Helping people thrive
Making GSK a place where people thrive is core to our 
Ahead Together ambition. While thriving is different for 
each individual, there are common themes that matter 
to everyone. Firstly, a belief in our purpose and a desire to 
live our culture and contribute to delivering our ambition. 
Secondly, feeling included and able to be yourself with 
opportunities to keep growing, with the support, feedback 
and space needed to succeed. And finally, feeling good, 
with positive mental, physical, financial and social wellbeing. 
This means GSK should be a place where people feel 
welcome and valued, in an environment (including our 
policies, workplaces and ways of working) that enables and 
supports them to deliver at their best.

Welcoming and developing outstanding people 
We are committed to developing outstanding people and 
giving them opportunities to grow. We expect all our people 
to have an agreed development plan, regardless of grade 
or role, based on a conversation to understand what space 
and support they need to succeed. We continue to invest in 
learning and development initiatives which everyone can 
access through our Keep Growing Campus, our training 
and knowledge sharing platform. 

(1) https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/company/governance/compliance/#the-code

14

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Our culture and people continued

Maintaining momentum on diversity, equity 
and inclusion 
We are continuing our focus on building a more diverse 
organisation and an equitable and inclusive culture so that 
everyone feels welcome, valued and included. By taking 
steps to ensure equal opportunity and non-discrimination, 
we are delivering on our ambition to make our leadership 
and teams more diverse and inclusive. We support 
development for all with numerous offerings for our 
employees, including an award-winning leadership 
development programme, Accelerating Difference. 
Also, all our people complete a mandatory DEI module 
as part of our annual training, this year focused on how to 
create an inclusive workplace so all our people can thrive. 

For more details on our DEI aspirations, see the Responsible 
Business section on page 52. 

Health, wellbeing and volunteering
Our health and wellbeing benefits support people through 
different life stages and are fair and inclusive. These include: 
a global minimum standard of 18 weeks’ parental leave 
for primary and secondary carers for all forms of family, a 
global minimum standard for care of a family member for 
end of life or serious health emergencies, insured benefits 
to include same-sex partners wherever possible, and mental 
health training – available to everyone. We have also 
enhanced our financial wellbeing support for employees by 
introducing the ‘nudge’ financial education platform in over 
50 countries, helping people manage their finances and 
achieve their financial goals.

In 2023 we reignited volunteering across the company, 
focused on our ambition and charitable investment themes 
(Health for people, Health for the planet, Innovators for 
the future). All employees can volunteer for one or two 
days each year by taking part in team-based hands-on 
‘Together Days’ or through skills-based volunteering. A 
smaller number of people can volunteer up to four days 
each year for selected skills-based volunteering projects.  

Performance with Choice 
Performance with Choice, our approach to hybrid working 
for those in office-based roles (about a quarter of our 
people), allows the right balance of on-site and remote 
working. We are clear in our expectations that people take 
accountability to spend enough time together in person, 
while maintaining flexibility, to help us continue to build 
our sense of community and connectedness, enable 
development and achieve our Ahead Together ambitions. 
Data from our annual employee survey shows broad 
support for our approach and expectations. 

Recognising and rewarding our people 
Sharing our success and recognising and rewarding our 
people equitably, not just on the progress we have made 
but how we have made it, continues to be an important part 
of our culture. In addition to our bonus scheme that rewards 
performance across the company, each year we award 
10% of our people with extra ‘Ahead Together’ awards for 
delivering exceptional performance in line with being 
accountable for their impact, ambitious for patients and 
doing the right thing. And we identify 5% of people as 
having missed performance for those not delivering on 
their objectives or living the culture. 

How our people experience GSK 
To ensure we continue to listen to our people, we regularly 
measure their experience of GSK as a place to work. 
This includes an annual survey for all employees featuring 
questions on engagement, confidence, inclusivity, our 
culture focus areas and trust priorities. We are proud 
that our engagement levels remained high at 81% in 2023. 
We also continue to see high scores with positive upward 
trends in confidence in delivery of our strategy and our 
culture focus areas – ambitious for patients, accountability 
for impact and doing the right thing – as well as measures 
of inclusion. In 2023 we expanded analysis of the survey 
to understand differences in employee experience across 
diverse characteristics. We continue to make good progress 
in creating a culture and workplace where people feel a 
sense of belonging and can thrive.

To measure the effectiveness of our global managers, their 
teams provide feedback through an annual One80 survey 
and managers receive anonymised aggregate feedback. 
In 2023, 78% of our managers were rated as highly effective 
by their teams.

15

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and 
development

We combine the science of the 
immune system with technology 
and outstanding talent to find 
new ways to prevent and treat 
the most challenging diseases, 
better and faster.

16

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development

Highlights

71

vaccines and medicines 
in the pipeline

18

4

in phase III/registration 

major approvals

– Arexvy, the world’s first RSV vaccine for older 
adults, approved in the US, EU and Japan

– Apretude, long-acting preventative treatment 
for HIV, approved as the first and only HIV 
prevention option in Europe 

– Ojjaara/Omjjara approved in the US, EU and 
UK as the first and only treatment for both 
newly diagnosed and previously treated 
myelofibrosis patients with anaemia

– Jemperli approved in the US, EU and UK          

as the only frontline immuno-oncology 
treatment, in combination with chemotherapy, 
for patients with dMMR/MSI-H primary 
advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer

– Shingrix vaccine for shingles approved for 

people at risk over 18 in Japan and positive 
data from first efficacy trial in adults aged 50 
and over in China

– Positive phase III data for our MenABCWY 
vaccine candidate, supporting filing in 2024

– US FDA Fast-Track designation for gonorrhoea 

vaccine candidate

– Targeted business development including 
acquisition of Bellus Health and Aiolos Bio1 
(respiratory), licence agreements with Janssen 
(infectious diseases) and Hansoh Pharma 
(oncology)

Our R&D approach
Our R&D purpose is to unite science, technology and talent 
to get ahead of disease. This is how we discover and 
develop the vaccines and medicines that will transform 
people’s lives.  

In 2023, our R&D expenditure was £6.2 billion, up 13% AER 
and 14% CER on 2022, driven by investment across the 
portfolio. We’ve also strengthened our pipeline and 
technology capabilities through business development, 
seeking out new, differentiated opportunities in diseases 
with high patient need. We now have 19 vaccines and 52 
medicines in development, many with the potential to be 
first-in-class or best-in-class.

In a revolutionary era of science and technology, we’re 
making the most of rapid advances to drive the discovery 
and development of vaccines and medicines. Across our 
pipeline, we consider not just how we can prevent disease in 
the first place, but also intervene and treat earlier to change 
its course, preventing or slowing progression of an illness 
and limiting longer-term complications. 

Focusing on execution, technology and culture
Our priorities in R&D are: 

– execution, to accelerate our pipeline, including with 

business development, to deliver innovative vaccines 
and medicines, see page 18

– technology, to deliver more innovation, better and faster, 
using new platform and data technologies that speed 
discovery and development and improve the chance 
of success, see page 27

– culture, to create an agile, innovative environment that’s 

ambitious for patients and attracts the best people, 
scientists and partners, see page 29.

For more on why and how prevention 
underpins our purpose to get ahead 
of disease, see page 13

(1) Closed in early 2024.

17

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Execution

Pipeline acceleration and business development for 
transformational vaccines and medicines.

Our broad portfolio and pipeline, based on the science of 
the immune system and the use of new platform and data 
technologies, continues to strengthen, with key milestones 
across our core therapeutic areas in 2023. This positive 
momentum, together with further business development, 
underpins our confidence in delivering our upgraded growth 
outlooks for the medium and long term. 

Across all phases, our pipeline now has 71 vaccines and 
medicines. More than 70% modulate the immune system 
and a similar proportion are based on genetic evidence. 

In 2023, we began eight phase I programmes, moved 
14 assets into phase II and three into phase III. Since 2016 
our development cycle times have shortened by 20%, or 
3.7 years, with a median of 9.6 years, compared to the 
industry's 11.4 years.

We’re investing heavily in our late-stage pipeline to 
drive growth in line with our therapeutic area strategies. 
We rigorously evaluate our early-stage portfolio to back 
the right programmes to maximise our impact on health 
and unlock pipeline value.

Reflecting our progress in 2023, we are now planning for 
at least 12 major product launches from 2025.  

Infectious diseases

Infectious diseases affect everyone, everywhere, 
putting a major strain on societies and healthcare systems. 
Our combined expertise in vaccines and medicines means 
we can focus on both prevention and treatment of 
infectious diseases, resulting in significant public health 
benefits, reduced deaths and increased productivity. Two 
thirds of the vaccines and medicines in our pipeline address 
infectious diseases (including HIV), and we’re a world 
leader in this area. 

– Infectious diseases are responsible for an estimated 

one in six deaths globally. 

– Around one billion people are infected every year by 
viruses like RSV, influenza virus and SARS-CoV-2 and 
many need hospital treatment. 

– Millions more struggle with bacterial and fungal infections 
or live with chronic viral conditions like hepatitis B (hep B) 
and HIV. 

– Vaccine-preventable diseases impose significant medical 
and economic costs related to treatment and to cover 
resulting productivity losses.

(1) Closed in early 2024.

In 2023, we reinforced our status as a world leader in 
infectious diseases. We gained approvals in the US, EU 
and Japan for our world-first respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV) vaccine for older adults, Arexvy, and in Japan for 
our shingles vaccine, Shingrix, for people at risk over 18.

In HIV, we’re reshaping treatment and prevention by 
delivering long-acting regimens, such as Apretude, 
approved in Europe for HIV prevention in 2023. In oncology, 
we’re optimising our portfolio, focusing on blood and 
women's cancers, and breakthroughs in immuno-oncology. 
In 2023, there were approvals for Ojjaara, the first treatment 
specifically indicated for myelofibrosis patients with 
anaemia and Jemperli, our frontline treatment for 
endometrial cancer. We also had positive phase III results 
for Blenrep, our treatment for multiple myeloma. 

Business development is a critical contributor to growth, 
creating extra value for patients, partners and shareholders. 
Major deals include our acquisition of Bellus Health and 
Aiolos Bio1 and new collaborations including with Janssen 
and Hansoh Pharma which we believe will bolster our 
existing strengths across our therapeutic areas.

We focus on four therapeutic areas:

– infectious diseases, see below

– HIV, see page 22

– respiratory/immunology, see page 23

– oncology, see page 25.

For over 70 years, we’ve pioneered novel research methods 
and technologies to help protect people against infectious 
diseases including: chronic infections (hepatitis B, HIV, 
shingles), seasonal infections (RSV, influenza), common 
childhood diseases (measles), rare but devastating 
conditions (meningitis) and a range of bacterial infections 
made more challenging by antimicrobial resistance (AMR); 
as well as diseases which predominantly affect lower-
income countries (malaria, TB, rotavirus). Of the more 
than 2.5 billion people we reach this decade, a significant 
majority will be through our infectious disease portfolio, 
which is the broadest in the industry.

In 2023, key highlights have included approvals for Arexvy, 
our world-first RSV vaccine for adults aged 60 and above, 
and positive phase III data for our pentavalent meningitis 
vaccine candidate. 

18

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Tackling RSV with the world's first Arexvy vaccine
– Around 470,000 older people each year face hospital 

in immunity that can make protecting older people from 
infectious diseases challenging. 

stays because of RSV. 

– People with underlying conditions like chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, diabetes and heart 
disease are at increased risk of the severe outcomes of 
RSV, such as pneumonia. 

– Around 14,000 people a year die from RSV in the US, 

and in the EU the figure is closer to 20,000.

In 2023, Arexvy was approved in the US, EU, Japan and 
several other countries for the prevention of lower 
respiratory tract disease caused by RSV in adults aged 60 
and older. This followed positive phase III data published 
in the New England Journal of Medicine which showed 
exceptional efficacy in older people, including those with 
certain underlying medical conditions, and against severe 
RSV. In 2023, we reported data from season two of our 
ongoing phase III trial showing vaccine efficacy over two 
complete RSV seasons. The clinical development 
programme will continue to evaluate longer-term follow-up 
and the optimal timing for potential revaccination. 

In the US, following approval by the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), the US Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunisation 
Practices recommended that adults 60 years of age and 
older may receive a single dose of the vaccine using shared 
clinical decision-making. 

Arexvy is now available across the US, Canada and multiple 
European countries. Regulatory reviews in other countries 
are ongoing, with approvals and launches expected 
throughout 2024 and beyond.  

In 2023, we also reported positive preliminary data from a 
clinical trial in people aged 50 to 59 at increased risk of RSV 
showing non-inferior immune responses compared to adults 
aged 60 and older. Based on these data, in February 2024, 
the US FDA accepted a regulatory application under 
Priority Review to extend the vaccine's indication for adults 
aged 50-59 at increased risk. Regulatory submissions for 
adults aged 50-59 were also accepted by the European 
Medicines Agency and the Japanese Ministry of Health, 
Labour and Welfare. In 2024, we expect to generate further 
data in people aged 18 and older at increased risk of RSV, 
as well as from trials exploring co-administration with other 
adult vaccines including for shingles and pneumococcal 
disease.  

Expanding the use of our shingles vaccine
– One in three people develop shingles in their lifetime, 
sometimes with serious consequences like long-term 
nerve pain and loss of vision. 

Shingrix, our vaccine to protect people from shingles, has 
launched in 40 countries for people over 50 and for people 
over 18 at increased risk of shingles. Shingrix was specifically 
designed to combine one of our adjuvants with an antigen 
selected to enhance a protective immune response, based 
on our understanding of the virus that causes shingles. This 
formulation helps overcome the natural age-related decline 

In 2023, Shingrix was approved in Japan for the prevention 
of shingles in people over 18 at increased risk, for instance 
due to immune suppression or immune deficiency. The 
vaccine has been approved in Japan for people aged 
50 and older since 2018. The latest approval followed six 
clinical trials with people aged 18 or older at increased risk 
of shingles, including those who had undergone stem cell 
transplants or kidney transplants, or who had blood cancer, 
solid tumours or HIV. A regulatory application for this 
patient group was also accepted for review by the China 
National Medical Products Administration in February 2024. 

In 2023, we reported data from the first-ever efficacy trial of 
Shingrix in China, which demonstrated 100% vaccine efficacy. 
These results come from the phase IV trial (ZOSTER-076), 
which evaluated the efficacy and safety of the vaccine in 
preventing shingles in adults aged 50 and older.

Progressing towards a 5-in-1 meningitis vaccine 
– Around 1.2 million people contract invasive 

meningococcal disease (IMD) each year, and one in six 
people diagnosed with it will die. 

– At least one in five IMD survivors will have long-term 

disabilities including brain damage, deafness and nervous 
system problems. 

Our meningitis ACWY vaccine Menveo and meningitis B 
vaccine Bexsero together protect against most forms of 
IMD. Our first-generation 5-in-1 vaccine candidate 
combines these vaccines, aiming to protect against the 
serotypes that cause most disease globally in a single 
vaccine. In 2023, we presented preliminary phase III data 
to the European Society for Paediatric Infectious Diseases 
showing the vaccine candidate performed statistically as 
well as Bexsero and Menveo in people aged 10 to 25. It’s 
currently the only investigational 5-in-1 vaccine with data 
to show immunological effectiveness against 110 diverse 
meningitis B invasive strains in a trial. 

Multivalent vaccines of this kind have the potential to 
support the WHO's strategy to eradicate meningitis by 
2030. We also have a second generation 5-in-1 vaccine in 
phase II development, which aims to improve protection 
against B strains in broader age groups.

Trials for our investigational medicine for chronic 
hepatitis B (CHB)
– Around 300 million people are living with CHB.

– Only about 10% of these people have a diagnosis, 5% 
receive treatment and almost a million die each year. 

– Currently, patients take nucleoside/nucleotide analogues 
(NA), often for life, because they suppress the virus but 
rarely clear it.

For 35 years, we’ve been a leader in hepatitis B vaccination. 
Bepirovirsen, our triple-action antisense oligonucleotide, has 
the potential to be the cornerstone of functional cure for 
patients with CHB. It could eliminate the need for continued 
therapy, ultimately reducing the long-term risk of developing 
liver complications.

19

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Hope against hepatitis B
'I didn’t know anything about hepatitis B until after 
my husband and I adopted our daughter, Maren, 
when she was just a few months old,' said Maureen, 
a hepatitis B caregiver and advocate. 

'My heart broke as I watched my baby cry while 
receiving the injections and endure the resulting 
side effects.

There is no doubt that chronic hepatitis B can be 
scary – and the stigma makes it more so, but it 
doesn’t have to be a lifelong burden – there is 
reason for hope.

I’m energised by ongoing research into new 
treatment options that could alleviate the burden 
of frequent and often invasive treatments for the 
management of chronic hepatitis B. There are 
people, including scientists at GSK, who are 
working towards finding a functional cure.'

Bepirovirsen is the only single agent in phase III development 
that has shown a clinically meaningful functional cure 
response for patients with CHB receiving NA therapy, 
as demonstrated in the B-Clear and B-Sure clinical trials. 
As well as developing bepirovirsen in our phase III trials 
for patients receiving NAs, we are also exploring potential 
sequential therapy options with the aim of helping more 
patients achieve functional cure.

In October 2023 we announced an exclusive licence 
agreement for a phase II small interfering RNA-based 
therapeutic, originally developed by Arrowhead 
Pharmaceuticals. This provides a further opportunity 
to develop a potential novel sequential regimen to 
benefit a broader group of patients and potentially 
drive higher functional cure rates.

Other infectious diseases
Pneumococcal disease 
– Pneumococcal disease is the name for any illness caused 
by the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium, which is a 
leading cause of acute bacterial diseases and an 
important area of growing antimicrobial resistance.

– Multiple licensed pneumococcal vaccines are available, 
however the burden of pneumococcal disease remains 
significant. 

– In the US alone, it is estimated that pneumococcal 

pneumonia causes 150,000 hospitalisations every year. 

– The WHO estimates that about one million children die 

of pneumococcal disease every year. 

Our novel 24-valent vaccine candidate (currently in phase II 
development) and 30 plus-valent pneumococcal vaccine 
candidate (currently in pre-clinical development), added to 
our pipeline through our 2022 acquisition of Affinivax, both 
incorporate innovative MAPS platform technology. 

Maureen and Maren

MAPS potentially enables higher antibody responses 
against more disease-causing serotypes for broader and 
stronger protection (see page 27). We continue to examine 
potential acceleration options in the 24- and 30-plus valent 
programmes for infants and adults.

Herpes simplex virus 
– Genital herpes is a chronic sexually transmitted infection 
caused by herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) and herpes 
simplex type 2 (HSV-2) viruses. 

– Worldwide, an estimated 683 million people aged 15 to 49 

are living with HSV-2 or genital HSV-1 infection. 

– Many patients suffer frequent outbreaks along with 

psychological morbidity, stigma and a threefold increase 
in the risk of acquiring HIV. 

GSK 3943104 is our candidate against HSV that contains 
HSV antigens complemented with an adjuvant, designed to 
stimulate immune responses in people already infected with 
HSV. Following the successful completion of a phase I first-
time-in-humans study, a phase II first-time-in-patients proof 
of concept trial started in late 2023 and is assessing two 
formulations in adults with a history of genital herpes 
outbreaks. If successful, we hope that this could help better 
control symptomatic outbreaks and viral shedding while 
mitigating the associated emotional burden and improving 
quality of life for people living with genital herpes. 

Influenza
– Influenza remains one of the world’s greatest public 

health challenges. 

– Every year, there are an estimated one billion cases 
around the world, many resulting in severe illness 
and death. 

20

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Our adjuvanted pandemic influenza vaccine has been 
extensively studied and consists of egg-based antigen and 
pandemic adjuvant AS03. We have agreements with the 
US, Canada, Europe and the WHO to provide at least 200 
million doses of pandemic influenza vaccine in the event 
of a global health emergency.

Egg-based influenza vaccines are the backbone of 
worldwide efforts to limit the impact of seasonal influenza. 
Different platforms and technologies will continue to be 
needed in the future and we’re committed to playing our 
part in meeting an important patient need. 

We’re exploring opportunities to develop mRNA-based 
influenza vaccines through our collaboration with CureVac. 
Building on positive phase I results for modified monovalent 
mRNA vaccine candidates that target COVID-19 and 
monovalent flu, we’re developing a next-generation 
multivalent mRNA flu vaccine to protect against multiple 
influenza virus strains. Phase I/II trials are underway.

COVID-19 
Now that the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic 
is over, our focus is on next-generation platforms and 
combination vaccines that have the potential to protect 
against multiple seasonal respiratory viruses. In 2023, our 
COVID-19 mRNA development programme with CureVac 
progressed to a phase II clinical trial and we recently 
reported positive interim data for both the monovalent 
and bivalent vaccine candidates.  

Human papillomavirus
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a common sexually 
transmitted infection affecting around 14 million people 
a year in the US alone. It often has no symptoms but can 
cause genital warts and several types of cancer. HPV is 
associated with nearly all (99%) cases of cervical cancer, 
which is the fourth most common cancer among women 
globally and causes an estimated 342,000 deaths each 
year. HPV also accounts for about 5% of all cancers 
worldwide, including 90% of anal cancers and 70% of 
oropharyngeal cancers. We’re working with Innovax on 
a next-generation adjuvanted vaccine to protect against 
more types of HPV. 

Antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is one of the world’s top 
10 health threats. It’s estimated that, without action, AMR, 
including antifungal resistance, could contribute to 10 million 
deaths per year by 2050 and cause an economic loss of 
£100 trillion. Across our medicines and vaccines pipeline, 
we have more than 30 projects relevant to AMR, 12 of them 
targeting pathogens deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the 
WHO. 

Moving towards a potential treatment for uncomplicated 
urinary tract infections and urogenital gonorrhoea 
– Over half of women are affected by uncomplicated 
urinary tract infections (uUTI) in their lifetime, with 
over a quarter suffering recurring disease. 

– Despite concern over rising resistance to existing 

treatments, there’s been no new class of antibiotics 
in uUTI for over two decades. 

Our investigational antibiotic gepotidacin is a novel 
mechanism triazaacenaphthylene antibiotic for uUTI 
and gonorrhoea, discovered and developed by us, and 
part-funded by our partnership with the US Biomedical 
Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). 
In 2023, positive phase III data showed it has the potential 
to be the first in a new class of oral antibiotics for uUTI in 
over 20 years. In the EAGLE-2 and EAGLE-3 phase III trials, 
which were stopped early for efficacy in November 2022 
following a planned interim analysis, gepotidacin performed 
as well as nitrofurantoin, an existing first-line treatment for 
uUTI. In the EAGLE-3 trial, gepotidacin demonstrated 
statistically significant superiority over nitrofurantoin. 

Treating complicated urinary tract infections with 
tebipenem 
Through our partnership with Spero Therapeutics, Inc., 
we have an exclusive licence agreement for tebipenem HBr, 
a late-stage oral carbapenem antibiotic with the potential 
to treat complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs). In 
December 2023, the first patient was dosed in PIVOT-PO, 
our pivotal phase III trial for tebipenem. If approved, 
tebipenem HBr will address an unmet medical need 
for a novel oral antibiotic as an alternative to intravenous 
hospital therapy for drug-resistant cUTIs. 

Vulvovaginal candidiasis
In 2023, we also signed an exclusive licence agreement with 
Scynexis to develop and further commercialise Brexafemme, 
a US FDA-approved first-in-class antifungal treatment for 
vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) and for reducing the 
incidence of recurrent VVC. Brexafemme complements 
gepotidacin and tebipenem, and reinforces our 
commitment to developing new antibiotic and antifungal 
treatments in areas of high unmet medical need.

Fast-tracking our gonorrhoea vaccine
– Gonorrhoea is the second-most prevalent bacterial 
sexually transmitted infection worldwide, with an 
estimated 82 million new cases each year. 

– AMR to gonorrhoea has increased over the past 80 years, 
rendering many classes of antibiotics to treat the disease 
ineffective and making a vaccine even more important to 
the global effort to tackle AMR. 

Our investigational Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NgG) vaccine, 
based on our generalised modules for membrane antigens 
(GMMA) technology, aims to protect people aged 16 and 
older. Currently in an ongoing phase I/II efficacy trial, NgG 
received a Fast-Track designation from the US FDA in 2023, 
accelerating its path to FDA submission. .

21

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

HIV
For decades, we’ve transformed the lives of people living 
with HIV by making breakthroughs in treatment and 
prevention. Our work to develop long-acting injectable 
medicines means that many only need therapy a few times 
a year, instead of once a day.

– The WHO estimates there were approximately 1.3 million 

new HIV infections globally in 2022, with the burden 
greatest in sub-Saharan Africa.

– In the US, about two-thirds of people living with HIV are 
virally suppressed and there were more than 36,000 new 
diagnoses in 2021.

– There remains a pressing need for new approaches to 

treatment and prevention.  

We work on HIV through ViiV Healthcare, which we 
majority own, with Pfizer and Shionogi as shareholders. 
ViiV Healthcare is the only company that is 100% focused 
on the treatment and prevention of HIV. Our goal is to 
leave no person living with HIV behind.

We’ve focused research on transforming the experience 
of people living with HIV through novel treatment options 
that allow them to take fewer drugs or take them much less 
often. We’ve also developed a long-acting regimen that can 
prevent HIV.

The 40-year fight against HIV
The official start of the AIDS epidemic is considered to 
be June 1981, when the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly 
Report noticed that a rare pneumonia was being seen 
in previously healthy men who have sex with men.

It would be several years before HIV was identified as 
the underlying cause. Marty St Clair and other 
scientists at Burroughs Wellcome – a predecessor 
company to GSK – urgently began a search for a 
potential new medicine to treat HIV and AIDS. The 
group went on to develop Zidovudine, the first 
medicine, which was approved in the US in 1987.

Nearly 40 years on, Marty continues to work to treat 
and prevent HIV transmission in her role as clinical 
director for ViiV Healthcare. She is optimistic about 
the outlook for innovation in HIV.

'We’ve pretty much given people their lives back,' said 
Marty. 'It’s a hopeful time.'

Transforming patients’ lives with 
long-acting regimens
Cabenuva (cabotegravir; rilpivirine) is the world’s first and 
only complete long-acting injectable regimen to treat HIV. 
It means some patients have treatment only six times a year 
instead of taking medicine orally every day. Our SOLAR 
study data, announced in 2023, showed Cabenuva is as 
effective as daily Biktarvy tablets for treating HIV. The 12-
month findings also showed that nine out of ten participants 
switching from Biktarvy to Cabenuva preferred the long-
acting regimen.

Apretude (long-acting cabotegravir), launched in 2022, is 
the world’s first and only long-acting injectable pre-exposure 
prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually transmitted 
HIV. Two large phase III studies demonstrated that Apretude 
was superior to daily oral PrEP (TDF/FTC) in men and 
women. And, in the open label phase, when given the choice, 
the majority of study participants chose Apretude over oral 
TDF/FTC.

The European Commission authorised Apretude in 2023 in 
injectable and tablet form. This followed a positive opinion  
from the European Medicines Agency's (EMA) Committee 
for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). Apretude 
is also approved in Australia and South Africa, among 
many others.

Looking to the future of long-acting treatment 
and prevention
Through a new formulation (reformulated CAB), we’re 
now focused on progressing to injectable doses every 
four months, doubling today’s interval for cabotegravir 
for treatment and PrEP, which would halve visits to the 
clinic to three times a year.

ViiV Positive Action outreach

22

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

We aim to make this a reality for prevention by 2026, with 
a registrational study starting in 2024. For treatment, we aim 
to deliver by 2027, by evaluating possible combinations of 
reformulated CAB with rilpivirine or our broadly neutralising 
antibody, N6LS. In 2023, we completed a study that 
combined N6LS with Halozyme’s recombinant 
hyaluronidase (PH20) technology, which allows delivery 
of a larger volume of drug through subcutaneous dosing. 
This showed it’s possible to deliver a single subcutaneous 
dose that’s well-tolerated and can last up to four months.

Beyond this, six-monthly doses are our goal by the end 
of the decade by partnering our new integrase inhibitors, 
VH184 or VH310, with new-mechanism-of-action agents 
such as capsid inhibitors.

Respiratory/immunology

We’ve been leaders in delivering medicines that help 
manage asthma and COPD for over 50 years. Our research 
looks to harness the science of the immune system to 
develop medicines that reduce signs and symptoms of 
disease, address treatment resistance and slow the 
progression of immune-mediated conditions. These include 
lupus, severe asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype and 
other inflammatory diseases. We help millions of people 
with respiratory and immune conditions worldwide with 
our current portfolio.

Advancing the science and treatment of IL-5 
mediated diseases 
For more than 25 years we have been leaders in researching 
the roles that eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) and 
interleukin-5 (IL-5) play in health and disease. 

– Eosinophil-driven diseases are associated with 

heightened levels of eosinophils. When eosinophils 
infiltrate certain tissues, they can cause inflammation and 
organ damage which, over time, can affect patients’ day-
to-day life. 

– IL-5 is the major cytokine responsible for the proliferation, 
activation and survival of eosinophils, making it a proven 
treatment target for patients with higher levels of 
eosinophils. 

– IL-5 mediated conditions encompass a range of diseases 
for which there have been few, if any, effective treatments. 
These include respiratory conditions like severe asthma 
with an eosinophilic phenotype, COPD and chronic 
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), and rarer 
conditions like eosinophilic granulomatosis with 
polyangiitis (EGPA) or hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES).

Our research aims to redefine treatment goals across these 
conditions, going beyond optimal management of daily 
symptoms, to modify the course of disease. This could slow 
or halt disease progression, reduce the risk of organ 
damage and even mean some people could achieve 
clinical remission.

Moving towards self-injected long-acting 
treatment 
Our other main aim is to develop the world’s first long-
acting treatment that people living with HIV can inject 
themselves. This will allow individuals to dose at home and 
reduce the number of clinic visits. We are targeting dosing 
every two to three months, with efficacy and tolerability 
similar to Cabenuva.

In short, our goal is to develop new agents for HIV treatment 
and prevention that reduce the burden of treatment and 
allow people to have improved quality of life.

Nucala is a first-in-class anti-IL5-biologic (monoclonal 
antibody) that targets and directly inhibits IL-5. It is the only 
treatment in the US and Europe with indications in four IL-5 
mediated diseases: severe asthma with an eosinophilic 
phenotype, CRSwNP, EGPA and HES. In 2023, the Japanese 
Ministry of Labour, Health and Welfare accepted for review 
a supplementary new drug application for Nucala to treat 
CRSwNP in adults. This submission is based on data from 
the pivotal phase III MERIT trial studying the safety and 
efficacy of Nucala in people with CRSwNP.   

In January 2024, the China National Medical Products 
Administration approved Nucala as an add-on maintenance 
treatment for severe asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype. 
Nucala is the first targeted IL-5 treatment in China for adult 
and adolescent patients with the condition. 

Depemokimab is our novel monoclonal antibody developed 
for its affinity for IL-5 and long-acting inhibition of the IL-5 
pathological process, which includes suppression of 
eosinophil activity. It is the first potential ultra-long-acting 
anti-IL-5 biologic that treats a range of IL-5 mediated 
diseases. Our phase III programme continues to make 
progress across diseases including severe asthma, CRSwNP, 
HES and EGPA. 

Currently, approved IL-5 inhibitors are dosed every four or 
eight weeks, while depemokimab is designed to be 
administered every six months, addressing the challenges 
commonly associated with more frequent dosing including 
adherence anxiety and emotional burden. 

Reaching a broader range of asthma patients
In early 2024, we acquired Aiolos Bio, Inc. The acquisition 
adds AIO-001, a phase II-ready, long-acting antibody that 
targets the clinically validated TSLP pathway to our 
respiratory pipeline. This could redefine the standard of care 
for asthma patients with dosing every six months. AIO-001 
has the potential to expand our reach to a broader portion 
of asthma patients, including the 40% of severe asthma 
patients with low T2 inflammation where treatment options 
are still needed. In addition to the treatment of adult 
patients with asthma, AIO-001 also has the potential for 

23

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

additional indications including chronic rhinosinusitis with 
nasal polyps.

Progress towards a treatment for refractory 
chronic cough with camlipixant
– Approximately 28 million people suffer from chronic 

cough, with about 10 million worldwide suffering from 
refractory chronic cough (RCC) for over a year. 

– RCC is a cough that persists for more than eight weeks 
and doesn’t respond to treatment for an underlying 
condition or is otherwise unexplained. 

– For decades there have been no effective treatments for 

RCC, with patients often suffering from depression, urinary 
incontinence, rib fractures and loss of sleep.

In 2023, we acquired Bellus Health, which included 
camlipixant, a potential best-in-disease and highly selective 
oral P2X3 antagonist currently in phase III development as a 
first-line treatment for adults with RCC. Current clinical data 
show that by selectively inhibiting P2X3 receptors, 
camlipixant may reduce cough frequency for patients 
suffering from RCC with a relatively low incidence of 
dysgeusia. This is the taste disturbance associated with 
other medicines that broadly target the P2X2/3 receptor. 
We expect data in 2025 from the phase III CALM 
development programme, evaluating the efficacy and 
safety of camlipixant.

Treating systemic sclerosis with Benlysta
We continue to work to realise the full potential of Benlysta, 
our anti-B Lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) monoclonal 
antibody, so that people affected by a range of immune-
mediated conditions beyond lupus and lupus nephritis (LN) 
can benefit from its targeted mode of action, and reassuring 
safety profile. 

Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare autoimmune disease that 
causes atypical growth of connective tissues and can affect 
the musculoskeletal system, heart, lungs, kidneys, skin and 
other organs. Interstitial lung disease (ILD), marked by 
inflammation and scar tissue build-up in the lungs, affects 
as many as half of people living with SSc. Current treatment 
options are limited.

In 2023, the US FDA granted Orphan Drug Designation 
(ODD) to Benlysta as a potential treatment for SSc. The 
ODD is a special status granted to support development 
and evaluation of potential medicines to treat, diagnose 
or prevent rare diseases or disorders affecting fewer than 
200,000 people in the US. We began a phase II/III trial for 
SSc-associated ILD in 2023. We will be exploring other 
potential studies in a wider range of potential indications 
in 2024. 

Benlysta remains the first and only approved biologic for 
both systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and LN in more 
than 50 years. Its robust efficacy and long-term safety have 
been recognised in updated recommendations from the 
European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology 
(EULAR) for the management of SLE and LN, endorsing 
earlier use in the treatment pathway. We plan a phase IV 
study in early 2024 to further inform the proactive 
management of lupus to prevent organ damage. 

Benlysta has been approved for use in over 75 countries 
to treat adults with SLE. This has been extended to include 
children aged five and older with SLE in the US, Japan, the 
EEA countries, the UK and over 15 other countries.

Benlysta is currently approved to treat adults with LN in the 
US, all EEA countries, the UK and over 15 further countries. In 
the US, this indication includes children aged five and older 
with LN, and reviews for this continue in other countries. 

Remission could be possible for severe asthma
Shelby Gorman, a GSK employee, knows all too well 
the negative impact of severe asthma on a child’s life. 
‘The doctor said to us – when was the last time you 
had a day when you felt good all day?’, Shelby says. 
‘My daughter could not remember one day when she 
felt well ever, in her life.’

After many years of frequently being hospitalised due 
to exacerbations, Shelby’s daughter, Joelle, received 
a more accurate diagnosis and started on an 
appropriate targeted treatment. For the first time she 
was able to live her life without respiratory infections 
and no daily antihistamines.

With our expertise in respiratory disease and deep 
understanding of the immune system, our scientists 
along with other global specialists are developing 
solutions to help some people with severe asthma 
achieve clinical remission.

Shelby and Joelle

24

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Oncology
Cancer, one of the world’s major causes of death, is a field 
where patients’ needs are still widely unmet and treatment 
options remain limited. We have an emerging portfolio in 
oncology that is focused on seeking solutions for blood and  
women's cancers, and making transformative break-
throughs in immuno-oncology. 

Ojjaara (momelotinib), Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin), 
Jemperli (dostarlimab) and Zejula (niraparib) are the strong 
foundation of our work in blood and women's cancers. Our 
goal is to realise the full potential of our existing medicines, 
as well as expand our portfolio in areas of high unmet need. 

In 2023, we received approval in the US for Ojjaara our 
treatment for myelofibrosis. Omjjaara was then approved in 
the EU and UK in January 2024. We also received approval 
in the US, EU and UK for our immuno-oncology therapy 
Jemperli plus chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for 
endometrial cancer patients with a certain biomarker. 

We continue to evaluate dostarlimab in studies that further 
reinforce our ambition for it to become the backbone of 
our ongoing immuno-oncology research and development 
programme. 

Blood cancers
Ojjaara: helping myelofibrosis patients with anaemia 
– Myelofibrosis (MF) is a rare blood cancer affecting 

around 25,000 people in the US. 

– Nearly all MF patients will eventually develop anaemia, 
requiring regular blood transfusions and leading over 
30% to stop treatment with established therapies. 

– In addition to anaemia, patients can experience 
debilitating symptoms like night sweats, fatigue 
and bone pain, as well as an enlarged spleen 
(splenomegaly), bringing pain and inflammation 
and frequent infection risk. 

Ojjaara, taken orally once a day, is the only medicine 
specifically indicated for newly diagnosed and previously 
treated MF patients with anaemia. It treats anaemia, along 
with the constitutional symptoms and enlarged spleen that 
accompany the disease. This means it potentially offers a 
new standard of care for patients, as established treatments 
can further exacerbate anaemia. 

In September 2023, the FDA granted broad, line-agnostic 
approval for Ojjaara for the treatment of primary or 
secondary MF in adults with anaemia, regardless of 
previous MF therapy. This was followed by a positive CHMP 
opinion in November 2023 and approval by the European 
Commission, as well as MHRA approval, in January 2024. 
We’ve also submitted a new drug application in Japan. 

Blenrep: our treatment for multiple myeloma
– Multiple myeloma is the third most common blood 

cancer globally and is generally considered treatable 
but not curable.

– Approximately 176,000 new cases of multiple myeloma 

are diagnosed globally each year.

– Research into new therapies is needed, as multiple 

myeloma commonly becomes refractory to available 
treatments.

Blenrep is our antibody-drug conjugate treatment for 
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Our DREAMM 
(Driving Excellence in Approaches to Multiple Myeloma) 
clinical development programme continues to evaluate the 
potential of Blenrep to address unmet need in early lines of 
treatment and in combination with novel therapies and 
standard of care treatments.

In November 2023, we announced positive phase III results 
from the DREAMM-7 trial, showing potential for Blenrep 
combination therapy to benefit patients in earlier treatment 
lines. Interim analysis of DREAMM-7 showed that patients 
receiving Blenrep in combination with bortezomib and 
dexamethasone (BorDex) lived longer without their disease 
progressing than those receiving daratumumab plus 
BorDex, an existing standard of care combination therapy. 
We are sharing this data with health authorities and the 
scientific community as we await the results from 
DREAMM-8, another phase III combination trial exploring 
Blenrep’s potential in earlier therapy lines.

Also during 2023, health authorities continued to review 
existing monotherapy indications for Blenrep in later therapy 
lines based on the results of previous studies. This included 
in December 2023, the EMA recommending against 
renewal of the conditional marketing authorisation for its 
existing fourth line and later monotherapy indication.  

Women's cancers
Jemperli: a backbone immuno-oncology therapy
– Endometrial, or uterine, cancer is the sixth most common 
cancer in women worldwide, with an estimated 417,000 
new cases and 97,370 deaths in 2020. 

– About 30% of endometrial cancer cases have a 

biomarker known as dMMR/MSI-H. 

– Patients with this type of endometrial cancer have faced 
significant unmet need and typically experience poor 
long-term outcomes with standard of care chemotherapy. 

In 2023, Jemperli became the only immuno-oncology 
treatment approved in the US, EU and UK in the frontline 
setting in combination with chemotherapy for patients with 
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high 
(dMMR/MSI-H) primary advanced or recurrent endometrial 
cancer. In the RUBY trial supporting these approvals, 
Jemperli plus chemotherapy showed a 71% reduction in 
the risk of disease progression or death compared to 
chemotherapy alone.

25

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

In 2023 we announced two additional positive data 
readouts for the RUBY phase III trial. In part 1 of the trial, 
Jemperli plus chemotherapy showed statistically significant 
and clinically meaningful overall survival benefit compared 
to chemotherapy in the overall population of patients with 
primary advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. Jemperli 
is the only immuno-oncology combination regimen to 
achieve this. Part 2 of the RUBY trial, which evaluated 
Jemperli plus chemotherapy followed by Jemperli plus 
Zejula for the treatment of primary advanced or recurrent 
endometrial cancer, demonstrated significantly improved 
progression-free survival compared to chemotherapy alone 
in both the overall and mismatch repair proficient/
microsatellite stable (MMRp/MSS) patient populations.

Jemperli is also approved as a stand-alone treatment 
for certain types of endometrial cancer. Earlier in 2023, the 
FDA converted the accelerated approval for Jemperli 
as a second-line treatment into a full approval as a 
monotherapy for adult patients with dMMR recurrent or 
advanced endometrial cancer, as determined by an 
FDA-approved test, that has progressed on, or following, 
a prior platinum-containing regimen in any setting, 
and who aren’t candidates for surgery or radiation. 
The European Commission's conditional approval for 
Jemperli as a monotherapy for adult patients in the same 
patient population was also converted to full approval. 

Zejula: our PARP inhibitor for ovarian cancer and beyond
We continue to develop Zejula in multiple pivotal trials, 
assessing activity in gynaecologic cancers and other solid 
tumours and evaluating several potential combinations of 
Zejula with other therapeutics. Aiming to address the unmet 
medical needs of patients, the ongoing development 
programme includes the FIRST phase III trial assessing the 
potential for niraparib in combination with dostarlimab in 
first-line ovarian cancer maintenance and the ZEAL phase 
III trial evaluating niraparib in combination with standard of 
care for the maintenance treatment of first-line advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer. In addition, based on promising 
early clinical data for niraparib in glioblastoma in November 
2023, we are exploring next steps  for its clinical 
development in this type of cancer.

Other cancers
Colorectal cancer
– Cancers that start in the colon or in the rectum, both 
of which are distinct sections of the large intestine, 
are classified as colorectal cancers. 

– Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-

related death and the third most common cancer 
worldwide, accounting for approximately 10% of all 
cancer cases.

– In 2020, it was estimated that worldwide, there were more 
than 1.9 million new cases of colorectal cancer and more 
than 930,000 deaths.   

In January 2023, the US FDA granted dostarlimab Fast-
Track designation for the treatment of dMMR/MSI-H locally 
advanced rectal cancer. 

We also started our AZUR clinical trial programme studying 
dostarlimab in certain colorectal cancer indications. 

AZUR-1 is a global, open-label, phase II clinical trial to 
investigate the efficacy and safety of dostarlimab as 
monotherapy – replacing chemotherapy, radiation and/or 
surgery – for treatment-naïve patients with dMMR/MSI-H 
locally advanced rectal cancer. If successful, there’s 
potential to transform the treatment of some patients with 
locally advanced rectal cancer.  

The trial aims to confirm results generated in a separate 
ongoing investigator-initiated trial by researchers at 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. In 2023, this trial 
reported that all participants treated with dostarlimab 
achieved clinical complete responses, enabling them to 
avoid surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 

We also began our AZUR-2 trial, a phase III trial that 
evaluates the efficacy of perioperative dostarlimab 
monotherapy compared with standard of care adjuvant 
chemotherapy in patients with high-risk early stage dMMR/
MSI-H colon cancer. If approved, this could give patients 
a new chemotherapy-free option that reduces the risk of 
disease progression through dostarlimab treatment in 
both neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings. 

Lung cancer
– Lung cancer is the second most common cancer globally 

and the most common cancer in men. 

– In 2020, there were more than 2.2 million new cases 

of lung cancer worldwide.

– The majority of lung cancers fall into a category called 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). While this form of 
lung cancer progresses more slowly, 40% of NSCLC cases 
will have spread beyond the lungs by diagnosis.  

In 2023, we published data from our phase II PERLA clinical 
trial showing a favourable numerical trend in overall survival  
results for dostarlimab plus chemotherapy compared to 
pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in first-line metastatic 
NSCLC. Data from the PERLA trial supports our ambition for 
dostarlimab to become a backbone immuno-oncology 
therapy when used alone and in combination with standard 
of care and future novel cancer therapies, including targets 
along the CD226 axis.

We have access to antibodies targeting all three known 
CD226 checkpoints – CD96, PVRIG and TIGIT. Our goal 
of studying these immune checkpoints in combination with 
dostarlimab is aimed at increasing the proportion of 
patients who respond to therapy and improving the 
durability of response. In 2023, our CD226 axis development 
programme continued with several early-phase trials 
underway, including GALAXIES Lung-201, our phase II 
platform study in first-line metastatic NSCLC that combines 
dostarlimab with belrestotug, our TIGIT antibody partnered 
with iTeos Therapeutics. GALAXIES Lung-201 will also 
explore a triplet combination with dostarlimab, belrestotug, 
and GSK6097608, our CD96 antibody.

In addition, our two phase III trials in NSCLC continued in 
2023 with readouts expected in 2024: 

– COSTAR Lung, our phase III, randomised, open-label 

three-arm trial is comparing investigational compound 
cobolimab plus dostarlimab plus docetaxel to 

26

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

dostarlimab plus docetaxel to docetaxel alone in 
patients with advanced NSCLC who have progressed 
on prior anti-PD-L1 therapy and chemotherapy. 

– ZEAL, our phase III, randomised, double-blind trial is 

assessing niraparib in combination with standard of care 
for the maintenance treatment of first-line advanced 
NSCLC.  

Pipeline growth through business development
In October 2023, we announced an exclusive licence 
agreement with the Chinese company Hansoh Pharma for 
HS-20089, its B7-H4-targeted ADC. This supports our work 
in developing treatments for ovarian and endometrial 
cancers, as well as solid tumours. 

The B7-H4 surface antigen is over-expressed in ovarian 
and endometrial cancers and often associated with poor 
prognosis. As well as targeting B7-H4, HS-20089 uses 
clinically validated ADC technologies such as 
topoisomerase inhibitor payload (TOPOi). This is a validated 
mechanism of action in approved anti-cancer medicines 
and a proven standard of care in treating breast and 
ovarian cancers.

In December 2023, we added to our oncology portfolio of 
clinical-stage ADCs by entering a second exclusive licensing 
agreement with Hansoh Pharma for HS-20093.

HS-20093, a B7-H3 targeted ADC also utilising a clinically 
validated TOPOi payload, has shown promising initial 
clinical activity in lung cancer with potential to address 
unmet medical need in broader solid tumour indications 
including colorectal cancer.

Technology

New platform and data technology are fundamentally 
transforming how we discover and develop vaccines and 
medicines, speeding up discovery and development and 
improving the chance of success.

Technology makes us more effective at every stage of the 
discovery and development process, so that we progress 
vaccines and medicines that are the first or best of their 
kind. Our early investment in these capabilities is already 
leading to differentiated, high-impact vaccines and 
medicines including a new vaccine for RSV, long-acting 
HIV prevention, and the prospect of a functional cure for 
chronic hepatitis B.

We combine the power of genetic data and genomic 
insights with the speed and scale of AI to make better 
predictions and increase the probability of new vaccines 
and medicines becoming available for patients. Our AI 
team – one of the largest in the industry – works with our 
genomics team to improve how we select disease targets, 
determine the best technology approach, and identify 
groups of patients where a treatment might work best. 

We’re not doing this alone. We partner with the world’s 
best minds across academia and the tech and biotech 
industries – from large companies to small start-ups. This 
collaboration leads to new ways of thinking, so that together 
we can strive for the most innovative solutions for patients.  

Using platform technologies to discover and 
develop novel vaccines and medicines
One of the major challenges in addressing diseases where 
no vaccines or medicines currently exist is that they are 
difficult to treat with small molecules or biologics.

We’re overcoming this challenge by investing in both our 
own innovation and in external collaborations to develop 
a range of platform technologies. With platform technology, 
we pair disease targets with the best treatment modalities, 
addressing diseases once thought to be too difficult to 
target with drug discovery. 

These expand our ability to identify novel vaccine and 
medicine options to prevent 
or treat these diseases.

We are investing in platform technologies including:

Multiple antigen presenting system (MAPS), which allows 
us to develop multivalent vaccines for complex bacterial 
infections by introducing T-cell mediated, disease-specific 
anti-protein immunity. This potentially enables broader 
coverage against certain disease types and higher 
immunogenicity than current vaccines, as well as higher 
antibody responses. We are developing MAPS through our 
2022 acquisition of Affinivax. We’ve mainly directed MAPS 
at preventing pneumococcal disease, and it’s part of our 
24-valent pneumococcal vaccine candidate in phase II 
development (see page 20). This platform also shows 
promise against other pathogens, including those that 
cause hospital-acquired infections.  

mRNA, which enables protein synthesis in the human body, 
carrying the information required for cells to produce 
proteins. By using mRNA technology for vaccine 
development, specific proteins, or antigens, can be 
produced by the body’s own cells and elicit both humoral 
and immune responses, enabling the human immune 
system to prevent or fight disease. We’re developing mRNA 
in-house in parallel with our collaboration with CureVac, a 
biopharmaceutical company developing therapies based 
on mRNA. We’re currently developing RNA vaccines based 
on CureVac’s second-generation mRNA backbone, with 
monovalent and bivalent COVID-19 vaccine candidates 
in phase II. A multivalent seasonal influenza vaccine 
candidate to protect against multiple strains is also 
in phase I/II (see page 20).

Small molecule design, paired with our own small molecule 
generative AI tools. Our system has the advantage of using 
known chemical reactions and building blocks to create 
large 'virtual libraries' of potential drug molecules for 
specific biological targets. 

27

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

The molecules comprising these virtual libraries have the 
advantage of being easily synthesised and free from many 
of the known problems associated with small molecule 
drugs since they are filtered by a series of machine-learned 
molecular property models based on GSK historical data 
and clean public sources.

The combined power of biology and technology is profound 
and is reshaping the way science is done. For example, we 
now generate more data in one quarter than in our 
company’s 300-year history and, by the end of 2024, we 
aim to bring predictive, real-time insight to inform 90% of 
our progression and development decisions in our research.

Oligonucleotides, which are short strands of DNA or RNA 
that can reduce, restore or modulate RNA through several 
mechanisms, giving them a unique capability to address a 
wide range of genomic targets in multiple therapeutic areas 
for the first time. Oligonucleotides currently in our pipeline 
include bepirovirsen for chronic hepatitis B; and GSK 
4532990, a phase II programme for non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH).

We also have two collaborations to build a leading 
oligonucleotide platform:

– In 2022, we entered a collaboration with Wave Life 

Sciences, which pairs our genetic expertise with Wave’s 
PRISM, the only oligonucleotide platform offering three 
RNA-targeting modalities (editing, splicing and silencing, 
including siRNA and antisense). The collaboration helps 
us accelerate drug discovery for newly identified targets, 
by matching them to the best therapeutic modality.

– In 2023, we announced a partnership with Elsie 

Biotechnologies, Inc. The collaboration combines 
our expertise in DNA encoded library technologies with 
Elsie's drug discovery platform. Throughout the 
collaboration, we can exercise an option on a non-
exclusive licence from Elsie for its discovery platform 
and P(V) chemistry technologies to use in our own 
oligonucleotide drug discovery research. 

Monoclonal antibodies, are produced by a single clone of 
cells or cell lines and consist of identical antibody molecules 
that are meant to modulate a patient’s immune system. 
We have all the platforms needed to make best-in-class 
monoclonal antibodies (like Nucala), bispecific antibodies, 
and antibody-drug conjugates (like Blenrep). We are also 
developing generative design capabilities based on 
increased use of next generation sequencing as well as 
public and proprietary protein structure tools. The structures 
designed using these tools are then realised using highly 
automated antibody synthesis, isolation, and purification 
processes.  

Adjuvants, substances that enhance the body’s immune 
response to antigens, which we use in Arexvy and Shingrix, 
our vaccines for RSV and shingles, and our HSV vaccine 
candidate, GSK 3943104. We are also working with Xiamen 
Innovax Biotech on a next-generation adjuvanted vaccine 
to protect against more types of HPV.   

Using genetic data to better understand 
disease and choose the right solutions for 
the right patients
With data technology, we combine AI/ML with human 
genetics and functional genomics to understand patients, 
human biology and disease mechanisms. This makes us 
better at choosing and prioritising targets, designing trials 
and bringing new vaccines and medicines to patients. 

Combining AI, genetic and genomics for unexpected 
possibilities
We have built in-house teams dedicated to genomics 
and AI, including at our key R&D sites in London, Tel Aviv, 
San Francisco, Seattle, Philadelphia and Boston. Their 
expertise helps us collect more data, generate more ideas 
and arrive at unexpected possibilities. They’re bringing us 
closer to finding vaccines and medicines for diseases that 
once felt outside our reach, making our research process 
faster, more effective, and more predictable. 

We have invested to build a world-class research data 
platform, which includes one of the world’s most 
comprehensive large language models on genetic disease. 
It brings over 700 billion data points into a single place 
to map gene expression and function activity. This enables 
our scientists to run experiments and get answers to 
questions in a matter of hours, a process that once took 
weeks or months.  

Genetics and genomics
We are using a combination of genetics, functional 
genomics and genetic engineering techniques like CRISPR 
(Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic 
Repeats) to enable us to screen and validate hundreds 
of genetic targets in parallel, instead of one at a time. 
Through the screening process we can discover causal 
genes through genomics and link to biomarkers that may 
predict disease. In 2023, we had 53 targets with strong 
genetic evidence in our pipeline, an increase from 45 in 
2022.

Applying data tech to our clinical research
At the clinical stage of development, AI/ML and genomics 
are helping us assess how certain patient profiles might 
respond, so we’ll be able to make sure we have the right 
people in the right trials. This offers the potential to have 
shorter, less expensive clinical trials with greater chances 
of success. 

An example of this is our research on our antisense 
oligonucleotide bepirovirsen for chronic hepatitis B. Using 
ML, we developed algorithms that helped us categorise 
patients into five distinct subtypes based on their response 
to treatment. This almost doubled our ability to correctly 
predict future patient outcomes, compared to using the 
traditional methods. This is significant because it will help 
inform sequential and combination therapy options, 
potentially leading to better outcomes and ultimately 
helping more people living with hepatitis B experience 
functional cure. 

28

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Collaborating to change the course of 
disease for patients
By working with others we achieve more, better and faster 
to address disease areas of high unmet need and for as 
many people as possible.

Our collaborations with UK Biobank, 23andMe and FinnGen 
have given us access to large genetic datasets to deepen 
understanding of diseases and improve drug discovery. 
We’re also a founding partner of Our Future Health, a UK 
initiative setting out to recruit up to five million people to 
capture genetic and medical information. And we work 
with Genes & Health and Discover Me South Africa to make 
sure we have a diverse genetic representation of diseases. 
In January 2024, we also announced we'd joined the 
Alliance for Genomic Discovery, further expanding our 
access to diverse genetic datasets.

Other collaborations in functional genomics give us insights 
to help select targets that are more likely to become 
medicines. We continue to work with genomics research 
centres like the Broad Institute, affiliated with MIT and 
Harvard University in Boston, and the Altius Institute in 
Seattle. In the UK, our partners include the consortium 
Open Targets, which we co-founded. 

This work complements technology and biology projects 
underway at the Laboratory for Genomic Research, which 
we co-founded in 2019 with researchers at the University of 
California in San Francisco. These projects are automating 
and advancing CRISPR for new discoveries of disease 
mechanisms for immunology, oncology and neurology. 

Other collaborations are helping make advances in multiple 
fields of human health. 

– With King’s College London, we’re using tumour models 

alongside digital pathology and AI to develop personalised 
immuno-oncology treatments for solid cancers. 

– With PathAI, we’re working to accelerate R&D in oncology 

and NASH. 

– We established the Oxford-GSK Institute of Molecular and 
Computational Medicine (IMCM) with Oxford University in 
2021. It combines human genetics with functional 
genomics and ML to focus on diseases including 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer’s and 
Parkinson’s.

– Our work with precision medicine company Tempus has 
focused on using data to further enable clinical trial 
designs and target selections in oncology.	

Culture
We create an agile, innovative environment that’s 
ambitious for patients and attracts the best people, 
scientists and partners.

To get ahead of disease, we need the best people – 
scientists, researchers, trial specialists, technologists and 
more – and an environment where they can thrive and 
make the most of their expertise, inside the company or 
as partners. Our R&D people work together in an inclusive 
environment to foster new ideas and make connections, 
including our scientists, technologists and data engineers 
working side by side. 27% of our R&D leadership team 
started their roles in the past two years, bringing 56 years 
of combined experience, adding to our leadership and 
delivering against key priorities. 

Our culture unites us in being ambitious for patients and 
accountable for impact, and always doing the right thing. 
This culture encourages teams to focus on what matters 
most, take smart risks and make informed decisions at pace. 
It also helps them take ownership of objectives, seize 
opportunities and solve problems together. 

To support this, in 2023 we’ve taken steps to focus even 
more intently on our core therapeutic areas, strengthen 
decision-making with clearer ownership and simplified, 
agile governance, and embed technology more deeply 
in our work. 

We’ve created three research units dedicated to vaccines 
and infectious diseases, respiratory and immunology, and 
oncology. Reporting directly to the Chief Scientific Officer, 
they use their expertise to pick the right targets for the right 
patients, leading clinical development through to phase II 
and making recommendations on phase III programmes. 
These research teams complement our ongoing research 
in HIV, through ViiV Healthcare. 

Close collaboration between R&D, commercial, 
manufacturing and medical leaders makes sure we match 
scientific potential with unmet patient need to maximise 
our impact on disease and deliver competitive commercial 
value. We’ve also created one research technologies 
organisation, bringing together platform and data groups 
to create a scaled engine for identifying and progressing 
targets for ourselves and our partners. 

29

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Research and development continued

Pipeline overview
We have 71 assets in development, of which 18 are late-stage. 

Phase III/Registration
Arexvy (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 RSV older adults (50-59 YoA)3
gepotidacin (BTI inhibitor)1 Uncomplicated UTI2
bepirovirsen (Antisense oligonucleotide)1 Chronic HBV infection2
Bexsero (Recombinant protein, OMV) Meningitis B (infants US)

MenABCWY vaccine (Recombinant protein, OMV, conjugated vaccine) 
MenABCWY, 1stGen

tebipenem pivoxil (Antibacterial carbapenem)1 Complicated UTI
ibrexafungerp (Antifungal glucan synthase inhibitor)1 Invasive candidiasis
Nucala (Anti-IL5 antibody) COPD
depemokimab (Long-acting anti-IL5 antibody)1 Asthma2
latozinemab (Anti-sortilin antibody)1 Frontotemporal dementia2,4
camlipixant (P2X3 receptor antagonist) Refractory chronic cough
Low carbon version of MDI5,  Ventolin (Beta 2 adrenergic receptor 
agonist) Asthma6
Ojjaara/Omjjara (JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor)3,7
Jemperli (Anti-PD-1 antibody)1 Endometrial cancer2
Zejula (PARP inhibitor)1 Ovarian cancer2
Blenrep (Anti-BCMA ADC)1 Multiple myeloma
cobolimab (Anti-TIM-3 antibody)1 Non-small cell lung cancer
linerixibat (IBAT inhibitor) Cholestatic pruritus in primary biliary 
cholangitis

Phase II
3437949 (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Malaria fractional dose
4406371 (live, attenuated) MMRV new strain
3536852 (GMMA)1 Shigella
3528869 (Viral vector with recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Chronic 
HBV infection2,8

4023393 (Recombinant protein, OMV, conjugated vaccine) 
MenABCWY, 2ndGen8

4178116 (Live, attenuated) Varicella new strain
5101956 (MAPS)1 Adult pneumococcal disease, 24-valent
5101955 (MAPS)1 Paediatric pneumococcal disease, 24-valent
4106647 (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Human papillomavirus8
4348413 (GMMA) Gonorrhoea8
4382276 (mRNA)1 Seasonal flu
4396687 (mRNA)1 COVID-19
3993129 (Adjuvanted recombinant subunit) Cytomegalovirus8
3943104 (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Therapeutic herpes 
simplex virus8

5637608 (Hepatitis B virus-targeted siRNA)1 Chronic HBV infection
4077164 (Bivalent GMMA)1 Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella2
ganfeborole 3036656 (Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor)1 Tuberculosis
sanfetrinem cilexetil (Serine beta lactamase inhibitor)1 Tuberculosis
alpibectir BVL-GSK098 (Ethionamide booster)1 Tuberculosis
3810109 (Broadly neutralizing antibody)1 HIV
3739937 (Maturation inhibitor) HIV

4004280 (Capsid protein inhibitor) HIV

4011499 (Capsid protein inhibitor) HIV
4524184 (Integrase inhibitor)1 HIV9
Benlysta (Anti-BLys antibody) Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial 
lung disease

3858279 (Anti-CCL17 antibody)1 Osteoarthritis pain2

1070806 (Anti-IL18 antibody) Atopic dermatitis

4527226 (Anti-sortilin antibody)1 Alzheimer’s disease

belrestotug (Anti-TIGIT antibody)1 Non-small cell lung cancer2

4532990 (HSD17B13 siRNA)1 Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis

Phase I
3536867 (Bivalent conjugate)1 Salmonella (typhoid + paratyphoid A)
2556286 (Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor)1 Tuberculosis
3186899 (CRK-12 inhibitor)1,10 Visceral leishmaniasis
3494245 (Proteasome inhibitor)1 Visceral leishmaniasis
3772701 (P. falciparum whole cell inhibitor)1 Malaria
4024484 (P. falciparum whole cell inhibitor)1 Malaria
3882347 (FimH antagonist)1 Uncomplicated UTI
3923868 (PI4K beta inhibitor) Viral COPD exacerbations
3965193 (PAPD5/PAPD7 inhibitor) Chronic HBV infection8
5251738 (TLR8 agonist)1 Chronic HBV infection
cabotegravir (Integrase inhibitor) HIV
3888130 (Anti-IL7 antibody)1 Autoimmune disease
3915393 (TG2 inhibitor)1 Pulmonary fibrosis
3862995 (Anti-IL33 antibody) COPD
5462688 (RNA-editing oligonucleotide)1 Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency
4347859 (Interferon pathway modulator) Systemic lupus 
erythematosus

4381562 (Anti-PVRIG antibody)1 Cancer
6097608 (Anti-CD96 antibody)1 Cancer
XMT-205611 (STING agonist ADC)1 Cancer
belantamab (Anti-BCMA antibody) Multiple myeloma
4524101 (DNA polymerase theta inhibitor)1 Cancer8
5733584 (ADC-targeting B7-H4)1 Gynecologic malignancies
4172239 (DNMT1 inhibitor)1 Sickle cell disease

Assets are ordered by therapy area within each phase: infectious 
diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology, oncology and opportunity 
driven. Only the most advanced indications are shown for each asset. 

(1) In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party
(2) Additional indications or candidates also under investigation
(3) In registration
(4) Phase III trial in patients with progranulin gene mutation
(5) Metered dose inhaler
(6) Phase III start expected in 2024
(7) Approved in US and EU
(8) In phase I/II study
(9) Phase II study start imminent
(10)Transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
(11) GSK has an exclusive global licence option to co-develop and 

commercialise the candidate

RSV: respiratory syncytial virus; UTI: urinary tract infection; HBV: hepatitis B 
virus; ADC: Antibody drug conjugate; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease; MMRV: measles, mumps, rubella & varicella; OMV: outer membrane 
vasicle; siRNA: small interfering RNA GMMA: generalised modules for 
membrane antigens; YoA years of age

30

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Commercial 
operations

In 2023 we delivered strong 
and sustained performance 
momentum, with successful 
commercial launches, 
supported by our integrated 
global supply chain.

31

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Commercial operations

Highlights

£30.3bn

+3%

total sales

AER 

+5%

CER 

+14%

CER excluding COVID

Sales contribution by product area (£bn)1

Sales contribution by region (£bn)1

+24%

+15%

+5%

+10%

+14%

+16%

+8%

+15%

+10%

+14%

l Vaccines l Speciality Medicines l General Medicines

l US

l Europe

l International

(1) Bar charts: excluding COVID-19 solutions
Absolute values at AER; changes at CER, unless stated otherwise 

Strong operational performance 
In 2023 we've continued to focus on operational 
performance, with strong growth across all product areas 
and regions. This builds on good progress in 2022 and 
demonstrates strong, sustained performance momentum. 
It means we are confident in delivering our upgraded 
growth outlooks for the period 2021-26, and for 2031. 

Strong performance in 2023 was driven by a continued 
step-change in commercial execution. This was 
underpinned by a focus on leadership, developing 
outstanding people, and building meaningful connections 
with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients – 
supported by data and technology – to give us strong 
insights into how we can best meet their needs. 

For details on our performance and drivers of growth see:

– Vaccines performance, page 33

– Specialty Medicines performance, page 37

– General Medicines performance, page 40.

32

202220230102030202220230102030 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Vaccines

Our broad vaccines portfolio targets 
infectious diseases at every stage of 
life, helping to protect people from 
meningitis, shingles, RSV, flu, polio 
and many more.

Turnover

£9.9bn

+24% AER, +25% CER

l Established £3.3bn
l Shingles £3.4bn
l Meningitis £1.3bn
l RSV £1.2bn
l Influenza £504m
l Pandemic £150m

Double-digit growth for Vaccines

Successful launch of Arexvy in the US

Continued strong uptake of Shingrix         
in International and Europe

33

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Vaccines continued

Key products

Product

Shingrix

Arexvy

Bexsero

Boostrix

Rotarix

Disease

Total revenue

Key information

Herpes zoster (shingles)

£3.4bn +16% AER; +17% CER

RSV

£1.2bn

Meningitis 
group B

£849m +13% AER; +14% CER

Market-leading recombinant, adjuvanted vaccine indicated 
for the prevention of shingles in adults. Launched in 40 
markets

World's first approved RSV vaccine for adults, approved in   
39 countries

Approved in over 50 countries for the prevention of invasive 
meningococcal disease (IMD) caused by Neisseria 
meningitidis serogroup B

Diphtheria, tetanus, 
acellular pertussis booster

£614m +3% AER; +4% CER

Available in 78 countries and market leader in the US 

Rotavirus

£614m +17% AER; +18% CER

Market-leading pediatric vaccine in 132 countries. Increased 
share in the US since launch of liquid formulation in 2022

Fluarix, FluLaval

Seasonal influenza

£504m -29% AER; -29% CER

Quadrivalent influenza vaccines, available in 38 countries

Infanrix, Pediarix

Diphtheria, 
tetanus, pertussis, polio, 
hepatitis B, haemophilus 
influenza type B

£554m -7% AER; -6% CER

DTPa vaccine available in 77 countries. Pediarix is one of the 
leading brands by volume in the US

Engerix, Twinrix, Havrix

Hepatitis

£611m +7% AER; +8% CER

Growing hepatitis portfolio leadership through increased 
coverage and strengthened recommendations

£380m +10% AER; +12% CER Menveo helps protect against IMD caused by Neisseria 

Menveo

Synflorix

Priorix, Priorix 
Tetra, Varilrix

Meningitis 
group A, C, W and Y

Invasive disease, 
pneumonia, acute otitis 
media

Measles, mumps, rubella 
and chickenpox

£275m -10% AER; -10% CER

£265m +41% AER; +41% CER

Cervarix

Human papilloma virus

£120m +3% AER; +5% CER

meningitidis serogroups A, C, Y and W and is available          
in over 60 countries

Synflorix, available in 100 countries, including WHO pre-
qualification. Acquisition of MAPS technology is expected      
to enable greater serotypes and disease coverage

Priorix continues to gain share in the US. Priorix is available    
in 97 countries, Varilrix in 86 countries, and Priorix Tetra in     
60 countries

An important option against HPV. Cervarix two-dose 
schedule for girls aged 9-14 launched in China in 2023 

Sales performance
Vaccines sales grew 24% AER, 25% CER to £9.9 billion total 
and 23% AER, 24% CER to £9.7 billion excluding COVID-19 
solutions.

Shingrix grew 16% AER, 17% CER to £3.4 billion on increased 
demand and favourable pricing, with Q4 2023 representing 
the highest ever quarter of sales. Growth was driven by 
public funding expansion and strong private uptake in 
International and Europe.

Meningitis vaccine sales grew 13% AER ,14% CER to 
£1.3 billion, largely delivered by Bexsero, primarily driven by 
inclusion in National Immunisation Programmes in Europe. 
Menveo grew due to the favourable impact of a US CDC 
(Center for Disease Control) stockpile replenishment. 

Arexvy achieved more than £1.2 billion in sales driven by 
strong uptake and leading market share, delivering an 
outstanding launch. Almost all sales were in the US where 
Arexvy is available in all major retail pharmacies with 
competitive contracting in place. 

Influenza (Fluarix/FluLaval) sales declined in line with 
expectations by 29% at  AER and CER, to £504 million. 
This was driven by competitive pressure and lower market 
demand, primarily in the US.

Established Vaccines grew 6% AER, 7% CER to £3.3 billion 
driven by Rotarix favourable US CDC stockpile movements, 
MMR/V vaccines increased supply in International, and 
hepatitis vaccine performance related to the travel market 
recovery.

34

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Vaccines continued

Our strategy for growth

Our portfolio of more than 20 marketed vaccines is one of 
the industry’s broadest. We deliver approximately 1.5 million 
doses of our vaccines every day; and 4 out of 10 infants born 
each year receive at least one GSK vaccine. Our vaccines 
portfolio targets infectious diseases at every stage of life, 
helping to protect people from RSV, meningitis, shingles, 
flu, polio and many more. 

Vaccines are critical to delivering our growth plans. Our 
focus is on strong execution in key markets with Shingrix 
and our existing portfolio, and on delivering the value of our 
pipeline with new launches, particularly our world-first RSV 
vaccine, Arexvy, so we can bring our vaccines to as many 
patients as possible.

Vaccines are complex and highly technical to develop and 
manufacture. This helps to protect our portfolio from 
potential disruption from new technologies. There’s no 
established generic industry and vaccines don’t generally 
face the so-called ‘patent cliff’. This longer lifecycle means 
vaccines can remain in use for decades after their initial 
authorisation. For example, Boostrix, Infanrix, Priorix and 
Engerix remain important parts of our portfolio in terms of 
contribution to performance. 

Our established platform technologies, and the new 
platforms we’re building, such as the MAPS and mRNA 
technologies, are a key part of our vaccines growth strategy 
and are enabling us to tackle the most complex diseases 
from birth throughout adulthood (see page 27). 

Drivers of growth across the portfolio 
Our launch of Arexvy supports our market leadership 
ambition and has multi-billion-pound sales potential. 
Approximately 6 million of the 83 million US adults aged 
60 and older at risk have been vaccinated with Arexvy. 
Launches are also underway across Europe and Canada, 
and the vaccine has been approved in Japan and several 
other countries. We’re strengthening relationships with 
retailers, given our expertise in the older adult population 
through Shingrix. We’re also drawing on our expertise in 
respiratory diseases and the experience of our primary care 
sales force. With further approvals and launches expected 
in 2024, and increasing awareness of the impact of RSV 
on adults at increased risk, we look forward to seeing the 
impact this vaccine will have on helping to prevent the 
severe consequences of RSV globally. 

Shingrix continued to grow and is now available in 40 
countries, with less than 4% penetration in the majority 
of those markets. In the US 35% of the 120 million adults 
recommended to receive Shingrix have now been 
vaccinated. 70 million people are already protected with 
Shingrix and our ambition is to vaccinate more than 100 
million people by 2026. To support this, in 2023 we entered 
into an exclusive agreement with Chongqing Zhifei 
Biological Products, Ltd. (Zhifei) with a value of £2.5 billion 
for an initial three-year period to co-promote Shingrix in 
China. Zhifei will import and distribute Shingrix in China, 
promoting the vaccine through its network of over 30,000 
vaccination points. The partnership will significantly extend 
the availability of Shingrix, supporting the rapid expansion 
of patient access to the vaccine and future potential 
indications. 

We continue to lead the meningitis market driven by 
Bexsero (MenB) and Menveo (MenACWY), as we prepare 
for the transition to our pentavalent MenABCWY vaccine 
that combines these established vaccines. Continuing to 
invest in Bexsero remains integral to strengthening our 
leadership by securing key National Immunisation 
Programmes (NIP) in countries like Germany and 
Switzerland. We’ll do this by building our real-world 
evidence base, and by helping to improve immunisation 
rates globally, focusing on the US adolescent population. 
To improve our competitiveness, we’ll look to drive future 
growth with multiple lifecycle innovations in the coming 
years, including launching Menveo in a convenient liquid 
formulation in additional countries. 

Our established vaccines remain a key priority for growth, 
representing a third of our total vaccines business. Our core 
vaccines continue to grow strongly as we seek to maximise 
uptake in those who need them. We achieve this by 
prioritising specific segments for growth opportunity, such 
as a return to travel and strengthened recommendations for 
hepatitis in the adult segment, and increasing awareness 
of the importance of vaccination. We’re also working to 
maintain our strong performance in key markets by making 
sure we resource our teams for success and that we can 
deliver against our supply commitments.

Meeting the needs of ageing populations by 
prioritising prevention 
By focusing on prevention, we can reduce the burden of 
disease and create a healthier, thriving world. Vaccination 
is a critical element for prevention of infectious diseases, 
especially for children and older adults. 

From the age of around 50, our immune system starts to 
decline and becomes less effective, leading to increased 
risk from infectious diseases. We focus our efforts on helping 
to keep older adults healthy, moving from ‘sick care’ to true 
healthcare by prioritising prevention and making adult 
immunisation the standard of care. With the help of 
vaccination, adults can remain active, healthy participants 
in society and the economy – prolonging productivity, 
contributing to local economies and reducing healthcare 
costs. To improve uptake of adult immunisation, we are 
working to build the investment case for vaccination, ease 
access, and increase belief in the importance of vaccines.

35

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Vaccines continued

To support healthcare professionals to routinely initiate 
vaccination conversations with their patients and build 
broader belief in the importance of vaccination, we held 
Vaccine Virtual Days 2023. These bring together healthcare 
professionals and experts from the international vaccine 
community to discuss and present important updates, 
data and trends in adult immunisation. We’ve also 
continued our series of Vaccinology Master Classes, helping 
to better equip healthcare professionals for conversations 
with their patients about vaccines.  

Adult immunisation rates in the US still haven’t recovered 
fully after the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2023, we 
commissioned a report, published with the IQVIA Institute 
for Human Data Science and the Global Coalition on Aging. 
It estimated that around 100 million fewer doses of some 
adult vaccines (excluding COVID-19 solutions) were 
administered in 2021 and 2022 than anticipated. 

To help address this, we launched the COiMMUNITY 
Initiative in the US which commits $1 million in grant funding 
to national, state and local non-profit organisations to 
address long-term barriers to immunisation, particularly 
among older adults susceptible to declining immune 
systems.

This year we commissioned research that spotlights 
hyperlocal factors contributing to – or inhibiting – adult 
immunisation uptake in five diverse, geographically 
representative cities across the world. This research builds 
upon existing global frameworks and progresses vital 
initiatives, such as the UN Decade on Ageing and WHO 
Age-Friendly Cities Network.

As part of COiMMUNITY, we’re also supporting public 
health efforts by making data on vaccination trends 
available through the Vaccine Track platform and 
sharing tools and resources with healthcare organisations 
to help them address gaps in adult immunisation. 
The COiMMUNITY initiative builds on recent regulatory and 
industry changes in the US that make vaccines more 
available and easier to access for Medicare and Medicaid 
beneficiaries and support community vaccine infrastructure.

36

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Specialty Medicines

Specialty Medicines growth (excluding 
COVID-19 solutions) of 14% AER, 15% CER

Continued growth momentum in HIV

Growth acceleration in both oncology 
and respiratory/immunology

We continue to be global leaders 
in infectious diseases, respiratory 
and HIV medicines and have an 
emerging portfolio of cancer 
medicines.

Turnover

£10.2bn

-9% AER, -8% CER

l HIV £6.4bn
l Respiratory/immunology and 

other  £3.0bn
l Oncology £731m
l Pandemic £44m 

37

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Specialty Medicines continued

Key marketed products

Product

Dovato

Nucala

Disease

Total revenue

Key information

HIV treatment

£1.8bn +32% AER; +33% CER

Dolutegravir-based two-drug regimen. Now launched in over 
55 markets

Respiratory eosinophil-
driven diseases

£1.7bn +16% AER; +18% CER

The only treatment to be indicated in the US and Europe for  
use across four IL-5 mediated diseases (see page 23)

Triumeq

HIV treatment

£1.5bn -14% AER; -14% CER

Tivicay

HIV treatment

£1.4bn flat% AER; +2% CER

Benlysta

Lupus and lupus nephritis £1.3bn +18% AER; +19% CER

Dolutegravir-based fixed-dose combination tablets. 
Marketed in over 65 countries

Dolutegravir tablet for use in combination with other 
antiretroviral agents. Marketed in over 70 countries

Only biologic approved to treat both SLE and LN, in the US, 
Europe and elsewhere

Cabenuva 
(Vocabria + Rekambys in
Europe and Japan)

HIV treatment

£708m >100% AER;>100% CER First and only complete long-acting injectable regimen 
(cabotegravir, rilpivirine). Marketed in over 25 countries

Juluca

Zejula

HIV treatment

£661m +4% AER; +4% CER

Ovarian cancer

£523m +13% AER; +15% CER

Dolutegravir-based two-drug regimen. Marketed in 30 
countries

PARP inhibitor commercially available in 1L maintenance in 
37 markets and in 2L maintenance in 31 markets

Apretude

HIV prevention

£149m >100% AER; >100% CER First and only long-acting injectable (cabotegravir) for HIV 

prevention. Launched in the US in 2022

Jemperli

Endometrial cancer

£141m >100% AER; >100% CER PD-1-blocking antibody available in 25 countries that is 

Rukobia

HIV treatment

£117m +43% AER; +44% CER

continuing to be investigated for future monotherapy and 
combination regimens in multiple tumour types

Extended-release tablets for people living with multi-drug 
resistant HIV-1 for use in combination with other 
antiretrovirals. Launched in 16 markets

Xevudy

Blenrep

COVID-19 treatment

£44m -98% AER; -98% CER

Monoclonal antibody for the early treatment of COVID-19

Blood cancer – multiple 
myeloma

£36m -69% AER; -69% CER

An antibody-drug conjugate for patients with relapsed or 
refractory multiple myeloma

Ojjaara/Omjjara

Myelofibrosis

£33m

Approved in the US, EU and UK as the first and only 
treatment specifically indicated for myelofibrosis patients 
with anaemia

Jesduvroq/Duvroq

Anaemia due to chronic 
kidney disease (CKD)

£26m 18% AER; 27% CER

Approved in the US in 2023 for the treatment of anaemia of 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in adult patients on dialysis

Sales performance
While reported Speciality Medicines sales were down 9% 
AER, 8% CER at £10,224 million total, excluding COVID-19 
solutions they grew 14% AER, 15% CER at £10,200 million.

HIV sales grew 12% AER, 13% CER to £6.4 billion, primarily 
driven by a 2 percentage point increase in market share 
within a broadly flat global treatment market, attributable 
to patient demand for the oral two-drug regimen (Dovato, 
Juluca) and long-acting medicines (Cabenuva, Apretude). 
Oral two-drug regimen and long-acting medicine sales 
grew 40% to £3.3 billion now representing 55% of the total 
HIV portfolio.

Respiratory/immunology and other sales were up 16% AER, 
18% CER to £3 billion with consistent and sustained double-
digit growth for both Benlysta and Nucala. Nucala grew 18% 
to £1.7 billion with continued strong growth in all regions 
reflecting high patient demand in severe eosinophilic 
asthma and from the new indications. Benlysta grew 19% to 
£1.3 billion representing strong demand in US and Europe 
and  continued market expansion.

Oncology sales grew 23% to £731 million, driven by strong 
growth from Jemperli and Zejula and uptake of Ojjaara post 
US launch in Q3 2023, partially offset by the impact of 
Blenrep withdrawal from the US market in November 2022. 
Growth of Jemperli continued to accelerate particularly in 
the US following approval in Q3. Zejula sales grew 15%  to 
£523 million with strong growth from all regions. US growth 
in the first line indication more than offset the reduction in 
use in second line following the update to US prescribing 
information agreed with the FDA in Q4 2022.

38

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: Specialty Medicines continued

Our strategy for growth
Our portfolio of Specialty Medicines focuses on four 
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/
immunology and oncology. We are reinforcing our strength 
and leadership in infectious diseases, respiratory and HIV, 
and building our emerging capabilities in oncology to 
drive growth. 

34% of sales come from Specialty Medicines, which we 
expect to provide durable and profitable growth over the 
next five years. We drive growth by accelerating our pipeline 
as well as prioritising business development, targeting 
acquisitions and partnerships to strengthen and 
complement our core therapy areas, and helping to 
deliver above and beyond our current long-term outlooks. 
Our acquisition of Bellus Health, announced in April 2023, 
for example, builds on our respiratory expertise and 
complements our broader respiratory pipeline. We’re 
increasingly confident that this will be a major source 
of new long-term growth. 

Drivers of growth across the portfolio 
In HIV, our strategy for growth is built on our innovative 
portfolio of medicines that are transforming HIV treatment 
and prevention with strong competitive execution. 

Launched in 2019, our dolutegravir-based oral two-drug 
regimen, Dovato, continues to perform strongly, enabling 
people living with HIV to remain virally suppressed with 
fewer medicines. 

Our long-acting portfolio of medicines are central to our 
growth and are delivering strong results as they launch 
across our markets.

Cabenuva, the world’s first and only complete long-acting 
regimen for HIV treatment is available in the US, Europe, 
Japan, China and Australia. Two-monthly Cabenuva 
addresses the challenges associated with daily oral therapy, 
including fear of disclosure, adherence anxiety and pill 
fatigue. 

Apretude is the world’s only long-acting medicine for HIV 
prevention offering superior efficacy to daily oral prevention 
(FTC/TDF tablets) and two-monthly dosing. In 2023 
Apretude expanded beyond the US with approval in Europe 
and several sub-Saharan Africa countries as an important 
lever to end the global epidemic. 

In respiratory/immunology, our market-leading medicines 
Nucala and Benlysta continued to deliver double-digit 
growth.

Nucala, the only targeted biologic therapy approved for use 
across four IL-5 mediated diseases (eosinophil disease), 
continues to drive growth. Consistent evidence across 
multiple indications combined with market-leading safety 
data reinforce Nucala as the biologic of choice for HCPs. 
The severe asthma market continues to grow in the US and 
in other markets, which offer opportunities for Nucala to 
help more patients.  

Benlysta remains the only biologic approved for both 
systemic lupus erythematosus and lupus nephritis In 2023, 
Benlysta saw consistent growth across all major markets, 
with over 14,000 US patients starting therapy in 2023. 
We’re focused on helping to identify and treat patients 
earlier, before lupus progresses and organ damage occurs 
(see page 24).

In oncology, Jemperli continues to demonstrate its potential 
as the backbone of our ongoing immuno-oncology-based 
research and development programme. Used alone and in 
combination with standard of care and future novel cancer 
therapies, it has the potential to transform patients’ lives 
across multiple tumour types, including endometrial cancer. 
In 2023, Jemperli plus chemotherapy was approved in the 
US, EU and UK as the first and only immuno-oncology 
regimen for the treatment of frontline primary advanced 
or recurrent dMMR/MSI-H endometrial cancer. These 
approvals have been a significant driver of performance 
and sales growth in oncology.

Ojjaara/Omjjara, a JAK- and ACVR1-inhibitor, acquired 
through the purchase of Sierra Oncology in April 2022, is 
now approved in the US, EU and UK to treat myelofibrosis 
with anaemia. This makes Ojjaara the only medicine 
specifically indicated for both newly diagnosed and 
previously treated myelofibrosis patients with anaemia 
that addresses the anaemia, constitutional symptoms and 
splenomegaly (enlarged spleen) that are the hallmarks of 
this complex blood cancer. The line-agnostic label was 
broader than anticipated, expanding the opportunity to 
reach more patients with a novel treatment option. 
Additional regulatory filings were initiated in 2023, with an 
aim in 2024 to expand access to patients in other markets. 

In ovarian cancer, Zejula continues to provide a significant 
opportunity for first-line maintenance therapy, reaching 
more than 15,000 patients every month. We’re working to 
develop other combination therapies with Zejula in women's 
cancers and other solid tumours. 

To ensure we focus on areas where we can make the 
biggest impact for patients, we’ve withdrawn our filing for 
Jesduvroq in the EU, and will stop filing in other markets 
because other medicines are already available for patients 
living with anaemia of CKD.  

39

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: General Medicines

From antibiotics to inhaled 
medicines for asthma and COPD, 
we have over 150 general medicine 
products, many of them leaders in 
their class, making life better for 
millions of people worldwide.

Turnover

£10.2bn

+1% AER, +5% CER

l Respiratory £6.8bn
l Other General Medicines £3.4bn

Growth driven by both respiratory and 
other general medicines

Ongoing strong demand for Trelegy         
in all regions; Anoro in Europe and 
International

Continued post pandemic recovery         
of the antibiotic market in Europe and 
International regions

40

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Performance: General Medicines continued

Key marketed products

Product

Disease

Total revenue

Key information

Trelegy Ellipta

COPD, asthma

£2.2bn +27% AER; +29% CER Most prescribed single inhaler triple therapy (SITT) worldwide, 

Seretide/Advair

Asthma, COPD

£1.1bn -2% AER; +1% CER

Relvar/Breo Ellipta

Asthma, COPD

£1.1bn -4% AER; -2% CER

reaching an estimated 8.6 million patients since launch  

One of the market-leading ICS/LABA1 treatments worldwide 
by sales value

One of the leading ICS/LABA treatments worldwide by sales 
value

Asthma, COPD

£749m -3% AER; — CER

Global market-leading SABA2 reliever by sales value

Ventolin

Augmentin

Common bacterial 
infections

£628m +9% AER; +17% CER

Anoro Ellipta

COPD

£557m +15% AER; +16% CER

Avodart & Duodart

Benign prostatic 
hyperplasia (BPH)

£345m +5% AER; +7% CER

Avamys/Veramyst

Allergic rhinitis

£299m -7% AER; -4% CER

Global leader in oral antibiotics by sales value, available in 
over 95 countries

Global market leader in the LAMA/LABA3 class by volume 
(unit sales), approved in over 70 countries 

Market leaders by sales value in the global dutasteride and 
dutasteride+tamsulosin FDC4 market respectively, and 
approved in over 101 and 88 countries respectively 

Global leader in the inhaled corticosteroids prescription class 
by sales value

Dermovate, Betnovate, 
Cutivate, Eumovate

Inflammatory skin 
conditions

 £195m -3% AER, +6% CER

Global leader in topical corticosteroids across 60 markets 
globally by value of sales, excluding the US

(1) ICS/LABA: inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta agonists
(2) SABA: short-acting beta agonist
(3) LABA/LAMA: long-acting beta agonists/long-acting muscarinic antagonists
(4) FDC: fixed-dose combination
Key information source IQVIA

Sales performance
General Medicines sales grew 1% AER, 5% CER to 
£10.2 billion, reflecting growth of Trelegy and the single 
inhaler triple therapy class across all regions, and of Anoro 
in Europe and International.

Trelegy grew 27% AER, 29% CER to £2.2 billion with growth 
delivered across all regions, reflecting increased patient 
demand, growth of the SITT market and penetration 
of the class. 

Seretide/Advair sales decreased 2% AER but increased 
1% CER at £1.1 billion, primarily reflecting favourable US 
pricing. However this was offset by generic erosion impacts 
in Europe and certain International markets.

Other General Medicines decreased 5% AER, but grew 
2% CER at £3.4 billion reflecting ongoing post pandemic 
demand for anti-infectives in Europe and International, 
and certain third party manufacturing arrangements. 
Overall growth in this product group continues to be 
impacted by ongoing generic competition.

Our strategy for impact
Our General Medicines portfolio includes medicines that 
are typically prescribed in primary care. In 2023, General 
Medicines contributed over one third of GSK's sales, helping 
to fund growth and investment in R&D and returns to 
shareholders. 

We expect our combination of more than 150 products, 
several of which are market leaders, to have a positive 
impact on the lives of hundreds of millions of patients over 
the next 10 years. We supply our products in more than 
100 countries, and they comprise over 80% of our total 
medicines and vaccines supply volume. Every day, these 
medicines improve health and make life better for millions 
of people all over the world.  

Together, respiratory and infectious diseases therapeutics 
generate 73% of our General Medicines revenue. With 
expected growth from Trelegy, Anoro and the established 
products portfolio in emerging markets, we are committed 
to positively impacting more lives every day.  

We focus investment in our brands that are growing strongly 
to maximise returns, while managing the expected decline 
of other products in mature markets as they lose their 
exclusivity. 

41

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Augmentin is a global leader in oral antibiotics by sales 
value4 and is available in 95 countries. It has reached over 
2.65 billion patients since launching more than 40 years ago 
and continues to grow strongly across regions. Augmentin 
grew 9% AER, 17% CER to £628 million with strong ongoing 
demand across all regions. 

Since its launch in 1969, Ventolin remains an important 
medicine for patients in more than 100 countries. 
A significant proportion of our carbon emissions come from 
our Ventolin metered dose inhalers (MDIs). We have started 
an R&D programme to redevelop our Ventolin MDIs with a 
lower global warming potential (GWP) propellant, which is 
now in clinical assessment. If successful, this could reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions from our rescue MDIs by 
approximately 90%. 

Performance: General Medicines continued

Drivers of growth across the portfolio
Our main sources of growth in General Medicines in 2023 
were Trelegy, Anoro and Augmentin. 

Trelegy, our SITT for asthma and COPD, delivered sales 
of over £2 billion for the first time in 2023. Trelegy has 
continued to accelerate strongly, with growth in all regions 
including the US, and is the third biggest growth driver in 
our portfolio. Trelegy is licensed in 60 countries for COPD, 
with dual indications for asthma and COPD in 19 countries, 
including the US and Japan1. We received several new 
approvals in 2023, further expanding Trelegy’s availability to 
asthma patients in Turkey, Hong Kong, Bahrain and Kuwait.2

Trelegy is the number one SITT globally, selling over 21 
million packs – more than twice the volume of the nearest 
competitor3. Trelegy is the market leader in our two largest 
markets, the US and Japan, with market shares significantly 
exceeding the next-largest competitor (83% and 67%, 
respectively). In November 2022, the Global Initiative for 
Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines 
recommended triple therapy over ICS/LABA for 
exacerbating patients. This has helped to continue the 
growth of the SITT market which, six years after first launch, 
is still growing at 41% year on year. We expect Trelegy 
to be a key driver of growth in General Medicines in the 
coming years. 

Anoro is approved in approximately 70 countries to treat 
symptomatic COPD. Anoro remains the global market 
leader in the LAMA/LABA class by volume (unit sales)4, 
with continued growth in global sales (excluding US). Anoro 
has a robust clinical data profile, which includes head-to-
head data in the LAMA/LABA class and versus other 
common initial maintenance therapy options, such as 
LAMA. 

(1) Regulatory Data on File. Latest update 25 August 2023 for Asthma and 

July 2022 for COPD

(2) Regulatory Data on File, Latest update 25 August 2023
(3) IQVIA Patient Volume Data as of 6 October 2023
(4) Source: IQVIA

42

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Operations: Manufacturing and supply

Our global supply chain is critical 
to the successful manufacture and 
supply of our vaccines and medicines. 
It enables us to deliver reliable, 
high-quality products to meet 
patients’ needs and maintain 
our performance. 

In 2023, we made significant progress in bringing together 
our vaccines and medicines supply chains to create one 
global supply chain. This integration helps drive efficiency 
and ensures we have the capacity and capabilities, 
including the best digital and technology capabilities, 
to deliver our new products. 

Our global network of 37 vaccines and medicines 
manufacturing sites delivered more than 500 million vaccine 
doses and 1.8 billion packs of medicines to help make a 
positive impact on the health of millions of people.

Investing for future productivity
We are investing in our manufacturing and supply chain 
to increase productivity and efficiency. In 2023 we opened 
a $100 million adjuvant manufacturing facility in Hamilton, 
in the US. It means we can produce the QS-21 adjuvant 
in-house, contributing to our RSV, shingles, malaria and 
cervical cancer vaccines. 

In late 2022, we opened a manufacturing and testing 
facility at Jurong in Singapore to produce a cytotoxic agent 
for antibody drug conjugates needed for next-generation 
cancer treatments. And at our Tuas site, also in Singapore, 
we’ve begun building a new vaccine manufacturing facility 
for our hepatitis B vaccines which will feature the latest 
advanced technology and be sustainable by design.

43

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Operations: Manufacturing and supply continued

At Ware in the UK, we opened a new oral solid dose facility, 
bringing together R&D and supply chain specialists to use 
new technologies and rapid knowledge transfer to deliver 
new medicines faster and more efficiently. 

And at our Wavre site in Belgium, we’ve started building 
a €250 million freeze-drying centre, using automation 
and robotics, to create more capacity for adult vaccines.

At Barnard Castle in the UK, our multi-million-pound Q 
Block smart manufacturing facility started commercial 
production in 2023, and immunology products are now 
being shipped to patients around the world. The facility 
uses digital technology and robotics to make production 
more efficient. 

We are exceeding targets in our ongoing programme of 
productivity and efficiency improvements. This year, the 
programme delivered £101 million in savings across 
Medicines and Vaccines.  

Site productivity increased by 9.3% during the year.

Promoting quality, safety and reliability
Quality, safety and reliable supply are critical to meeting 
patients’ needs, and to creating competitive advantage.

Our reliability remains strong, with an on-time, in-full (OTIF) 
measure of 99.3% for Specialty Medicines, 98.4% for 
General Medicines and 92.3% for Vaccines. Our deviation 
rates improved for Medicines and increased marginally for 
Vaccines with clear action plans for improvement in 2024. 
For information on product governance, see the Responsible 
Business section on page 55. 

We’ve also received external recognition. In 2023, we 
featured in Gartner’s Top 25 Supply Chain companies, 
based on financial metrics, ESG criteria, and opinion from 
industry analysts and experts.

Supporting innovation
Our global supply chain plays a central role in bringing our 
innovations to patients as quickly, efficiently and effectively 
as possible. The teams are involved early in product 
development, working with R&D to make sure that what 
works in clinical trials can be produced commercially at 
scale. 

In 2023 we supplied our RSV vaccine Arexvy in record time  
to more than 20 countries, including the US, the EU and 
Canada, following regulatory approvals. 

We are also bringing on additional capacity to deliver 
Jemperli to more patients around the world following 
regulatory approvals in the US and Europe.

And we worked with external manufacturing partners to 
deliver supply chain excellence for the US launch of Ojjaara.

Embracing technology and data
By harnessing the power of technology and data, we 
are transforming our manufacturing and supply chain. 
By identifying and implementing the best digital and 
technology capabilities, we can unlock growth for patients, 
shareholders and our people. 

We are also working to industrialise new platform 
technologies such as oligonucleotides in medicines and 
mRNA and MAPS in vaccines. As MAPS clinical trials 
continue at the new Binney Street site in Cambridge, US, 
we plan to scale up production and bring MAPS to market.

We’re using digital twins to simulate processes, anticipate 
issues and use what we learn to accelerate manufacturing. 
The technology helps increase production yields for both 
our vaccines and medicines. 

We’re also investing in automation and robotics at our sites, 
improving ergonomics, increasing efficiency and helping us 
to deliver more medicines and vaccines to patients around 
the world.

Increasing our environmental sustainability
Our manufacturing sites have a key role in our contribution 
to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, and 
environmental sustainability is a fundamental part of our 
global supply chain strategy. See our Responsible Business 
section on page 45 for more information on carbon 
emissions, water use and waste. We’re also investing in 
plans to improve natural habitats, protect biodiversity 
and improve soil and water quality near our sites.

+ For more on our approach to sustainability and progress made at our sites, 

see our ESG Performance Report

44

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible 
business

ESG is embedded in our 
strategy. It helps us deliver    
our purpose and supports     
our sustainable performance 
and long-term growth. 

45

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business

Our approach
We are a global biopharma company with a purpose 
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of 
disease together. To deliver our purpose, we need to 
consider ESG impacts across everything we do, from the lab 
to the patient. That’s why ESG is embedded in our strategy 
and supports our sustainable performance and long-term 
growth. It helps us to build trust with and generate value for 
our stakeholders, reduce risk to our operations and create 
positive social impact.

We have identified six ESG focus areas that address what is 
most material to our business and the issues that matter the 
most to our stakeholders. These focus areas are core to our 
strategy and are where we can have the greatest positive 
impact on some of society’s most urgent challenges, 
including those set out in the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs). They are: 

– Access to healthcare

– Global health and health security

– Environment

– Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) 

– Ethical standards

– Product governance. 

These focus areas were informed by our most recent 
materiality assessment in 2022, which reaffirmed that 
the most material issues for our business were well aligned 
with our six ESG focus areas. We recognise that being 
a responsible business is not a static requirement. This 
means that we will continue to evolve our approach in 
response to the rapidly changing operating environment 
and strive for continuous improvement to ensure we 
maintain strong ESG performance.

Our ESG Performance Rating

Our ESG Performance Rating helps us integrate ESG into 
the delivery of our strategy and allows us to measure and 
verify the progress we are making. The rating is one of our 
corporate KPIs and measures progress against key metrics 
aligned to each of our six focus areas. In 2023, this included 
22 metrics, which are summarised in our ESG Performance 
Report.  

2023 ESG Performance Rating
Our 2023 ESG Performance Rating is on track, based on 
95% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded.

We continue to evolve our ESG Performance Rating to ensure 
it meets the expectations of our stakeholders. The executive 
leadership team and the Board, via the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee, review the metrics that make 
up this Rating each year to ensure they are sufficiently 
challenging and ambitious. This year, we have removed two 
metrics, relating to Access and Ethical standards, and added 
one relating to anti-microbial resistance (AMR). We met one 
of our 2022 metrics relating to Access by developing and 
publishing pricing and access principles. We have also 
removed one of our Ethical standards metrics that tracks the 
number of employees leaving GSK for misconduct. Increases 
or decreases in this number could indicate either a higher/
lower number of breaches or stronger/weaker enforcement 
of our processes, so setting a threshold is not an effective 
measure for success in upholding our standards. We continue 
to monitor this data internally and publish it externally. 
We have three additional metrics which provide a strong 
measure of our commitment to ethical standards. We have 
added a metric within Global health and health security, 
focused on AMR. AMR is an urgent public health threat, and 
we have seen increased stakeholder interest in our approach. 
We updated our biodiversity target as we achieved it in 2022. 
Our new target focuses on deforestation free sourcing of 
paper and palm oil.  

How we assess performance 
The GSK Leadership Team (GLT) is accountable for 
delivering progress against the metrics and regularly reviews 
performance along with the Board’s Corporate 
Responsibility Committee (CRC). Each individual metric is 
assessed as either: on track (metric met or exceeded); on 
track with work to do (at least 80% of metric has been 
achieved); or off track (metric missed by more than 20%).

In addition, in order to calculate the overall ESG 
Performance Rating, performance across all metrics is 
aggregated to a single score to illustrate whether we are 
on track, on track with work to do, or off track. This rating 
is defined below:

On track: 70% or more of all metrics are on track 

On track with work to do: more than 50% of all metrics 
are either on track, or on track with work to do 

Off track: more than 50% of all metrics are off track 

Assessment of performance against our annual targets 
has been reviewed, and the overall ESG Performance 
Rating score has been subject to independent limited 
assurance for 2023.

+ For full details of progress against our six focus areas, our ESG Performance Rating and 22 metrics and independent limited assurance reports, see our ESG Performance 

Report

46

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

External benchmarking 
Detailed below is how we perform in key ESG ratings 
that we are frequently asked about by investors: 

– Access to Medicines: Ranked 1st in the Access to 

Medicines Index in 2022 and an industry leader in the 
2021 Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark

– S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment: Ranked 1st 

in the pharmaceuticals industry with a score of 84 (as of 
24 November 2023) and included in the DJSI World and 
Europe indices

– FTSE4Good: Member of FTSE4Good Index since 2004 

– CDP: A- in Climate change, A- in Water security, 
B in Forests (palm oil) and B in Forests (timber)  

– Sustainalytics: Low risk rating

– MSCI: AA rating

– Moody's Analytics: ESG Overall Score of 62 (out of 100; 

sector average 38)

– ISS Corporate Rating: B+ rating

Access

We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people 
by the end of 2030. We will do this by making our vaccines 
and medicines available as widely as possible, through 
responsible pricing, strategic access programmes and 
partnerships. 

Our commitment
Make our products available at value-based prices that 
are sustainable for our business and implement access 
strategies that increase the use of our medicines and 
vaccines to treat and protect underserved people

Our ESG Performance Rating metric
– Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching 1.3 billion 
people in lower income countries with our products

Progress in 2023
Putting the right value on innovation
We set responsible prices in line with the benefits we 
bring to patients and health systems, measured by clinical, 
economic and social outcomes. We compare our offer to 
what is already available for patients and we generate 
evidence from clinical trials to establish the added value 
provided by our medicines and vaccines. We adjust our 
pricing in line with the socio-economic status of a country 
to ensure affordability and availability.

We operate under robust pricing approvals, developing 
access plans informed by payers. We also work to create 
stability and predictability for payers and our business, 
engaging proactively on upcoming product launches for 
budget planning, and adjusting prices to account for 
inflation. In the US in 2023, our combined average net price 
(after discounts, rebates or other allowances) for our 
pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio increased by 0.4%, 
while the average list price increased by 3.2%, compared 
with 5.4% (list) for the industry. Over the past five years, 
the average net price for our products increased by 0.3% 
annually, while the average list price rose by 3.3%, 
compared with 4.7% (list) for the industry. 

Providing access for patients in lower income countries
We collaborate with global health partners, including 
NGOs and generic manufacturers, to increase our reach 
to patients in lower income countries. In 2023, we reached 
89 million people with our vaccines and antiretrovirals in 
lower income countries.  

Vaccines
We reserve our lowest vaccine prices for Gavi, the vaccine 
alliance, and similar organisations. We have partnered with 
Gavi since its foundation in 2000 and have supplied more 
than one billion vaccine doses to date at our lowest prices 
to the lowest income countries.

In 2023, through our partnership we significantly increased 
our supply to deliver around 5 million doses of Cervarix, 
a critical vaccine in lower income countries for addressing 
cervical cancer. 

In 2023, we supplied around 41 million doses of our 
pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix, to eight Gavi-eligible 
countries at our lowest price. Our vaccine against rotavirus, 
Rotarix, reaches children across 25 Gavi-eligible countries 
and four former Gavi countries. We have offered vaccines 
to civil society organisations serving refugees and working 
in other emergency situations through the Humanitarian 
Mechanism since 2017. We are also a long-standing supplier 
of oral polio vaccines through UNICEF and, in 2023 alone, 
supplied around 130 million doses to help eradicate polio.

Neglected tropical diseases
In 2023, we donated 615 million albendazole tablets to help 
tackle lymphatic filariasis (LF), soil transmitted helminths 
and echinococcosis, taking the total we have donated to 
over 11 billion. 

We remain committed to supplying albendazole to endemic 
countries until LF is eliminated everywhere. So far, LF has 
been eliminated in 19 countries including Bangladesh and 
Lao PDR, who announced elimination of the disease in 2023 
– significant milestones in our collaborative effort to get 
ahead of disease together. The number of tablets we are 
donating is declining each year, given the gradual 
eradication of the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) that 
the medicine is targeting. 

47

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

The programme has benefited over 935 million people 
since it began, according to WHO data. 

HIV
In 2023, Aurobindo, Cipla and Viatris, three generic 
manufacturers, signed sub-licences of ViiV Healthcare’s 
licence with the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) to develop, 
manufacture and supply generic versions of cabotegravir 
long-acting for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (cabotegravir 
LA for PrEP) in 90 countries, subject to obtaining regulatory 
approvals. ViiV Healthcare also works with global health 
agencies, NGOs, governments and community partners to 
plan for and support the introduction of ViiV-manufactured 
cabotegravir LA for PrEP introduction into national 
programmes. In late 2023, our first orders of cabotegravir 
LA for PrEP were delivered to a global partner for 
programmatic use in low- and middle-income countries.

ViiV Healthcare also has voluntary licensing agreements 
with 15 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low-cost 
single or fixed-dose combination products containing our 
HIV medicine dolutegravir for adults. These agreements 
cover 95 low- and middle-income countries, with one direct 
licence and the others via the MPP. There are similar 
agreements with 14 generic manufacturers for children, 
covering 123 countries, as well as separate agreements 
to enable greater access to dolutegravir in certain upper 
middle-income countries. In total, around 24 million people 
living with HIV across 128 countries had access to a generic 
product containing dolutegravir by the end of 2023. This is 
more than 90% of people living with HIV on antiretrovirals 
in generic-accessible low- and middle-income countries. 

Malaria
To date, over two million children in Ghana, Kenya and 
Malawi have been reached with at least one dose of 
Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01E) through the WHO-coordinated 
Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme. Developed 

by GSK and our partners, Mosquirix is a significant scientific 
breakthrough – it is the world’s first malaria vaccine and first 
vaccine against any human parasite.  

In July 2023, Gavi announced that up to nine more African 
countries are to be allocated doses of Mosquirix from early 
2024. We have committed to supply a total of 18 million 
doses to Gavi-eligible countries between 2023 and 2025, 
with a plan to produce 15 million doses annually from 2026 
to 2028.

In 2023, a landmark study by the London School of Hygiene 
& Tropical Medicine showed that combining Mosquirix with 
antimalarial drugs in areas of Africa with seasonal malaria 
reduced malaria cases and deaths in young children over 
a period of five years. 

These findings confirm the potential of seasonal vaccination 
to provide a high level of protection over the first five years 
of life, when this protection is much needed. 

Helping to strengthen healthcare systems
In 2023, GSK and ViiV Healthcare joined forces with The 
Global Fund to pledge $7.5 million over three years to create 
the Gender Equality Fund, which will support community-
based and -led organisations that are working to deliver 
lasting changes in health policies and programmes focusing 
on TB, HIV and malaria for women and girls in all their 
diversity. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has 
committed to match this donation. We also renewed our 
partnership with Save the Children for another five years. 
Building on learnings over the last decade, we are focusing 
our partnership on reducing the number of ‘zero dose’ 
children – those who have never received a vaccine – 
in Ethiopia and Nigeria, which represent more than a third 
of the zero-dosed children in Africa.  

+ For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG 

Performance Report

Global health and health security

We want to help address the biggest health challenges 
faced by people around the world.

Our commitment
To develop novel products and technologies to treat and 
prevent priority diseases, including pandemic threats

Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
– Progress six Global Health pipeline assets to address 

priority WHO diseases 

– Progress eight active R&D projects that address 

pathogens prioritised by WHO and CDC as posing 
the highest level of concern due to drug resistance 
(critical and/or urgent threats)

(1) Budget phasing is not linear across the 10 year period.

Progress in 2023
Global health R&D
In 2022, with ViiV Healthcare, we announced an investment 
of £1 billion over 10 years to accelerate global health R&D. 
By the end of 2023, we had invested 21%1  of this and 
progressed 11 Global Health pipeline assets to address 
priority WHO diseases, including climate-aggravated 
diseases that have a disproportionate impact on lower 
income countries.

Promising avenues for tuberculosis prevention and 
treatment  
GSK is committed to tackling tuberculosis (TB), one of the 
world’s deadliest diseases. We have developed a promising 
candidate vaccine, M72/AS01E, up to proof of concept 
(phase IIb). Building on our long-standing, successful history 
of working with external partners we have partnered with 
the Bill and Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute (MRI) 
for its further development. 

48

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Gates MRI is well positioned to lead the large and complex 
phase III study required. In June 2023, Wellcome and the 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation announced funding of 
up to $550 million for phase III trials. If these trials are 
successful, M72/AS01E could be the first new vaccine to 
help prevent pulmonary TB in over a century. 

Breakthroughs in malaria research and treatment 
In August 2023, we announced that GSK scientists had 
discovered a strain of a naturally occurring bacterium that 
could potentially help eradicate the disease. The Tres 
Cantos 1 (TC1) strain of the Delftia tsuruhatensis bacterium 
significantly reduces the load of P. falciparum malaria 
parasites in mosquitoes. This could potentially inhibit 
transmission of the parasite to humans. We continue to 
pursue this ground-breaking research while engaging with 
global health institutions and partners to identify the most 
effective and sustainable approach for development and 
mobilisation if successful.

Supporting innovation through capacity and capability 
building
Through our Africa Open Lab initiative, launched in 2014, we 
support early-career scientists based in sub-Saharan Africa 
focusing on infectious diseases that disproportionately 
affect sub-Saharan populations, such as malaria, TB and 
AMR. In 2023, we agreed grants to ten researchers in six 
countries in sub-Saharan Africa and announced a further 
call for proposals in November. We are also working with 
African academic institutions to provide grantees with 
supplemental training in areas including epidemiology, 
statistics and clinical research. 

Strengthening health security
There are many factors that can jeopardise our health 
security – from new and emerging infectious diseases to 
the rise of AMR. Our primary contribution to strengthening 
health security is through our innovation to prevent and 
mitigate infectious disease. 

Environment

Climate change and nature loss are an urgent threat to 
human health, as well as a risk to business resilience. To get 
ahead of disease and to help ensure long-term business 
success, we need to take action on climate and nature. 

Our commitment
Commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet 
with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045

Our ESG Performance Rating metrics1
– Operational emissions reduction (Scope 1 and 2 market-

based emissions) 

– Industrialisation of low-carbon Ventolin initiated, and 
clinical and non-clinical data available to support 
regulatory submissions 

– Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline 

We have more than 30 R&D projects across medicines and 
vaccines that are relevant to AMR, ranging from early- to 
late-stage development, with 12 R&D projects targeting 
pathogens deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the WHO and 
the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 

These include gepotidacin, which could be the first novel 
oral antibiotic treatment for uncomplicated urinary tract 
infections (UTIs) in over 20 years. Positive phase III data 
from the EAGLE-2 and EAGLE-3 trials were presented at the 
European Congress of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious 
Diseases in Copenhagen in April 2023. 

 In March 2023, we announced an exclusive licence 
agreement with Scynexis for Brexafemme (ibrexafungerp 
tablets), a first-in-class antifungal for the treatment of 
vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) and for reduction in the 
incidence of recurrent VVC.   

Progressing vaccines against enteric diseases to reduce 
the burden of antimicrobial resistance 
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a major threat to health 
globally, and it is particularly prevalent in low-resource 
settings. We continue to progress candidate vaccines 
against several enteric diseases which contribute to the 
burden of AMR, including invasive non-typhoidal 
salmonella, klebsiella, shigella, typhoid and paratyphoid 
fever. In 2023, it was announced that we are partnering 
with LimmaTech Biologics for the further development of 
a candidate vaccine against shigellosis, while we continue 
to develop another candidate vaccine against the disease 
which uses our vaccine platform technology, GMMA. 
Currently, there are no vaccines to help prevent shigellosis, 
a disease which causes 600,000 deaths each year.

See page 17 for more about our R&D pipeline.

+ For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG 

Performance Report

– Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers 
compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical 
ingredient limits and the percentage of suppliers that 
are compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance Common 
Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework and discharge limits 

– Percentage of paper and palm oil deforestation free

– Operational waste and material reduction at our sites

(1) These metrics are related to the ESG Performance Rating outlined in 
our ESG Performance Report 2023. We also measure and report 
performance against our public environmental sustainability targets, 
which we publish on gsk.com

49

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Progress in 2023
Climate
We have a clear pathway to a net zero impact on climate 
with ambitious goals for 2030 and 2045.

In 2023, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
approved GSK’s net zero target for 2045 in line with its 
Corporate Net-Zero Standard, the world’s only framework 
for corporate net zero target setting in line with climate 
science. 

Our value chain carbon footprint1 is made up of: 

– Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own operations (7%) 

– Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain (31%) 

– Scope 3 emissions from patients using our products (57%), 

mostly metered-dose inhalers (MDIs)

– Scope 3 emissions from logistics (4%)

– Scope 3 emissions from the disposal of our products (1%) 

Targets2 

– 80% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 

from a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and investment in 
nature-based solutions for the remaining 20% of our 
footprint by 2030

– 100% imported renewable electricity by 2025 and 100% 
renewable electricity (imported and generated) by 2030 
(Scope 2)

– Net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our full value 

chain by 2045: 90% absolute reduction in emissions from 
a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and all residual 
emissions neutralised

Performance

In 2023, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 
10% compared with 2022, and by 27% compared with our 
2020 baseline. This was primarily from energy efficiency 
measures and increasing the amount of renewable 
electricity we use. As a member of the RE100 initiative, we 
have committed to reach 100% of our imported electricity 
from renewable sources by 2025 and 100% of all electricity 
we generate and import from renewable sources by 2030. 
In 2023, we reached 83% imported renewable electricity, 
an increase of 10% from 2022. 

We signed a power purchase agreement to source 
renewable electricity to cover 50% of our electricity demand 
for our sites in Europe from mid-2026. Two additional wind 
turbines and the new solar farm at our manufacturing 
facility in Irvine, Scotland began generating renewable 
energy. 

(1) Based on 2022 data
(2) The target boundary includes biogenic land-related emissions and 

removals from bioenergy feedstocks

(3) We previously reported our Nature targets grouped by water, waste 
and materials, and biodiversity. In 2023, we updated our target 
categories to align with the four areas of nature as defined by TNFD 
and SBTN, with underlying targets on waste and materials. The targets 
remain the same

Our overall Scope 3 emissions are 10% lower than our 
baseline year of 2020, although there was a 4% increase 
in 2022 (our latest available data) compared to 2021. 
This was primarily driven by higher sales of metered dose 
inhaler (MDI) products. Although overall Scope 3 emissions 
increased from 2021 to 2022, in the same period, we 
reduced upstream Scope 3 emissions from our suppliers.

The goods and services we buy to make our medicines and 
vaccines, and additional upstream emissions, account for 
approximately 31% of our total emissions footprint. In 2023, 
our supply chain emissions fell by 2%. 

The use of our medicines and vaccines makes up 57% of 
our total footprint. Most of this is from the propellant used in 
MDIs for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD).

GSK’s rescue MDI medication, Ventolin (salbutamol) is an 
essential medicine prescribed to approximately 35 million 
people with respiratory conditions worldwide. Patient use of 
the inhaler, due to the current propellant, accounts for just 
under half (48%) of our carbon footprint. We are investing 
in a low-carbon programme with the potential to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions from the inhaler by 90% by 
transitioning to a next generation, lower carbon propellant. 
Phase III trials will begin in 2024 and, if successful, 
regulatory submissions will start in 2025. This is to 
supplement our existing low carbon dry powder inhalers. 

See pages 62 to 70 for our disclosure on climate risk and 
resilience in line with the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. 

Nature
In 2023, we shared more detail on our plan for contributing 
to a nature-positive world, in line with the goal of the Global 
Biodiversity Framework to halt and reverse biodiversity loss 
by 2030.

It sets out how we approach nature through four focus 
areas – freshwater, land, oceans and atmosphere – 
including the biodiversity of living species across these 
areas.3  We aim to deliver our contribution in three ways: 
avoiding or reducing our impact on nature, protecting and 
restoring nature, and helping to accelerate collaborative 
action. This approach is aligned with the work of the 
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) 
and the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN). 

In May 2023 we were selected to be part of the first group 
of companies to participate in the initial target validation 
process with SBTN to set validated science-based targets 
for nature, starting with targets for freshwater and land, 
followed by targets for oceans and biodiversity. 

We have already started to implement the final TNFD 
recommendations in our 2023 disclosure, which you can 
read on page 70. 

50

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Freshwater
We continue to work towards our existing water targets.

Targets

– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites 

by 2025

– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% 

by 2030 

– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key 

suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030 

– Zero impact API levels1 for all sites and key suppliers 

by 2030

Performance

We achieved our overall water reduction target in 2022. 
In 2023, we reduced overall water use in our operations 
by an additional 1% compared with 2022 and by 6% in sites 
in high water stress regions. This is a decrease of 24% for 
overall water use and 11% for sites in high water stress 
regions against our 2020 baseline. 

For our sites and key suppliers located in water-stressed 
areas, we are developing catchment-level water 
replenishment, restoration and regeneration projects, 
including partnering with NGOs to deliver our water 
neutrality target.

In 2023, 87% of all sites and key suppliers were compliant 
with AMR Alliance and API Wastewater discharge limits. 
This is down from 94% in 2022, primarily due to a scope 
expansion. This is driven by us expanding our scope to 
include more API suppliers which led to a decrease in the 
percentage of key suppliers that were confirmed to be 
within Wastewater API discharge limits.  

Our work to strengthen responsible manufacturing of 
antibiotics was highlighted as an example of good practice 
in a 2023 report on the issue from the Access to Medicine 
Foundation’s AMR Benchmark. 

Land
We continue to deliver on our existing land targets.

Targets 
– Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites2 by 2030 

– 100% of agricultural and forestry-derived materials 
sustainably sourced and deforestation free by 2030

Performance

During 2023 we completed baseline assessments for six of 
our sites, meaning we have now assessed all our sites, using 
the Natural England Biodiversity Net Positive methodology. 
In parallel, we have plans in place to improve biodiversity at 
nine of our manufacturing sites from 2022. 

We set out ambitious new Sustainable Sourcing Standards 
for suppliers who provide us with materials that are highly 
dependent on nature, like lactose, gelatine and soy. 

(1) Below the predicted no-effect level
(2) GSK-owned sites

We have roadmaps in place to achieve 100% sustainably 
sourced paper packaging and palm oil by 2025. In 2023, 
86% of our paper packaging was derived from certified 
sources or from recycled raw materials and 98% of our core 
palm oil materials were certified by third-parties as being 
from sustainable sources.

While working with suppliers is a key part of our goal to 
reduce our impact on nature, where appropriate we will 
also look at opportunities to reduce or avoid the use of some 
natural materials, including through process efficiencies and 
synthetic alternatives. For example, we are working on a 
process improvement to deliver a significant yield increase, 
reducing our nature impact and improving supply resilience. 

Oceans
We continue to deliver on our existing ocean target 
(set out below), and will apply the relevant science-based 
methodology on oceans when it becomes available.

Target

– 100% of marine-derived materials sustainably sourced 

by 2030 

Performance

Our impacts and dependencies on oceans come primarily 
from marine-derived materials that are a critical part of 
manufacturing vaccines and medicines. For example, we 
use horseshoe crab blood, which is an important substance 
that is required by some regulators to be used in 
pharmaceutical and biomedical quality control processes 
to ensure the quality and safety of medicines, vaccines 
and devices. We continue to make progress on volume 
reductions, and we are advancing a pilot across five of our 
sites to test the use of non-animal alternatives. At the same 
time, we are engaging with regulators to support wider 
uptake of these alternatives. 

While we make progress on reducing volumes and moving 
to synthetic alternatives, we are working with our suppliers 
to improve sustainability. Our new Sustainable Sourcing 
Standards include a specific Marine Sustainable Sourcing 
Standard which outlines the requirements that our suppliers 
of marine-derived materials must adhere to. As part of this, 
we conducted physical site audits of key suppliers in 2023.

Atmosphere
Air pollution is a significant risk to human health, particularly 
for patients with respiratory conditions like asthma and COPD.  

Performance

Our approach to air pollution includes reducing pollutants 
linked to burning of fossil fuels that will be addressed via our 
SBTi-aligned climate targets (set out on page 50), as well as 
looking more broadly at our air pollution footprint. We are 
members of the Alliance for Clean Air through the Clean Air 
Fund and the World Economic Forum. We have done an 
initial assessment to establish an air pollution footprint in our 
operations and our supply chain. We are creating reduction 
plans that are aligned to our pathway to net zero and which 
aim to have a positive impact on air quality.   

51

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Waste and materials 
The overuse of natural resources and the generation of 
waste and pollution are key drivers of climate change and 
nature loss. 

Targets

Our approach to product stewardship means that we 
consider and aim to address impacts on nature and climate 
at every stage of the product lifecycle, from discovery, 
design, sourcing and manufacturing through to product use 
and disposal. We have set a target to help accelerate the 
adoption of this approach:

– 25% environmental impact reduction for our products 

and packaging by 2030 

We have also set targets to reduce operational and supply 
chain waste: 

– Zero operational waste1, including eliminating single use 

plastics2 by 2030 

– 10% waste reduction from supply chain by 2030

Diversity, equity and inclusion

We want to be an inclusive business where all our people 
can thrive, which ensures diversity in our clinical trials and 
supports diverse communities.

Our commitment 
Create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace; 
enhance recruitment of diverse patient populations in 
our clinical trials; and support diverse communities

Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
– 100% of phase III trials initiated in 2023 will have proactive 
plans in place designed to enrol appropriately diverse trial 
participants, consistent with disease epidemiology 

– Improve year-on-year spend with US-based certified 

diverse-owned suppliers

– Update towards 2025 people aspirations through fair and 

equitable opportunities: 

– aspire to have women hold at least 45% of VP-and-

above roles globally by the end of 2025 

– aspire to have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in 

our roles at VP-and-above in the US by the end of 
2025, and increase the percentage of Black or African 
American, and Hispanic or Latinx VP-and-above 
leaders year on year 

– aspire to have at least 18% ethnically diverse leaders in 

our roles at VP-and-above in the UK by the end of 
2025, and increase the percentage of Black VP-and-
above leaders year on year

(1) Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous 

waste

(2) Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are 
critical to product discovery and development and health & safety

Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship across both new
and existing products is built on a scientific method for 
environmental footprinting called Life Cycle Assessment 
(LCA).

Since 2022 we have completed an LCA analysis of 22 
products using the LCA methodology which has enabled 
us to identify where we need to improve the manufacturing 
design, to assess potential savings from design changes 
and provide product-level information to key customers on 
specific products. 100% of GSK sites are now manufacturing 
PVC-free secondary and tertiary packaging.

Waste 
In 2023, we reduced operational waste by 1% since last 
year, a total of 21% since 2020. We increased the amount 
of materials recovered by circular routes by 53%. 

We have maintained zero operational waste to landfill 
and we continue to build on our long-standing operational 
waste management programme to identify opportunities 
to find more beneficial uses for waste.  

+ For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG 
+ Performance Report

Progress in 2023
Clinical trial diversity
We continue to make progress in advancing clinical trial 
diversity. We met our objective of 100% of the phase III 
interventional trials initiated in 2023 having proactive 
diversity plans. We also are challenging ourselves to actively 
monitor patient recruitment in real time to ensure that we 
reach our diversity goals. 

In February 2023, we published a study of 17 years of GSK 
and ViiV Healthcare US clinical trial diversity data. It showed 
that enrolling participants to clinical trials based on real-
world disease epidemiology data, rather than census data, 
would ensure that those trials reflect the populations 
affected by different diseases. By publicly sharing this 
research, we hope to advance the discussion around clinical 
trial diversity and improve how the pharmaceutical sector 
approaches the issue of clinical trial diversity.

Supporting diversity in our supply chains
By engaging with and mentoring small and diverse-owned 
businesses in our supply chain, we can help them identify 
potential areas for growth. In 2023, we increased our spend 
annually with US-based certified diverse-owned suppliers. 

This year, we expanded our successful US supplier diversity 
programme to the UK. Groups which benefit from this 
programme include women, ethnic minorities, members 
of the LGBTQ+ community, people with disabilities and 
military veterans, as well as small businesses in high-
unemployment, low income communities.

52

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Ensuring diversity in our workplaces 
We are fundamentally committed to equal employment 
opportunity and non-discrimination for all employees and 
we want all our leadership to reflect our GSK people and 
our people to reflect the communities we work and hire in. 

At the end of 2023, women held 45% of VP-and-above roles 
globally, compared with 42% in 2022. Women made up 
48% of all employees in 2023, and 50% of all management 
roles. In the UK at the end of 2023, we had 18.4% ethnically 
diverse leaders at VP-and-above, compared with 14.3% in 
2022. We had 1.9% Black leaders at VP-and-above 
compared with 1.6% in 2022. In the US, at the end of 2023, 
we had 35.7% ethnically diverse leaders at VP-and-above, 
compared with 31.3% in 2022. We had 8.1% Black or African 
American leaders at VP-and-above compared with 8.6% in 
2022. We had 6.4% Hispanic or Latinx leaders at VP-and-
above compared with 6.4% in 2022.  

We remain committed to the application of fair and 
equitable pay practices to ensure equal opportunities and 
equal pay for equal work. Our 2023 gender pay gap for all 
permanent UK-based GSK employees is -0.50% (mean), 
compared to the national average of 13.2%. We are also 
publishing our second UK ethnicity pay gap comparing the 
average pay of our White and Ethnically Diverse employees. 
Our 2023 UK ethnicity pay gap for all permanent UK-based 
GSK employees is -0.74% (mean), compared with 0.06% in 
2022. 

Ethical standards

Our culture guides our people to behave in an ethical way, 
to do the right thing and Speak Up about any concerns 
they have. We expect everyone who works for us to live 
up to this, and we expect the same of our suppliers.

Our commitment 
Promote ethical behaviour across our business by 
supporting our employees to do the right thing and 
working with suppliers that share our standards and 
operate in a responsible way

Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
– 100% of employees and complementary workers 

complete GSK’s 2023 mandatory training 

– Percentage of employees who believe they ‘can and do 
Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ is above the general 
industry benchmark1

– 80% of direct high-risk suppliers that achieve GSK’s 
minimum EcoVadis score or have an improvement 
plan in place 

(1) The general industry benchmark is 66% according to 2023 research 

by KornFerry

In addition, within our 2023 UK ethnicity pay gap report we 
are also sharing the pay gaps comparing the average pay 
of our White employees with those in the ethnic groupings 
of Black, Mixed, Asian and Other. This is with reference to 
the UK government’s recently published guidance to 
provide a more granular view.   

This year, we added Disability Confidence training into our 
First Line Leader training, aimed at all our people managers. 
This training is designed to develop inclusive leaders that 
are able to promote disability confidence within their teams.

We continue to work to make sure that our LGBTQ+ 
colleagues feel welcome, valued and included. We were 
once more recognised as a Gold employer in Stonewall’s 
Top Global Employers Index.

We also relaunched our Mental Health Matters training. 
Available globally, it is designed to help our people spot 
the signs of poor mental health, know how to start a 
conversation with others, and signpost resources to support 
everyone’s wellbeing. 

Supporting diverse innovators for the future
In the UK, we launched a £6 million, ten-year STEM equity 
programme, targeting 11–25-year-old girls and young 
women, black people and people from low socio-economic 
backgrounds. The programme includes nationwide STEM 
mentoring, delivered in partnership with established 
mentoring organisations. In its first three years, we aim to 
reach approximately 4,000 young people through this 
programme. 

+ For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG 

Performance Report

Progress in 2023
Supporting GSK people to do the right thing
Our Code of Conduct (The Code) reflects our purpose 
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of 
disease together. It sets out the commitments we make 
as a company and to each other to deliver on our purpose 
and ambition. 

The Code is supported by additional global policies 
and standards. We also have an accompanying global 
mandatory learning curriculum, Living our Code, which all 
our people are required to complete. In 2023, 100% of our 
employees and 99% of complementary workers completed 
this training where due by year-end.

We also have anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) training 
for our people in certain high-risk roles or geographic 
regions. This helps them identify and mitigate any potential 
ABAC risk – especially in third-party relationships – and to 
recognise, report and manage conflicts of interest. In 2023, 
100% of employees and 99% of complementary workers 
completed this training. 

53

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Reporting and investigating concerns
In 2023, we saw an overall decrease in the number of 
employees who had concerns raised against them, 
employees disciplined for policy violations and open cases 
at year end. This is reflective of several factors including 
external geopolitical and economic issues affecting some 
countries which changes the nature of concerns raised and, 
internally, our continued emphasis on appropriate 
management and closure of cases.

Our commitment to human rights  
We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and our 
Human Rights Position Statement lays out our commitment 
to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
We have a cross-business Human Rights Steering Group, 
which reports to the GLT and Board’s Corporate 
Responsibility Committee, and drives progress on human 
rights impacts and risks across the business. 

In 2023, we carried out human rights training for priority 
suppliers, aimed at ensuring a good understanding of 
human rights and labour principles and aligned with 
international standards. We also continued our human 
rights training for procurement and third-party engagement 
leads, to better equip them to spot human rights issues 
when visiting suppliers. We conduct audits and site visits 
covering Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and labour 
rights for our priority suppliers.1 Some of the top issues 
identified during supplier visits in 2023 related to policy, 
wages and compliance. All observations have action plans 
in place to drive improvement.

We are committed to fair and equitable pay, ensuring that 
all employees globally receive pay that is competitive in 
their local markets and sufficient to support a sustainable 
standard of living. In 2023, the Fair Wage Network certified 
GSK as a Living Wage employer, after it reviewed the global 
gap analysis we conducted in 2022. It confirmed that all 
GSK workers are paid at or above the living wage in their 
relevant markets. We have also developed a consistent 
approach to how GSK will manage global fair wage analysis 
annually, as well as a methodology for the Fair Wage 
Network to use to continue to assess us. 

Working with third parties
We expect our third parties to comply with applicable laws 
and regulations and to adopt, at minimum our ABAC and 
labour rights principles and, where relevant, to comply with 
our standards on quality, patient safety, health and safety, 
and the environment. In 2023, we performed over 7,500 
assessments of our high-risk third parties across 17 risk areas. 

Across the organisation, we give additional support on  EHS 
risks to our largest suppliers, including those who supply 
globally medically-critical products, as well as those who 
are critical to our R&D, and those largest by spend.2

(1) Our largest suppliers, including those who supply globally medically 
critical products, are critical to our R&D, and those largest by spend
(2) GSK maintains a list of globally medically critical products. These are 

drug products approved to treat a life-threatening disease or medical 
condition for which there is no other adequately available alternative 
and of which GSK is the only provider

(3) Our EHS priority suppliers are API suppliers who are, or will be, 

medically-, R&D-, or revenue-critical to GSK, or are high spend suppliers

We visit sites, in person or virtually, to help suppliers better 
understand and control their EHS risks. This year, we 
conducted 73 physical visits across 63 priority suppliers.3 
We conducted 47 supplier audits following industry 
standard Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative guidelines. 
We trained more than 1,000 supplier employees on EHS, 
strengthened EHS contractual obligations and have worked 
with suppliers to help them improve their EcoVadis scores.

Using data responsibly
Data is an essential foundation to realising our ambitions 
for patients. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and 
machine learning (ML) technologies present tremendous 
opportunities, but the technologies must be approached 
correctly, responsibly and ethically. Increases in the volume 
of data processed through AI/ML use have resulted in a 
greater focus on data governance and the ethical use of 
personal information, over and above compliance with data 
privacy laws. We take our responsibility for data privacy 
seriously and we exercise high standards of integrity in 
dealing with personal information. 

Our Digital and Privacy Governance Board oversees our 
overall data ethics and privacy operating model, supported 
by digital and privacy legal experts and compliance 
professionals. We monitor and mitigate new and emerging 
cyber threats to protect ourselves from cyber security risks. 
We have additional governance boards that oversee the 
use of our data in the research, development, manufacture 
and supply of our products to ensure we follow regulations 
and meet ethical obligations.

In 2023, we created a cross-functional AI Governance 
Council to oversee our AI strategy and to ensure responsible 
adoption of AI/ML. This is complemented by an internal 
policy to ensure AI/ML adoption is safe and aligned with 
GSK's culture by establishing AI Principles underpinned by 
the ethical standards set out in the GSK Code.

Political engagement
At GSK, we seek to contribute to public policy debate, 
especially in relation to life sciences and healthcare. We are 
committed to the highest ethical standards and legislative 
requirements in all of our political engagements. We do not 
make corporate political contributions, nor do we sponsor 
party political meetings anywhere around the world. 

+ For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG 

Performance Report

54

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Responsible business continued

Product governance

Our commitment 
We commit to maintaining robust quality and safety 
processes, and using data and new technologies 
responsibly.

Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
– Average number of critical and major findings per 

inspection by FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators1

– Percentage of inspections from all regulators with no 

critical findings or official action indicated

– Number of FDA warning letters 

– Total number of Class I/II external product recalls across 

all markets

– Register and disclose all human subject research of GSK 
products. Specifically, register protocol summaries for 
studies initiated in 2023; and disclose results summaries 
for studies with results due in 2023

Progress in 2023
Maintaining quality across GSK 
We have a detailed and specific quality framework that 
describes how we comply with regulatory requirements and 
other standards across our markets. This addresses global 
and local regulations across manufacturing and distribution 
processes, and is based on principles defined by the 
International Council for Harmonisation of Technical 
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use.

Our GSK quality function is responsible for managing quality 
and for ensuring a quality mindset is embedded throughout 
the organisation at all levels. It brings together an extensive 
global network of quality and compliance professionals 
within each of our business units, from site level to senior 
management. 

Our quality management depends upon comprehensive 
and ongoing patient safety and quality process training. 
The Quality Management System details the training 
required by GSK people, including induction, hygiene, safety 
and technical skills training, as well as good distribution and 
manufacturing practice training. Employees who carry out 
specific, quality-critical or sensitive activities are subject to 
additional training as necessary.

(1) We consider any observations from the US FDA as major
(2) Class I recalls are triggered by a reasonable probability that the use of 
or exposure to a violative product will cause serious adverse health 
consequences or death. Class II recalls address the use of or exposure 
to a violative product which may cause temporary or medically 
reversible adverse health consequences, or where the probability of 
serious adverse health consequences is remote. Class III recalls relate 
to the use of or exposure to a violative product which is not likely to 
cause adverse health consequences

Inspections, recalls and audit 
In 2023, we had 114 regulatory inspections at our 
manufacturing sites and local operating companies, 
compared with 122 in 2022. We received zero warning 
letters from the United States Food and Drugs 
Administration (FDA) or critical findings from the Medicines 
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) regulators in 2023. 
We respond to and learn from all inspection findings, 
taking the necessary action to address them.

Throughout 2023, we had two Class I product recalls 
and there were fewer Class II recalls compared with 2022.2 
If necessary to protect patients, we will not hesitate to 
recall products voluntarily.

Quality management along our supply chains 
In 2023, we conducted 1,081 quality audits of contract 
manufacturers and suppliers to verify that they comply with 
GSK standards. We have a comprehensive quality oversight 
model that is aligned to our Quality Management System. It 
uses a risk-based approach to assess, qualify, manage and 
monitor our third-party suppliers on an ongoing basis, 
driving continuous performance.

Pharmacovigilance at all times
We have a well-established and rigorous worldwide system 
to monitor and review the safety of our products throughout 
clinical development and after regulatory approval. We 
expect our partners to meet the same high standards of 
safety and governance. We conduct reviews of third-party 
safety systems, monitoring of contractual obligations and 
fostering collaboration through the lifecycle of the 
relationship.

Tackling counterfeit medicines and vaccines 
Falsified products put the health of patients at risk and 
threaten our brand and reputation. We report all cases of 
confirmed counterfeit products to the WHO and to relevant 
regulatory authorities. We actively participate in legal 
proceedings against illegal actors, and support customs 
and local authorities with regular training. We also monitor 
online marketplaces and social media to request takedowns 
of sites illicitly selling prescription-only medicines.

Clinical data transparency 
As part of our commitment to transparency, we have made 
7,988 protocol summaries and 6,734 summaries of results 
available since the GSK trial register was set up in 2004. 
We have also listed 2,669 clinical trials for data sharing via 
www.vivli.org. 

+ For full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please see our ESG 

Performance Report

55

GSK Annual Report 2023

Risk management 
and disclosure
statements

In this section

Risk management

2023 principal risks summary

Climate-related financial disclosures

Nature-related financial disclosures

Non-financial and sustainability information statement

Employees by gender

Viability statement

57

59

62

70

75

75

76

56

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Risk management

We can only deliver our bold ambitions for patients if we maintain 
a well-embedded risk management and internal control framework 
overseen and evaluated by our Board. 

Controls and guidance to manage risk effectively
Our well-embedded risk management and internal control 
framework gives our Board the ability to evaluate and 
oversee how the company manages principal and emerging 
risks in line with our strategy and long-term priorities. 
Our company-wide policy sets out the requirements, roles 
and responsibilities for the management and governance 
of risks and controls, as well as supporting guidance on the 
essential elements of our internal control framework. We 
routinely evaluate our risk management and internal control 
framework for improvements. 

Board oversight setting the 'tone from the top'
The Board oversees our system of risk management and 
internal control and establishes our risk appetite, supported 
by the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC). The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee (CRC) and Science Committee 
further assess the effectiveness of risk management 
strategies that fall within their defined remits. Both the ARC 
and the Board oversee our cyber security risks. For more 
details on the Board and its committees’ responsibilities and 
remit, see page 116. Our Risk Oversight and Compliance 
Council (ROCC), co-chaired by our Group General Counsel 
and our Chief Compliance Officer, helps the ARC, CRC and 
Science Committee to oversee the risks, and the strategies 
used to address them. Also, risk management and 
compliance boards (RMCBs) across the Group promote 
the ‘tone from the top’, establish our risk culture and oversee 
the effectiveness of risk management activities, while also 
communicating information about internal controls. 
Management is held accountable for delivering on its 
objectives in line with the established risk appetite 
pertaining to principal risks. The Disclosure Committee has 
the responsibility for considering the materiality of 
information and determining the disclosure of this 
information in a timely way. An enterprise risk owner is 
responsible for each principal risk, overseen by a GLT 
member. Risk owners report risk and mitigation to ROCC 
and the appropriate Board committee each quarter. 
Significant risks or issues can also be escalated to the GLT, 
RMCB, or appropriate risk governance forum (e.g., Global 
Safety Board) throughout the year as needed. Legal & 
Compliance support these efforts by advising on our 
business strategies, activities, risks and controls. Audit & 
Assurance provides assessments of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of our framework.

Considering the likelihood, impact 
and timescale of risks
Our enterprise risk assessment methodology is the 
mechanism by which we assess all risk, including our 
principal risks. Our enterprise risk assessment methodology 
considers the likelihood and impact of risks, and the 
timescale over which a risk could occur based on the most 
probable scenario and considering our existing internal 
controls. Our impact assessments include considerations 
across patient safety, quality and supply; environment, 
health and safety; legal; people; regulatory; reputation; 
strategic objectives; and finance, incorporating materiality 
thresholds. As well as considering current and evolving risks, 
we evaluate emerging risks that could affect our ability to 
achieve our long-term priorities over the three-year horizon, 
in line with our viability statement. We also define risks as 
‘emerging’ if we need to know more about how likely they 
are to materialise, or what impact they would have if they 
did. We further evaluate emerging risks and their impact 
on the company to assess whether they should be elevated 
to a principal risk. Our risk management and compliance 
boards at all levels identify emerging risks on an ongoing 
basis, and ROCC discusses evolving and emerging risks at 
each meeting. At the same time, we scan the risk horizon 
throughout the year to identify external trends that may 
be opportunities and/or emerging risks and monitor our 
business activities and internal environment. ROCC 
conducts an annual risk review to assess principal and 
emerging risks for the company. This review is supported 
by extensive analysis of external trends and insights, 
senior-level interviews and recommendations from risk 
management and compliance boards and risk owners. 
ROCC shares this annual review with the ARC and Board 
for assessment and agreement, forming the basis for the 
following year’s risk management focus. 

Our business strategy, results of operations and financial 
condition have not been materially affected by risks from 
cyber security threats, including as a result of previous cyber 
security incidents, but we cannot provide assurance that 
they will not be materially affected in the future by such 
risks and any future material incidents.

57

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Reporting our current risks
The table starting on page 59 shows our current principal 
risks and respective trends, assessments and mitigation 
activities for the year. These are not in order of significance. 
For full risk definitions, potential impact, context and 
mitigating activities, see Principal risks and uncertainties on 
page 284. Other risks, not at the level of our principal risks, 
related to ESG, including environmental sustainability and 
climate change, are managed through our six focus areas,  
as described in our ESG Performance Report. Additional 
information on climate-related risk management is in our 
climate-related financial disclosures, on page 62.

Changes to our risks for 2024 
In our December 2023 annual risk review, the ARC agreed 
to ROCC’s recommendation of our principal risks for 2024, 
which remain largely unchanged. The emerging risk of data 
management will continue to be evaluated during the year.

+ Viability statement – see page 76
+ ARC report – see page 133
+ Internal control framework – see page 134
+ Legal proceedings – see page 263
+ Environment – see page 49
+ Climate-related financial disclosures – see page 62

Risk management continued

Our risk management and internal control 
framework 
Our risk management and internal control framework is 
aligned to industry standards and legal and regulatory 
requirements. It defines the essential elements we expect 
and helps us to identify, assess, manage, report and oversee 
risk relevant to our business activities. This framework helps 
to ensure our risks are proportionately managed in line with 
our risk appetite throughout the year in a timely and 
transparent manner to support our strategic objectives. 

For our principal risks, which include information and cyber 
security, we define enterprise risk plans that include a 
description of the risk, its context, our assessment, risk 
appetite, how we will treat the risk, and the actions 
businesses will take in line with our internal control 
framework to mitigate the risk. These plans enable our 
Board committees to assess the effectiveness of our risk 
management strategies. We report on our principal risks 
and emerging risks to ROCC and the respective Board 
committees every quarter, to drive more dynamic, data-
driven discussions, agile risk management strategies 
and oversight. We report on existing control measures, 
implementation, emerging risks, external insights and key 
risk indicators with risk reporting thresholds aligned to risk 
appetite. We include risks and mitigations associated with 
relevant events around us, such as geopolitical tensions.

Our Code sets out the overarching expectations for our 
employees and complementary workers. We aim to do 
the right thing with integrity and care as part of our culture. 
Our risk management framework complements our culture 
and Speak Up processes in making sure that we identify 
and mitigate risks effectively. We monitor our most 
important risks and take action to address issues. Our 
annual confirmation exercise with General Managers, Site 
Directors, senior leaders and GLT, checks that key risks are 
well managed, and that actions are in place to address 
gaps. Our principal risks include controls for responding 
to problems within their risk plans. We also have business 
continuity planning embedded in our framework and our 
critical processes, so we can continue business operations 
in the event of a crisis. 

58

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

2023 principal risks summary

Risk

Patient
safety

Trend versus
prior year

→

External

Assessment and mitigation activities

The external risk environment remains stable. Our pharmacovigilance function, like those across 
the industry, contends with a challenging legal and regulatory environment. Even with an 
optimised, state-of-the-art pharmacovigilance system we cannot predict all issues impacting 
safety and efficacy that could potentially result in regulatory action and/or litigation. This is 
particularly true of issues not based on robust scientific evidence of the ongoing benefit/risk 
assessment for our products.  

→

GSK

Our internal risk environment remains stable in 2023. We continue to focus on ensuring an 
optimised benefit/risk profile for all vaccines and medicines through appropriate safety expertise 
and oversight. We successfully completed a significant transition to a simplified third-party 
support model for global pharmacovigilance operational activities. 

Product
quality

→

External

The external risk environment is stable, yet remains high. In May 2023, regulatory agencies ended 
their emergency COVID-19 measures and resumed on-site inspections of our sites (both planned 
and unannounced) to make sure they meet product quality expectations. Increased nationalism 
following the pandemic has driven a broader spectrum of regulatory requirements. This continues 
to rapidly evolve with new pharmaceutical, chemical and environmental expectations for our 
products. The focus on data governance and data integrity remains. The application of AI/ML   
to improve manufacturing and quality is in its infancy, with uncertainty about how this will be 
regulated in the GxP arena. The US FDA is working with industry to understand its application  
and develop guidance. 

→

GSK

Our risk exposure remains stable. Our ongoing inspection readiness programme ensures 
preparedness for regulatory authority inspections. We continue to invest in technology to 
strengthen our data management controls and modernise our quality processes. We are 
proactive in anticipating regulatory expectations and continue to work at an industry level to 
refine quality standards and build new competencies to assure product quality. 

Legal
matters

↑

External

The external risk environment is increasing. The wide-ranging regulatory environment remains 
challenging, due to uncertainty, volatility and sometimes conflicting requirements, influencing the 
ability to determine exact requirements in each market. Government agencies, and notably the 
US, are increasingly looking to use competition law to tackle perceived issues with access to 
medicine, pricing and acquisitions. Governments are continuing to enforce anti-corruption laws 
and regulations, including a nationwide one-year campaign to fight corruption in healthcare in 
China. Sanctions continue to be complex in the current geopolitical environment, particularly 
those concerning Russia. 

→

GSK

Our risk exposure is stable due to robust internal systems, processes and monitoring to ensure 
proactive and timely response to changes by adapting our internal controls, which are designed 
to accommodate external regulatory fluctuations and changing risks. 

Financial
controls
and reporting

→

External

The external risk environment remains challenging due to political uncertainty, proposed 
increases in the obligations of directors and auditors, increasing threats of cyber attacks and 
fraud, and increasing disclosure requirements including ESG and non-financial information. 

→

GSK

Our risk exposure remains stable due to our ongoing focus on the resilience of personnel and     
the testing of our internal control framework. We implement optimal risk mitigation through 
transformational programmes, technology, centralised processes, and risk and control 
assessments, and maintain effective tax and treasury strategies. We continually strengthen       
our control frameworks and collaborate with external bodies on setting standards. 

Commercial

practices →

External

→

GSK

The external risk environment is stable. Governments remain focused on initiatives to drive down 
medicine and vaccine costs for consumers. The passing of the US Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)   
of 2022 introduces new Medicare inflation-based drug rebates and a drug pricing negotiation 
programme which could have an overall negative effect on us. Also, macroeconomic factors such 
as inflationary pressure contribute to a challenging environment for all stakeholders. Competitive 
pressure remains intense across therapy areas and market segments.  

Our risk exposure remains stable. We have a mature and robust control environment that has 
evolved to match the competitive enhancements to our commercial and digital practices, 
including significantly higher volumes of engagement with healthcare professionals. This has been 
supported by embedding an end-to-end speaker engagement system, eliminating zero-value 
contracts, enhanced case study training on the medical commercial interface, implementing a 
new tenders procedure, and implementing enhanced interactive digital media channel oversight.

59

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

2023 Principal risks summary continued

Risk

Trend versus 
prior year

Assessment and mitigation activities

Scientific
and patient 
engagement

 ↑

External

The external risk environment is changing. The diversity of engagement platforms continues        
to increase, while digital health technologies and generative AI advance rapidly. Also, the 
environment continues to be characterised by complex, dynamic disease areas and treatments 
with increased volume of patient-centric activities during all phases of the product lifecycle. 

→

GSK

Our risk exposure remains stable. We continue to build innovative digital capability and improve 
our engagement practices and internal controls to mitigate risk in the rapidly evolving 
environment. We use data and systems to monitor for emerging risks associated with scientific 
and patient engagement activities.

Data ethics

and privacy ↑

External

↑

GSK

Research
practices

↑

External

Environment,
health and
safety (EHS)

↑

GSK

→

External

→

GSK

The external risk environment continues to increase as the global landscape of data protection, 
privacy and cyber laws develops. Given that the current pace of technology-focused innovation   
is expected to continue, companies need to be mindful of relevant potential legislation and 
regulations. The increasing trend for data sovereignty could affect healthcare companies in their 
ability to drive medical innovation and operate internationally. Global regulators (such as the EU, 
UK, US and China) are also introducing legislation around the use of AI and ML which is closely 
aligned with privacy regulations. These regulations will play a key role in safeguarding privacy by 
ensuring responsible data usage, transparency and ethical use of data, while preventing biases 
and managing international data flows. 

Our internal risk exposure is increasing given our focus on data in an uncertain external 
environment. Our data ethics and privacy operating model has been transformed to make sure    
it is flexible enough to adapt to emerging privacy laws in the US, EU, UK, China and India, 
including addressing restrictions imposed by regulators in relation to international data transfer 
mechanisms. We have focused on simplifying of principles and processes, while allowing flexibility 
around the deployment of our model in different territories and business functions. 

The external risk environment is increasing as technology-focused innovation accelerates the 
discovery and development of medicines and vaccines.  Advances in technology, expanded use 
of data and digital footprints, more sophisticated cyber security threats, the rising trend for data 
sovereignty and developing global landscape of quality standards, data protection, privacy and 
cyber laws, and new entrants to the sector continue to influence the environment. Companies 
should consider the relevant emerging legislation and regulations and impact on their ability to 
drive innovation and operate internationally.

Our risk exposure is increasing as we adopt new technologies and scale our adoption of AI in      
the discovery and development of medicines and vaccines. We continue to adapt our internal 
business processes to enable innovation and to meet ethical, societal and regulatory expectations.

The external risk environment remains stable. There are currently no external EHS risk factors that 
reduce our ability to discover and manufacture our vaccines and medicines safely.

Our risk exposure remains stable. We've continued safety leadership training, embedding our   
Life Saving Rules, and adhering to our EHS standards. We have initiated a Contractor Safety 
programme that will deliver improvements to reduce the risk profile associated with using 
contractors across all business units and are strengthening our driver safety programmes.

Information
and cyber
security

↑

External

External risk continues to rise as digital footprints increase and threats from cyber security 
become more sophisticated, including threat actors having access to more sophisticated AI 
capabilities. Continued geopolitical conflicts have also increased cyber security risk to large 
corporations. 

↑

GSK

Our risk exposure continues to increase as we adopt new technologies and scale our adoption of 
AI across GSK. We remain on track to deliver our multi-year Cyber Maturity Programme (CMP) 
and other risk mitigation programmes including China, High Risk Jurisdiction, and processes and 
accountabilities for data management, to improve our controls and governance to identify, 
protect, detect, respond to, and recover from cyber security incidents.

60

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

2023 Principal risks summary continued

Supply

continuity →

External

→

GSK

The external risk environment remains stable. In 2023, there have been cyber attacks on two        
of our third-party logistics providers, which has tested our business continuity planning. The 
constraints seen on sourcing bioscience materials in 2022 has abated, however a new constraint 
is emerging on third-party sterile manufacturing capacity, which increases competition for 
contract manufacturing operations. Extreme weather events continue to present challenges 
across the industry for facilities worldwide.

Our risk exposure remains stable, maintained through a combination of well-defined supply  
chain management processes, clear escalation pathways to ensure supply continuity and clear 
succession plans in place for critical supply chain roles. Our Supply Chain 2030 initiative and the 
integration of the Medicines and Vaccines supply chains into one organisation demonstrate our 
commitment to evolving our technology platforms and product portfolio without affecting supply 
continuity, which remains consistently high.

61

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures

Management’s role in assessing and managing climate- 
related risks and opportunities

GSK Leadership Team (GLT)
The GLT meets regularly, giving members an opportunity to 
discuss strategic, financial and reputational matters. 

The President, Global Supply Chain, a GLT member, has 
management responsibility for environmental sustainability, 
which includes climate change. He is responsible for 
governance and oversight of risks and opportunities and 
makes sure there is an effective framework to manage the 
risks and opportunities across each of our business units, 
along with delivering on our commitments to a net zero, 
nature positive, healthier planet, with ambitious goals set 
for 2030 and 2045 across our entire value chain.   

In 2023 GLT reviewed and discussed the mid-year 
performance for key environmental metrics, including 
climate-related ones (see page 49) as part of reviewing 
GSK’s ESG Performance Rating. 

GSK Sustainability Council 
The Sustainability Council, held quarterly, is attended by 
senior leaders from across the business. Members include 
leaders from procurement, finance, HR, compliance, R&D, 
manufacturing and corporate affairs. The Council is co-
chaired by the President Global Supply Chain and the VP 
Sustainability and supported by the global Sustainability 
team and external third parties, who provide specialist 
expertise and advice to the business. 

In 2023 the Council:

– approved the annual targets for the climate Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI) of the sustainability 
programme

– reviewed monthly performance and escalations of any 

potential concerns or issues 

– approved the annual climate risk review and approach 

for risk disclosure

– agreed that the newly formed ESG Reporting Hub 

would be accountable for assurance of environmental 
data in 2023

– reviewed progress of the core programmes to improve 

the sustainability of our supply chain 

– reviewed progress towards securing a portfolio of carbon 

credits in support of our 2030 commitment

Our climate-related financial disclosures are consistent with 
the recommendations and recommended disclosures of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
including the TCFD all-sector guidance, and in compliance 
with the requirements of LR 9.8.6R.(8) (UK Listing Rules).  
The disclosures are in compliance with the Companies 
(Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) 
Regulations 2022 of the Company Act 2006. In 2023 we 
have updated our risk assessments to reflect changes in 
the supply chain and the progression of our sustainability 
transformation programme.

Governance 
The board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities

Board 
The Board considers climate-related matters throughout the 
year. This includes assessing risk management processes, 
challenging and endorsing the business plan and budgets, 
including overseeing major capital expenditures, 
acquisitions and divestments. In 2023, the Board approved 
progression to the next phase of development of the low 
carbon Ventolin programme.

The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) exercises 
oversight, provides guidance and reviews our ESG 
performance, including climate-related risks and 
opportunities, and environmental performance against 
targets. 

The CRC receives quarterly updates on environmental 
sustainability, including climate. Regular attendees 
include the CEO, and the President Global Supply Chain. 
See page 116 for further details of the Board architecture. 

In 2020 the CRC reviewed and approved GSK’s twin goals 
on climate and nature. Following the demerger of the 
consumer healthcare business in July 2022, the CRC 
approved  that GSK would submit updated refreshed 
targets to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) that 
are aligned to a 1.5°C pathway, and to align to the SBTi Net 
Zero Standard, to reduce carbon emissions by 80% by 2030 
and 90% by 2045.

In 2023 the CRC met five times and discussed climate-
related issues on three separate occasions with 
management. 
It focused on: 

– progress in delivering against our climate ambitions 

including low carbon Ventolin and Nature Plan updates

– implications of the geopolitical landscape

– key milestones and decisions required to achieve net zero 

targets 

– mid-year performance for key environmental metrics, 

including climate-related metrics, as part of reviewing the 
interim ESG Performance Rating for 2023 

– approved our climate disclosure statement and final ESG 

Performance Rating for 2022 and other public 
environmental reporting and disclosures

62

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Other business support
The Sustainability Council is supported in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities by:

– the sustainability programme steering team, which is 
chaired by the VP Sustainability that meets monthly 
and co-ordinates the sustainability programme and 
associated workstreams. This team monitors programme 
performance and the progress of the enablers required 
to deliver the sustainability programme 

– sustainability councils within each business, which meet 
quarterly to review their business unit performance and 
delivery against the company sustainability ambition. 
These are chaired by senior leaders within the business 
who also attend the GSK sustainability council

– the Metered Dose Inhaler steering team, which is 

attended by senior leaders from across the commercial, 
supply chain, regulatory and R&D businesses aligned to 
our respiratory business. This team is chaired by the 
President Global Supply Chain, who also chairs the 
Sustainability Council and is the decision-making body for 
the programme to reduce the climate impact of metered 
dose inhalers which contribute to approximately 50% of 
GSK’s total GHG emissions 

– the Capital Allocations Board (CAB), which is chaired 

by the CFO and includes the Group Financial Controller, 
reviews climate-related capital expenditure as part of its 
annual planning and capital allocation process 

– the ESG Reporting Hub, which was established in 2023, 
provides oversight and assurance of ESG performance 
data, including carbon emissions data 

– The carbon offset programme steering committee, which 

includes the Group Financial Controller and the VP 
Sustainability, who also attends Sustainability Council, 
reviews the due diligence outcomes of potential carbon 
offset projects, the performance of established 
investments and makes new investment decisions 

– A cross-functional team from the Sustainability, Finance, 
Supply Chain and Procurement functions performs an 
annual review of climate risks to monitor previously 
identified climate risk and escalate new or emerging 
climate risks to the Sustainability Council 

– Results of climate scenario modelling are shared with 

business unit Risk Management Control Boards (RMCB)

Strategy 
The climate-related risks and opportunities we have 
identified over the short, medium, and long term

Climate-related risks and opportunities are considered 
in three different time horizons: 

1. short term (less than three years) aligning with financial 

planning timeframes

2. medium term (three to ten years) aligning with long-term 

business forecasting timeframes 

3. long term (more than ten years) to enable us to explore 

the uncertainties in changes to weather, disease patterns 
and societal responses to climate change across the 
globe

We have identified and prioritised these climate-related 
risks and opportunities: 

Risks:

– changes to regulations governing the supply of high 

global warming potential (GWP) substances by the EU, 
UK and US governments could restrict our ability to 
manufacture metered dose inhalers 

– future regulatory policy responses to address climate 

change could lead to the imposition of carbon taxes by 
countries where we manufacture and source goods from 
third parties 

– increasing levels of water stress could lead to interruptions 

to supply of water to our and third-party supply sites 

– increasing frequency and impact of extreme weather 

events that could disrupt to GSK and third-party 
supplier sites

– nature-based projects might not deliver sufficient 

volumes of carbon credits to offset 2 million tonnes CO2e 
per year from 2030, requiring us to buy additional credits 
at higher cost 

Opportunities:

– At COP28 in 2023, more than 70 countries committed to 

provide low-carbon healthcare systems. This could lead to 
increasing demand for low-carbon medicines and 
vaccines

– Several reports exploring the impact of climate change 
and health have shown that climate change affects 
water- and vector-borne diseases. This could lead to 
increasing demand for new medicines and vaccines 

The processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks and opportunities are set out in the Risk Management 
section. We will continue to monitor for emerging risks and 
new data to include in future assessments. 

The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities 
on our business, strategy and financial planning

Our commitment to work towards a net zero, nature positive, 
healthier planet with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 
is embedded in our strategic long-term priorities, always 
considering the social, environmental and governance 
impacts of everything we do from laboratory to patient.  

Our near-term carbon reduction target is an 80% reduction 
in Scope 1 & 2 and Scope 3 carbon emissions by 2030. 
Our long-term carbon reduction target is a 90% reduction 
in Scope 1 & 2 and Scope 3 carbon emissions by 2045. 
Both targets are measured against a 2020 baseline.

These targets are aligned to the 1.5°C pathway and 
were approved by the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) during 2023.

63

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Transition plan
We are taking action to reduce emissions across our full 
value chain, prioritising the highest-impact areas. We will 
invest around £1 billion from 2020-30 to deliver emissions 
reductions and removals to achieve our targets though the 
activities outlined below.

Beyond 2030 we expect we will be left with the harder-
to-tackle emissions from across our supply chain, our 
own operations, logistics, and disposal. In many cases, 
addressing these residual emissions is likely to depend 
on technologies, infrastructure and regulatory frameworks 
that require broad public/private collaboration. So our 
decarbonisation plan is interdependent with the broader 
economic transition and follows a similar timeframe.  

Our progress in reducing carbon emissions can be found 
on page 50. 

Direct operations
In order to continue reducing Scope 1 & 2 emissions across 
our operations by 2030, we are focusing on: 

– maximising energy efficiency in our sites through our 

long-standing energy efficiency programme

– transitioning to 100% imported renewable electricity 
by 2025 by investing in power purchase agreements, 
supplemented by the purchase of energy attribute 
certificates 

– increasing the use of electric vehicles by our sales fleet 

Risks and uncertainties

In some markets where we operate, such as Singapore, 
accessing renewable electricity will be challenging because 
of the limited generation capacity and the market boundary 
rules governing imported electricity. 

There are uncertainties in the transition to renewable heat. 
High-temperature heat produced by electricity is not 
generally commercially available today. Biogas can replace 
natural gas without introducing major changes to facilities 
but is not widely available in the locations where we 
operate. The use of biomass as fuel could introduce issues 
of land use change and impacts on local air quality.

The transition to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 could be 
restricted by vehicle availability, lack of charging 
infrastructure and sourcing of key materials for battery 
production. 

Supply chain
Our Sustainable Procurement Programme requires our 
suppliers to disclose emissions and set carbon reduction 
targets aligned with a 1.5°C reduction pathway. We also 
work with suppliers, particularly those with the largest 
footprint, to encourage them to adopt new sustainability 
measures.  

Supply chain emissions are a shared challenge across our 
sector, and we are working with our peers on collaborative 
initiatives such as: 

– the Activate  programme to help Active Pharmaceutical 
Ingredients (API) suppliers accelerate decarbonisation 
initiatives 

– the Energize programme to encourage the use of 

renewable energy throughout the pharmaceutical sector’s 
supply chain 

– the Manufacture 2030 initiative to encourage suppliers 

to measure, manage and reduce their emissions 

– the Pharma LCA consortium is a group of eight global 

pharmaceutical that have come together via the 
Pharmaceutical Environment Group with support from 
the Sustainable Markets Initiative to co-develop a shared 
way of measuring and reporting environmental 
product footprints

Risks and uncertainties

Pharmaceutical manufacturing processes are highly 
regulated by different agencies across the world which may 
slow down the implementation of some decarbonisation 
initiatives.    

Our supply chains are complex and can involve several 
intermediate stages of production that are highly product-
specific. Our volume demand on specific materials is quite 
low which can reduce our ability to influence where we only 
purchase a small share of a supplier's production. 

Many suppliers are based in regions where renewable 
electricity and heat is less available than elsewhere. 

Measuring Scope 3 emissions is complex and challenging 
and there is a lack of primary data from suppliers. 
Methodologies involve using spend-based estimates mixed 
in with activity-based data, industry average data and 
extrapolations based on subjective choices and judgments.  
As data systems, processes and controls mature and more 
primary data becomes available, there may be the need to 
restate reported emissions data in the future.

Product impact
The use of our products makes up 57% of our carbon 
footprint. Patient use of GSK’s rescue metered dose inhaler 
(MDI) medication, Ventolin (salbutamol), accounts for just 
under half (48%) of our carbon footprint. We are investing 
in an R&D programme and a large factory upgrade project 
to redevelop this inhaler by transitioning to a lower-carbon 
propellant. Recent data from early clinical trials has 
supported the decision to progress to phase III and dosing 
of first patients is planned in the first half of 2024. If 
successful, regulatory submissions will begin in 2025. 

Risks and uncertainties

Metered dose inhalers are complex devices, and any new 
medical propellant must meet a specific range of technical 
performance characteristics to be safe and efficacious for 
patients.   

We are engaging with medical regulators such as the US 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare 
Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on how advances 
in pharmaceutical product design can reduce the 
environmental impact of medicines.

64

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Carbon credits
While we are focused on emissions reductions to meet our 
carbon targets, we are also investing in high quality nature 
protection and restoration projects that support our net-
zero and nature positive goals and deliver co-benefits to 
human health to generate carbon credits to offset annually 
the 20% of our baseline value chain carbon footprint from 
2030. The volume of credits required will taper down to 10% 
as we continue to reduce our emissions, aiming to achieve 
net zero emissions across our full value chain by 2045. 
Our criteria for high quality projects include avoidance of 
harm, transparency, additionality, permanence, mitigation 
of leakage, project monitoring, reporting and verification 
of claims and avoidance of double counting. 

For our 2030 target we are prioritising carbon removal 
credits, but we will also secure a proportion of carbon 
avoidance and reductions credits in recognition of their 
critical role in conserving existing carbon stocks and 
protecting nature. For our 2045 Net Zero target, we will 
aim to secure only carbon removal credits.

Risks and uncertainties

We recognise that this is a fast-moving field, and that 
methodologies and guidelines will likely evolve as we 
implement our plans. We commit to remaining flexible 
and transparent about our progress and learning.

There is a risk that the nature-based projects do not deliver 
sufficient volumes of carbon credits to meet our needs in a 
given year and that we may need to purchase of more 
credits at higher cost.

Climate scenarios 
We use climate scenarios to inform management about 
climate risks, reporting the results to Risk Management 
Control Boards (RMCB) in the business as well as to the 
Sustainability Council.  

We have developed modelling tools with the support of 
third parties that enable us to model the impacts of physical 
and transition risks where our sites and supply chains are 
located. For example we have modelled the probability of 
an interruption from an extreme weather event at our key 
sites and supplier sites and the subsequent financial impact 
of that interruption assuming the inventory levels carried 
under existing business continuity plans. We have modelled 
the impact of future carbon taxes, such as direct taxes on 
energy-related emissions, emissions trading schemes 
and taxes from carbon border adjustment mechanisms 
assuming we deliver our carbon reduction glidepath to 
2030 and beyond. 

In 2022, we reviewed and updated our climate scenarios 
first developed in 2019. We intend to review the scenarios 
again in 2025 to make sure they'll remain up to date.. 

(1) IEA Net Zero emissions scenario, https://www.iea.org/reports/global-

energy-and-climate-model/net-zero-emissions-by-2050-scenario-nze 
last accessed 17 November 2022 

(2) IEA World Energy Outlook 2021, Chapter 2, p94, download report from 

https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2021/overview, last 
accessed 17 November 2022

(3) IEA Announced Pledges, https://www.iea.org/reports/global-energy-
and-climate-model/announced-pledges-scenario-aps last accessed  
17 November 2022

Net zero scenario (SSP 1 – RCP 1.9) 
This scenario sets out a narrow but achievable pathway for 
the global energy sector to achieve net zero CO2 emissions 
by 20501. It does not rely on emissions reduction from 
outside the energy sector to achieve its goal. The scenario is 
consistent with limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5°C 
without a temperature overshoot. Net zero means huge 
declines in the use of coal, oil and gas and a shift to 
renewable energy sources.  

Low-carbon scenario (SSP 1 – RCP 2.6) 
In this scenario, all current net zero pledges are achieved in 
full and there are extensive efforts to realise near-term 
emissions reductions; advanced economies reach net zero 
emissions by 2050, China around 2060, and all other 
countries by 2070 at the latest2. The scenario is consistent 
with limiting the global temperature rise to below 2°C. With 
some level of net negative emissions after 2070, the 
temperature rise could be reduced to 1.5°C in 2100.

Current trajectory scenario (SSP2 – RCP4.5) 
This scenario sets out to show to what extent announced 
ambitions and targets are on the path to deliver the 
emissions reductions required to achieve net zero emissions 
by 20503. The temperature rise will exceed 2°C by 2100, 
with a more noticeable shift to happen in the latter half of 
the century. A net zero pledge for emissions within the 
scenario does not necessarily mean that CO2 emissions from 
the energy sector need to reach net zero, but there is an 
allocation for carbon offsetting within the pledges. 

Breach of planetary boundaries scenarios (SSP 5 – RCP 8.5) 
This scenario is not aligned to any of the pledges laid out in 
the Paris Agreement and is one where countries are unable 
to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 
This scenario will have the most severe physical 
consequences for the planet. The temperature rise will 
exceed 4°C by 2100, leading to high loss of biodiversity and 
species extinction. 

Risk management
Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks 

The nature of the risks and opportunities from climate 
change depends not only on the physical aspects of climate 
change, but also regulatory and commercial changes in the 
markets in which we operate, including pressures to reduce 
the climate impact of our metered dose inhaler medicines.

Our risk management policies are designed to address all 
types of risks, including the Group principal risks and 
uncertainties. Climate risk management follows the same 
policy and framework. Risks from climate change at Group 
level fall under the governance of the CRC with the support 
of the Sustainability Council. Individual risks from climate 
change are raised with appropriate business unit or 
functional Risk Management Control Boards to make sure 
we integrate these risks into business risk management 
processes.

65

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

A specific and dedicated environmental sustainability risk 
management plan was put in place in 2020. The risk 
management plan covers expectations that we are 
addressing our impact on the environment, and that the 
environment has increasing impacts on operational 
resilience, such as access to energy, water and the natural 
resources used in products, along with any anticipated cost 
increases from regulatory changes or environmental taxes. 
We review developments in policy and regulations at global 
and national level, receiving quarterly monitoring reports.

We have procedures to identify risks from climate change 
when factors evolve, for example to assess the climate 
impact of merger and acquisition activity, or the 
construction of new buildings. We use a shadow carbon 
price of $100 per tonne CO2e to inform decision-making on 
investments in major capital expenditure to understand the 
implications on potential carbon offset costs for the carbon 
emissions from our value chain in 2030. This value is based 
on the recommendation by the Carbon Pricing Leadership 
Coalition that concluded in 2017 that the explicit carbon 
price level required to drive change to restrict temperature 
increases to below 1.5°C is at least US$50–100/tCO2 by 
20301. We monitor the value used for internal carbon pricing 
against estimates for the future costs of carbon credits.

Our processes for managing climate-related risk

For the purposes of this disclosure, we differentiate between 
'physical' and 'transition' climate-related risks.

Physical risks are typically identified at the asset or project 
level and are managed depending on the level of risk 
assessed. We use climate scenario analysis to model the 
potential impacts of our prioritised physical risks which helps 
us understand the resilience of our supply chains against 
climate change. 

Transition risks are typically risks associated with changes to 
regulations or societal expectations during the transition to 
a lower-carbon economy. They are identified at enterprise 
level and at market level. We manage transition risks 
through our investment decisions, our sustainability 
transformation programme and our procedures. For 
example, we manage risks which may arise from product 
claims based on environmental performance by using 
external accreditation processes and organisations to 
review the evidence used to support these claims.  

Our Communications and Government Affairs team 
manages corporate reputation by  identifying and 
monitoring of climate-related issues and undertaking 
both proactive and reactive engagement with relevant 
stakeholder groups to communicate our position.

Details of how we manage our prioritised risks are in 
the Risk Table.

How our processes for identifying, assessing and managing 
climate related risks are integrated into overall risk 
management

On an annual basis, a cross-functional team from 
Sustainability, Finance, Supply Chain and Procurement 
functions reviews climate risks. Climate-related risks are 
considered from a strategic and operational perspective 
to make sure we maintain a comprehensive view of the 
different types of climate risks we face and the different 
time horizons in which they may affect us. The team review 
previously identified climate risks, plus new or emerging risks 
and opportunities, and make recommendations in a paper 
to the Sustainability Council. Risk assessment papers are 
prepared for the prioritised risks, considering the likelihood 
and financial impact on us of each risk under different 
climate scenarios. 

Each risk and opportunity is analysed to understand how 
we are managing them, the metrics and targets being used 
and the potential impact on our total profit using a low 
(<£100 million), medium (£100 million – £250 million) or high 
(£250 million) threshold.

The impact assessments are approved by the VP 
Sustainability and a Finance VP from our Global Supply 
Chain business unit. The results are shared with Business 
Unit Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCB) 
and the Finance RMCB to make sure risks are both 
contextualised with other business risks and managed 
appropriately. This allows management to take a holistic 
view and optimise risk mitigation responses, to ensure that 
responses to climate-related risks are properly integrated 
into the relevant business unit and function activities.

The resilience of our strategy, considering different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario

We used the climate scenarios described above to stress 
test the resilience of the organisation by considering the 
impacts of potential physical and transition risks and 
opportunities on the locations where we operate as 
described in the table below. The modelling did not identify 
any material impact to our business resilience.

(1) Report of the High-Level Commission on Carbon Prices, Carbon Pricing 

Leadership Coalition, 2017, p10, https://
www.carbonpricingleadership.org/report-of-the-highlevel-commission-
on-carbon-prices/ 

66

Metrics

Targets

Sites that have 
achieved 
water 
stewardship

Total supplied 
water

Achieve  
good water 
stewardship 
at 100% of 
our sites by 
2025

Reduce 
overall water 
use in our 
operations by 
20% by 2030

Be water 
neutral in our 
own 
operations 
and at key 
suppliers in 
water-
stressed 
regions by 
2030

Where 
climate-
related risks 
to business 
continuity are 
identified, we 
have taken 
action to 
mitigate the 
risk

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Physical risk/ 
description

GSK response

The risk from 
increasing levels of 
water stress leading to 
interruptions to supply 
of water to our sites 
and third-party supply 
sites. 

We and our third-party 
suppliers use 
freshwater as the main 
source of water to 
manufacture medicines 
and vaccines. If water 
availability was 
restricted at a factory, 
operations would be 
interrupted.

We have identified three water basins in water-
stressed areas in Algeria, India and Pakistan 
where we have manufacturing sites, and where 
we aim to be water neutral.

At our manufacturing facility in Nashik, India 
we have built plants for rainwater harvesting.

The climate scenario analysis has identified       
a number of sites and supplier sites located in 
water basins that could become water stressed 
by 2050, which have been added to a watch 
list. We will monitor changes to the risk levels 
and update our site water risk assessments 
appropriately.

The financial impact assumes we manage 
inventory in our supply chain to the same levels 
as in 2023, and water stress could lead to a 
three-month supply interruption as a worst 
case.

Scenario

Current 
trajectory

Potential 
financial impact/
timeframe

Medium 
(£100M-
£250M)/
long term 
(> 10 years)

Breach of 
planetary 
boundaries

Medium 
(£100M-
£250M)/
long term 
(> 10 years)

Increasing frequency 
of extreme weather 
events causing 
disruption to our and 
third-party supplier 
sites.

Extreme weather 
events from any one of 
precipitation (rainfall), 
flood from 
precipitation, riverine 
flood, extreme wind, 
wildfire, and extreme 
heat can result in short-
term interruptions to 
manufacturing at 
our or supplier sites.

The climate scenario modelling indicated that, 
of the seven physical perils, flood from rainfall 
presents the highest likelihood of an acute 
interruption. However, the risk of flooding from 
rainfall and from the other extreme weather 
events is expected to remain very low.

We have performed risk assessments for our 
manufacturing and other operations and have 
business continuity plans which we review 
annually to respond to the impacts of extreme 
weather events, including adopting 
appropriate mitigation plans. 

We have a well-established loss prevention 
and risk engineering programme to identify a 
range of risks that could impact our sites and, 
where flood risks exist, we have taken action    
to mitigate them. 

The financial impact assumes we manage 
inventory in our supply chain to the same levels 
as in 2023, and an extreme weather event 
could lead to a three-month supply interruption 
as a worst case.

Current 
trajectory 
scenario

Medium 
(£100M-
£250M)/
long term
 (> 10 years)

Business 
continuity 
plans are 
reviewed 
annually

Breach of 
planetary 
boundaries 
scenario

Medium 
(£100M-
£250M)/
long term 
(> 10 years)

Transitional risk/ 
description

Regulations governing 
the use of high GWP 
substances are being 
updated in the EU and 
UK and were updated 
recently in the US.

This could lead to 
increasing costs and 
restrict the ability to 
manufacture our 
metered dose inhaler 
(MDI) products that 
use a high GWP 
propellant (HFA134a).

GSK response

Scenario

Potential 
financial impact/
timeframe

Metrics

Targets

Current 
trajectory 
scenario

High 
(> £250M)/ 
medium term 
(3-10 years)

On/off track 
against 
delivery of key 
milestones on 
the R&D 
programme 
plan

We are investing in a R&D programme and a 
large manufacturing site upgrade project to 
redevelop our Ventolin (salbutamol) inhaler by 
transitioning to a lower-carbon propellant that 
could potentially reduce its carbon emissions 
by up to 90%, if the clinical trials are 
successful.

We already have a portfolio of Dry Powder 
Inhaler products that do not use propellants 
that are not affected by this risk.

The financial impact assumes the 
reformulated product is approved by 
regulators and launched according to plan.

80% 
and 90% 
absolute 
reduction 
in 
greenhouse 
gas emissions 
from a 2020 
baseline 
across all 
scopes by 
2030 
and 2045, 
respectively

67

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Transitional risk/ 
description

GSK response

Future regulatory 
policy responses to 
address climate 
change could lead to 
the imposition of 
carbon taxes by 
countries where we 
manufacture and 
source goods from 
third parties. 

We are managing this risk by reducing our value 
chain carbon emissions in line with our transition 
plan described above.

The financial impact assumes we deliver an    
80% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030     
and assumes carbon tax values are as per IEA 
scenarios, supplemented by data from policy 
pledges for a small number of countries.

Nature-based projects 
fail to deliver the 
anticipated volumes 
of carbon credits from 
lower-than-expected 
growth or the result of 
a natural catastrophe.

This could lead to 
buying more carbon 
credits at higher cost 
to make up the 
shortfall.

We established a governance framework to 
manage each project with our external partners.

Any issues are escalated to the carbon offset 
programme steering committee.

We assume a future cost of £70 per tonne CO2e 
by 2030.

For the lower-than-anticipated growth scenario 
we assume a 25% under-delivery in a single year 
as the issues will have been identified early 
enough to take other preventative actions.

For a natural catastrophe scenario, we assume 
25% of the projects will be affected and the 
impact will last five years. 

Opportunities

GSK response

At COP28 in November 
2023, more than 70 
countries committed to 
provide low-carbon 
healthcare systems.

This could lead to 
increasing demand for 
low-carbon medicines 
and vaccines.

We are reducing our own Scope 1 & 2 carbon 
emissions, which in turn reduces the Scope 3 
footprint of our customers and suppliers. 

We have an Eco-design programme to reduce 
the impacts of all our products and packaging. 

We are investing in an R&D programme to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions from metered dose 
inhalers used to treat asthma and COPD and 
have made good progress towards reformulating 
an alternative gas that could potentially reduce 
the climate impact by up to 90% if the clinical 
trials are successful.

We have a portfolio of dry powder inhaler 
products that have low carbon footprints.  

We are part of a consortium of eight global 
pharmaceutical companies to co-develop a 
shared way of measuring and reporting 
environmental product footprints.

Financial impact is based on research performed 
for us in 2022 on the details of published 
commitments to transition to low-carbon 
healthcare in major markets.  

Selected 
Scenario

Net zero 

Potential 
financial impact/
timeframe

Medium 
(£100M-£250M)
 /medium (3-10 
years) and long 
term (> 10 years)

Low-carbon  Medium 

Metrics

Targets

Scope 1 & 2 
carbon 
emissions 

Scope 3 
carbon 
emissions

(£100M-£250M)
 /medium term 
(3-10 year)  
falling to low (< 
£100M)/long 
term (> 10 
years)

Low (< £100M)/
in the medium 
term (3-10 
years) and long 
term (> 10 years)

Low (<£100M) / 
medium term 
(3-10 years) 

In 
development

Medium (£100M 
-£250M)/
medium term 
(3-10 years) 

80% 
and 90% 
absolute 
reduction 
in 
greenhouse 
gas 
emissions 
from a 
2020 
baseline 
across all 
scopes by 
2030 
and 2045, 
respectively

80% 
and 90% 
absolute 
reduction 
in 
greenhouse 
gas 
emissions 
from a 2020 
baseline 
across all 
scopes by 
2030 
and 2045, 
respectively

Potential 
profit impact/
timeframe

Metrics

Targets

Current 
trajectory 

Lower-than-
anticipated 
growth 
scenario

Natural 
catastrophe 
scenario

Scenario

Net zero 

Low carbon 

Low (< £100M)/ 
Long term (> 10 
years)

Current 
trajectory 

Scope 1 & 2 
and 3 
carbon 
emissions 

Total waste 
and 
materials

80% 
and 90% 
absolute 
reduction 
in 
greenhouse 
gas 
emissions 
from a 
2020 
baseline 
across all 
scopes by 
2030 
and 2045, 
respectively.
Zero 
operational 
waste

68

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Metrics and targets
The metrics we use to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management process.

a. Disclose the 
metrics used by 
the organisation to 
assess climate risks 
and opportunities 
in line with its strategy 
and risk management 
process

We have considered the key metrics following the TCFD guidance of Tables A1.1 and A1.2 as well as the metrics 
consistent with cross-industry, climate-related metrics. Based on that, our strategic metrics are:   

– Scope 1 & 2 emissions (market-based and location-based approach), described in the table below

– Scope 3 emissions, described in the table below 

– % renewably sourced electricity, described in the table below

– Total supplied water, described in the table below

– Total waste and materials, described in the table below

– ESG composite metric, as part of our senior leaders‘ remuneration policy – see page 149

– Sites that have achieved water stewardship, described in the table below

Our ESG Performance Report includes more metrics used to support the strategic metrics listed above.

b. Disclose Scope 1, 2 
and if applicable Scope 3 
GHG emissions and          
related risks

In energy and carbon emissions, see table below:

– Scope 1 emissions from energy

– Scope 1 emissions from other sources

– Scope 2 emissions (market-based)

– Scope 2 emissions (location-based)

– Scope 3 emissions metrics 

– Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity metrics

c. Describe the targets 
used by the organisation 
to manage climate-   
related risks and 
opportunities and 
performance against 
targets

Prioritised physical and transition risks are included in the Risk Table above.

Our targets (measured against a 2020 baseline where applicable) are:

–  80% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and 

investment in nature-based solutions for the remaining 20% of our footprint by 2030

– Net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our full value chain by 2045: 90% absolute reduction in emissions 

from a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and all residual emissions neutralised 

– 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (Scope 2)

– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites by 2025

– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% in 2030
– Zero operational waste1, including eliminating single use plastics2 by 2030   
– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030
The performance against our targets is on page 50.3

(1) Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous waste
(2) Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are critical to product discovery and development and health & safety
(3) See Basis of Reporting 2023 in the ESG resources section of GSK.com (https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/responsibility/esg-resources/) for detailed 

methodologies for measuring and reporting all GSK environmental KPIs

We commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 across our entire 
value chain. We report progress in reducing Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions, Scope 3 carbon emissions, energy use, water, 
waste annually towards these targets on page 50, in our ESG Performance Report and in our public responses to the CDP 
Climate, Water and Forest questionnaires.	

69

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Climate-related financial disclosures continued

Metrics data

Carbon emissions1,2

Carbon emissions ‘000 tonnes CO2e

Scope 1 emissions (from energy)
Scope 1 emissions (other3)

Scope 2 emissions (market-based)

Scope 2 emissions (location-based)
Scope 3 emissions4

UK Scope 1 & 2 emissions

Other metrics

Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/sales revenue (tonnes CO2e/£m)

Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/FTE (tonnes CO2e/FTE)

Total energy used (GWh)

UK energy used (GWh)

% renewably sourced electricity
Total supplied water million m3
Total supplied water in areas of high water stress million m3 
Total waste and materials ‘000 metric tonne5

% sites that have achieved water stewardship

2023

301

279

64

240

–

102

2023

12.0

5.2

2,636

711

83%

7.4

0.3

49.7

100%

2022

320

306

88

265

8,995

111

2022

13.9

5.9

2,759

735

73%

7.5

0.3

50.2

100%

2021

333

300

131

285

8,624

126

2021

18.8

6.5

2,871

807

63%

7.9

0.3

55.

100%

(1) All data reported excludes our previous Consumer Healthcare business unless otherwise specified
(2) Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). We use 
market-based Scope 2 emissions for reporting purposes and report Scope 3 emissions across all 15 categories in our ESG Performance Report. We ask 
external assurance providers, Deloitte, to provide limited assurance to ISAE 3000 for energy, Scope 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 carbon emission data, water  
and wastewater data. Methodologies for reporting and measurements are provided in the Basis of Reporting 2023 in the ESG resources section of gsk.com 
(https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/responsibility/esg-resources/)

(3) ‘Other’ refers to emissions from sales force vehicles, propellant emissions released during manufacture of inhalers (the majority of propellant emissions, 

released during patient use, are included in Scope 3 carbon emissions), on-site waste, or wastewater treatment and refrigerant gas losses

(4) We collect and publish Scope 3 data across 15 categories. The most recent Scope 3 data available is for 2022 as the process of compiling the 2023 data is 
not yet complete, except for 2023 Scope 3 emissions from patient use of inhalers, which are disclosed in the ESG Performance Report. We will publish this 
data once it becomes available and it will be included in the 2024 ESG Performance Report

(5) Data for 2021 and 2022 have been restated. See our ESG Performance Report

Nature-related financial disclosures

At GSK we are committed to playing our part to minimise 
our impact and dependencies on nature, as well as helping 
to protect and restore nature. 

Governance
The board’s oversight of nature-related dependencies, 
impacts, risks and opportunities 

Human health relies on the fundamentals of nature: clean 
air and fresh water. Nature loss has a range of negative 
impacts on health, for example, reduced air quality 
increases the incidence and severity of respiratory diseases 
and habitat degradation and deforestation are increasing 
the risk of new human pathogens and pandemics. 
To protect human health and get ahead of disease, 
we need to protect nature.

GSK is an active member of the working groups of the 
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD). 
We have committed to make a full disclosure against the 
TNFD framework in early 2026 based on 2025 data.  
However, we are making an initial disclosure that is not fully 
compliant to the framework to show the progress of our 
nature programme.

As described on page 62.

Management’s role in assessing and managing nature-
related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities 

In addition to the disclosure on page 63, the Sustainability 
Council reviewed GSK’s Nature Strategy, ensuring alignment 
with ways of working required for Science Based Targets for 
Nature (SBTN) and that longer term budgetary 
requirements had been considered.

Our human rights policies, engagement activities and 
oversight with respect to indigenous peoples, local 
communities, affected and other stakeholders

Our position on human rights is published on GSK.com. We 
have a responsibility to respect human rights through our 
engagements with patients, our employees, our suppliers 
and the communities in which we live and operate.

70

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Nature-related financial disclosures continued

We are at the beginning of our nature journey, and we are 
working to further formalise policies and procedures related 
to stakeholders’ engagement and human rights specifically 
in relation to our assessment of impacts and our action 
on nature.

– Protecting and restoring nature is a key part of our 

climate and nature strategy. As nature investments are 
always context dependant, it is key for us to work with 
expert partners and NGOs to ensure project 
implementation includes local experts and local 
communities 

– Before we make decisions on protection and restoration 
projects, we run a human rights assessment as part of 
our broader due diligence. The assessment allows us to 
understand the local context and history, the process that 
partners use or plan to use to engage and involve local 
communities (including Free, Prior and Informed Consent 
(FPIC) and grievance mechanisms) and the how benefits 
will be shared 

– The connection between nature projects and health 
benefits has not been consistently included in nature 
projects and we have worked with third-party experts 
to develop and publish a toolkit to enable project 
developers and investors to do that

Strategy
The nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities we have identified over the short, medium 
and long term

Impacts and dependencies
Water 
Water is essential for the production of our vaccines and 
medicines. We have mapped our water footprint and 
calculated the volume of water we use in our value chain 
and in our own operations and have improved our 
understanding as to where in the world we have the 
biggest impact on water.

Our primary operational impact on water availability is 
through our own manufacturing sites that are located in 
areas of water stress. Using water risk data from the World 
Resources Institute and the World Wildlife Fund, we have 
identified five sites located in water-stressed areas across 
Algeria, India and Pakistan, which face increasing water 
availability and quality risks. 

Releases of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients are a priority 
focus for us regarding water quality.1 Pharmaceutical 
residues may sometimes pass into the environment as 
part of the normal biological process following patient use. 
To a lesser extent, pharmaceuticals can also enter the 
environment from unused medical products or factory 
discharges. 

(1) For more information see our public policy: https://www.gsk.com/

media/8867/gsk-position-on-pharmaceuticals-in-the-environment-
march-2022.pdf

(2) Read more about our position on antimicrobial resistance in our public 

policy

There are concerns that long-term exposure to 
pharmaceuticals in the environment can pose a risk to 
environmental species, including aquatic life. The presence 
of antibiotics in the environment, and its potential impact 
on driving antibiotic resistance as well as reducing microbial 
biodiversity, is a growing concern for many stakeholders 
and an active area of research.

While clinical and agricultural practices are generally 
recognised as the dominant sources of antibiotics entering 
the environment, unregulated manufacturing practices may 
also contribute to anti-microbial resistance2. 

Land 
Our primary dependency on land is due to the natural 
materials we source, some of which derive from agricultural 
commodities, a key driver of deforestation and land use 
change, globally. The supply chains for some of these 
commodities are often long and complex and may be many 
tiers removed from our direct engagement. Our operational 
land holdings are relatively small, although two of our R&D 
sites, one in Belgium and one in Spain, are located in Key 
Biodiversity Areas.

Oceans
Our impacts and dependencies on oceans come primarily 
from marine-derived materials that are a critical part of 
manufacturing vaccines and medicines. This includes, for 
example, horseshoe crab blood which is an important 
substance that is required by some regulators to be used in 
pharmaceutical and biomedical quality control processes to 
ensure the quality and safety of medicines, vaccines and 
devices.

Atmosphere
As a leader in medicines and vaccines for respiratory health, 
we want to play our part in improving air quality. We have 
done an initial assessment to establish an air pollution 
footprint in our operations and our supply chain. This 
showed that, directly, we are having a relatively low impact 
on air quality, and that the largest proportion of our 
emissions sits in our supply chain.

Waste and Materials
Our approach to product stewardship means that we 
consider and aim to address impacts on nature and climate 
at every stage of the product lifecycle, from discovery, 
design, sourcing and manufacturing through to product 
use and disposal. We have set a target to help accelerate 
the adoption of this approach.

The effect nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities have on our business model, value chain, 
strategy and financial planning, as well as any transition 
plans or analysis in place. 

We are committed to have a net positive impact on nature 
by 2030 by reducing our environmental impacts across 
water, waste and materials, biodiversity and by investing in 
nature protection and restoration. We set targets in 2020 
with a focus on the realms of nature, as well as supportive 
targets on waste and materials. We report progress against 
our nature plan and targets annually.

71

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Nature-related financial disclosures continued

In 2023 we were selected to be one of the first group 
of companies to work with the Science Based Targets 
Network (SBTN) in the pilot to develop and set validated 
science-based targets for nature, starting with targets 
for freshwater and land, followed by targets for oceans 
and biodiversity. These targets will focus on locations 
across our value chain where nature is particularly under 
pressure. We aim to have pilot science-based targets 
for nature in 2024.

The resilience of our strategy to nature-related risks and 
opportunities, taking into consideration different scenarios  

We manage organisational resilience to nature related 
risks through the implementation of our sustainability 
programme. Our delivery plan will evolve as external 
guidance continues to evolve, 

The locations of our direct operations that meet the criteria 
for priority locations

Freshwater
We have identified three initial water basins in water-
stressed areas where we have manufacturing sites, 
including across India, Pakistan and Algeria, which we 
have prioritised for investment in water neutrality to achieve 
a measurable and positive impact in water-stressed 
basins on availability, quality and accessibility.

Land
Our operational land holdings are relatively small, although 
two of our R&D sites, one in Belgium and one in Spain, are 
located in Key Biodiversity Areas.

In 2021, we piloted our approach to biodiversity with a 
baseline assessment and action plans at three sites to 
improving habitats, protecting species and improving soil 
and water quality. We have now commenced biodiversity 
uplift projects at our three largest R&D facilities – 
Stevenage in the UK and Upper Providence and Upper 
Merion in Pennsylvania in the US.

We are addressing 12 critical agricultural, forestry and 
marine-derived materials. We have engaged with 
associated suppliers and external independent experts 
to map the full supply chains involved, understand existing 
sustainability standards, identify gaps and establish 
improvement plans.

Oceans
We committed to restore mangroves in Indonesia, through 
community-led projects. Mangroves play a crucial role in 
climate regulation and climate change mitigation because 
of their carbon sequestration potential. Mangroves make 
the local population more resilient to flooding, improve the 
local fish ecosystem, water quality and contribute to the 
health and livelihood of local communities.

Risk & impact management
Our processes for identifying, assessing and prioritising 
nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities in our direct operations and value chain

Since 2020 we have deepened our understanding of our 
full value chain nature impacts and dependencies and 
continued to align with evolving practices and guidance. 
We are following the TNFD LEAP (Locate, Evaluate, Assess 
and Prepare) methodology to better understand our 
nature-related risks and opportunities and are involved 
in the pilot working with the Science Based Targets Network 
(SBTN) to set validated science-based targets for nature, 
starting with targets for freshwater and land, followed by 
targets for oceans and biodiversity. 

Our processes for managing nature-related dependencies, 
impacts, risks and opportunities 

We set targets in 2020 with a focus on the realms of 
nature, as well as supportive targets on waste and materials. 
We report progress against our nature plan and targets 
annually.

Water
Across all of our sites, we maintain high quality water 
infrastructure to ensure there is no leakage, and we reduce 
our overall water use through water-efficiency projects, 
including behaviour change programmes and introducing 
water-efficient cleaning procedures.

Today, all GSK sites complete a GSK water stewardship 
assessment, aligned to the Alliance for Water Stewardship 
(AWS) standard, and implement action plans to comply 
with our standard. For our sites located in water-stressed 
areas, we aim to secure certification under the AWS 
standard.

Land 
While we work on avoiding or reducing impact by assessing 
opportunities to improve efficiency, material changes or 
switching to alternatives, we have set ambitious standards 
for suppliers who provide us with materials that are highly 
dependent on nature, such as sugar, paper, palm oil, 
lactose, gelatine and soy. 

These standards, developed in collaboration with third-
party experts, aim to support these suppliers to assess, 
improve, and verify their approach to addressing a range 
of nature impacts – and associated climate and social 
impacts – including land use, water stewardship and 
biodiversity. 

As a first stage, we are addressing the 12 most critical 
materials, including paper and palm oil. We have roadmaps 
in place with an aim to achieve 100% sustainable sourced 
paper and palm oil by 2025. We have engaged with 
associated suppliers to map the full supply chains involved, 
understand existing sustainability standards, identify gaps 
and establish action plans. 

We are committed to having positive impact on biodiversity 
at all our operational sites. We used the Integrated 
Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) and have worked with 
ecological experts to complete mapping and baseline 
biodiversity assessments for 80% of our sites. We are now 
implementing biodiversity action plans across our estate 
with an aim to improve habitats, protect species and 
improve soil and water quality.

72

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Nature-related financial disclosures continued

Oceans
To reduce our impact on oceans, we are implementing our 
Marine Sustainable Sourcing Standard which outlines the 
specific requirements that our suppliers of marine-derived 
materials must adhere to. 

As part of our approach to product stewardship, we are 
working to reduce the volume of marine-derived materials, 
for example, through process efficiencies. In the longer term, 
we are seeking to transition to alternatives to marine-
derived materials, wherever possible from both a technical 
and regulatory perspective. 

Atmosphere
The outcome of an initial air quality assessment highlighted 
opportunities for reductions in emissions linked to on-site 
electricity generation and use of solid fuels, car use and 
move to electric fleet, as well as indicating opportunities 
in our value chain for the sourcing of plastic and glass 
products. 

We are creating reduction plans around these key areas 
that are aligned to our pathway to net zero and which aim 
to have a positive impact on air quality. 

We are conducting an additional air quality assessment, 
working with Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) and the 
University of York, broadening the suite of air pollutants to 
be taken into consideration to understand their impact 
across our value chain and their connection to human 
health. 

To help accelerate collective action on air pollution, we are 
members of the Alliance for Clean Air through the Clean Air 
Fund (CAF) and the World Economic Forum, which aims to 
drive corporate action on clean air to accelerate climate 
action and create healthy communities around the world. 

The collective measurement of direct and value chain 
emissions across the Clean Air Fund membership aims to 
build a picture of the activities that give rise to poor air 
quality globally and intends to enable policy makers and 
industries to make informed decisions, considering the 
broader global impacts on health from poor air quality.

Waste and materials
Embedding our approach to product stewardship to reduce 
our impact on nature means working to minimise the waste 
and materials used, and the waste and pollution generated, 
from delivering our medicines and vaccines across the full 
product lifecycle. We have already achieved zero 
operational waste to landfill and we continue to build on our 
long-standing operational waste management programme 
to identify opportunities to achieve more beneficial use from 
waste. However, there is a risk that circular routes of 
recovery for all our waste streams may still not exist by 2030. 

For our supply chain, we’re working on a waste footprint 
assessment to help with supplier engagement on waste 
reduction, and on product design so we can build in 
circularity and reduce waste by design.

How our processes for identifying, assessing, prioritising 
and monitoring nature-related risks are integrated into 
and inform our overall risk management processes 

We are a part of the first group of companies to be working 
with the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) to set 
validated science-based targets for nature, starting with 
targets for freshwater and land, followed by targets for 
oceans and biodiversity. These targets will focus on 
locations across our value chain where nature is particularly 
under pressure. We aim to have science-based targets for 
nature in 2024. 

We continue to work towards our existing targets while we 
work through the SBTN pilot. Our delivery plan will continue 
to evolve as we go through SBTN target validation, as 
external guidance continues to evolve, and our data is 
developed, primarily through greater supply chain 
traceability.

Metrics and targets
We report performance against our existing targets using 
metrics for water use and waste and materials see table 
on page 70.  

Realm

Freshwater

Key performance indicator

Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical 
ingredient limits and the percentage of suppliers that are compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance Common 
Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework and discharge limits

Land

The percentage of paper and palm oil that is deforestation free

Waste and materials

The reduction in routine operational hazardous and non-hazardous waste

73

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Nature-related financial disclosures continued

GSK sets the following targets for managing our nature commitments:

Focus area

Freshwater

Land

Oceans

Atmosphere

Waste and materials

Target

– 100% of our sites to achieve good water stewardship by 2025 and reduce overall water use by 20% by 2030 
– Water neutral in operations and with key suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030 
– Zero impact active pharmaceutical ingredient levels1 for all our sites and key suppliers by 20302  

– Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites3 by 2030 
– 100% of agricultural and forestry derived materials sustainably sourced and deforestation free by 20302,4 

– 100% of marine-derived materials sustainably sourced by 2030 
– 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (Scope 2)2 
– 80% reduction in carbon emissions across our full value chain by 20302 
– Net zero carbon emissions across our full value chain by 20452 

– Zero operational waste5 10, including eliminating single use plastics6 by 20302 
– 10% waste reduction from supply chain by 2030 
– 25% environmental impact reduction for our products and packaging by 2030

(1) Below the predicted no-effect level
(2) Linked with the remuneration of our senior leaders
(3) GSK sites
(4) Target updated in December 2021 to reflect priority materials
(5) Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous waste
(6) Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are critical to product discovery and development and health & safety

74

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Non-financial and sustainability information statement

The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies 
Act 2006.

Description of the business model

Human rights

Policy, due diligence and outcomes

Business model  

Social matters

Access 

Global health and health security 

Employees

Our culture and people 

Employee engagement 

Wellbeing and development 

Diversity, equity and inclusion 

Gender pay gap 

Ethical standards 

Board diversity 

47

48

14

15

15

52

53

53

130

8

Human rights 

Working with third parties 

Data and engagement 

Anti-bribery and corruption

Ethical standards 

Reporting and investigating 
concerns  

Environmental matters

Environment 

Climate-related financial 
disclosures 

Nature-related financial disclosures  70

54

54

54

53

54

49

62

Risk management 

Viability statement 

57

76

Audit & Risk Committee report 

133

Principal risks and uncertainties 

284

Non-financial key performance 
indicators

2023 performance and key 
performance indicators  

2

Our policies

All of our public policies, codes and 
standards are available on gsk.com

Employees by gender

Board1

Management1,2

All employees3

Male

7

8,682

36,510

Female

5

8,788

33,702

Total

12

17,470

70,212

(1) Headcounts as of 31 December 2023
(2) Senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013
(3) ‘Total’ calculated as full-time equivalent employees (FTEs) as of 31 December 2023. ‘Male’ and ‘female’ calculated by applying ‘all employees’ gender 

diversity percentages to ‘total’ FTE number

75

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Viability statement

In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 revision of the 
Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Group over 
a longer period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going 
Concern’ provision. The Directors confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to operate 
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next three 
years. The Directors’ assessment has been made with 
reference to GSK’s current position and prospects, our 
strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s principal risks 
and how these are managed, as detailed on pages 57 to 61 
in the Strategic report. 

The Board reviews our internal controls and risk 
management policies and approves our governance 
structure and code of conduct. It also appraises and 
approves major financing, investment and licensing 
decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance 
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on 
improving our long-term financial performance through 
delivery of our company’s business strategies and aligned 
priorities.

The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant 
capital investment decisions over a long-term time horizon, 
based on a multi-year assessment of return on capital, the 
performance of the company, and the market opportunities 
in medicines and vaccines. This approach is aligned to 
GSK’s model of achieving balanced growth by investing in 
high quality, innovative products for patients and healthcare 
providers. However, since many internal and external 
parameters become increasingly unpredictable over longer 
time horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on 
a three-year cycle. The Plan is reviewed at least annually 
by the Directors, who approve business forecasts showing 
expected financial impact. The Directors believe that a 
three-year assessment period for the Viability statement 
is most appropriate as it aligns with the Group’s well 
established business planning processes that balance the 
long-term nature of investments in medicines and vaccines 
with an assessment of the period over which analysis of 
near-term business performance is realistically visible. 

The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust 
operational and principal risk downside scenarios as part 
of the Board’s review on risk. The Plan assumes the next 
several years to be challenging for the healthcare industry 
with continued pressure on pricing of pharmaceuticals and 
uncertain economic conditions prevailing across many 
markets in which GSK operates. GSK assumes no premature 
loss of exclusivity for key products over the period and for 
all anticipated launches to proceed as planned. 

The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows, 
sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance 
provision and recovery as well as other key financial ratios 
over the period. These metrics have been subject to 
sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the 
main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually 
and in combination, along with mitigating actions that 
could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact 
or occurrence of the underlying risk. 

The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been 
evaluated: 

Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key 
performance risks, including lower sales from new products, 
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other 
competitive launches to other GSK products, as well as 
possible supply and manufacturing challenges. 

Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario 
reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside 
factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing 
pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential 
impact of material negative changes in the macro-
economic and healthcare environment. 

Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe 
assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal 
risks related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain 
continuity, information and cyber security and 
environmental harm as well as anti-bribery and corruption 
and any consequent regulatory actions, fines or significant 
litigation, all of which could fundamentally threaten our 
operations. These risks are managed through mitigating 
activities described on pages 284 to 294. 

Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates 
the additional funding requirements assuming the earliest 
potential exercise of the outstanding put option held by 
Pfizer Inc. 

The three-year review also makes certain assumptions 
about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur 
and considers whether additional financing facilities will 
be required and the respective level of funding flexibility 
and headroom.

The results of this stress testing show that certain 
combinations of these hypothetical scenarios could increase 
funding demands on GSK and require mitigating changes 
to the Group’s funding strategy. However, in light of the 
liquidity available to the Group and based on this analysis, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even 
under these most severe stress tests, the Group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the three-year period of assessment.

76

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial 
review

In this section

Summary full year results

Financial performance summary

Reporting framework

Financial performance

Adjusting items

Cash generation and conversion

Financial position and resources

Approach to tax

Treasury policies

Critical accounting policies

78

81

82

86

93

97

98

103

104

105

77

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review

Summary full year results

Results summary

Turnover

Turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions

Total continuing operating profit

Total operating margin

Total continuing EPS

Adjusted operating profit

Adjusted operating margin

Adjusted EPS

Cash flow

Cash generated from operations

Free cash flow

Full year
2023 
£m

Growth
AER 
%

Growth
CER 
%

Full year
2022 
£m

Full year
2021 
£m

30,328 

30,134 

6,745 

 22.2% 

121.6p 

8,786 

 29.0% 

155.1p 

8,096 

3,409 

 3 

 12 

 5 

 5 

 14 

 10 

 0.3ppts 

 1.0ppts 

 10 

 8 

 16 

 12 

 1.2ppts 

 1.8ppts 

 16 

 11 

 2 

 2 

29,324 

24,696 

26,951 

6,433 

 21.9% 

110.8p 

8,151 

 27.8% 

139.7p 

7,944 

3,348 

23,291 

4,357 

 17.6% 

82.9p 

6,493 

 26.3% 

110.3p 

7,249 

3,301 

(2023 Financial results unless otherwise stated, growth % and commentary at CER.  Ex COVID is excluding COVID-19 solutions as defined on page 85).

GSK delivered an excellent performance in 
2023 with sales of £30.3 billion and double 
digit adjusted operating profit  and 
adjusted EPS per share growth at CER. As 
a consequence of this performance, we 
were also pleased to increase the dividend 
for the year. In 2024, we expect another 
year of meaningful growth for GSK, driven 
by a continued focus on execution, 
strengthening our pipeline and capital 
allocation.

Total continuing EPS grew 16%, reflecting strong profit growth 
and lower charges related to the remeasurement of 
contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset by a fair value 
loss on the retained stake in Haleon plc compared to a fair 
value gain in the same period in the prior year. In addition, 
there is an unfavourable comparison due to upfront income 
received from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. in 2022. 
Adjusted EPS grew 16% overall (with further positive impact of 
+6% excluding COVID-19 solutions), benefiting from a lower 
net finance expense, which decreased 15% following debt 
restructuring. The effective adjusted tax rate was 15.5% in line 
with 2022 and our guidance.

Improved 2023 operating margins
Total operating profit margin was higher in 2023 due to 
profitable growth across the portfolio, favourable movements 
in contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset by an 
unfavourable comparison due to upfront income received 
from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. in 2022. 
Adjusted operating profit margin improved primarily due to 
reduced sales of lower-margin Xevudy. Excluding COVID-19 
solutions, Adjusted operating profit margin improved due to 
product mix, productivity improvements and increased royalty 
income. Growth in SG&A reflected investment in Vaccines, 
including disease awareness and the launch of Arexvy, 
together with Shingrix, long-acting HIV, Jemperli and Ojjaara. 
Royalty income also contributed to margin improvement.

78

Delivering a step-change in financial 
performance in 2023
In 2023 our sales were £30,328 million, an increase of 5% 
overall reflecting continued strong business performance with 
strong growth in Vaccines (Arexvy and Shingrix) and HIV, 
excluding COVID-19 solutions sales grew 14%. Total operating 
profit increased 10% to £6,745 million, driven by overall 
performance and favourable contingent consideration 
liabilities (CCL) movements. Adjusted operating profit grew 
12% to £8,786 million (with further positive impact of +4% 
excluding COVID-19 solutions). Adjusted operating margin 
increased to 29%, driven largely by favourable product mix 
and operational efficiencies, as well as increased royalties. 
The reconciliation of Total to Adjusted results is included on 
page 93.

Total and adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of sales 
decreased in the full year reflecting reduced sales of lower 
margin Xevudy compared to 2022. Total and adjusted SG&A 
growth was focused on investment in Vaccines, including 
disease awareness and the launch of Arexvy, together with 
Shingrix, long-acting HIV, Jemperli and Ojjaara. R&D costs 
increased due to investment in late-stage programmes in 
Vaccines, Respiratory/Immunology and Infectious diseases. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

2023 cash flow performance
Our total full year Cash Generated From Operations 
increased to £8,096 million despite annualising the Gilead 
Sciences Inc. settlement in Quarter 1 2022 (£0.9 billion) due to 
higher Adjusted operating profit, favourable timing of Xevudy 
cash flows and lower UK pension contributions partly offset by 
higher receivables from Arexvy sales. Net capital investment 
increased primarily due to lower proceeds from asset 
disposals than in 2022 resulting in Free Cash Flow from 
continuing operations increasing to £3,409 million.

Net Debt improvement
Our net debt position decreased to £15 billion by the end of 
2023. We look to deploy funds to enhance growth and deliver 
attractive shareholder returns. We started the year with net 
debt of £17.2 billion and strong free cash generation, in 
addition to the monetisation of our stake in Haleon plc, 
supported £3.8 billion of investment in targeted business 
development and capital expenditure and £2.2 billion was 
returned to shareholders via the dividend.

Capital deployment supports business growth and shareholder returns

(1) Free Cash Flow (FCF) is £3.4bn, including the capital expenditure (net of disposal proceeds for plant, property & equipment) and intangibles of £1.3bn and £1.0bn

(2) Other includes dividend and distribution income, exchange on net debt and other financing items

Capital allocation framework to support 
investment and returns
Priority is to invest for growth, coupled with attractive 
shareholder returns

(1) GSK group dividend in 2022; GSK related only and excludes dividend related to 

Consumer Healthcare  in H1-2022; FY 2022 dividend 61.25p/share

Our capital allocation framework to support 
investment and returns
Our capital allocation framework means our first priority 
remains to invest in the business, with capital allocated 
towards development of the pipeline, both organic and 
targeted business development. 

We also remain committed to delivering attractive returns to 
shareholders and pursuing a progressive dividend policy, 
guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio through the 
investment cycle.  In setting its dividend policy, GSK considers 
the priorities of the Group and its investment strategy for 
growth, alongside the sustainability of the dividend.

Consistent with this, and reflecting strong business 
performance during the year, GSK now expects to declare an 
increased dividend of 58.00p per share for full year 2023. The 
expected dividend for 2024 is 60.00p.

In the event of surplus cash, the excess would be returned to 
shareholders.  We remain committed to maintaining a 
balance sheet with a strong investment grade credit rating.

79

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

2021-26 and 2031 Outlooks at CER
In January 2024,  GSK announced upgraded outlooks, from 
those previously given, for the period 2021-2026 and for 2031. 
For the period 2021-2026, GSK now expects sales to grow 
more than 7% on a CAGR basis and adjusted operating profit 
to increase more than 11%, on the same basis. This compares 
to previous outlooks of more than 5% and more than 10% 
respectively. Adjusted operating profit margin in 2026 is now 
expected to be more than 31%.

By 2031, GSK now expects to achieve sales of more than £38 
billion on a risk-adjusted basis and at CER. GSK expects to 
maintain a continued strong focus on margin improvements, 
while retaining flexibility to invest in future growth. 
Recognising that GSK will likely face loss of exclusivity for 
dolutegravir during 2028 to 2030 in the US and EU, with the 
majority of impact 2029 to 2030, GSK stated that it expects 
operating margins to be broadly stable through this period. 
GSK expects an effective transition within its HIV portfolio 
towards new long-acting treatment and prevention therapies, 
margin mix benefit from growth in higher operating margin 
Vaccine and Specialty Medicine products, and a continued 
focus on achievable productivity gains, notably in supply 
chain and in SG&A. 

All expectations, guidance and outlooks regarding future 
performance and dividend payments should be read together 
with ‘Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and cautionary 
statements’ on inside back cover.

Group financial review continued

2024 guidance at CER (excluding COVID-19 
solutions)
For 2024, we expect another year of meaningful growth for 
GSK, our guidance is provided at CER and excludes the impact 
of COVID-19 solutions. Sales are expected to increase between 
5 and 7 per cent, Adjusted operating profit is expected to 
increase between 7 and 10 per cent with Adjusted earnings per 
share expected to increase between 6 and 9 per cent. 

This guidance is supported by the following turnover 
expectations for full year 2024: 

– For Vaccines, we expect high single digit to low double-

digit percent growth

– For Specialty Medicines, we expect a low double-digit per 

cent growth

– For General Medicines, we expect sales will decrease by a 

mid-single-digit per cent

Adjusted Operating profit is expected to grow between 7 to 
10 per cent at CER, despite a 6 percentage point impact to 
Operating Profit growth following the loss of Gardasil royalties 
effective from the beginning of 2024. GSK expects to deliver 
leverage at a gross margin level due to improved product mix 
from Vaccines and Specialty Medicines growth and 
continued operational efficiencies. In addition, GSK 
anticipates further leverage in Operating Profit due to a step 
down in SG&A growth to a low single-digit increase. R&D is 
expected to increase broadly in line with sales to support 
growth of the pipeline. 

Adjusted Earnings per share is now expected to increase 
between 6 to 9 per cent at CER, reflecting higher operating 
profit and more favourable net finance costs. Expectations for 
non-controlling interests remain unchanged relative to 2023, 
and GSK anticipates, as previously communicated, an 
increase in the adjusted effective tax rate to around 17% 
following implementation of a global minimum corporate 
income tax rate aligned with the Organisation for Economic 
Co-Operation and Development ‘Pillar 2’ initiative.

COVID-19 solutions
We do not anticipate any future revenue from COVID-19 
solutions and this will reduce sales growth by 1% and Adjusted 
operating profit growth by 2% in 2024. 

Currency impact
If exchange rates were to hold at the closing rates on 24 
January 2024 ($1.27/£1, €1.17/£1 and Yen 188/£1) for the rest 
of 2024, the estimated impact on 2024 Sterling turnover 
growth for GSK would be -3% and if exchange gains or losses 
were recognised at the same level as in 2023, the estimated 
impact on 2024 Sterling Adjusted Operating Profit growth for 
GSK would be -5%.

80

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance summary

The Total results of the Group are set out below. 

Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Selling, general and administration

Research and development
Royalty income

Other operating income/(expense)

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures

Profit/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates and joint ventures

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit after taxation from continuing operations 

Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other 
  gains/(losses) from the demerger

Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to
  shareholders on demerger

Profit after taxation from discontinued operations

Total profit after taxation for the year

Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing
  operations

Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations

Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from discontinued
  operations

Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations

Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests

Total profit attributable to shareholders

Earnings per share from continuing operations (pence)

Earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence)

Total earnings per share (pence)

Earnings per ADS from continuing operations (US$)

Earnings per ADS from discontinued operations (US$)

Total earnings per ADS (US$)

2023

% of
turnover 
 100 

£m
29,324 

 (28.2)   

(9,554) 

 71.8 

19,770 

 (30.9)   

(8,372) 

 (20.5)   
 3.1 

(5,488) 
758 

 (1.3)   

(235) 

 22.2 

6,433 

(803) 

(2) 

– 

5,628 

(707) 

4,921 

3,049 

7,651 

10,700 

15,621 

460 

4,461 

205 

10,495 

15,621 

665 

14,956 

15,621 

110.8p 

260.6p 

371.4p 

2.75 

6.46 

9.21 

£m
  30,328 

(8,565) 

21,763 

(9,385) 

(6,223) 
953 

(363) 

6,745 

(677) 

(5) 

1 

6,064 

(756) 

5,308 

– 

– 

– 

5,308 

380 

4,928 

– 

– 

5,308 

380 

4,928 

5,308 

121.6p 

– 

121.6p 

3.02 
– 

3.02 

2022

% of
turnover
 100 

 (32.6) 

 67.4 

 (28.6) 

 (18.7) 
 2.6 

 (0.8) 

 21.9 

Growth

CER%
 5 

 (10) 

 13 

 14 

 14 
 26 

 10 

 14 

 14 

£%
 3 

 (10) 

 10 

 12 

 13 
 26 

 5 

 8 

 8 

 (100) 

 (100) 

 (66) 

 (64) 

 (66) 

 10 

 (100) 

 (67) 

 (64) 

 16 

 (100) 

 (65) 

The Adjusted results for the Group are set out below. Reconciliations between Total results and Adjusted results for 2023 and 2022 
are set out on pages 93 to 94.

Turnover

Cost of sales

Selling, general and administration
Research and development

Royalty income

Adjusted operating profit

Adjusted profit attributable to non-controlling interest

Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders

Adjusted profit after taxation
Adjusted earnings per share (p)

£m
  30,328 

(7,716) 

(9,029) 
(5,750) 

953 

8,786 

572 

6,283 

6,855 
155.1p 

2023

% of 
turnover
 100 

£m
29,324 

 (25.4)   

(8,741) 

 (29.8)   
 (19.0)   

(8,128) 
(5,062) 

 3.2 

 29.0 

758 

8,151 

595 

5,625 

6,220 
139.7p 

2022

% of 
turnover

Growth

£%

CER%

 100 

 (29.8) 

 (27.7) 
 (17.3) 

 2.6 

 27.8 

 3 

 (12) 

 11 
 14 

 26 

 8 

 10 
 11 

 5 

 (11) 

 13 
 14 

 26 

 12 

 15 
 16 

81

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Reporting framework

Total and Adjusted results
The Group financial review discusses the operating and 
financial performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial 
position and our resources. The results for each year are 
compared primarily with the results of the preceding year.

Total results
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall 
performance.

GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to 
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and 
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, 
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented 
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below 
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 83.

GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together 
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other 
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to 
understand better the financial performance and position of 
the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s 
performance to be more easily compared against the majority 
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by 
management for planning and reporting purposes and when 
determining compensation. They may not be directly 
comparable with similarly described measures used by other 
companies.

GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any 
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, 
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety.

Adjusted results
Adjusted results exclude the profits from discontinued 
operations from the Consumer Healthcare business (see 
details on page 238) and the following items in relation to our 
continuing operations from Total results, together with the tax 
effects of all of these items:

– amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer 

software and capitalised development costs) 

– impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer 

software) and goodwill

– Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of 
tangible assets and computer software, (under specific 
Board approved programmes that are structural, of a 
significant scale and where the costs of individual or related 
projects exceed £25 million) including integration costs 
following material acquisitions

– transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related 

to significant acquisitions

– proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products 

and businesses; significant settlement income; significant 
legal charges (net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on 
the settlement of litigation and government investigations; 
other operating income other than royalty income, and other 
items

Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring 
and legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total 
and Adjusted results.

As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring 
programmes but exclude significant costs (such as  
amortisation of intangible assets except for computer software 
and capitalised development costs, significant legal, major 
restructuring and transaction items), they should not be 
regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial 
performance, which is presented in its Total results. The 
exclusion of other Adjusting items may result in Adjusted 
earnings being materially higher or lower than Total earnings. In 
particular, when significant impairments, restructuring charges 
and legal costs are excluded, Adjusted earnings will be higher 
than Total earnings.

GSK has undertaken a number of Major restructuring 
programmes in response to significant changes in the Group’s 
trading environment or overall strategy or following material 
acquisitions. Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly 
regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and 
long lifecycle of the business mean that restructuring 
programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation 
or closure of manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take 
several years to complete. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of 
these programmes are provided for as individual elements are 
approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria. As a 
result, charges may be incurred over a number of years 
following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.

Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from 
the settlement of litigation or government investigations that 
are not in the normal course and are materially larger than 
more regularly occurring individual matters. They also include 
certain major legacy matters.

Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing 
further information on the key Adjusting items for 2023, 2022 
and 2021, are set out on pages 93 to 95.

GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on 
the basis of Adjusted results. This practice is in line with peer 
companies and expectations of the investor community, 
supporting easier comparison of the Group’s performance with 
its peers. GSK is not able to give guidance for Total results as it 
cannot reliably forecast certain material elements of the Total 
results, particularly the future fair value movements on 
contingent consideration and put options that can and have 
given rise to significant adjustments driven by external factors 
such as currency and other movements in capital markets.

82

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Reporting framework continued

Historical record of Adjusting items

The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations over the last three years can be 
summarised as follows:

Total operating profit from continuing operations

Intangible amortisation

Intangible impairment

Major restructuring

Transaction-related items

Divestments, significant legal and other items

Adjusted results

2023
£m
6,745 

719 

398 

382 

572 

2022
£m
6,433 

739 

296 

321 

1,750 

(30)   

(1,388)   

2021 
£m
4,357 

761 

347 

424 

1,143 

(539) 

8,786 

8,151 

6,493 

The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last three years is as follows:

Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends)

ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends

Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business

Contingent consideration on acquisition of Affinivax

Other adjustments

Transaction-related items

2023
£m
934 

(245) 

(187) 

44 

26 

572 

2022
£m
1,431 

85

193

17

24

2021 
£m
1,026 

48

27

 – 

42

1,750

1,143

Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2021–2023 including continuing and discontinued operations are set out 
on pages 93 to 95. Further explanations on the Adjusting items for 2023 are reported on page 96.

Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before 
taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.

Total net debt
Net debt is defined as total borrowings less cash, cash 
equivalents, liquid investments, and short-term loans to third 
parties that are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value. Please see Note 30 ‘Net Debt’ for the calculation of net 
debt.

Total Operating Margin
Total operating margin is operating profit divided by turnover.

Adjusted Operating Margin
Adjusted operating margin is Adjusted operating profit divided 
by turnover.

Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)
CAGR is defined as the compound annual growth rate and 
shows the annualised average rate of revenue growth between 
a number of given years, assuming growth takes place at an 
exponentially compounded rate.

Other non-IFRS measures

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow/outflow from 
continuing operating activities less capital expenditure on 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, 
contingent consideration payments, net finance costs, and 
dividends paid to non-controlling interests, contributions from 
non-controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and 
dividends received from joint ventures and associates (all 
attributable to continuing operations). It is used by 
management for planning and reporting purposes and in 
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts and 
rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated on a 
reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from 
continuing operations to free cash flow from continuing 
operations is set out on page 97.

Working capital
Working capital represents inventory and trade receivables 
less trade payables.

CER and AER growth

In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s 
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange 
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the 
exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas 
companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those 
used in the comparative period. CER% represents growth at 
constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth at 
actual exchange rates.

83

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Reporting framework continued

Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare
Trading profit allocations
As ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% 
of its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after 
tax) are included within the Group income statement and then 
a portion of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling 
interests owned by the other shareholders, in line with their 
respective equity shareholdings (Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) 11.7% and 
Shionogi & Co. Ltd (Shionogi) 10%). Each of the shareholders, 
including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends 
determined by the performance of certain products that each 
shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these 
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall 
earnings allocated to each shareholder also changes. In 
particular, the increasing proportion of sales of dolutegravir- 
and cabotegravir-containing products has a favourable 
impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends that is 
allocated to GSK. Adjusting items are allocated to 
shareholders based on their equity interests. GSK was entitled 
to approximately 84% of the Total earnings and 83% of the 
Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2023.

Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends 
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within other 
operating income/(expenses).

Acquisition-related arrangements
As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in the 
former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, Shionogi 
received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare and ViiV 
Healthcare also agreed to pay additional future cash 
consideration to Shionogi, contingent on the future sales 
performance of the products being developed by that joint 
venture, dolutegravir and cabotegravir. Under IFRS 3 `Business 
combinations’, GSK was required to provide for the estimated 
fair value of this contingent consideration at the time of 
acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest 
estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The 
liability for the contingent consideration recognised in the 
balance sheet at the date of acquisition was £659 million. 
Subsequent re-measurements are reflected within other 
operating income/(expenses) and within Adjusting items in the 
income statement in each period.

Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are 
made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on 
the actual sales performance and other income of the relevant 
products in the previous quarter. These payments reduce the 
balance sheet liability and hence are not recorded in the 
income statement, but are included in the cash flow. The cash 
payments made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare in 2023 were 
£1,106 million.

As the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value of 
estimated future payments, there is a significant timing 
difference between the charges that are recorded in the 
Total income statement to reflect movements in the fair value of 
the liability and the actual cash payments made to settle 
the liability.

The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement 
partly in operating cash flows and partly within investing 
activities. The tax relief on these payments is reflected in the 
Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. The part of 
each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair value 
of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the 
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million is 
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement 
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the 
liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash 
flows.

Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi 
were as follows:

Contingent consideration at beginning 
  of the year

Remeasurement through income statement
  and other movements
Cash payments: operating cash flows

Cash payments: investing activities

Contingent consideration at end of the year

2023
£m

2022
£m

5,890 

5,559 

934 

(1,106)   

– 

5,718 

1,431 

(1,031) 

(69) 

5,890 

Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis) 
to Shionogi at 31 December 2023, £1,017 million (31 December 
2022: £940 million) is expected to be paid within one year.

Exit rights
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if 
either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not 
completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to 
acquire its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK 
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent 
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the 
exercise of the Pfizer put option and, as a result, in accordance 
with IFRS, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option on 
its balance sheet. However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer 
that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly 
recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s 
balance sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of £1,070 
million. Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 
2016 GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential 
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and 
Shionogi on the Group’s balance sheet.

Pfizer has the right to require GSK to acquire its shareholding in 
ViiV Healthcare in certain circumstances at any time. A put 
option liability is therefore recorded on the Group’s balance 
sheet as a current liability. It is measured on the gross 
redemption basis derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV 
Healthcare business.

The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s 
shareholding are as follows:

Pfizer put option

2023
£m
848 

2022
£m
1,093 

84

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Reporting framework continued

Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have 
requested GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in 
six-month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022. GSK 
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent 
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the 
exercise of the Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not 
recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet. 

However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had 
irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the 
liability for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during 
Q1 2016 at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi 
irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and, as a result, GSK 
de-recognised the liability for this put option on the Group’s 
balance sheet directly to equity. The value of the liability was 
£1,244 million when it was de-recognised.

GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in ViiV 
Healthcare, which under the original agreements was 
exercisable in six-month windows commencing in 2027, 2030 
and 2032. GSK has now irrevocably agreed to waive the first 
two exercise windows, but the last six-month window in 2032 
remains. As this call option is at fair value, it has no value for 
accounting purposes.

Specialty Medicines
Specialty Medicines are typically prescription medicines used to 
treat complex or rare chronic conditions. For GSK, this 
comprises medicines in infectious diseases, HIV, Oncology, 
Respiratory/Immunology and Other.

Share Consolidation

Following completion of the Consumer Healthcare business 
demerger on 18 July 2022, GSK plc Ordinary shares were 
consolidated to maintain share price comparability before and 
after demerger. Shareholders received 4 new Ordinary shares 
with a nominal value of 31¼ pence each for every 5 existing 
Ordinary shares which had a nominal value of 25 pence each. 
Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, adjusted 
earnings per share and dividends per share were retrospectively 
adjusted to reflect the Share Consolidation in all the periods 
presented.

Earnings per share
Earnings per share has been retrospectively adjusted for the 
Share Consolidation on 18 July 2022, applying a ratio of 4 new 
Ordinary shares for every 5 existing Ordinary shares.

Reporting definitions

Total Earnings per share

COVID-19 solutions
COVID-19 solutions include the sales of pandemic adjuvant 
and other COVID-19 solutions including vaccine 
manufacturing and Xevudy and the associated costs but does 
not include reinvestment in R&D. This categorisation is used by 
management and we believe is helpful to investors through 
providing clarity on the results of the Group by showing the 
contribution to growth from COVID-19 solutions.

Turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions
Turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions excludes the impact of 
sales of pandemic adjuvant within Vaccines and Xevudy within 
Specialty Medicines related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Management believes that the exclusion of the impact of these 
COVID-19 solutions sales aids comparability in the reporting 
periods and understanding of GSK’s growth including by region 
versus prior periods and also 2024 Guidance which excludes 
any contributions from COVID-19 solutions.

Adjusted operating profit excluding COVID-19 
solutions
Adjusted operating profit excludes the impact of Commercial 
Operations COVID-19 solutions for Xevudy and pandemic 
adjuvant.

Adjusted earnings per share excluding COVID-19 
solutions
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the impact of 
Commercial Operations COVID-19 solutions for Xevudy and 
pandemic adjuvant.

General Medicines
General medicines are usually prescribed in the primary 
care or community settings by general healthcare practitioners. 
For GSK, this includes medicines in inhaled respiratory, 
dermatology, antibiotics and other diseases.

Unless otherwise stated, Total earnings per share refers to Total 
basic earnings per share. 

RAR (Returns and Rebates)
GSK sells to customers, both commercial and government 
mandated contracts, with reimbursement arrangements that 
include rebates, chargebacks and a right of return for certain 
pharmaceutical products principally in the US. Revenue 
recognition reflects gross-to-net sales adjustments as a result. 
These adjustments are known as the RAR accruals and are a 
source of significant estimation, uncertainty and fluctuation 
which can have a material impact on reported revenue from 
one accounting period to the next. 

Total Operating Margin
Total Operating margin is Total operating profit divided by 
turnover.

Adjusted Operating Margin
Adjusted operating margin is Adjusted operating profit divided 
by turnover.

Discontinued operations
Consumer Healthcare was presented as a discontinued 
operation from Q2 2022. The demerger of Consumer 
Healthcare was completed on 18 July 2022. The Group Income 
Statement and Group Cash Flow Statement distinguish 
discontinued operations from continuing operations.

Percentage points
Percentage points of growth which is abbreviated to ppts.

Non-controlling interest
Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not 
attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent.

Brand names and partner acknowledgements
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this document are 
trademarks of GSK or associated companies or used under 
licence by the Group.

85

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Financial performance

Group turnover

Group turnover was £30,328 million in the year, up 3% at 
AER, 5% at CER. In 2023 sales grew 12% at AER, 14% CER 
excluding COVID-19 solutions.

Group turnover by business

l Vaccines
£9.9bn
AER growth 24% CER growth 25%

l Speciality Medicines
£10.2bn 
AER decline -9% CER decline -8%

l General Medicines
£10.2bn
AER growth 1% CER growth 5%

Group turnover by geographic region

l US
£15.8bn
AER growth 9% CER growth 9%

l Europe
£6.6bn
AER growth 3% CER growth 2%

l International
£7.9bn
AER decline -6% CER growth 1%

Vaccines

Turnover (£bn) 

£9.9bn

32% of Group turnover

AER growth
24%

CER growth
25%

Vaccines turnover
Vaccines turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions
£9.7bn
AER growth 23% CER growth 24%

Pandemic turnover
£0.2bn
AER growth >100 CER growth >100

Double-digit growth for Vaccines in the full year was driven by 
the successful launch of Arexvy in the US and continued strong 
uptake of Shingrix in International and Europe. Pandemic 
vaccines sales mostly include GSK’s share of 2023 contracted 
European volumes related to a COVID-19 booster vaccine co-
developed with Sanofi.

Shingles 

Shingles

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

3,446 

2,958 

 16 

 17 

GSK reports results under two segments namely Commercial 
Operations and Total R&D. See Note 6, 'Turnover and segment 
information' to the consolidated financial statements for more 
details.

The Commercial Operations segment has three product groups 
of Vaccines, Specialty Medicines, and General Medicines.

– Vaccines products, which includes sales of Shingrix and 

Arexvy

– Specialty Medicines products which includes GSK’s marketed 
products for HIV, oncology, respiratory/immunology and 
other specialty medicines (including Nucala) 

– General Medicines products, which include products 

previously reported as Established Pharmaceuticals and sales 
of Trelegy Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta (previously reported within 
the Respiratory category under Specialty products). These 
products are typically accessed by patients through primary 
care settings 

Shingrix, a vaccine against herpes zoster (shingles), grew 16%  
AER, 17% CER on increased demand and favourable pricing. 
Growth was driven by public funding expansion and strong 
private uptake in International and Europe. These regions 
represented 45% of global turnover, compared to a third in 
2022, with Shingrix launched in 39 markets outside of the US, 
most of which have cumulative immunisation rates below 4%. 
International sales were driven by launch uptake across several 
markets, strong momentum and channel inventory build in 
China due to transition between distributors, and a new public 
programme in Australia. Sales in Europe included deliveries for 
the UK National Immunisation Programme which began 
offering Shingrix vaccination in September 2023. In the US, 
retail demand grew 7% while overall sales declined 4% versus a 
challenging comparator period in which there was a higher 
non-retail purchasing. The US cumulative immunisation 
penetration at the end of Q3 2023 reached 35% of the more 
than 120 million US adults(1) who are currently recommended to 
receive Shingrix, up 7 percentage points since the same time 
last year.

(1) United States Census Bureau, International Database, Year 2023

86

6.87.99.9202120222023  
 
  
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Meningitis

Meningitis

2023
£m

1,260 

2022
£m

1,116 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 13 

 14 

Turnover (£bn)

Specialty Medicines

Double-digit Meningitis vaccine sales growth was largely 
delivered by Bexsero, a vaccine against meningitis B, primarily 
driven by inclusion in National Immunisation Programmes in 
Europe. Menveo, a vaccine against meningitis ACWY, grew due 
to the favourable impact of a US CDC (Center for Disease 
Control) stockpile borrow in Q3 2022 and replenishment in Q4 
2023. Meningitis growth benefitted from the favourable impact 
of CDC stockpile movements by 6 percentage points.

RSV

RSV (Arexvy)

2023
£m

1,238 

2022
£m

– 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 – 

 – 

Arexvy, the world’s first approved respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV) vaccine for older adults, achieved more than £1.2 billion in 
sales driven by strong uptake and leading market share, 
delivering an outstanding launch. Almost all sales were in the 
US where Arexvy is available in all major retail pharmacies with 
competitive contracting in place. Retailers administered more 
than 90% of doses, and Arexvy achieved more than two-thirds 
of the share of retail vaccinations. Approximately 6 million of 
the 83 million US adults(1) aged 60 and older at risk have been 
vaccinated with Arexvy.

£10.2bn AER decline

-9%

CER decline
-8%

34% of Group Turnover

Specialty Medicines turnover
Specialty turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions
£10.2bn
AER growth 14% CER growth 15%

Pandemic turnover
£0.04bn
AER decline -98% CER decline -98%

Specialty Medicines growth (excluding COVID-19 solutions) of 
14% AER, 15% CER reflected continued growth momentum on 
the HIV portfolio, and growth acceleration in both Oncology 
and Respiratory/Immunology and Other. COVID-19 solutions 
negatively impacted growth by 23 percentage points.

Influenza

Influenza

2023
£m

504 

2022
£m

714 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 (29) 

 (29) 

HIV

HIV

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

6,444 

5,749 

 12 

 13 

Fluarix/FluLaval sales declined in 2023 in line with expectations 
driven by competitive pressure and lower market demand 
primarily in the US.

Established Vaccines

Established Vaccines

3,266 

3,085 

 6 

 7 

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Established Vaccines growth was driven by Rotarix favourable 
US CDC stockpile movements, MMR/V vaccines increased 
supply in International, and Hepatitis vaccine performance 
related to the travel market recovery. Established Vaccines 
growth excluding the impact of CDC stockpile movements was 
4%.

(1) United States Census Bureau, International Database, Year 2023

The growth of HIV was primarily driven by a 2 percentage point 
increase in market share within a broadly flat global treatment 
market, attributable to patient demand for the Oral 2DR 
(Dovato, Juluca) and Long-Acting medicines (Cabenuva, 
Apretude). Growth was driven by patient demand of ten 
percentage points, with the remainder from favourable pricing 
dynamics and tender growth. Dovato continues to be the 
highest selling product in the HIV portfolio.

Oral 2DR and Long Acting
2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Oral 2DR and Long Acting

3,337 

2,392 

 40 

 40 

Oral 2DR (Dovato, Juluca) and Long-Acting medicine 
(Cabenuva, Apretude) sales growth continues and by the end of 
the year represented 55% of the total HIV portfolio compared 
to 46% for Q4 2022, driven by market share growth of 4 
percentage points versus Q4 2022. 

87

8.311.310.2202120222023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Respiratory/Immunology and other

General Medicines 

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Respiratory/Immunology 
and Other

3,025 

2,609 

 16 

 18 

This therapy area includes sales of Nucala and Benlysta, and 
Jesduvroq in the US and Duvroq in Japan for patients with 
anaemia due to chronic kidney disease. There was consistent 
and sustained double-digit growth in both Benlysta and 
Nucala.

Turnover (£bn)

£10.2bn

34% of Group turnover

AER growth
1%

CER growth
5%

Nucala

Nucala

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

1,655 

1,423 

 16 

 18 

Nucala, is an IL-5 antagonist monoclonal antibody treatment 
for severe asthma, with additional indications including chronic 
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps, eosinophilic granulomatosis with 
polyangiitis (EGPA) and hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES). 
Continued strong growth in all regions reflected high patient 
demand in severe eosinophilic asthma, and additionally from 
increasing sales and growth contributions from the new 
indications. 

Benlysta

Benlysta

2023
£m

1,349 

2022
£m

1,146 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 18 

 19 

Benlysta, a monoclonal antibody treatment for Lupus, continues 
to show consistent growth representing strong demand in US 
and Europe, with bio penetration and volume uptake in certain 
International markets, particularly in Japan and China. 

Oncology

Oncology

2023
£m

731 

2022
£m

602 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 21 

 23 

Oncology demonstrated strong growth driven by Jemperli and 
Zejula performance, and uptake of Ojjaara post US launch in 
Q3 2023, partially offset by the impact of Blenrep withdrawal 
from the US market in November 2022.

Growth was driven by both Respiratory and Other General 
Medicines, with ongoing strong demand for Trelegy in all 
regions, Anoro in Europe and International, and a continued 
post pandemic recovery of the antibiotic market in Europe and 
International regions. 

Respiratory

Respiratory

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

6,825 

6,548 

 4 

 6 

Performance reflected growth of Trelegy and the single inhaled 
triple therapy class across all regions, and of Anoro in Europe 
and International.

Trelegy

Trelegy

2023
£m

2,202 

2022
£m

1,729 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 27 

 29 

Trelegy is the most prescribed single inhaler triple therapy (SITT) 
treatment worldwide for COPD and asthma. Strong growth was 
delivered across all regions, reflecting increased patient 
demand, growth of the SITT market and penetration of the 
class. Growth momentum continues, supported by the outputs 
of recently updated primary care guidelines from the Global 
Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease.  

Seretide/Advair

Zejula

Zejula

2023
£m

523 

2022
£m

463 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 13 

 15 

Seretide/Advair

2023
£m

1,139 

2022
£m

1,159 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 (2) 

 1 

Zejula, a PARP inhibitor treatment for ovarian cancer, grew 15% 
with strong growth from all regions, with US growth in the first 
line indication more than offsetting the reduction in use in 
second line following the update to US prescribing information 
agreed with the FDA in Q4 2022. 

Seretide/Advair is an ICS/LABA treatment for asthma and 
COPD. Seretide/Advair sales growth increased 1% primarily 
reflecting favourable US pricing. However this was offset by 
generic erosion impacts in Europe and certain International 
markets. In the US, growth was impacted by unfavourable RAR 
adjustments and the impact of US of channel inventory 
reduction ahead of 2024 price changes. 

Other general medicines

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Other general medicines

3,395 

3,570 

 (5) 

 2 

Decline of 5% at AER reflects adverse currency impacts. Low 
single digit growth of 2% reflected ongoing post pandemic 
demand for anti-infectives in Europe and International, and 
certain third party manufacturing arrangements. Overall growth 
in this product group continues to be impacted by ongoing 
generic competition.

88

9.710.110.2202120222023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

International

Total
Excluding COVID

2023
£m

7,944 

7,893 

2022 
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

8,434 

7,402 

 (6) 

 7 

 1 

 15 

COVID-19 solutions impacted growth by 14 percentage points. 
Excluding the impact of COVID-19 solutions, International 
continued to grow by 7% AER, 15% CER, with strong growth 
across all product groups.  

Vaccines double digit growth was driven by Shingrix launch 
uptake across several markets, strong momentum and channel 
inventory build in China, and a new public programme in 
Australia. Established and Meningitis vaccines also contributed 
to the growth.

Specialty Medicines grew in HIV, Nucala, Benlysta and Zejula.

General Medicines growth was driven by Trelegy and growth 
across Established Respiratory. Other General Medicines 
growth was driven by Augmentin on strong post pandemic 
antibiotic demand.

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Turnover by regions
US

Total
Excluding COVID

2023
£m

2022 
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

15,820 

14,542 

15,810 

13,714 

 9 

 15 

 9 

 16 

Sales growth was adversely impacted by 7 percentage points 
due to decreased sales of Xevudy.

Vaccines grew strongly driven by Arexvy launch uptake and 
leading market share, partly offset by competition and lower 
market demand for Influenza vaccines. Growth benefitted from 
favourable US CDC stockpile movements by 4 percentage 
points.

Specialty Medicines grew driven by a strong HIV performance, 
Benlysta and Nucala continued growth, and strong Oncology 
growth despite partial offset from the impact of the withdrawal 
of Blenrep in November 2022.

General Medicines growth was largely driven by Trelegy from 
increased patient demand and growth of the SITT market, 
partially offset by Established Respiratory and Other General 
Medicines. 

Europe

Total
Excluding COVID

2023
£m

6,564 

6,431 

2022 
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

6,348 

5,835 

 3 

 10 

 2 

 8 

COVID-19 solutions impacted growth by 6 percentage points.  
Excluding the impact of COVID-19 solutions, Europe delivered 
strong growth of 10% AER, 8% CER.

Vaccines growth reflected Shingrix national immunisation 
programme initiation in the UK and launch uptake across 
several markets, together with Bexsero national immunisation 
campaigns in France and Spain, and ongoing travel vaccine 
recovery.

Specialty Medicines double digit growth was driven by growth 
in HIV, Oncology, Benlysta and Nucala including the impact of 
new indication launches.

General Medicines low single digit growth was maintained.

89

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Cost of sales

2023
£m

2022
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Total cost of sales

  (8,565) 

  (9,554) 

% of sales

 28.2% 

 32.6% 

Adjusted cost of sales

(7,716) 

(8,741) 

% of sales

 25.4% 

 29.8% 

 (10) 

 (4.3) 
 (12) 

 (4.4) 

 (10) 

 (4.6) 
 (11) 

 (4.6) 

Total and Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of sales 
decreased primarily reflecting lower sales of lower margin 
Xevudy compared to 2022. Excluding Xevudy, the year 
benefitted from an increasing margin contribution from 
Vaccines sales, particularly the launch of Arexvy in Q3 2023 in 
the US and Shingrix outside the US. In addition, Specialty 
Medicines, particularly HIV, contributed to the improved margin, 
as well as continued operational efficiencies. This was partly 
offset by adverse inventory provision adjustments in the year as 
well as inflationary impact on input costs.

In the late stage, increased investment in Vaccines was driven 
by continued acceleration and progression of the pipeline 
including RSV, pneumococcal, mRNA and therapeutic HSV 
vaccines. 

Respiratory/Immunology investment continued in 
depemokimab in the Phase III programmes in asthma and 
nasal polyps together with camlipixant a new asset for 
refractory chronic cough, Nucala in COPD, paediatric Benlysta 
and CCL 17 in osteo arthritic pain. This was offset by decreased 
expense in the completion of the clinical programme for 
otilimab. 

Infectious Diseases investment in bepirovirsen for treatment of 
chronic hepatitis B increased to support both monotherapy and 
combination programmes. Investment in key assets in oncology 
continued such as Jemperli and Ojjaara but were offset by 
reduction in the terminated Cell and Gene Therapy programme. 

In the early-stages, investment increased in IL18 for atopic 
dermatitis, and in the HIV portfolio, focused on next generation 
long-acting treatments and preventative medicines. 

Selling, general and administration
2022 
£m

2023
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Total R&D included higher impairment charges compared with 
2022.

Total selling, general and
  administration

% of sales

Adjusted selling, general
  and administration

% of sales

  (9,385) 

  (8,372) 

 30.9% 

 28.6% 

  (9,029) 

(8,128) 

 29.8% 

 27.7% 

 12 

 2.4 

 11 

 2.1 

 14 

 2.3 

 13 

 1.9 

Royalty income

Total royalty income

Adjusted royalty income

2023
£m

953 

953 

2022 
£m

758 

758 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 26 

 26 

 26 

 26 

Growth in Total and Adjusted SG&A in 2023 primarily reflected 
increased investment for growth in Vaccines, including disease 
awareness, launch and global market expansion for Arexvy, and 
investment behind global market expansion and disease 
awareness for Shingrix. In Specialty Medicines, increased 
investment was targeted behind long-acting injectables in HIV 
and the launch of Ojjaara for myelofibrosis in Oncology. This 
was partly offset by the continuing benefit of restructuring and 
tight control of ongoing costs. 2023 also reflected the Zejula 
royalty dispute in Q1 2023. Total SG&A also included an 
increase in significant legal costs (see details on page 96). 

Research and development

Total research and
  development
% of sales

Adjusted research and 
  development
% of sales

2023
£m

2022 
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

  (6,223) 

  (5,488) 

 20.5% 

 18.7% 

  (5,750) 

  (5,062) 

 19.0% 

 17.3% 

 13 

 1.8 

 14 

 1.7 

 14 

 1.5 

 14 

 1.4 

Growth in Total and Adjusted royalty income primarily related 
to Gardasil royalties, which were £472 million in 2023, as well as 
Kesimpta and Biktarvy royalties. The overwhelming majority of 
the income from Gardasil royalties ceased at the end of 2023.

Other operating income/(expense)
2022 
£m

2023
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Other operating income/
(expenses)

(363)   

(235) 

 (54) 

 (54) 

Other operating expenses reflected a charge of £546 million 
(2022: £1,726 million) arising from the remeasurement of 
contingent consideration liabilities and the liabilities for the 
Pfizer put option, and a fair value loss of £17 million (2022: £229 
million gain) on the retained stake in Haleon plc, partly offset by 
£200 million (2022: £306 million) of other net income primarily 
related to equity investments and milestone income (including 
£49 million dividends received from the retained investment in 
Haleon plc). In Q1 2022 upfront income of £0.9 billion was 
received from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. 

R&D operating expense growth in 2023 was driven by 
investment across the portfolio. 

90

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Operating profit

Total operating profit

% of sales

Adjusted operating profit

2023
£m

6,745 

 22.2% 

8,786 

2022 
£m

6,433 

 21.9% 

8,151 

% of sales

 29.0% 

 27.8% 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 5 

 0.3 

 8 

 1.2 

 10 

 1.0 

 12 

 1.8 

Total operating profit margin was higher in 2023 due to 
profitable growth across the portfolio as well as favourable 
movements in contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset 
by an unfavourable comparison due to the £0.9 billion upfront 
income received from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. 
in Q1 2022. 

Adjusted operating profit benefitted from strong sales, 
favourable product mix and increased royalty income partly 
offset by increased investment behind product launches and in 
R&D. It also included increased legal charges primarily relating 
to the Zejula royalty dispute.

In 2023 the adverse impact of lower sales of COVID-19 solutions 
was 5 percentage points of Total operating profit growth at 
AER  (6 percentage points at CER), with an impact in Total 
operating profit margin of 0.5 percentage points.

In 2023 the adverse impact of lower sales of COVID-19 solutions 
was 4 percentage points of Adjusted operating profit growth, 
with an impact in Adjusted operating profit margin of 0.4 
percentage points. 

Adjusted operating profit by business

Commercial operations

% of sales

R&D

2023
£m

2022 
£m

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

14,656 

13,590 

 48.3% 

 46.3% 

  (5,607) 

  (5,060) 

 8 

 2.0 

 11 

 10 

 2.1 

 11 

Commercial Operations Adjusted operating profit benefitted 
from strong sales and favourable product mix (with minimal 
Xevudy sales) and increased royalty income, partly offset by 
increased investment in growth and launch assets as well as an 
increase in legal provisions in 2023. 

The R&D segment operating expenses growth was driven by 
progression of the late stage in Vaccines, Respiratory/
Immunology and Infectious Diseases. This included 
pneumococcal and mRNA programmes together with the 
newly acquired camlipixant and ongoing investment in key 
programmes such as depemokimab and bepirovirsen.

Net finance costs

Total net finance cost

Adjusted finance cost

2023
£m

677 

669 

2022 
£m

803 

791 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 (16) 

 (15) 

 (15) 

 (15) 

Total net finance costs were £677 million compared with £803 
million in 2022. Adjusted net finance costs were £669 million 
compared with £791 million in 2022. The decrease was mainly 
driven by the net savings from maturing bonds including the 
Sterling Notes repurchase in Q4 2022 and higher interest 
income on cash, partly offset by higher interest on short-term 
financing.

Share of after tax profits of associates and joint 
ventures

The share of after tax loss of associates and joint ventures was 
£5 million (2022: £2 million share of loss).

Profit on disposal of interest in associates
In 2023, the Group also reported a profit on disposal of interests 
in associates and joint ventures of £1 million. 

Profit before tax
Taking account of net finance costs, the share of profits or 
losses of associates and profit or loss on disposal of interest in 
associates, profit before taxation was £6,064 million compared 
with £5,628 million in 2022.

Taxation

UK current year charge

Rest of world current year charge

Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods

Total current taxation

Total deferred taxation

Taxation on total profits

2023
 £m

207 

1,371 

43 

1,621 

2022 
£m

200 

1,351 

(60) 

1,491 

(865)   

(784) 

756 

707 

The charge of £756 million represented an effective tax rate on 
Total results of 12.5% (2022: 12.6%) and reflected the different 
tax effects of the various Adjusting items. Tax on Adjusted profit 
amounted to £1,257 million and represented an effective 
Adjusted tax rate of 15.5% (2022: 15.5%). Issues related to 
taxation are described in Note 14, 'Taxation' to the financial 
statements. The Group continues to believe it has made 
adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods 
which are open and not yet agreed by tax authorities. The 
ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts 
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements 
with relevant tax authorities.

Non-controlling interests (NCI)

Total continuing

Adjusted

2023
£m

380 

572 

2022 
£m

460 

595 

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

 (17) 

 (4) 

 (17) 

 (4) 

The decrease in Total profit from continuing operations 
allocated to NCIs was primarily driven by lower ViiV Healthcare 
profits with an allocation of £374 million (2022: £416 million), as 
well as lower net profits in some of the Group's other entities. 

The decrease in Adjusted profit from continuing operations 
allocated to NCIs reflected lower net profits in some of the 
Group's other entities with NCIs, partly offset by higher profits in 
ViiV Healthcare with an allocation of £566 million (2022: £551 
million). 

91

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Earnings per share from continuing operations

2023
£m

2022 
£p

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Total continuing earnings 
per share

121.6p 

110.8p 

Adjusted earnings per share  

155.1p 

139.7p 

 10 

 11 

 16 

 16 

In 2023, the increase in Total continuing EPS primarily reflected 
lower charges related to the remeasurement of contingent 
consideration liabilities, partly offset by a fair value loss on the 
retained stake in Haleon plc compared to a fair value gain in 
the same period last year. In addition, there is an unfavourable 
comparison due to upfront income received from the settlement 
with Gilead Sciences Inc. in Q1 2022.

Adjusted EPS reflected the growth in Adjusted Operating profit 
as well as lower finance costs. Growth also reflected a 
favourable benefit from lower non-controlling interests. 

Lower sales from lower margin COVID-19 solutions reduced 
Adjusted EPS by six percentage points.

Currency impact on results
2023
£m/£p

2022 
£m/£p

Growth 
£% 

Growth 
CER% 

Turnover

  30,328 

  29,324 

Total continuing earnings 
per share

121.6p 

110.8p 

Adjusted earnings per share  

155.1p 

139.7p 

 3 

 10 

 11 

 5 

 16 

 16 

The adverse currency impact primarily reflected weakening of 
emerging market currencies and the Yen against Sterling and 
strengthening of Sterling against the US Dollar, partly offset by 
weakening of Sterling against the Euro. Exchange gains or 
losses on the settlement of intercompany transactions had a 
minimal impact on Adjusted EPS.

Dividends
The Board has declared four interim dividends resulting in a 
total dividend for the year of 58.00p per share. The 2022 
dividend per share was 61.25p retrospectively adjusted for the 
share consolidation. The GSK group dividend in 2022 was 
55.00p per share, this is GSK related only and excludes the 
dividend related to Consumer Healthcare in H1 2022. Please 
refer to Note 16, 'Dividends' to the financial statements.

Dividend policy
Dividends remain an essential component of total shareholder 
return and GSK recognises the importance of dividends to 
shareholders. On 23 June 2021, at the GSK Investor Update, 
GSK set out that from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be 
implemented guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio 
through the investment cycle. Consistent with this, and 
reflecting strong business performance during the year, GSK  
declared an increased dividend of 16.00p for Q4 2023 and 
58.00p per share for full year 2023. The expected dividend for 
2024 is 60.00p. In setting its dividend policy, GSK considers the 
capital allocation priorities of the Group and its investment 
strategy for growth alongside the sustainability of the dividend.

92

 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Intangible
asset
amortisation
£m

Intangible
asset
impairment
£m

Major
restructuring
£m

Transaction-
related
£m

Divestments,
significant 
legal and 
other items
£m

Adjusted
results
£m
30,328 

(7,716) 

22,612 

(9,029) 

(5,750) 

953 

– 

8,786 

13 

13 

13 

25 

25 

127 

1 

546 

572 

(183)   

(30)   

647 

647 

72 

398 

719 

398 

164 

164 

216 

2 

382 

1 

Group financial review continued

Adjusting items

Adjusted results reconciliation 
31 December 2023

Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

Royalty income

Other operating (expense)/income

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Share of after-tax losses of associates and
  joint ventures

Profit/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates

Total
results
£m
30,328 

(8,565)   

21,763 

(9,385)   

(6,223)   

953 

(363)   

6,745 

(677)   

(5)   

1 

Taxation

Tax rate

Profit after taxation from continuing operations

Profit attributable to non-controlling 
  interests from continuing operations

Profit attributable to shareholders from
  continuing operations

Earnings per share from continuing operations

Weighted average number of shares (millions)

 12.5% 

5,308 

380 

4,928 

5,308 

121.6p 

4,052 

Profit before taxation

6,064 

719 

398 

383 

572 

(756)   

(154)   

(94)   

(83)   

(100)   

(70)   

(1,257) 

565

304

300

472

(94)   

565 

565 

13.9p 

304 

304 

7.5p 

300 

300 

7.4p 

192 

280 

472 

6.9p 

7 

(669) 

(5) 

– 

8,112 

(1) 

(24) 

 15.5% 

6,855 

572 

(94)   

6,283 

(94)   

6,855 

(2.2) p  

155.1p 

4,052 

93

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Adjusted results reconciliation 
31 December 2022

Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

Royalty income

Other operating (expense)/income

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Share of after-tax profits of associates 
  and joint ventures

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Total
results
£m
 29,324 

  (9,554)   

  19,770 

  (8,372)   

  (5,488)   

758 

(235)   

  6,433 

(803)   

(2)   

  5,628 

(707)   

Tax rate
Profit after taxation from continuing operations

 12.6% 
  4,921 

Profit after taxation from discontinued
  operations and other gains/(losses) 
  from the demerger

Remeasurement of discontinued operations
  distributed to shareholders on demerger

Profit after taxation from discontinued
  operations

Total profit after taxation for the year

Profit attributable to non-controlling 
  interests from continuing operations

Profit attributable to shareholders 
  from continuing operations

Profit attributable to non-controlling 
   interest from discontinued operations

Profit attributable to shareholders from 
  discontinued operations

Total profit attributable to non-controlling
  interests

Total profit attributable to shareholders

  3,049 

(3,049) 

  7,651 

(7,651) 

  10,700 

  15,621 

(10,700) 

(10,700) 

460 

  4,461 

205 

(205) 

  10,495 

  15,621 

(10,495) 

(10,700) 

665 

(205) 

  14,956 

  15,621 

(10,495) 

(10,700) 

Earnings per share from continuing operations

  110.8p 

Earnings per share from discontinued
  operations

 260.6p 

(260.6) p  

Profit from 
discontinued
operations
£m

Intangible
asset
amortisation
£m

Intangible
asset
impairment
£m

Major
restructuring
£m

Transaction-
related
£m

Divestments,
significant 
legal and 
other items
£m

648 

648 

91 

296 

739 

296 

102 

102 

180 

39 

321 

2 

45 

45 

13 

18 

18 

51 

1,692 

1,750 

(1,457) 

(1,388) 

10 

Adjusted
results
£m
29,324 

(8,741) 

20,583 

(8,128) 

(5,062) 

758 

8,151 

(791) 

(2) 

739 

296 

323 

1,750 

(1,378) 

7,358 

(150)   

(64)   

(87)   

(242)   

112 

589 

232 

236 

1,508 

(1,266) 

(1,138) 

 15.5% 
6,220 

589 

232 

236 

1,508 

(1,266) 

6,220 

135 

595 

589 

232 

236 

1,373 

(1,266) 

5,625 

589 

232 

236 

1,508 

(1,266) 

6,220 

589 

589 

14.6p 

232 

232 

5.8p 

236 

236 

5.9p 

135 

1,373 

1,508 

34.1p 

595 

5,625 

6,220 

(1,266) 

(1,266) 

(31.5) p  

139.7p 

Total earnings per share

  371.4p 

(260.6) p  

14.6p 

5.8p 

5.9p 

34.1p 

(31.5) p  

139.7p 

Weighted average number of shares (millions)

  4,026 

4,026 

94

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Adjusted results reconciliation 
31 December 2021

Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

Royalty income

Other operating (expense)/income

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Loss on disposal of interest in associates

Share of after-tax profits of associates 
  and joint ventures

Profit before taxation

Taxation
Tax rate

Total
results
£m
 24,696 

 (8,163) 

  16,533 

 (7,070) 

 (5,019) 

417 

  (504) 

  4,357 

  (755) 

(36) 

33 

  3,599 

(83) 
 2.3 %

Profit from 
discontinued
operations
£m

Intangible
asset
amortisation
£m

Intangible
asset
impairment
£m

Major
restructuring
£m

Transaction-
related
£m

Divestments,
significant 
legal and 
other items
£m

660 

660 

101 

347 

761 

347 

28 

28 

9 

1,106 

1,143 

102 

102 

277 

45 

424 

2 

27 

27 

35 

1 

(602) 

(539) 

1 

36 

761 

(153) 

347 

(81) 

426 

(79) 

1,143 

(179) 

(502) 

(343) 

Profit after taxation from continuing operations

  3,516 

608 

266 

347 

964 

(845) 

Adjusted
results
£m
24,696 

(7,346) 

17,350 

(6,749) 

(4,525) 

417 

6,493 

(752) 

33 

5,774 

(918) 
 15.9 %

4,856 

Profit after taxation from discontinued
  operations and other gains/(losses) 
  from the demerger

Profit after taxation from discontinued
  operations

Total profit after taxation for the year

Profit attributable to non-controlling 
  interests from continuing operations

Profit attributable to shareholders from
  continuing operations

Profit attributable to non-controlling 
  interest from discontinued operations

Profit attributable to shareholders from
  discontinued operations

Total profit attributable to non-controlling
  interests

Total profit attributable to shareholders

1,580 

(1,580) 

1,580 

  5,096 

(1,580) 

(1,580) 

200 

  3,316 

511 

(511) 

1,069 

  5,096 

(1,069) 

(1,580) 

711 

(511) 

608 

266 

347 

964 

(845) 

4,856 

241 

441 

608 

266 

347 

723 

(845) 

4,415 

608 

266 

347 

964 

(845) 

4,856 

  4,385 

  5,096 

(1,069) 

(1,580) 

608 

608 

266 

266 

347 

347 

241 

723 

964 

441 

4,415 

4,856 

(845) 

(845) 

Earnings per share from continuing operations

  82.9p 

15.2p 

6.6p 

8.7p 

18.1p 

(21.2) p  

110.3p 

Earnings per share from discontinued
  operations

  26.7p 

(26.7) p  

Total earnings per share

  109.6p 

(26.7) p  

15.2p 

6.6p 

8.7p 

18.1p 

(21.2) p  

110.3p 

Weighted average number of shares (millions)

  4,003 

4,003 

95

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial performance continued

Intangible asset amortisation

Transaction-related adjustments

See page 210 for description and information on Intangible 
asset amortisation.  

Intangible asset impairment
See page 210 for description and information on Intangible 
asset impairment. No individual intangible asset accounted for 
a material impairment. 

Major restructuring and integration
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated 
manufacturing operations and supply chains and long life cycle 
of the business mean that restructuring programmes, 
particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of 
manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take several years to 
complete.

Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-
approved Major restructuring programmes and are excluded 
from Adjusted results. Major restructuring programmes, 
including integration costs following material acquisitions, are 
those that are structural and are of a significant scale where the 
costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million. Other 
ordinary course smaller-scale restructuring costs are retained 
within Total and Adjusted results.

Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2023 were £382 
million (2022: £321 million), analysed as follows:

2023

Cash
£m

Non-
cash
£m

Total
£m

Cash
£m

Non-
cash
£m

2022

Total
£m

199 

117 

  316 

177 

110 

  287 

Separation
  preparation
  restructuring
  programme

Significant
  acquisitions

Legacy programmes

Transaction-related adjustments from continuing operations 
resulted in a net charge of £572 million (2022: £1,750 million), 
the majority of which related to charges/(credits) for the 
remeasurement of contingent consideration liabilities, the 
liabilities for the Pfizer put option, and Pfizer and Shionogi 
preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare.

Charge/(credit)

Contingent consideration on former 
  Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture
  (including Shionogi preferential dividends)

ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer 
  preferential dividends

Contingent consideration on former Novartis
  Vaccines business

Contingent consideration on acquisition of 
  Affinivax

Other adjustments

Total transaction-related charges

2023
£m

2022 
£m

934 

1,431 

(245)   

85 

(187)   

193 

44 
26 

572 

17 
24 

1,750 

The £934 million charge relating to the contingent 
consideration for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint 
venture represented an increase in the valuation of the 
contingent consideration due to Shionogi, driven by £534 
million from updated future sales forecasts and exchange rates, 
and the unwind of the discount for £400 million. 

The £245 million credit relating to the ViiV Healthcare put 
option and Pfizer preferential dividends represented a reduction 
in the valuation of the put option as a result of updated 
exchange rates, sales forecasts and cash balances. The ViiV 
Healthcare contingent consideration liability is fair valued 
under IFRS. An explanation of the accounting for the non-
controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 84. 

65 

(1)   

1 

1 

66 

– 

20 

9 

– 

5 

20 

14 

  263 

119 

  382 

  206 

115 

  321 

The £187 million credit relating to the contingent consideration 
on the former Novartis Vaccines business primarily relates to 
changes to future sales forecasts. 

The Separation Preparation programme incurred cash charges 
of £199 million primarily from the restructuring of some 
commercial and administrative functions as well as Global 
Supply Chain. The non-cash charges of £117 million primarily 
reflected the write-down of assets in administrative and 
manufacturing locations. 

The benefit in the year 2023 from restructuring programmes 
was £0.2 billion, primarily relating to the Separation Preparation 
restructuring programme. The programme is now largely 
complete and has delivered its target of £1.1 billion of annual 
savings, with total costs still expected at £2.4 billion, with slightly 
higher cash charges of £1.7 billion but lower non-cash charges 
of £0.7 billion. 

Costs of significant acquisitions relate to integration costs of 
Sierra Oncology Inc (Sierra) and Affinivax Inc. (Affinivax) which 
were acquired in Q3 2022 and BELLUS Health Inc. acquired in 
Q2 2023.

The £44 million charge relating to the contingent consideration 
on the acquisition of Affinivax primarily relates to the unwind of 
the discount..

Divestments, significant legal charges and other 
items
Divestments, significant legal charges, and other items primarily 
included £200 million of net income from dividends and 
milestones related to investments, including £49 million of 
dividends received from the retained investment in Haleon plc, 
partly offset by £17 million fair value losses on the investment in 
Haleon plc. Legal charges provide for all significant legal 
matters, including Zantac, and are not broken out separately by 
litigation or investigation. Significant legal charges in the year 
primarily reflected increased legal charges for Zantac of which 
the vast majority relate to the prospective legal costs for the 
defence of the litigation.

96

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Cash generation and conversion

A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out 
below.

Total net cash inflow from operating activities

Total net cash (outflow) from investing
  activities

2023
£m
6,768 

2022 
£m
7,403 

(1,595)   

(8,772) 

Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing
  activities

Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts

(5,641)   

(468)   

Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year

3,425 

Exchange adjustments

Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts

Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year

Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
  comprise:

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts

823 

(546) 

3,819 

152 

(546) 

3,425 

(99)   

(468)   

2,858 

2,936 

(78)   

2,858 

3,723 

(298) 

3,425 

Reconciliation of net cash inflow from continuing 
operating activities to free cash inflow
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, 
which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow, is 
shown below.

Net cash inflow from continuing operating 
activities

2023
£m

2022 
£m

6,768 

6,634 

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

(1,314)   

(1,143) 

Purchase of intangible assets

(1,030)   

(1,115) 

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and
  equipment

Proceeds from sale of intangible assets

Net finance costs

Dividends and disposal proceeds from joint 
ventures and associates

Contingent consideration paid (reported in
  investing activities)

28 

12 

146 

196 

(651)   

(784) 

12 

6 

(11)   

(79) 

Contribution from non-controlling interests

7 

8 

Distributions to non-controlling interests

(412)   

(521) 

Free cash inflow

3,409 

3,348 

Capital expenditure and financial investment
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets 
amounted to £2,344 million (2022: £2,258 million) and disposals 
realised £40 million (2022: £342 million). Cash payments to 
acquire equity investments amounted to £123 million (2022: 
£143 million) and sales of equity investments realised £1,832 
million (2022: £238 million).

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group 
after meeting our obligations for contingent consideration, 
interest, tax and dividends paid to non-controlling interests, 
and after capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets.

Free cash inflow

2023
£m
3,409 

2022
£m
3,348 

Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV 
Healthcare contingent consideration liability in the year were 
£1,106 million (2022: £1,100 million), all of which was recognised 
in cash flows from operating activities. These payments are 
deductible for tax purposes.

Future cash flow
Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from 
operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt 
servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations 
under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from 
restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including 
tax, pension contributions and dividends, subject to the 
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ discussed on pages 284 to 
294. We may from time to time have additional demands for 
finance, such as for acquisitions. We have access to multiple 
sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets 
and financial institutions for such needs, in addition to the cash 
flow from operations.

97

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial position and resources

Assets

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right of use assets

Goodwill

Other intangible assets

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Other investments

Deferred tax assets

Other non-current assets

Total non-current assets

Current assets

Inventories

Current tax recoverable

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Current equity investments

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Assets held for sale

Total current assets

Total assets

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Short-term borrowings

Contingent consideration liabilities

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial instruments

Current tax payable

Short-term provisions

Total current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Long-term borrowings

Corporation tax payable

Deferred tax liabilities

2023
£m

2022 
£m

9,020 

937 

6,811 

14,768 

55 

1,137 

6,049 

1,584 

8,933 

687 

7,046 

14,318 

74 

1,467 

5,658 

1,194 

40,361 

39,377 

5,498 

373 

7,385 

130 

2,204 

42 

2,936 

76 

5,146 

405 

7,053 

190 

4,087 

67 

3,723 

98 

18,644 

59,005 

20,769 

60,146 

(2,813)   

(3,952) 

(1,053)   

(1,289) 

(15,844)   

(16,263) 

(114)   

(500)   

(744)   

(183) 

(471) 

(652) 

(21,068)   

(22,810) 

(15,205)   

(17,035) 

(75)   

(311)   

(127) 

(289) 

Pensions and other post-employment benefits

(2,340)   

(2,579) 

Other provisions

Contingent consideration liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

Total non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

Total equity

(495)   

(532) 

(5,609)   

(5,779) 

(1,107)   

(899) 

(25,142)   

(27,240) 

(46,210)   

(50,050) 

12,795 

10,096 

12,795 

10,096 

Property, plant and equipment
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly 
regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant 
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our 
property, plant, equipment and vehicles to minimise risks of 
interruption to production and to ensure compliance with 
regulatory standards. A number of our processes use hazardous 
materials.

The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 
31 December 2023 was £19,279 million, with a net book value of 
£9,020 million. Of this, land and buildings represented £2,895 
million, plant, equipment and vehicles £4,033 million and assets 
in construction £2,092 million. In 2023, we invested £1,295 
million in new property, plant and equipment. This was mainly 
related to a large number of projects for the renewal, 
improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide 
sites to support new product development and launches as well 
as to improve the efficiency of existing supply chains. Property is 
mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our liquid 
resources. At 31 December 2023, we had contractual 
commitments for future capital expenditure of £762 million. We 
believe that our property and plant facilities are adequate for 
our current requirements.

Right of use assets
Right of use assets amounted to £937 million at 31 December 
2023 compared with £687 million at 31 December 2022. The 
increase in the year reflected the impact of additions through 
business combinations of £1 million and other additions of £499 
million partly offset by depreciation of £190 million, disposals 
and impairments amounting to £30 million.

Goodwill
Goodwill decreased to £6,811 million at 31 December 2023, from 
£7,046 million primarily as a result of an exchange rate loss of 
£313 million, partially offset by an increase of £109 million from 
acquisitions-related transactions.

Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired 
from third parties and computer software. The net book value of 
other intangible assets as at 31 December 2023 was £14,768 
million (2022: £14,318 million). The increase primarily reflected 
additions, net of disposals and write-offs of £2,476 million partly 
offset by impairment losses, net of reversals and amortisation of 
£1,630 million and exchange rate losses of £431 million.

98

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial position and resources continued

Investments in associates and joint ventures
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with a 
carrying value at 31 December 2023 of £55 million (2022: 
£74 million). See Note 21, 'Investments in associates and joint 
ventures' to the financial statements, for more details.

Current equity investments
Current equity investments amounted to £2,204 million at 
31 December 2023 (2022: £4,087 million). Current equity 
investments comprise equity investments which the Group holds 
with the intention to sell and which it may sell in the short term. 
Where acquired with this intention, they are measured at fair 
value through the profit and loss (FVTPL). They are initially 
recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and then 
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. 
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income 
statement. The investment of £2,204 million (2022: £4,087 
million) represents the shares held in Haleon plc after the 
demerger. During 2023, disposals of Haleon plc shares resulted 
in gross proceeds of £1,863 million (2022: £nil).

Other investments
At 31 December 2023 we held other investments with a carrying 
value of £1,137 million (2022: £1,467 million). The most significant 
of these investments held at 31 December 2023 were in Crispr 
Therapeutics AG, Vir Biotechnology Inc. and  SR One Capital 
Fund I-B, LP. These investments had a fair value at 
31 December 2023 of £158 million (2022: £109 million), £67 
million (2022: £180 million) and £102 million (2022: £211 million) 
respectively. The other investments included equity stakes in 
companies with which we have research collaborations, and 
which provide access to biotechnology developments of 
potential interest and interests in companies that arise from 
business divestments.

Derivative financial instruments: assets
We held current derivative financial assets at fair value of £130 
million (2022: £190 million). The majority of these financial 
instruments related to foreign exchange contracts both 
designated and not designated as accounting hedges.

Inventories
Inventories amounted to £5,498 million (2022: £5,146 million) at 
31 December 2023. 

Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables amounted to £7,385 million (2022: 
£7,053 million) at 31 December 2023. The increase is mainly 
driven by Arexvy sales in the US.

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets amounted to £6,049 million (2022: £5,658 
million) at 31 December 2023. 

Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
We held current derivative financial liabilities at fair value of 
£114 million (2022: £183 million). This is primarily related to 
foreign exchange contracts both designated and not 
designated as accounting hedges.

Trade and other payables
At 31 December 2023, trade and other payables were £15,844 
million compared with £16,263 million at 31 December 2022. The 
decrease was primarily driven by lower accruals relating to 
profit share collaborations partly offset by higher customer 
return and rebates accruals. See Note 29, 'Trade and other 
payables' to the financial statements.

Provisions
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and 
non-current provisions of £1,550 million at 31 December 2023 
(2022: £1,473 million). Other provisions at the year-end included 
£267 million (2022: £218 million) related to legal and other 
disputes and £282 million (2022: £351 million) related to Major 
restructuring programmes. Provision has been made for legal 
and other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities, employee 
related liabilities and the costs of the restructuring programme 
to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal or 
constructive obligation existed and could be reliably estimated.

Pensions and other post-employment benefits
We account for pension and other post-employment 
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits were 
£763 million (2022: £1,356 million) on pension arrangements 
and £943 million (2022: £994 million) on unfunded post-
employment liabilities. See Note 31, 'Pensions and other post-
employment benefits' to the financial statements.

Other non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities amounted to £1,107 million at 
31 December 2023 (2022: £899 million).

Contingent consideration liabilities
Contingent consideration amounted to £6,662 million at 
31 December 2023 (2022: £7,068 million), of which £5,718 million 
(2022: £5,890 million) represented the estimated present value 
of amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare, 
£516 million (2022: £501 million) represented the estimated 
present value of contingent consideration payable to the former 
shareholders of Affinivax and £424 million (2022: £673 million) 
represented the estimated present value of contingent 
consideration payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines 
acquisition.

The liability due to Shionogi was £267 million in respect of 
preferential dividends. An explanation of the accounting for the 
non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 
84.

Of the total contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax 
basis) at 31 December 2023, £1,017 million (2022: £940 million) is 
expected to be paid within one year to Shionogi. The 
consideration payable is expected to be paid over a number of 
years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to 
their present values, on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount 
rates.

The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability 
is discounted at 8%, the Affinivax contingent consideration 
liability is discounted at 8.5%, and the Novartis Vaccines 
contingent consideration liability is discounted partly at 7.5% 
and partly at 8.5%.

99

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial position and resources continued

Maturity profile of bond debt 
£m equivalent

Net debt 

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Short term borrowings

Long term borrowings

Cash and liquid investments of £2.2 billion (2022: £3.1 billion) 
were held centrally at 31 December 2023.

The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging 
is as follows:

2023
£m

42 

2022 
£m

67 

2,936 

3,723 

(2,813)   

(3,952) 

Net debt the end of the year

(15,040)   

(17,197) 

Cash and cash equivalents

(15,205)   

(17,035) 

Liquid investments

At 31 December 2023, net debt was £15.0 billion, compared with 
£17.2 billion at 31 December 2022, comprising gross debt of 
£18.0 billion and cash and liquid investments of £3.0 billion. 
Net debt decreased by £2.2 billion primarily due to £3.4 billion 
free cash inflow, £1.9 billion proceeds from the disposal of 
investments, including the partial sale of the retained stake in 
Haleon plc, and net favourable exchange impacts of £0.6 
billion from the translation of non-sterling denominated debt. 
These were partly offset by dividends paid to shareholders of 
£2.2 billion and the net acquisition cost of BELLUS Health Inc. 
for £1.5 billion. 

At 31 December 2023, GSK had short-term borrowings 
(including overdrafts and lease liabilities) repayable within 
12 months of £2.8 billion and £1.6 billion repayable in the 
subsequent year.

At 31 December 2023, GSK’s cash and liquid investments were 
held as follows:

Bank balances and deposits

US Treasury and Treasury repo only money 
  market funds

Liquidity funds

Cash and cash equivalents

Liquid investments – government securities

2023
£m

1,942 

155 

839 

2,936 

42 

2022 
£m
1,324 

146 

2,253 

3,723 

67 

2,978 

3,790 

Gross debt – fixed

                    – floating

Net debt

Movements in net debt

Total net debt at beginning of year

Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts

Decrease in liquid investments

Net decrease/(increase) in long-term loans

Net decrease in short-term loans

Repayment of lease liabilities

Debt of subsidiary undertaking acquired

Exchange adjustments

Other non-cash movements

Decrease/(increase) in net debt from 
  continuing operations

Decrease/(increase) in net debt from
  discontinued operations

2023
£m

42 

2022 
£m

67 

2,936 

3,723 

(16,898) 

(19,214)

(1,120) 

(1,773)

(15,040)   

(17,197) 

2023
£m

2022 
£m

(17,197)   

(19,838) 

(468)   

(7,597) 

(72)   

(79)   

2,449 

197 

50 

554 

(474)   

(1) 

569 

4,053 

202 

(24) 

(1,531) 

(207) 

2,157 

(4,536) 

– 

7,177 

Total net debt at end of year

(15,040)   

(17,197) 

100

USD bondsEUR bondsGBP bondsJPY bonds20242025202620272028202920302031203220332034203520362037203820392040204120422043204420450500100015002000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Financial position and resources continued

Total equity
At 31 December 2023, total equity had increased from 
£10,096 million at 31 December 2022 to £12,795 million. 

A summary of the movements in equity is set out below:

Total equity at beginning of year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Non-cash distribution to non-controlling
  interests

Deconsolidation of former subsidiaries

Dividends to shareholders

Ordinary shares issued

Changes in non-controlling interests

Non-cash dividends to shareholders

Hedging gain/loss transferred to 
  non-financial assets

Share-based incentive plans

Tax on share-based incentive plans

Contributions from non-controlling interests

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Total equity at end of year

2023
£m

10,096 

4,991 

2022 
£m

21,342 

14,790 

– 

– 

(2,960) 

(3,045) 

(2,247)   

(3,467) 

10 

– 

– 

36 

307 

7 

7 

25 

(20) 

(15,526) 

9 

357 

(8) 

8 

(412)   

(1,409) 

12,795 

10,096 

Share purchases
At 31 December 2023, GSK held 197.1 million shares as Treasury 
shares (2022: 217.1 million shares), at a cost of £3,447 million 
(2022: £3,798 million), which has been deducted from retained 
earnings.

No ordinary shares were repurchased in the period 1 January 
2023 to 27 February 2024 and the company does not expect to 
make any ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of 2024.

In 2023, 20 million Treasury shares were transferred to the 
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts. Shares are held 
by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards 
under the Group share option and award schemes.

A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of 
awards where the rules of the scheme require GSK to satisfy 
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of 
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to 
options and awards granted.

At 31 December 2023, the ESOP Trusts held 58.8 million 
(2022: 59.9 million) GSK shares against the future exercise 
of share options and share awards  and for the Executive 
Supplemental Savings plan. The carrying value of 
£288 million (2022: £353 million) has been deducted from other 
reserves. The market value of these shares was £853 million 
(2022: £861 million).

Contractual obligations and commitments
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 36, 
'Commitments' to the financial statements. 

The following table sets out our contractual obligations and 
commitments at 31 December 2023 as they fall due for 
payment. 

Total

Under 
1 yr

1-3 yrs

3-5 yrs

5 yrs+

£m
  16,900 

£m
  2,660 

£m
  2,913 

£m
  3,101 

£m
  8,226 

Loans

Interest on loans

  5,446 

547 

973 

848 

  3,078 

Finance lease
  obligations

Future finance
  charges on leases

Lease contracts that
  have not yet
  commenced

1,207 

156 

348 

202 

501 

254 

41 

67 

50 

96 

5 

1 

2 

2 

– 

Intangible assets

  16,329 

386 

835 

1,956 

  13,152 

Property, plant & 
  equipment

Investments

Purchase
  commitments

Total

762 

153 

587 

63 

175 

73 

31 

4 

9 

– 

17 

3 

– 

– 

15 

  41,087 

  4,445 

  5,395 

  6,179 

 25,068 

Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on 
loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of 
derivatives.

We have entered into a number of research collaborations to 
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical 
companies. The terms of these arrangements can include 
upfront fees, equity investments, loans and commitments to 
fund specified levels of research. In addition, we will often agree 
to make further payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.

As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early 
stages of development, the potential obligation to make 
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the 
compounds move successfully through the development 
process. Generally, the closer the product is to marketing 
approval, the greater the probability of success. The amounts 
shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum 
that would be paid if all milestones were achieved. 

There was an increase in the commitments in 2023 mainly 
attributable to new R&D collaborations resulting in higher 
intangible assets commitments.

101

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

In the normal course of business, we have provided various 
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals 
in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A 
provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered 
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely 
outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 32, 'Other 
provisions' to the financial statements.

We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes 
when an outflow of resources is considered probable and a 
reliable estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 
2023, other than for those disputes where provision has been 
made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the 
potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle 
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was 
more than remote.

The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly 
from the amounts provided and is dependent upon 
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities and the outcome 
of litigation proceedings, where relevant. This is discussed 
further in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 284 to 294 
and Note 47, 'Legal proceedings' to the financial statements.

Group financial review continued

Financial position and resources continued

In connection with the demerger of Consumer Healthcare, the 
31 December 2020 pension scheme valuations identified cash 
funding or technical provisions deficits in three GSK UK Pension 
Schemes. Scottish limited partnerships (“SLPs”) were established 
to provide a funding mechanism for each of GSK’s UK defined 
benefit pension schemes. The SLPs together held shares 
representing 7.5% of the total issued share capital of Haleon 
plc. 

Each pension scheme, through its SLP interest, was entitled to 
receive a distribution from that SLP in an amount equal to the 
net proceeds of sales of Haleon plc shares, and to receive 
dividend income on Haleon plc shares, until it had received an 
aggregate amount equal to an agreed threshold (“Proceeds 
Threshold”). The Proceeds Thresholds total  £1,080 million (as 
increased by notional interest on the remaining balance from 
time to time), and payment of this amount would fully fund the 
cash funding or technical provisions deficits in the three 
schemes shown by the 31 December 2020 valuations. Once the 
Proceeds Threshold has been reached, the GSK-controlled 
General Partner of each SLP is entitled to sell the remaining 
Haleon plc shares held by the SLP and distribute the proceeds 
to GSK. As at 31 December 2023, total cash contributions 
totalling £353 million (2022: £691 million) were made towards 
the Proceeds Threshold leaving no further outstanding amount 
due to the UK pension schemes. The cash contributions 
included £17 million of distributions of dividends on Haleon plc 
shares from the SLPs to the Schemes.

Contingent liabilities 
Other contingent liabilities are set out in Note 35, 'Contingent 
liabilities' to the financial statements. 

The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising 
performance guarantees, letters of credit and other items 
arising in the normal course of business, and when they are 
expected to expire.

Guarantees

Other contingent
  liabilities

Total

Total

Under 
1 yr

1-3 yrs

3-5 yrs

5 yrs+

£m
14 

18 

32 

£m
9 

6 

15 

£m
3 

– 

3 

£m
1 

9 

10 

£m
1 

3 

4 

102

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Approach to tax

Business makes a major contribution to the public purse 
through its tax contribution. This includes direct taxes (such as 
corporate income tax) and indirect taxes (such as VAT and 
customs duties) as well as other taxes (such as employment 
taxes and property taxes). It is therefore important that 
companies explain their approach to tax. This helps inform 
dialogue about tax and tax policy. 

We are supportive of efforts to ensure companies are 
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are 
managed. As part of that, our Tax Strategy is set out in detail 
within the Public policies section of our website.

We support the exchange of country-by-country reporting 
(CBCR) data between tax authorities as, validated against 
existing information held on taxpayers, it will support their ability 
to ensure multinational groups pay the right amount of tax in 
the right places. 

As a global biopharmaceutical company, we have a substantial 
business and employment presence in many countries around 
the world and pay a significant amount of tax. This includes 
corporate income tax and other business taxes, and tax 
associated with our employees. We also collect a significant 
amount of tax on behalf of governments along our supply 
chain, including from our employees. 

We are subject to taxation throughout our supply chain. The 
worldwide nature of our operations means that our cross-
border supply routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines 
into numerous countries, can result in conflicting claims from tax 
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. 
This can lead to double taxation (with profits taxed in more 
than one country). 

Profits are recognised in territories by reference to the activities 
performed there and the value they generate. To ensure the 
profits recognised in jurisdictions are aligned to the activity 
undertaken there, and in line with current OECD guidelines, we 
base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle 
and support our transfer prices with economic analysis and 
reports. 

We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those 
without business or commercial substance. We do not seek to 
avoid tax by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we would 
not fully disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero-tolerance 
approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion. 

Tax risk in all countries in which we operate is managed through 
robust internal policies, processes, training and compliance 
programmes. Our Board of Directors and the Audit & Risk 
Committee are responsible for approving our tax policies and 
risk management arrangements as part of our wider internal 
control framework. 

We seek to maintain open and constructive relationships with 
tax authorities worldwide, meeting regularly to discuss our tax 
affairs and real time business updates wherever possible.

We also monitor government debate on tax policy in our key 
jurisdictions so that we can understand and share an informed 
point of view regarding any potential future changes in tax law, 
in support of a transparent and sustainable tax system. Where 
relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive business input 
to tax policy makers either directly or through industry trade 
bodies, advocating reform to support economic growth and job 
creation as well as the needs of our patients and other key 
stakeholders.

In 2023, the Group corporate tax charge was £756 million 
(2022: £707 million) on profits before tax of £6,064 million 
(2022: £5,628 million) representing an effective tax rate of 12.5% 
(2022: 12.6%). We made cash tax payments of £1,328 million in 
the year (2022: £1,310 million). In addition to the taxes we pay 
on our profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional and 
employment taxes.

The Group’s Total tax rate for 2023 of 12.5% (2022: 12.6%) was 
lower than the Adjusted tax rate reflecting the different tax 
effects of various Adjusting items.

Our Adjusted tax rate for 2023 was 15.5% (2022: 15.5%). The 
rate has benefited from innovation incentives available in key 
territories in which we operate, such as the UK and Belgium 
Patent Box regimes. During 2023 the UK Government enacted 
legislation introducing a global minimum corporate income tax 
rate, to have effect from 2024 in line with the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Pillar Two 
model framework. We anticipate that the rules will restrict our 
ability to benefit from innovation incentives and consequentially 
our effective Adjusted tax rate is forecast to increase to around 
17% for 2024. 

Further details about our corporate tax charges for the year are 
set out in Note 14 'Taxation' to the financial statements.

103

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Treasury policies  

We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash 
flows. The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the 
Group’s external and internal funding requirements and 
financial risks in support of our strategic objectives. GSK 
operates on a global basis, primarily through subsidiary 
companies, and we manage our capital to ensure that our 
subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to 
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate 
balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by 
policies approved annually by the Board of Directors, and most 
recently on 11 October 2023. A Treasury Management Group 
(TMG) meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes 
place on a regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its 
members receive management information relating to these 
activities.

Treasury operations
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the 
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility 
in order to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety 
of financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative 
financial instruments to manage market risks from these 
operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange 
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap 
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group 
purposes, as well as interest rate swaps which are used to 
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest 
rates. 

Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation 
to underlying business activities and not as trading or 
speculative instruments.

Capital management
GSK’s financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s 
financial architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and is 
regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital 
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and 
equity. We continue to manage our financial policies to a credit 
profile that particularly targets ratings of at least A2/A 
(Moody's/S&P), through the cycle. 

GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A 
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) 
is A2 (stable outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and 
P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.

Liquidity risk management
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated 
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding 
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a regular basis. Our 
strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of facilities 
and to maintain broad access to financial markets. 

Each day, we sweep cash to or from a number of global 
subsidiaries to central treasury accounts for liquidity 
management purposes.

Interest rate risk management
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and 
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates 
over time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the 
net amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed 
and agreed no less than annually by the Board.

Foreign exchange risk management
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating 
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency 
income with local currency costs where possible. Foreign 
currency transaction exposures arising on external and internal 
trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal trading 
transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-
company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Where 
possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing 
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward 
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating 
currency. 

In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we 
seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal 
assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US 
Dollars, Euros and Sterling. 

Borrowings can be swapped into other currencies as required. 
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies 
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be 
treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward 
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure 
to the Group’s investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG 
reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies 
regularly.

Commodity risk management
Our objective is to minimise income statement volatility arising 
from fluctuations in commodity prices, where practical and cost 
effective to do so. The TMG is authorised to approve the 
execution of certain financial derivatives to hedge commodity 
price exposures.

Counterparty risk management
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and 
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings 
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is 
actively monitored and any breach of these limits would be 
reported to the Chief Financial Officer immediately. 

In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are 
reviewed regularly so that, when changes in ratings occur, 
changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits 
as appropriate. All banking counterparty limits are reviewed at 
least annually.

104

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Group financial review continued

Critical accounting policies

The Group consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International 
Accounting Standard Board (IASB).

We are required to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses 
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results 
could differ from those estimates.

The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas:

– Turnover

– Taxation (Note 14)

– Legal and other disputes (Notes 47)

– Contingent liabilities (Note 35)

– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 31)

Information on the judgements and estimates made in these 
areas is given in Note 3, 'Critical accounting judgements and 
key sources of estimation uncertainty' to the financial 
statements.

Turnover
In respect of the turnover accounting policy, our largest 
business is US Commercial Operations, and the US market has 
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts, and 
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the 
arrangements in existence in our US Commercial Operations:

– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers 
whereby the customer is able to buy products from 
wholesalers at reduced prices. A chargeback represents the 
difference between the invoice price to the wholesaler and 
the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price. Accruals 
for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on the 
terms of each agreement, historical experience and product 
growth rates

– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and 
Group Purchasing Organisations and other direct and 
indirect customers. These arrangements require the customer 
to achieve certain formulary status, performance targets 
relating to the value of product purchased or pre-determined 
market shares relative to competitors. The accrual for 
customer rebates is estimated based on the specific terms in 
each agreement, historical experience and product growth 
rates

– The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered 
programme providing assistance to certain poor and 
vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate 
Program was established to reduce state and federal 
expenditure on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. We 
participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for 
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms 
of the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act

– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage 
prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of 
invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual 
experience

– We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying 

historical experience of customer returns to the amounts 
invoiced, together with market-related information such as 
stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and 
competitor activity

A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for US 
Commercial Operations is as follows:

2023

Margin
%

£m

2022

Margin
%

£m

2021

Margin
%

£m

Gross turnover

 32,359 

 100 

 29,814 

 100 

 24,432 

 100 

 (8,874) 

 (27)   (8,275) 

 (28)   (6,875) 

 (28) 

Market-driven
  segments

Government
  mandated and
  state programmes

Cash discounts

Customer returns

Prior year
  adjustments

Other items

 (6,385) 

 (20)    (6,218) 

 (21)    (5,134) 

(566) 

(344) 

591 

(961) 

 (2)    (536) 

 (2)    (438) 

 (1)   

(255) 

 (1)   

(253) 

 2 

780 

 3 

  855 

 (3)   

(768) 

 (2)   

(673) 

 (21) 

 (2) 

 (1) 

 4 

 (3) 

 (51) 

 49 

Total deductions

 (16,539) 

 (51)   (15,272) 

 (51)   (12,518) 

Net turnover

 15,820 

 49 

 14,542 

 49 

  11,914 

Market-driven segments consist primarily of managed care and 
Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that is 
honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments 
consist primarily of Medicaid and federal government 
programmes which receive government-mandated pricing via 
rebates and chargebacks.

105

 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in 
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess 
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to 
quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, that could result 
from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, 
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included in 
the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.

This position could change over time and, therefore, there can 
be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of 
any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the 
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial 
statements.

Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with 
various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, 
as well as investigations of our operations conducted by various 
governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the 
General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal 
function, supported by the Senior Vice President and Head of 
Global Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all 
litigation and government investigations, routinely brief the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the 
Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against 
the Group and governmental investigations of the Group. 

These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant 
litigation and government investigations and review matters 
such as the number of claims notified to us, information on 
potential claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of 
claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement 
levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.

The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not 
there is sufficient information available for us to be able to 
make a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the 
disputes. Often, external counsel assisting us with various 
litigation matters and investigations will also assist in the 
briefing of the Board and senior management. Following these 
discussions, for those matters where it is possible to make a 
reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that may 
be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is 
reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. These matters are 
discussed further in Note 47, 'Legal proceedings' to the financial 
statements.

Group financial review continued

Critical accounting policies continued

Overall sales deduction as a percentage of sales is consistent 
year over year with sales growth coming primarily from Trelegy, 
Arexvy and Specialty Products including HIV. Deductions within 
the year were split approximately as follows: General Medicines 
67%, Specialty Medicines 21% and Vaccines 12%.

At 31 December 2023, the total accrual for  discounts, rebates, 
allowances and returns for US Commercial Operations 
amounted to £5,951 million (2022: £5,855 million). 
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at 
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses 
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party 
data sources and information received from key wholesalers. 
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level 
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption.

On this basis, US Commercial Operations inventory levels at 
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 
2023 were estimated to amount to approximately four weeks of 
turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the 
accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to 
be sufficiently reliable for this purpose.

Legal and other disputes
In respect of the accounting policy for legal and other disputes, 
the following briefly describes the process by which we 
determine the level of provision that is necessary.

In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions, 
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for 
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is 
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of 
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses 
arising from claims against the Group.

Strategic report

The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on

27 February 2024

Julie Brown
Chief Financial Officer

27 February 2024

106

Corporate
governance

In this section

The Board and GSK Leadership Team

Chair’s governance statement

Corporate governance architecture

Ahead Together – Board oversight

Continuous engagement and key decisions

Board committee reports

Remuneration Committee Chair's annual statement

Annual report on remuneration

Directors’ report

108

114

116

119

121

128

139

142

161

GSK Annual Report 2023

107

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

The Board 

Sir Jonathan Symonds, CBE
Non-Executive Chair 

Age: 64 
Nationality: British
Appointed: 1 September 2019

N

Dame Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer

Age: 54 
Nationality: British
Appointed: 1 January 2017
Chief Executive Officer from 
1 April 2017

Julie Brown 
Chief Financial Officer

Age: 61 
Nationality: British 
Appointed: 3 April 2023 
Chief Financial Officer from 1 May 2023

Elizabeth (Liz) McKee Anderson
Independent Non-Executive Director

Age: 66 
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 September 2022

A R

Skills and experience
Jon has extensive international financial, life sciences and governance experience.

Jon served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from April 2014 and 
as Chairman of the Group Audit Committee from 1 September 2014 and Deputy Group Chairman 
from August 2018, until his retirement from the Board in February 2020. He was previously 
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG, Partner and Managing 
Director of Goldman Sachs, Chief Financial Officer of AstraZeneca plc, and a Partner at KPMG. 

Jon is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.

External appointments 
Non-Executive Director, Genomics England Limited having previously served as its Chairman; 
Non-Executive Chair, Energy Aspects; Member, European Round Table for Industry; Senior 
Advisor to Chatham House.

Skills and experience
Before being appointed as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare, a joint 
venture between GSK and Novartis, from its creation in March 2015. Emma joined GSK in 2010 
from L’Oreal, having worked there for 17 years in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and 
Shanghai. Emma was previously a Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc. Emma’s position as an 
Independent Director of Microsoft, Inc., further supplements the technology and cyber security 
experience she brings to the Board. 

Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University. 

External appointments 
Independent Director, Microsoft, Inc.

Skills and experience
Julie has an extensive financial and life sciences background, having been the Group CFO of 
Smith & Nephew from 2013 to 2017 and serving as a Non-Executive Director and Audit Chair of 
Roche Holding AG from 2016 to 2022. Before this, Julie was Interim Group CFO of AstraZeneca 
plc, having worked in a wide range of commercial, strategic and financial positions across three 
continents over a 25 year period. Julie was also Chief Operating Officer and CFO and Executive 
Director of Burberry Group plc from 2017 to 2023, where her responsibilities included Finance, 
Transformation, Information Technology and oversight of cyber security. 

Julie is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Institute of Tax. 

External appointments 
Co-Chair, CFO Leadership Network, Accounting for Sustainability (part of the King Charles III 
Charitable Fund Group of Companies); Patron, Oxford University Women in Business; Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, Diageo plc (effective 5 August 2024).

Skills and experience
Liz brings significant experience in commercial biopharmaceuticals and is a seasoned biotech 
board member. Her significant experience in commercial biopharmaceuticals, both operationally 
and at Board level, as well as her deep understanding of the biotechnology sector and 
application of technology, are invaluable to GSK as a pure biopharma company.

Before her current roles, Liz served as Worldwide Vice President and commercial leader in 
infectious diseases and vaccines and also for immunology and oncology at Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, and as Vice President and General Manager at Wyeth Vaccines. Liz was also 
previously a Board member of Huntsworth Plc and a Board Member and Chair of the Science, 
Technology and Investment Committee of Bavarian Nordic A/S. Liz has a degree in Engineering 
and Technical Management and an MBA in Finance.

External appointments 
Board Member, BioMarin Pharmaceutical, Inc; Board Member, Revolution Medicines, Inc; Board 
Member, Insmed, Inc; Trustee, The Wistar Institute; Director, Aro Biotherapeutics Company, a 
private company.

Key

Committee Chair

C

Corporate Responsibility

S

Science

N

Nominations & Corporate Governance

A

Audit & Risk

R

Remuneration

108

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

The Board continued

Charles Bancroft
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 

Skills and experience
Charlie has a wealth of financial and management experience in global biopharma.

Age: 64 
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 May 2020
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
from 18 July 2022

A N R

Dr Hal Barron
Non-Executive Director

Age: 61 
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 January 2018
Chief Scientific Officer and 
President, R&D from 1 April 2018 
Transitioned to the role of Non-Executive 
Director on 1 August 2022

S

Dr Anne Beal
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Age: 61 
Nationality: American
Appointed: 6 May 2021

C N

R

Charlie retired from a successful career at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in March 2020 where he 
held a number of leadership roles in commercial, strategy and finance. Beginning his career at 
BMS in 1984, he held positions of increasing responsibility within the finance organisation and 
had commercial operational responsibility for Latin America, Middle East, Africa, Canada, Japan 
and several Pacific Rim countries. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2010, Chief 
Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations in 2016 and Executive 
Vice President and Head of Integration and Strategy & Business Development in 2019. As Chief 
Financial Officer, Charlie had line management responsibility for Information Technology, 
including cyber security. Charlie successfully steered BMS through a period of strategic 
transformation, including its $74 billion acquisition of Celgene. Charlie also served as a member 
of the Board of Colgate-Palmolive Company from 2017 until March 2020.

External appointments 
Board Member, Kodiak Sciences Inc; Board Member, BioVector Inc; Advisory Board Member, 
Drexel University’s LeBow College of Business.

The Board determined that Charlie has recent and relevant financial experience and agreed that 
he has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.

Skills and experience
Hal has had a distinguished career in biosciences, with a strong track record of research and 
development (R&D). He joined the Board of GSK in 2018 as Chief Scientific Officer and President, 
R&D, where he brought a new approach to R&D which focused on science related to the immune 
system, the use of human genetics and advanced technologies to help identify the next 
generation of transformational medicines. In August 2022, he transitioned to a Non-Independent 
Non-Executive Director, with additional responsibilities to support R&D. 

Before joining GSK, Hal was President, R&D at Calico LLC (California Life Company), an 
Alphabet-funded company that uses advanced technologies to increase understanding of 
lifespan biology. Hal was previously Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product 
Development, and Chief Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the 
combined portfolio of Roche and Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice President of 
Development and Chief Medical Officer. Hal was a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the 
Science & Technology Committee at Juno Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was 
acquired by Celgene Corporation. He previously served as a Non-Executive Board Director of 
GRAIL, Inc and an Advisory Board Member of Verily Life Sciences LLC.

External appointments 
CEO and Board Co-Chair, Altos Labs Inc; Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology & 
Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco.

Skills and experience
Anne brings extensive healthcare experience to the Board as a physician and entrepreneur, and 
combines this with a passion for patient advocacy. She is a recognised health policy expert in the 
development of global and national programmes for improving healthcare access for all patient 
groups and for ensuring the voice of patients is reflected in research programmes.

Before her current roles, Anne spent six years at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts 
General Hospital, where she was an instructor in paediatrics. She has also held leadership roles at 
the Commonwealth Fund and the Aetna Foundation. Anne was previously Deputy Executive 
Director and Chief Engagement Officer for The Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute in 
the US and Chief Patient Officer and Global Head of Patient Solutions at Sanofi.

External appointments 
Founder and CEO, AbsoluteJOI Skincare; Board Member, AcademyHealth; Board Member, 
Prolacta Bioscience.

Key

Committee Chair

C

Corporate Responsibility

S

Science

N

Nominations & Corporate Governance

A

Audit & Risk

R

Remuneration

109

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

The Board continued

Wendy Becker
Independent Non-Executive Director

Age: 58 
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 October 2023

A R

Dr Harry (Hal) C Dietz
Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Scientific & Medical Expert  

Age: 65
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 January 2022

S

Skills and experience
Wendy is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director and has held significant leadership 
positions in a wide range of global businesses in public, private and non-profit sectors. She 
possesses a wealth of strategic and consumer marketing expertise in particular across the 
technology and life sciences sectors.

Wendy has strong executive management experience, having been Chief Executive Officer at 
Jack Wills Limited, Group Chief Marketing Officer at Vodafone Group plc and Partner at 
McKinsey & Company. Wendy’s interest in science, healthcare and medical research dates to her 
time at McKinsey, where she worked with a range of healthcare clients in the US and Europe. This 
was furthered during the years that she served on the Board of Cancer Research UK. More 
recently, Wendy spent time as a Non-Executive Director of NHS England and as Chair of the 
British Heart Foundation.

Wendy has held several Non-Executive Director roles, amongst others, as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committees of Great Portland Estates plc and Ocado Group plc and as a member 
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees of Whitbread plc. 

Through her current and prior roles in technology companies, Wendy adds to the Board’s 
experience in cyber security.

External appointments 
Chair of Logitech International S.A.; Board member and Chair of the Compensation Committee, 
Sony Group Corporation; Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, Oxford Nanopore Technologies plc; Member of the governing bodies of the 
University of Oxford.

Skills and experience
Hal brings extensive experience in the field of human genetics which is central to GSK’s approach 
to R&D. He is a former President of the American Society of Human Genetics and is recognised 
as the world’s leading authority on the genetic disorder known as Marfan Syndrome. He also 
brings experience in developing novel therapies, particularly in relation to disease-modifying 
treatments for fibrotic and neurodegenerative diseases. In total, Hal has authored 282 original 
publications in peer-reviewed journals during his career.

As a physician scientist, he has dedicated his entire career to the care and study of individuals 
with heritable connective tissue disorders with primary perturbations of extracellular matrix 
homeostasis and function. His lab has identified the genes for many of these conditions, for which 
he uses model systems to explain disease mechanisms.

Hal has received many prestigious awards including the Curt Stern Award from the American 
Society of Human Genetics, the Colonel Harland Sanders Lifetime Achievement Award in 
Medical Genetics, the Taubman Prize for excellence in translational medical science, the 
Harrington Prize from the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Harrington 
Discovery Institute, the Pasarow Award in Cardiovascular Research, the InBev-Baillet Latour 
Health Prize from Belgium, and the Research Achievement Award from the American Heart 
Association.

He is an inductee of the American Society for Clinical Investigation, the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science, the Association of American Physicians, the National Academy of 
Medicine, and the National Academy of Sciences.

External appointments 
Victor A. McKusick Professor of Paediatrics, Medicine, and Molecular Biology & Genetics in the 
Department of Genetic Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; Investigator, 
Howard Hughes Medical Institute; Non-Executive Board Director, Altius Institute for Biomedical 
Sciences; Independent Chair, GSK’s Human Genetics Scientific Advisory Board.

Key

Committee Chair

C

Corporate Responsibility

S

Science

N

Nominations & Corporate Governance

A

Audit & Risk

R

Remuneration

110

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

The Board continued

Dr Jesse Goodman
Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Scientific & Medical Expert 

Age: 72 
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 January 2016

S C

Urs Rohner
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Age: 64
Nationality: Swiss
Appointed: 1 January 2015

R A N

Dr Vishal Sikka
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Age: 56
Nationality: American
Appointed: 18 July 2022

C

Skills and experience
Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations. He has a wealth of 
experience spanning science, medicine, vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a proven 
record in addressing pressing public health needs in both the academic and federal sectors.

Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA), including most recently as the FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy 
Commissioner for Science and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics 
Evaluation and Research (CBER).

Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science and Medical 
Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia, government 
and global public health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major public 
health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters and terrorism. He led the FDA’s 
response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and served on the Senior 
Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review. Jesse was 
previously a member of both the Scientific Advisory Committee and the Regulatory and Legal 
Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).

External appointments 
Professor of Medicine and Attending Physician, Infectious Diseases, Georgetown University and 
directs the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship 
(COMPASS); Board Member (formerly President), United States Pharmacopeia (USP); Board 
Member, Scientific Counselors for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC); Board Member, Intellia Therapeutics Inc; Member, US National Academy of Medicine; 
Board Member, Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, Inc.

Skills and experience
Urs has a broad business, banking and legal background and extensive senior level experience at 
multinational companies.

Urs has served as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse Group from 
2011 until April 2021. Before joining Credit Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive 
Board and CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number of years in 
private practice at major law firms in Switzerland and the US, having been admitted to the bars 
of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and the state of New York in the US in 1990. 

As a founding partner and Chair of Vega Cyber Associates AG, he brings current technology and 
cybersecurity experience to the Board, further supplemented by digital transformation during his 
time as Chair of Credit Suisse.

External appointments 
Member, International Advisory Board, Investcorp; Chair, Vega Cyber Associates AG.

Skills and experience
Vishal has a distinguished background in technology, particularly in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and 
Machine Learning (ML), which are central to GSK’s approach to R&D. He also brings a deep 
understanding of cyber security to the Board. He is the founder and CEO of Vianai Systems, Inc, a 
Silicon Valley-based company that provides advanced technological software and services in AI 
and ML to large enterprises around the world.

Before founding Vianai Systems in 2019, Vishal served as CEO of Infosys Limited, where he led an 
innovative strategy to help clients renew existing IT landscapes, using automation, design 
thinking and next-generation technologies to transform customer experiences. He also served as 
a member of the Executive Board of SAP SE, prior to which he was its Chief Technology Officer. 
Vishal has a PhD in AI from Stanford University and has co-authored several research abstracts 
related to AI, technology and database management.

External appointments 
Founder and CEO, Vianai Systems, Inc; Board Member, Oracle Corporation; Member, Supervisory 
Board, BMW AG; Member of the Advisory Board of Stanford University's AI Center (Center for 
Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence).

Key

Committee Chair

C

Corporate Responsibility

S

Science

N

Nominations & Corporate Governance

A

Audit & Risk

R

Remuneration

Directors departing during 2023

Iain Mackay

14 January 2019 to 1 May 2023

Stepped down from the Board on 1 May and retired from the company on 31 December 2023. 

111

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

GSK Leadership Team (GLT)

Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer 

Julie Brown
Chief Financial Officer

Diana Conrad
Chief People Officer

James Ford
SVP & Group General Counsel, 
Legal and Compliance

Sally Jackson
SVP, Global Communications 
and CEO Office

Luke Miels
Chief Commercial Officer

Shobie Ramakrishnan
Chief Digital and Technology Officer

Skills and experience

Emma joined GSK in 2010 and the GLT in 2011. See Board biographies on pages 108 to 111.

Julie joined GSK and the GLT in 2023. See Board biographies on pages 108 to 111.

Diana was appointed Chief People Officer and member of the GLT in April 2019. She was 
previously Senior Vice President, HR, Pharmaceuticals R&D from 2016 where she played a key 
strategic role as leader of the R&D people and culture agenda to support its transformation.

Diana joined GSK Canada’s HR team in 2000 where she held several roles of increasing 
responsibility before becoming Senior Vice President, HR for Consumer Healthcare in 2009.

Prior to joining GSK, she held HR roles in companies including GE Capital, Gennum Corporation 
and Zenon Environmental Laboratories. Diana has an Honours Bachelor of Arts from McMaster 
University in Canada.

James joined the GLT in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and Group General 
Counsel, later taking responsibility for Compliance, Corporate Security and Investigations in 2021. 
He joined GSK in 1995 and has served as General Counsel Consumer Healthcare, General 
Counsel Global Pharmaceuticals, Vice President of Corporate Legal and was Acting Head of 
Global Ethics and Compliance. Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor at Clifford Chance and DLA. 
He holds a law degree from the University of East Anglia and a Diploma in Competition Law from 
King's College. He is qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales and is an attorney at the New 
York State Bar. James is based in London and has practised law and lived in the US, Singapore 
and Hong Kong. James was co-chair of the US-based Civil Justice Reform Group 2019-2022, and 
is a director of the European General Counsel Association and the Association of Corporate 
Counsel.

Sally joined the GLT in March 2019 as Senior Vice President, Global Communications and CEO 
Office. She leads our Communications and Government Affairs function globally and is also the 
CEO’s Chief of Staff. 

Prior to this, Sally was Senior Vice President, Office of the CEO and CFO and she previously 
served as Head of Investor Relations. She joined GSK in 2001. 

Sally holds a degree in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge.

Luke joined GSK and the GLT in 2017. As Chief Commercial Officer he is responsible for our 
commercial portfolio of medicines and vaccines. Luke also co-chairs the Portfolio Investment 
Board with Tony Wood and is a member of the ViiV Healthcare Board. Outside of GSK, Luke is 
a member of the Singapore Economic Development Board.

He previously worked for AstraZeneca as Executive Vice President of their European business 
and, prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global 
Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before that, he was head of Asia for Roche, based in 
Shanghai and then Singapore. Prior to that he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche and 
Sanofi-Aventis in the US, Europe and Asia.

Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and a 
MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.

Shobie joined the GLT in 2021 when she was appointed Chief Digital and Technology Officer. She 
joined GSK in 2018 and has deep and broad experience in both biotech and hi-tech companies 
and, most recently, has led Digital and Technology for GSK’s Global Commercial organisation, 
transforming the company’s capabilities in digital, data and analytics and playing a pivotal role 
in establishing a more agile commercial operating model. Before joining GSK, Shobie held senior 
technology leadership roles in organisations including AstraZeneca, Salesforce, Genentech and 
Roche. She is a Non-Executive Director at Deliveroo. She is Board Member Emeritus at 
SustainableIT.org and was formerly a member of the board of directors at Remediant.

Shobie holds a Bachelor’s degree in Electronics Engineering from Vellore Institute of Technology, 
University of Madras, India.

112

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

GSK Leadership Team (GLT) continued

David Redfern
President, Corporate Development

Regis Simard
President, Global Supply Chain

Phil Thomson
President, Global Affairs

Deborah Waterhouse
CEO, ViiV Healthcare and President, 
GSK Global Health 

Tony Wood
Chief Scientific Officer 

Skills and experience

David joined the GLT as Chief Strategy Officer in 2008 and is responsible for corporate 
development and strategic planning. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe 
with responsibility for GSK’s pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, before that, he was 
Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994. David was 
appointed Chairman of the Board of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non-Executive 
Director of the Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Board in 2015.

He has a Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.

Regis joined the GLT in 2018, when he became President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.

He is responsible for the manufacturing and supply of GSK’s medicines and vaccines. In addition, 
he leads Quality and Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level. Regis 
joined GSK in 2005 as a Site Director in France, rising to become Senior Vice President of Global 
Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, he held senior positions at 
Sony, Konica Minolta and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the Board of ViiV Healthcare.

He is a mechanical engineer and holds an MBA.

Phil joined the GLT in 2011. He was appointed President, Global Affairs in 2017, and has 
responsibility for the Group’s strategic approach to stakeholder engagement, reputation and 
policy development. Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, Communications and Government 
Affairs. He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a commercial trainee in 1996. 

Phil holds a degree in English, History and Russian Studies from Durham University. 

Deborah was appointed to the GLT in January 2020. She became Chief Executive Officer of ViiV 
Healthcare in April 2017. In addition to ViiV, Deborah also leads GSK’s Global Health 
organisation.

Deborah joined GSK in 1996 and, prior to ViiV, was the Senior Vice President of Primary Care 
within GSK’s US business. She has a strong track record of performance in both specialty and 
primary care. Deborah led the HIV business in the UK before heading the HIV Centre of 
Excellence for Pharma Europe and held roles as General Manager of Australia and New Zealand 
and Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe.

Deborah is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and holds a degree in Economic History 
and English Literature from Liverpool University.

Tony was appointed Chief Scientific Officer (CSO), Head of R&D and a member of GLT on 1 
August 2022, following his appointment as CSO designate on 19 January 2022. He joined GSK 
from Pfizer in 2017 as Senior Vice President, Medicinal Science and Technology, responsible for all 
science and technology platforms driving the delivery of new innovation.

Tony has led large-scale global organisations in drug discovery and development in multiple 
therapeutic areas, including immunology, oncology and infectious diseases. During his time at 
Pfizer, Tony was responsible for the invention of a new antiretroviral medication used to treat HIV 
infection. He is a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, an Honorary Fellow of the Royal 
Society of Chemistry (RSC), the highest honour given by the RSC, and a Fellow of the Royal 
Society of Biology.

Tony has a BSc in chemistry and PhD in organic synthesis from the University of Newcastle, and 
was a postdoctoral fellow at Imperial College, London. He is also currently a visiting professor at 
IMCM Oxford.

GLT members departing during 2023
(1) Iain Mackay was a member of the GLT and CFO until 1 May 2023. He stepped down from the Board on 1 May and retired from the company on 31 

December 2023. 

113

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Chair’s governance statement

In 2023 GSK continued to make significant progress as a pure biopharma company. The Board has the skills and 
capabilities to challenge and support GSK’s performance and long-term success.

Board succession
Two succession processes began in 2023. Urs Rohner, who has 
chaired the Remuneration Committee since May 2015, reaches 
just over nine years of service at the 2024 AGM. He will be 
succeeded following the AGM by Wendy Becker who joined the 
Board in October 2023. Wendy has a strong background in 
science, life sciences and technology, but is also a very 
experienced Remuneration Committee Chair with an 
understanding of global corporates. She will oversee the next 
iteration of the Remuneration policy that will be presented at 
the 2025 AGM.

Our second succession planning focus has been for continued 
refreshment of the Board’s scientific expertise. Dr Laurie 
Glimcher, who stepped down from the Board in October 2022, 
was not replaced as we were unsure of precisely what 
additional skills we needed. As our focus deepens on RNA and 
oligonucleotides we have undertaken a detailed search for a 
scientist with deep experience in RNA. 

A successor to Dr Jesse Goodman, who is due to retire after 
nine years’ service at our 2025 AGM, will be sought in 2024. His 
expertise in public health, infectious diseases and regulation 
has been invaluable and necessary.  

Board priorities and focus
GSK is now delivering meaningful and consistent improvement 
in performance which needs to be sustained through effective 
capital allocation and strategic choices. This was reflected in 
the recent upgrade to our longer-term outlooks announced at 
the beginning of the year.

The Board and management agendas are completely aligned 
with clear focus on the three time periods that management 
communicate on – financial performance to 2026, pipeline 
progress and business development to support the growth 
ambitions to 2031 and the science and technologies that 
support the long-term growth of the business beyond 2031. 
The primary focus of the Board’s work in 2023 was on building 
confidence on the growth outlooks to 2031. The significant 
opportunities that can come from AI/ML have been a theme 
running through every Board meeting.

Board evolution
The Board’s composition will continue to evolve, but is now 
tailored to the pure biopharma company that we are now. We 
have the relevant skills and experience with deep industry and 
scientific expertise, as well as broad pharma business and 
commercial experience.  

At the heart of the business is science and the choices we make. 
We are well equipped with Drs Hal Dietz, Hal Barron and Jesse 
Goodman who provide a breadth and depth of scientific 
knowledge which combines well with Vishal Sikka’s deep 
expertise in technology, artificial intelligence and machine 
learning (AI/ML). Liz Anderson provides strong commercial 
expertise and Dr Anne Beal brings a strong focus on patients 
and the patient experience. Charlie Bancroft’s extensive 
expertise as a pharma company executive and CFO means 
that our Board now meets the needs of GSK today.

At the management level we transitioned CFO from Iain 
Mackay, who guided us through the separation of Haleon, 
to Julie Brown, who has deep industry expertise.

Board industry experience

l 2022 pre-biopharma Board
l 2023 biopharma Board

Non-Executive Director tenure

l Up to 3 years: 50%
l 3-6 years: 20%
l 6-9 years: 20%
l Over 9 years: 10%

    2023 Board priorities 
       Focus on value creation, governance and oversight of
       Ahead Together strategy

     Delivery of performance targets
     Execution of R&D pipeline and business development 
     Long-term R&D strategy and approach

     End-to-end business impact of AI/technology
     People/Talent/Culture
     ESG leadership
     Zantac litigation – defence and mitigation
     Focus on shareholder value creation

114

Pharma/Life SciencesTechFinanceConsumer/Other0246810Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Chair’s governance statement continued

The Board supported the modular communication plan for 
2023, which included deep insights into vaccines and infectious 
disease, HIV, respiratory, immunology and oncology. The Board 
reviewed all of the strategies and priorities prior to 
communication to the market. The revised outlooks presented 
with the 2023 annual results were also reviewed extensively in 
the second half of the year along with the longer-term strategic 
plan. In terms of business development, the Board and Science 
Committee work alongside Emma and the management team 
to understand the scientific rationale, competitiveness of the 
asset under consideration and potential returns and value 
creation. This was a significant activity of the Board in 2023.

Board visits are an important element of our Board programme. 
In March the Board spent three days visiting our Vaccines site in 
Wavre, Belgium. Board members had a deep immersion in the 
vaccines business and the work at the site and were inspired by 
the passion and commitment of the group of around 150 
employees they spent time with during the visit. Similarly, the 
Board will be holding its March meeting in 2024 in North 
Carolina for an immersive briefing on our HIV business. 

R&D progress and Technology 
The longer-term future of the company comes from deep 
sustainable productivity of internal and externally sourced R&D 
and from our investment in technology. The path we set out on 
five years ago was routed in our commitment to transform our 
productivity through the use of technology.

Last year the Board’s R&D updates centred on antibody drug 
conjugates, Oligonucleotides, AMR, Vaccines and RNA and 
liver disease. These discussions were supported and validated 
by prior deep-dives by the Science Committee. 

Embracing the potential of AI/ML in every part of the business 
is crucial to our medium and long-term success. We deliberately 
have a wealth of tech experience on the Board ranging from Dr 
Hal Barron’s R&D experience at Verily and Google, to Vishal 
Sikka’s unique tech vantage point and expertise in AI and ML. 
Our CEO also brings unique insights from her role at Microsoft, 
along with my own experience of the use of technology in 
biotechs and through the UK’s national genomics programmes.  
Collectively the deep appreciation of the tremendous potential 
that technology can unlock give us the reassurance to execute 
with confidence. While our biggest investment has of course 
been in R&D, every part of GSK now has technology built into 
optimising their priorities.  

Culture & responsibility 

The Board receives regular briefings on our people, talent and 
culture. At every Board interaction, wherever we are, the Board 
meets between 50 to 100 members of local employee talent. 
This enables us to get a first hand impression of our culture and 
the mood of employees and to hear their views of the company.

Similarly, wherever I go in GSK, and this year my travels included 
the US, China, the Middle East and Europe, I take the 
opportunity to meet with local employees at all levels in small 
groups. It is impressive to hear those I meet all talk with pride in 
our purpose and our mission towards prevention and improved 
human health. 

ESG continues to be right at the very heart of GSK and its 
ambition. We are particularly proud of the progress that we are 
making in DEI in terms of our people, and in the diversity of our 
clinical trials.

Shareholder perspectives and engagement 
The Board and I believe in the importance of maintaining a 
continuous level of engagement with shareholders. During the 
year I continued to meet with a range of investors; combined 
they represented approximately 30% of our share register. This 
year all our Non-Executive Board members attended our 
Annual Governance Meeting to hear shareholders views first 
hand. The feedback shareholders provide is invaluable to the 
shaping of the Board’s work. We appreciate the clarity and 
efficiency that direct engagement brings and we continue to 
welcome the opportunity to engage with investors directly on all 
aspects of GSK and the Board’s work.  

We welcome the approach taken by the Financial Reporting 
Council in its updated UK Corporate Governance Code to 
encourage Boards to be bolder in choosing the right approach 
for their business and explaining why it is important to do so if 
necessary.  

Shareholder value 
We have made progress in 2023 but there is, and will always be, 
more to do. The key to improved returns is consistency of 
performance, and consistency in communication. During 2023, I 
believe management delivered on both, but this all has to be 
translated into sustained shareholder value creation. We are 
acutely aware that has not happened yet.

In terms of the Zantac litigation, the Board is deeply involved in 
the overall strategy with the CEO and General Counsel. In 
addition, every quarter the Audit & Risk Committee reviews the 
disclosures with our Auditor to ensure that they are complete, 
fair and that the accounting judgments are appropriate. 

I believe 2023 was a year of significant progress across all of 
the time periods to 2026, 2026 to 2031 and beyond 2031. We 
have a clear and aligned work programme for 2024. The Board 
is very different to what it was two years ago. I am really 
delighted not just with the progress Emma and the 
management team have made, but the performance of the 
Board too. 

I encourage you to read my Board colleagues' committee 
updates (which follow on pages 128 to 138) and provide greater 
detail on their work during 2023. 

Thank you for your continued support and I look forward to 
connecting with you during the year, whether at our Annual 
General Meeting in May, or otherwise. 

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
27 February 2024

115

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Corporate governance architecture

Our corporate governance architecture is a framework designed to improve the Board's effectiveness and to support its oversight of 
the GSK Leadership Team (GLT) as it delivers the company's strategy. This framework continues to evolve to support our 
infrastructure and priorities as a pure biopharma business. 

GSK’s internal control and risk management arrangements are integral to our overall corporate governance framework and are 
described on pages 57 to 76 and pages 134 and 135.

To ensure the framework's optimal effectiveness, it has:

– a clear division of responsibilities for individual and collective Board roles, as described on page 117
– the appropriate distribution of workload to the Board committee with the requisite focus and skills
– highly committed Board Directors who are motivated to carry out their roles and responsibilities for the success of the company

Committee roles

Committee

Role and focus

Chairs’

Acts on behalf of the Board between its scheduled meetings to take decisions on urgent 
matters in accordance with matters and authority delegated to it by the Board from time to 
time

Corporate 
Responsibility

Considers GSK's Trust priority and has oversight of our responsible business approach and 
ESG strategy, performance and reporting. This reflects the most important issues for 
responsible and sustainable business growth. Has oversight of the views and interests of our 
internal and external stakeholders, and reviews issues that could have a serious impact on 
GSK’s business and reputation

Membership

Sir Jonathan Symonds 
(company Chair)
Senior Independent 
Director
Chairs of the Board's 
committees

Dr Anne Beal (Chair)
Dr Jesse Goodman
Dr Vishal Sikka

Science

Supports the Board in its understanding of business development transactions and the key 
strategic themes on which the company's R&D strategy is based, by reviewing underlying 
scientific assumptions in detail and giving the Board technical assurance. Has in-depth 
oversight of R&D-related risks

Dr Hal Dietz (Chair)
Dr Jesse Goodman 
Dr Hal Barron

Nominations 
& Corporate 
Governance

Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, the appointment of members to 
Board committees and the appointment of corporate officers. Makes recommendations to 
the Board as appropriate. Plans and assesses orderly succession for Executive and Non-
Executive Directors and reviews management's succession plan to ensure its adequacy

Is responsible for overseeing, monitoring and making recommendations to the Board on 
corporate governance arrangements. Reviews Board and GLT conflicts of interest

Audit & Risk

Reviews the financial reporting process, the integrity of the company’s financial statements, 
the external and internal audit process, the system of internal control, and the identification 
and management of risks such as Information and cyber security, and the company’s 
process for monitoring compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice

Oversees ESG data reporting and assurance. Initiates audit tenders, the selection and 
appointment of the external auditor, setting the auditor's remuneration and overseeing its work

Remuneration Sets the company’s Remuneration policy having regard to GSK’s workforce remuneration 

so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its executives

Regularly reviews the Remuneration policy to make sure that it is consistent with the 
company’s scale and scope of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans, 
is aligned to the wider workforce and helps drive the creation of shareholder value

(The Chair and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the 
Board about remuneration arrangements and policy for the Non-Executive Directors)

Sir Jonathan Symonds 
(Chair) 
Charles Bancroft
Dr Anne Beal
Urs Rohner

Charles Bancroft 
(Chair)
Elizabeth McKee 
Anderson
Wendy Becker
Urs Rohner

Urs Rohner (Chair) 
Wendy Becker (Chair 
Designate)
Charles Bancroft
Dr Anne Beal
Elizabeth McKee 
Anderson

Committee 
report 
on page

–

128-129

129-130

131-132

133-138

139-160

Each Board committee has written terms of reference that are approved by the Board and reviewed at least annually to make sure they comply 
with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reflect best practice developments. Terms of reference of each Board committee are 
available at gsk.com. 

116

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Corporate governance architecture continued

Leadership
Chair
Jonathan Symonds
– leads and manages the business of the Board
– provides direction and focus
– ensures a clear structure for the Board and its 

committees to operate effectively

– maintains a dialogue with shareholders about the 

governance of the company

– sets the Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is 

allocated to promote effective debate to support sound 
decision-making

– ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear 

information

– meets regularly with each Non-Executive Director to 

discuss individual contributions and performance, and 
training and development needs

Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Senior Independent Director
Charles Bancroft
– acts as a sounding board for the Chair and a trusted 

intermediary for other Directors

– together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the 
annual review of the Chair’s performance, taking into 
account the views of the Executive Directors

– discusses the results of the Chair’s effectiveness review 

with the Chair

– leads the search and appointment process and makes 

the recommendation to the Board for a new Chair

– acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders. 

Maintains an understanding of their issues and concerns 
through meetings with shareholders and briefings from 
the Company Secretary and Investor Relations

+ GSK's Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is 

– shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the 

available at gsk.com

Board evaluation process

– meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors 

independently of the Executive Directors

+ The Chair’s role description is available at gsk.com 

Chief Executive Officer
Emma Walmsley
– manages the Group and its business
– develops the Group’s strategic direction for the Board's 

consideration and approval 
– implements the agreed strategy
– is supported by the GLT
– maintains a continuous dialogue with shareholders in 

respect of the company’s performance

+ The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available at gsk.com 

Non-Executive Directors
– provide a strong independent element to the Board
– constructively support and challenge management and 

scrutinise its performance in achieving agreed 
deliverables

– shape proposals about strategy and offer specialist 

advice to management

– each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms 

and conditions of their directorship

– devote such time as is necessary to the proper 

performance of their duties

– are expected to attend all meetings as required

Independence statement 
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors who 
are identified on pages 108 to 111 – except Dr Hal Barron – 
to be independent after being assessed against Provision 
10 of the Financial Reporting Council's (FRC) UK 
Corporate Governance Code (Code)

+ GSK's Non-Executive Directors' role description is available at gsk.com

     Company Secretary
         Victoria Whyte

– is secretary to the Board and all Board committees
– supports the Board and Committee Chairs to plan future agendas and annual programmes
– ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
– supports the Chair to design and deliver Board inductions
– coordinates continuing business awareness and training for the Non-Executive Directors
– undertakes internal Board and committee evaluations at the Chair's request
– advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters
– chairs the Group's Disclosure Committee
– operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external 

appointment requirements of the Code

– is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters

117

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Corporate governance architecture continued

2023 Board and committee attendance

Board

6

Chairs’

3

Corporate 
Responsibility

4

Science

3

Nominations & 
Corporate
Governance

Audit & Risk

Remuneration

5

6

5

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Total number of routine meetings

Current members

Sir Jonathan Symonds

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown (from 1 May)

Elizabeth McKee Anderson

Dr Hal Barron

Charles Bancroft

Dr Anne Beal

6

6

4 (4)

6

6

6

6

Wendy Becker (from 1 October)

2 (2)

Dr Harry Dietz

Dr Jesse Goodman

Urs Rohner

Dr Vishal Sikka

Retired members

Iain Mackay (until 1 May)

Number of additional meetings

6

6

6

4*

2 (2)

4

3

3

3

3

1

–

3

3

3

6

4

4

2

1

5

5

5

5

–

6

6

5

5

5

2 (2)

2 (2)

6

3

5

1

For those Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets show the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend. Details of 
committee members’ skills and experience are included in their biographies on pages 108 to 111. There was a high attendance record at scheduled Board and 
committee meetings for all our Directors who served during 2023, as set out above. In January 2024, Urs Rohner has reached nine years of service and will 
step down from the Board at the 2024 AGM as planned. He continues to demonstrate all the characteristics of independence expected by the Board in 
carrying out his role on the Board. 

*Dr Vishal Sikka joined the Board in July 2022. During his first year on the Board he was unable to attend two Board meetings because of pre-existing 
external board commitments. He contributed fully to the Board’s work during 2023. He met regularly with the Chair to provide his input on Board and 
Committee materials. He inputted on technology and AI discussions at the Audit & Risk Committee. He also spent time with our Chief Digital and Technology 
Officer and her team during the year, sharing his expertise and perspectives.

FRC UK Corporate Governance Code
Financial experience
In accordance with the FRC's Code, the Board determined 
that Charles Bancroft has recent and relevant financial 
experience. It has also agreed that he has the appropriate 
qualifications and background to be an audit committee 
financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, and has determined that he is independent within the 
meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Members of the Audit & Risk Committee also have financial 
and industry experience, details of which can be found in their  
biographies on pages 108 to 111. 

Compliance statement
The Board is pleased to report that in 2023 it was in full 
alignment with the provisions of the FRC's Code.

The Board is also pleased to report that it has consistently 
applied the principles of the FRC's Code, as set out on the 
pages of this Corporate Governance report. A copy of the 
Code is available on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk.

Board appointments policy

All our Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the performance of their duties. Each Director 
is required to attend a minimum of 75% of scheduled Board and committee meetings. However, it is recognised that there may be 
rare occasions when this is not possible, as explained above in the attendance table. Special allowance is also given during the first 
year of Board membership while calendars are aligned. 

Our Board Directors’ external appointments are governed by a Board-approved policy. It is considered that external appointments 
can help Board and GLT members widen their expertise and knowledge, and hence perform their roles more effectively. When 
proposing new Non-Executive Director appointments to the Board for approval, the Board considers the other demands on the 
individuals’ time. Before being appointed to the Board, an individual is required to disclose the significant commitments they may 
have with an indication of the time involved. 

Subsequently, all additional prospective external appointments for serving Board Directors are considered and approved by the 
Board, noting the nature of the role and type of organisation, time commitment and any potential conflicts that could arise.

The Company Secretary maintains a register of commitments and potential conflicts. The Board is satisfied that given Directors’ 
other interests, each has sufficient time to carry out their role with GSK. Our Executive and Non-Executive Directors may undertake a 
maximum of one or up to four other listed-company directorships respectively.

118

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Ahead Together – Board oversight

The Board carries out its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings 

The Board seeks to optimise its effectiveness by setting its annual meeting programme to focus on priorities agreed for the year to 
support delivery of the company's short-, medium- and long-term strategy. The Board and its committees' programmes of work are 
set to complement each other and avoid unnecessary duplication. During the year the Board received papers and presentations 
and actively discussed progress with management and our people. These materials and discussions help the Board make effective 
decisions, and contribute to its oversight of business performance and ensure good governance.  

The key areas the Board considered in 2023 are highlighted below:

Areas of focus in 
2023

Building 
momentum as a 
pure biopharma 
company 

Ahead Together 
– further 
strengthening 
the 
fundamentals 
of value 
creation

Enhancing 
ESG leadership

Regular 
corporate 
governance 
oversight

The Board's work in 2023 included:

Overseeing GSK as a pure biopharma business and delivery of performance included:

– setting and approving the Board's 2023-2024 priorities

– discussing and scrutinising strategic plans for GSK and assessing the potential to upgrade our longer-term outlook

– scrutinising updates on R&D strategy, progress and progression of the company's pipeline

– discussing GSK's overall commercial strategy and in particular for China

– discussing end-to-end business opportunities and the impact of AI and other advanced technologies for performance and 

patients

Overseeing the fundamentals of commercial execution, cost-base management, capital allocation, pipeline and culture included:

– receiving regular reports from the CEO, CFO and CSO including the assessment of delivery of performance targets

– receiving updates on R&D strategy, approach and pipeline progress

– assessing the product area strategy reports on Vaccines, Speciality Care (including HIV), Oncology and General Medicines

– reviewing GSK's capital allocation priorities to ensure investment for growth to deliver improved returns for shareholders

– evaluating business development transactions, acquisitions and strategic partnerships with third parties including BELLUS 

Health, Zhifei, Hansoh, Aiolos Bio, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals and Janssen Pharmaceuticals 

– scrutinising the Group's financial performance, shareholder value creation and development of Investor Relations Roadmap

– reviewing Zantac litigation strategy 

– approving the monetisation of the retained shares in Haleon post demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business

Overseeing culture and embedding ESG at our core included:

– assessing ESG performance and reviewed plans for low-carbon Ventolin, including clinical and non-clinical data available to 

support regulatory submissions 

– approving the ESG Performance Report

– oversight of the company's Pricing and Access Policy principles

– reviewing stakeholder perception research

The Board’s programme of governance included:

– reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposals, earnings guidance, investor materials, results announcements and 

2022 Annual Report and Form 20F and receiving related reports from the external auditor

– setting the annual budget and the forward-looking three-year plan and long-range forecast

– conducting an annual review of the enterprise risk responsibility framework and enterprise-wide risks

– undertaking an annual Board evaluation and implementing its agreed outcomes

– receiving reports on Board committee work and reviewing and continuing to evolve the Board’s governance architecture

– evaluating the CEO’s 2023 performance, and setting her 2024 objectives

– reviewing culture, talent and succession plans annually

– engaging with GSK's stakeholders and people to gather and understand their views about the company’s activities,  

operations and culture

– reviewing the employee pulse survey results

– receiving reports on wider corporate governance and regulatory developments, and the Company Secretary’s report

– approving the company's modern slavery statement and gender pay gap positioning

119

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Ahead Together – Board oversight continued

Board performance

The Board evaluates its performance, and that of its 
committees, every year. 

The evaluation is normally carried out externally every third 
year. The most recent external evaluation was facilitated in 
2022 by Jan Hall of No 4, a business advisory company that 
does not have any other connection with GSK. 

The 2023 Board and committee evaluation was conducted 
internally by the Company Secretary who:

– provided a questionnaire to Board members

– drew together responses and themes from the responses to 

discuss outcomes and recommendations with each 
Committee Chair

– following discussion with each committee and the Board as a 

whole, identified areas of focus and improvement for the 
Board and committees, which are set out below

Action points 
After due consideration and discussion, the following action 
points to further improve performance in 2024 were agreed:

– the key priorities for the Board's focus and programme of 

meetings for the year ahead

– given the fundamental importance of culture, the Board 
wished to ensure it too fully embodied GSK's culture and 
would therefore undertake the culture training provided to 
employees

– additional opportunities to increase informal engagement 

between the Board and management 

– the removal of unnecessary duplication in the Board and its 
committees' work would be continued. This programme aims 
to further simplify papers and create time to have deeper 
discussions in meetings

Board committee evaluations
The review of the Board committees focused on potential 
opportunities to further support GSK's momentum as a pure 
biopharma company, to help remove duplication and support 
the delivery of the Board's priorities identified for 2024. In 
addition, each committee reviewed its committee members' 
tenure, expertise and diversity. 

Each committee was considered to have operated effectively 
and the following enhancements were agreed: 

– Corporate Responsibility Committee: has a wide remit and 

was performing well. Consideration would be given to 
additional routes to identify potential emerging issues within 
the Committee's area of responsibility for its review. In 
addition, the Committee would continue to seek external 
perspectives to provide challenge

– Science Committee: was working effectively. Opportunities to 
further enhance effectiveness were considered. In particular 
the Committee's 2024 programme would focus on R&D's 
Tech strategy. The capacity to undertake more deep dives on 
specific areas of R&D activity and to input earlier into new 
projects would be explored

– Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee: was 

working effectively. A successor to Dr Jesse Goodman was 
being sought ahead of his retirement from the Board in 2025.  
The Committee would undertake a review of the Board and 
committee architecture and membership in 2024 to ensure it 
remained aligned to Board priorities

– Audit & Risk Committee: was considered to be effective. The 
work to appropriately streamline material reviewed by the 
Committee has made good progress and will continue as an 
area of opportunity. In the year ahead the Committee will 
also continue to give focus on tech, cyber security and the 
use of AI

– Remuneration Committee: had operated effectively during 
2023 despite a challenging environment. The focus for 2024 
would be to determine the right business imperatives for 
GSK's next remuneration policy to ensure it was globally 
competitive and rewarded delivery of outperformance

Chair's evaluation
The Senior Independent Director (SID) carried out the Chair's 
evaluation. He sought feedback on the Chair's performance 
from the Directors individually and collectively. From this review, 
they concluded that the Chair was leading the Board 
appropriately and effectively. The Chair and SID discussed the 
results of the review. 

120

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions

Prioritising continuous engagement

Our stakeholders rightly have high expectations of us, and the 
company's dynamic operating environment presents many 
challenges and opportunities. As a Board we aim to make sure 
that being commercially successful is balanced and aligned 
with meeting our stakeholders’ expectations, upholding our 
reputation, maintaining our licence to operate and building 
trust. We engage with or are briefed about our stakeholders' 
views to make sure we identify and respond to their 
expectations effectively and appropriately. 

How we engage with our main stakeholder groups – including 
patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and our people – 
across the company is covered in the pages of the Strategic 
report. 

Patients and our people are two stakeholders at the heart of 
our culture, with all our people ambitious for patients, 
accountable for outcomes and committed to doing the right 
thing. Our culture is described on pages 14 and 15 of the 
Strategic report.

The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups 
can vary, depending on the matter being considered. Certain 
stakeholders’ interests can be in conflict, meaning that we, as a 
Board, need to make balanced judgements.

Continuous stakeholder engagement and feedback helps us 
identify emerging issues. It also enables us to make decisions in 
the context of what is relevant and important to each of them.

Our principal Board committees, and the GLT, undertake 
engagement on the Board’s behalf according to their remit. 
This means that they can build a detailed understanding of how 
our actions or plans are affecting or might affect stakeholders. 
These insights are then shared with the Board.

In particular, the Board receives briefings on stakeholders’ 
perspectives from the work of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, which is discussed on pages 128 and 129.

Board members regularly receive:

– the CEO’s Board report
– a specific external stakeholder insights report. This provides 
strategic insights based on an analysis of key developments, 
achievements and risks affecting our reputation and the 
perceptions of all our external stakeholders

– a regular investor relations report which summarises investor 

perceptions

– regular corporate governance, litigation and regulatory 

updates

The Board also learns of stakeholders' views through:

Engagement and feedback events: such as quarterly investor 
results calls, the Annual General Meeting, employee survey 
reports, the Board’s workforce engagement activities, and from 
experts presenting at Board or committee meetings. The Chair 
also holds regular investor check-in meetings, which the SID, 
Charlie Bancroft, sometimes joins, and is available for individual 
meetings with investors.

Other opportunities: Board members also gain wider 
stakeholder views during the annual strategy meeting with the 
GLT, as part of the yearly review of strategy, budget and 
planning processes. This also includes a review of specific 
aspects of the company’s policies or strategy. In addition, Board 
members are encouraged to meet individually with employees, 
shareholders and other key stakeholders during their induction, 

and then on an ongoing basis. They are encouraged to report 
to the Board on such experiences where relevant and material.

Engaging with our people

We have well-established and strong engagement mechanisms 
with our employees, which are described on pages 14 and 15, 
and which the Board monitors regularly. Four key governance 
channels help the Board understand what our people are 
thinking:

– regular Board updates from our Chief People Officer and the 

CEO on culture and talent

– feedback from an annual employee engagement survey, 
including questions on engagement, confidence and 
inclusivity

– a range of pulse surveys of different-sized employee groups 
to help check sentiment on a quicker and more frequent 
basis, and to provide valuable insights on the impact of major 
initiatives, events or communications

– direct engagement by the Board

Workforce engagement: Before the company's demerger, the 
Board reviewed its formal workforce engagement 
arrangements. It was decided to move from a specific 
Workforce Engagement Director model and to apply an 
‘alternative arrangement’ to the three methods set out in the 
FRC’s Code.

Given that the new GSK Board was recently refreshed in terms 
of tenure, with more than half the independent Non-Executive 
Directors having served for less than three years, and given 
GSK's renewed purpose and focus as a global biopharma 
company, it was considered important to adopt a collective 
Board engagement model. This was agreed to be the most 
effective approach to ensure newer Board members meet 
employees and hear their views.

This new model operated in 2023 through:

– direct in-person receptions with local employees during 

Board site visits, including in Wavre, Belgium (as one of our 
two global Vaccines hubs), Boston, US, and our global 
headquarters in Brentford

– the Chair's site visits, including to the Wavre and Singapore 

Vaccine manufacturing sites, and the Philadelphia 
Commercial site

– the Chair's attendance at management meetings, including 

China Commercial employees, the Commercial Core 
Leadership team in the UK, China regional general managers 
and Commercial talent and Saudi Arabia general 
management team

– the Chair and Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 

convene and attend ongoing meetings with leaders of the 
company's employee resource groups to talk about how they 
experience GSK, how they think the DEI agenda and 
ambitions are progressing and sharing their suggestions to 
further enhance our DEI agenda

– utilising a variety of bespoke engagements that have 

enabled a broad and open dialogue and facilitated first-
hand engagement discussions between the NEDs and our 
people individually and as part of small groups, 
encompassing perspectives on our strategy, purpose and 
Ahead Together culture, and DEI

121

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Engaging with our shareholders
As a Board we aim to directly engage with and be directly 
accountable to institutional investors and private retail 
shareholders. We do this in several ways, including regular 
communications, the Annual Governance Meeting, our Annual 
General Meeting, and through the work of our Investor Relations 
team, the Chair, Jonathan Symonds, and our Company 
Secretary, Victoria Whyte. Our SID, Charlie Bancroft, is another 
point of contact for our shareholders.

Each quarter, our CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Julie Brown, 
give results presentations to institutional investors, analysts and 
the media by webcast. They are also regularly joined by the 
CSO, the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), and CEO, ViiV. They 
are able to provide investors with more detailed insights into 
their specific areas of responsibility.

Through regular meetings, they each have an ongoing and 
active dialogue with institutional shareholders about the 
company's performance, plans and objectives. In 2023,

Annual Governance Meeting
This year’s hybrid meeting was held in central London. 
Institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and 
proxy advisory firms were invited. 15 representatives of various 
institutional shareholders and proxy advisers attended the 
event, comprising approximately 25% of the company's share 
register.

The meeting had a new format to make it as interactive as 
possible. It began with Jon sharing with investors the Board's 
priorities and focus for 2023 and beyond, with Charlie then 
providing his reflections on the year. Jon, Charlie and our Non-
Executive Directors then held an informal and open discussion 
of those issues on shareholders' minds, which helped foster a 
richer dialogue.

The key themes covered included the:

– Board changes and succession planning arrangements
– work of and challenges for the Board over the last year
– company's current and future momentum and excellent 

– CEO: 103 engagements, representing 38% of the company's 

execution of our key priorities

share register

– harnessing of digital, technology and talent, driven by our 

– The current and previous CFO: 60 and 51 engagements, 

Ahead Together purpose

comprising  33% and 31% of the register

– CSO: 90 engagements, representing 31% of the register
– CCO: 80 engagements, representing 39% of the register
– CEO, ViiV: 61 engagements with 39% of the register

Our Chair maintains a consistent dialogue with shareholders 
too – including fund and portfolio managers – and regularly 
engages with governance and ESG professionals. During 2023 
and up to the date of publication of this Annual Report, Jon 
held over 30 individual engagements with a range of 
institutional shareholders, which make up approximately 30% of 
the company’s share register. This enables him to gain a current 
understanding of shareholders' views, insights and perspectives 
of the company. He also discusses the continual evolution of 
the many aspects of Board governance, performance oversight 
and succession.

This year our Chair, CEO and the rest of the Board and key GLT 
members focused on communicating the strong ongoing 
performance of GSK as a global biopharma business, the 
successful launch of Arexvy, the world's first RSV vaccine, and 
progressing our pipeline across the core therapy areas of  
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology.and oncology.

– positive signs of the influence of our culture of being 

ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and doing the 
right thing

The meeting and its new format were well received and 
shareholder feedback was shared with the full Board.

Annual General Meeting
We were pleased to hold the company's hybrid AGM at the 
Sofitel Heathrow in May 2023. 72 shareholders joined the 
meeting in person and 49 shareholders joined virtually via the 
Lumi platform to watch or listen to updates from our Chair and 
the CEO, and to vote. Shareholders were able to ask questions 
during the meeting in person and virtually. All our proposed 
resolutions were approved by shareholders, with majorities 
ranging from 89% to 99%.

Our hybrid AGM this year will be held at a new venue, Royal 
Lancaster Hotel in Central London, which is located close to our 
new global headquarters. For more details see page 298.

122

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Section 172 statement

Board members are required by law to promote the success of their company for the benefit of both shareholders and wider 
stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and society. This statement meets the requirement, as set out in Section 172 and 
Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006 (Act). It summarises how, during 2023, our Directors addressed the matters set out in 
Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the Act when performing their duties. 

The Board considers that this statement focuses on those risks and opportunities that are strategically important to GSK, consistent 
with the Group’s size and complexity. This allows it to properly understand the potential effects of the decisions it makes on all 
stakeholders.

The details of our engagement with our main stakeholder groups, including our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and 
employees across the organisation, is summarised generally throughout the pages of our Strategic report. The Board's continuous 
engagement with the company's shareholders and people in particular is set out in this section on pages 121 to 127. Our corporate 
governance architecture and processes are summarised on pages 116 to 118.

The Board seeks to consider all relevant matters when making decisions, most especially when these are to continue to drive 
performance and momentum for GSK into the future.

(a) Long-term results

The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

In a challenging economic and political landscape, the Directors 
recognise the criticality of investing in a pipeline of vaccines and 
medicines to prevent disease as well as meeting the changing 
and unmet healthcare needs in support of GSK’s purpose, our 
Ahead Together strategy and ultimately the long-term success 
and sustainability of GSK. At the same time, GSK works with 
governments, regulators and industry partners to ensure our 
medicines and vaccines can reach patients at scale, bringing 
value to both the patients who need them and to payers 

Our Directors appreciate that assessing the consequences of 
their long-term decisions in this environment can be 
multifaceted, finely balanced and invariably involves a trade-
off between competing stakeholder interests

To support their decision-making, Directors are provided with  
papers/information that, as a minimum, describe the long-term 
proposal under consideration and comment on how it:

– fits with/strengthens or otherwise impacts the business 
strategy, budget and the three-year plan if relevant 

– is aligned with our Ahead Together ambition and outlooks

Our Directors are also apprised of success and risk factors and, 
if appropriate, alternatives considered and the rationale for 

(b) Our workforce

Interests of our people

Our Directors understand that our people are at the core of our 
Ahead Together ambition, helping to power our purpose and 
delivering on our strategy and seek to create and oversee an 
environment at GSK in which outstanding people can thrive.      
A positive employee experience is critical to attract, retain and 
motivate the best people

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
to the Board by the Chief People Officer or Head of Reward for 
input, challenge and decision or awareness by our Directors

the proposed choice, highlighting any relevant stakeholder 
impacts of the proposal under consideration, whether positive 
and/or negative. The Directors then have all the relevant 
factors for consideration during their decision-making process

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO; CFO; Chief Scientific Officer; Chief Commercial 
Officer; President, Corporate Development; President, Global 
Affairs, or other GLT members and/or their direct reports for 
input, challenge and decision or awareness of the Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Pipeline progression reviews

– Budget planning

– Business development deals

– Capital allocation priorities 

– Commercial (Vaccines, General Meds and Specialty) reviews 

– Dividend policy 

– ESG ambitions, including our six areas of ESG focus

For more specific details see our Ahead Together and business 
model disclosures on pages 1, 8 and 9

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Culture progress

– Talent pipeline

– Diversity, equity and inclusion ambitions

– Ethnicity and gender pay gap data, trends and reporting

– Employee engagement practices and feedback 

– Health and safety risks

– Pay fairness and benefits

– Performance with choice and the workplace environment

For more specific details see our culture and people, diversity, 
equity and inclusion and engaging with our people disclosures 
on pages 14 and 15, 52 and 53 and 121

123

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

(c) Our business relationships

The importance of developing the Group’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others

Patients are placed by GSK at the heart of our purpose and 
culture, where we are all ambitious for patients, accountable for 
our impact and do the right thing

Our suppliers and other key stakeholders – including 
governments, NGOs, healthcare authorities, healthcare 
professionals, R&D joint venture partners, affiliate companies 
and others – help us research, develop, manufacture, regulate, 
provide access and distribute the medicines, vaccines and other 
products that patients need 

A key imperative for our Directors, as custodians of a 
responsible business, is to ensure the company develops and 
monitors these relationships and partnerships to ultimately 
serve patients. In line with our Code of Conduct, our suppliers 
are expected to meet our Anti-bribery and corruption and 
labour rights standards and to comply with our standards on 
quality, health and safety, and the environment (which are 
explored in further detail below). In helping to foster good 
relations with suppliers we offer preferential payment terms to 
designated smaller suppliers in the UK and US

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO; CFO; President; Global Supply Chain; Chief 
Commercial Officer; Chief Scientific Officer; President, Global 
Affairs and/or their direct reports for input, challenge and 
decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Access to healthcare

– Ethical standards 

– Global health and health security 

– Human rights

– Modern slavery act statement

– Product governance

– Scientific and patient engagement

– Supplier payment policy

– Third-party risk management programme

– Working with third parties policy

For more specific details see our responsible business 
disclosures on pages 45 to 55

(d) The community and the environment

The impact of the Group’s operations on the community and our environment

The environment is one of our principal ESG focus areas. ESG is 
embedded in our strategy and fundamental to our success. To 
get ahead of disease and to help ensure this long-term success, 
our Directors recognise that as a responsible business we need 
to consider ESG impacts across everything we do. This extends 
from the lab to patients, by taking action on climate and nature 

Our manufacturing sites have a key role in our contribution to a 
net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, and environmental 
sustainability is a fundamental part of our global supply chain 
strategy. Supplier action will in turn help GSK achieve its 
environmental goals on climate and nature. This is embodied in 
GSK’s Sustainable Procurement Programme which, in its first full 
year in operation, has seen our suppliers take action on carbon, 
power, heat, transport, water, waste, and sustainable, 
deforestation-free sourcing of materials in support of our 
environmental sustainability goals

Our Directors believe the company should be reflective of and 
support the diversity in the local communities in which we serve. 
In doing so, we are strengthening early STEM education 
investments to further support a long-term diverse talent pool 
and increase the positive impact of volunteering activities within 
our communities. We are also investing in plans to improve 
natural habitats, protect biodiversity and improve soil and water 
quality near our manufacturing sites

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the President, Global Affairs; President, Global Supply; and 
Chief People Officer and/or their direct reports for input, 
challenge and decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Community investment and donations policy 

– Clinical trial diversity planning and enrolment

– Diversity, equity and inclusion strategy

– Environment, net zero and nature positive goals

– Environment, health and safety risks

– Emerging climate and environmental legislative/regulatory 

reviews

For more specific details see our responsible business and 
climate and nature-related financial disclosures on pages 45 to 
55 and 62 to 75

124

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

(e) Our reputation

Our desire to maintain our reputation for high standards of business conduct

As a responsible company, GSK seeks to be a force for good, 
with ambitious targets for positive impact on the health of 
people, society and the planet. The company manages risks 
effectively, takes action if things go wrong and seeks to respect 
human rights. Our Directors periodically review the continuing 
appropriateness of the frameworks underpinning our high 
standards of business, such as our Code of Conduct, including a 
range of policies and standards, and the architecture of our 
corporate governance arrangements

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO; CFO; General Counsel; Chief Commercial Officer; 
President, Global Affairs; Chief People Officer; Chief Digital and 
Technology Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; the Company 
Secretary; and Head of Audit & Assurance for input, challenge 
and decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include: 

– Audit & Assurance plan

– Code of Conduct

– Corporate and financial statements 

– Corporate governance and regulatory updates

– Enterprise risk assessments

– ESG ambitions, including our six areas of ESG focus

– Emerging ESG legislative/regulatory reviews

– Internal control and risk effectiveness reviews

– Speak Up and internal investigations 

For more specific details see our responsible business and 
corporate governance architecture disclosures on pages 45 to 
55 and 116 to 118, and our separate ESG Performance Report

(f) Fairness between our shareholders

Our aim to act fairly as between members of the Group

Our Directors seek to act fairly between the interests of all 
shareholders – major and retail shareholders alike. There is 
regular and constructive dialogue with shareholders to 
communicate our strategy and performance to receive investor 
views and perspectives, promote investor confidence, ensure 
our continued access to capital and inform our Directors' 
decision-making on strategic matters. As they do so, our 
Directors navigate and weigh up a range of shareholder 
opinion to arrive at decisions that support the long-term 
success of the company 

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO, CFO, President, Global Affairs, Head of Investor 
Relations and the Company Secretary for input, challenge and 
decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include: 

– Annual general meeting 

– Annual governance meeting 

– Capital markets days and meet the management events

– Group and individual Director shareholder meetings

– Investor and analysts perception surveys

– Investor relations plan

– Remuneration policy proposals

For more specific details see our shareholder engagement and 
shareholder information disclosures on pages 122 and 295 to 
314

125

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Key decisions 
In its decision-making, the Board focuses on GSK's priorities as a pure biopharma company with strong momentum and big 
ambitions, whilst balancing the interests of our stakeholders. Selected examples of some of the key decisions taken by the Board in 
2023 and January 2024 to drive our purpose, momentum and strategy include:

Decision

How the Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests

Upgraded ambition for 
growth
The Board considered 
upgrades to the new and 
long-term ambitions for GSK, 
through investing for the 
future and delivering 
attractive returns to 
shareholders

Progressive dividend 
policy
The Board and Audit & Risk 
Committee considered the 
application of the progressive 
dividend policy in line with 
capital allocation priorities

Capital allocation 
framework
The Board considered an 
updated capital allocation 
framework to best support 
growth and sustainable 
returns to shareholders

Business development
The Science Committee 
considered the scientific 
merits of business 
development opportunities 
and where relevant for late 
stage assets commercial 
reviews, prior to the Board's 
review and approval

In June 2021, GSK articulated to shareholders an outlook for the period to 2026 and 
2031. Given GSK’s improved performance and strong momentum as a focused 
biopharma company, the Board and Audit & Risk Committee agreed that an 
update to investor expectations was appropriate

In January 2024, following thorough review, GSK published new upgraded outlooks 
to the market for 2021-26 for sales to grow more than 7% and adjusted profit by 
more than 11% on a CAGR basis, and by 2031 to deliver sales of more than £38 
billion. This represents an increase of £5 billion versus the estimate given in 2021 
and a marked sales acceleration. This also provided clear visibility to shareholders, 
our people and other key stakeholders of the building blocks of future growth for 
the company

The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. In December, 
the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board considered how GSK's progressive 
dividend policy should best be applied in line with the agreed capital allocation 
priorities of the Group and its investment strategy for growth alongside the 
sustainability of the dividend

This resulted in an increased dividend of 16p for Q4 2023 (Q4 2022: 13.75p) and  
58p for the full year 2023 (2022: 61.25p). The expected dividend for 2024 is 60p

The Board approved an updated capital allocation framework, with the priority of 
investing in the business, focussed towards development of the pipeline through 
both the organic R&D portfolio, and targeted business development. This will be 
achieved through an increased focus on ROI for these investments 

Ultimately, the Board determined that the updated framework would continue to 
support investing in growth and delivering sustainable returns to shareholders, 
underpinned by a strong balance sheet. It is also consistent with GSK's strategic 
priorities and supports the company's commitment to deliver long-term profitable 
growth

The Board, with support from the Science Committee and commercial reviews for 
late stage assets, reviewed many business development opportunities during the 
year. Those leading to concluded transactions included:

– licence agreements with Hansoh Pharma for two antibody-drug conjugates with 

potential across several solid tumour indications to support our work in 
developing cancer treatments 

– agreement with Chongqing Zhifei Biological Products to co-promote Shingrix in 
China, which will significantly extend the availability of the vaccine and support 
patient access

– acquisitions of BELLUS Health and Aiolos Bio to expand and strengthen GSK's 

respiratory portfolio

These deals were considered in the context of their potential to help GSK deliver 
transformational medicines to patients and drive growth through accelerating the 
pipeline

Stakeholder groups and other 
section 172 duties considered

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce, fairness between 
shareholders and business 
relationships

Stakeholders: 
Investors, patients and our 
workforce
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce and business 
relationships and reputation,  
and fairness between our 
shareholders

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce, fairness between 
shareholders and business 
relationships

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce and business 
relationships

126

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Decision

How the Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests

Artificial intelligence 
and workforce culture
The Board considered the 
approach to and impact of 
adopting AI on an end-to-
end basis across the business

The Board reviewed and provided feedback on the strategy to integrate and 
responsibly scale AI across the business to accelerate the pipeline, amplify 
performance and drive productivity

The Board recognises the significant potential of AI, particularly in the context of 
interpreting datasets to develop medicines with a higher probability of success. 
However, with support from the Audit & Risk Committee, the Board also considered 
the associated risks of AI, as described on pages 133 and 134. The Board approved 
the establishment of the AI Governance Council, co-chaired by the General Counsel 
and CDTO to help manage these risks across the Group

Close attention was also paid to the impact of adopting AI on the workforce, 
including wellbeing gains enabled through increased efficiency and the benefits of 
further upskilling and building AI capabilities

Stakeholder groups and other 
section 172 duties considered

Stakeholders: Patients and  
employees 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce 
and business relationships

Low-carbon Ventolin 
strategy
The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and Board 
reviewed plans for 
progression to the next phase 
of development of the low-
carbon Ventolin programme

During the year, the Corporate Responsibility Committee endorsed and the Board 
reviewed and approved plans to progress the transition from a metered dose 
inhaler to new-generation low-carbon inhalers, to significantly contribute to GSK's 
carbon reduction targets for 2030 and 2045. Phase III trials will begin in 2024 and, if 
successful, the programme has the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
from use of the inhaler by approximately 90%

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce and business 
relationships

The Board and Corporate Responsibility Committee carefully considered the needs 
of patients who rely on Ventolin, the complexity of the clinical development process 
as well as the investment required in new manufacturing facilities. If successful, the 
programme could lead to regulatory submissions in 2025, supporting the health of 
asthma and COPD patients and making a significant positive impact on GSK's 
transition to a more environmentally sustainable future

127

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports

Corporate Responsibility Committee report

Dr Anne Beal
Corporate Responsibility Committee

I am pleased to present this report, which is my second as Chair 
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee).

This is the first full year for GSK operating as a global 
biopharma company, with a renewed purpose to unite science, 
technology and talent to get ahead of disease together. To 
deliver this purpose, the company needs to consider ESG 
impacts across everything it does. The Committee oversees the 
six ESG focus areas that address what is most material to the 
business and the issues that matter the most to stakeholders. 

As we worked through our programme of activities this year, my 
Committee’s focus was to ask management fundamental 
questions concerning:

– how well the company is performing against and making an 
impact on the six ESG areas embedded in the company’s 
strategy 

– how this supports our sustainable performance and long-

term growth 

– how further improvements can be identified and 

implemented  

To support this, we undertook a number of ESG performance 
deep-dives.

Access
The Committee reviewed progress towards the company’s aim 
to improve the health of 2.5 billion people by 2030 through 
ensuring access to our vaccines and medicines, including 
reaching 1.3 billion people in lower-middle income countries   
(L/LMICs). In particular, we discussed: 

– the flexible and tailored operating model to driving access in 

L/LMICs, depending on need

– working with partners with the right capabilities and 

geographical footprint to deliver interventions, which may 
include donations, affordable supply and licensing, to make 
sure people have access to the vaccines and medicines they 
need 

– investing £1 billion over 10 years in our Global Health R&D 

pipeline and contributing to building resilient health systems

Global Health & Security
Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR): The Committee reviewed the 
external AMR landscape and trends, which are a major threat 
globally, and considered the company’s holistic and innovative 
investment approach to addressing this AMR threat. We were 
pleased to note that this approach has resulted in the largest 
relevant AMR vaccine R&D pipeline in the industry. 

We discussed with management the steps needed to help 
leverage this leadership position, in conjunction with the support 
and expertise of the Science Committee. This included growing 
our business development strategy and improving pathogen 
surveillance capabilities. Given AMR is an urgent public threat 
and stakeholders are increasingly interested in GSK’s approach 
to it, we agreed that it was appropriate to include AMR as one 
of our ESG Performance Rating metrics for the first time. 

Environment
Carbon reduction plan: There is a very strong case for making 
the transition to low-carbon inhalers. Salbutamol is an essential 
rescue/reliever medicine, and GSK's Ventolin (salbutamol) 
metered dose inhaler (MDI) is used by 35 million patients 
globally. Use of the inhaler, due to the high global warming 
potential (GWP) of the current propellent, accounts for half of 
GSK’s carbon footprint. Management updated the Committee 
about developing proposed plans to transition the inhaler to a 
next-generation low-carbon propellant which, if successful, will 
significantly contribute to GSK's carbon reduction targets for 
2030 and 2045. However, developing this low-carbon inhaler is 
complex and involves clinical and non-clinical programmes, as 
well as establishing new manufacturing facilities. 

Having examined these and other key considerations behind 
investing in a low-carbon transition programme – which could 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the inhaler by 90% – we 
endorsed management’s R&D MDI transition programme 
investment case to the Board, submitted after the read-outs 
from latest early clinical data had been received and 
evaluated. This supported the Board’s decision in November to 
progress to phase III trials in 2024. If these trials are successful, 
they could lead to regulatory submissions in 2025.

Nature plan review: The Committee received an update on 
current performance against the company’s Nature positive 
goal by 2030, which will be achieved by reducing the 
company’s environmental impacts across water, waste and 
materials, and biodiversity and by investing in protecting and 
restoring nature. The Committee was satisfied that these Nature 
goals and targets remain appropriate and industry leading. 

We also noted that standards for assessing and verifying 
companies' nature approach continued to strengthen. We were 
pleased that GSK was actively helping to shape this 
environment as a source of competitive advantage. Science 
Based Targets Network for Nature (SBTN) set the first science-
based targets for a nature framework to validate companies’ 
nature targets, which was similar to the regulatory approach 
previously adopted for climate-based targets. Given the relative 
maturity of our Nature positive programme, the company is 
pleased to be selected in the first group of 17 companies 
globally to go through the target validation process, to accredit 
our nature targets when the SBTN methodology was finalised. 
Additionally, GSK has also committed to disclosing our 
arrangements against the Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures framework in our 2025 Annual Report.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Delivery against People DEI aspiration: The Committee heard 
from the Chief People Officer (CPO) on progress over the 
company’s workstreams to drive increased leadership diversity, 
build a diverse talent pipeline and foster an inclusive culture. 
We were pleased with the excellent progress that had been 
made to date and discussed the challenges and opportunities 
to maintain future progress in these areas. 

128

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Clinical trial diversity: The Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) 
outlined the approach to broadening clinical trial diversity and 
how this connects with our patient impact. The Committee 
strongly agreed that the company’s clinical trials must be 
accessible and inclusive to ensure our clinical development 
programmes reflect the diversity of the patient populations 
impacted by the disease under study including, but not limited 
to, age, race, ethnicity, sex and gender. In doing so, we noted 
the importance of reflecting epidemiological profile rather than 
census profile as the benchmark from which to plan 
appropriate patient representation and of working through 
community groups to build trust, awareness and participation in 
clinical trials.  

ESG Performance Rating
The ESG Performance Rating (Rating) helps us integrate ESG 
into the delivery of our strategy and allows us to measure and 
verify the progress we are making. This is the second year that 
the Rating has been used and the Committee continues to 
oversee its evolution to make sure it meets the expectations of 
key stakeholders.

We discussed with management the rationale for removing one 
of the ESG metrics relating to Access. We also scrutinised how 
the new AMR metric was formulated, reviewed, and set, to 
make sure that it was a suitably stretching and strategically 
relevant metric. We were joined by the CPO and CSO to discuss 
the status of the five DEI metrics and any other measures 
needed to progress performance against these metrics.     

Separately, the Committee was kept informed of the work being 
led by the CFO to assure the data underlying the ESG metrics 
and Rating which has been overseen by the Audit & Risk 
Committee. 

We monitored and evaluated the company’s progress against 
these metrics and the Rating at the half and full year. We then 
recommended to the Board publishing a final 'on track' ESG 
Performance Rating alongside the other ESG disclosures in this 
Annual Report and our ESG Performance Report. 

For more details, see page 46 of the Strategic report and in the 
ESG Performance Report – both of which are available at 
gsk.com.

Dr Anne Beal
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
27 February 2024

Science Committee report 

Dr Hal Dietz
Science Committee

I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Science 
Committee (the Committee) on our activities during 2023. 

I joined the Committee in January 2022, and succeeded 
Dr Jesse Goodman as Chair on 1 January 2023. 

Jesse had been Chair of the Committee since it was created 
seven years ago and made an outstanding contribution to 
defining and implementing the Committee’s role. He remains an 
important member of the Committee and offers vital insights to 
our work. 

The Committee’s key activities in 2023 were split into three 
important areas:

– pipeline reviews: monitoring of GSK’s pipeline  

– business development: undertaking technical reviews and 
assurance of the underlying science of potential business 
development transactions

– scientific deep-dives: discussing and analysing the key 

scientific and technology themes which drive the company’s 
R&D strategy

Pipeline progress
During 2023 the Committee continued to monitor the progress 
of R&D. Our CSO, Dr Tony Wood, provided regular updates on 
progress across the company’s four therapeutic areas: 
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology and oncology. 

A particular pipeline highlight during 2023 was the launch of 
Arexvy, GSK’s world-first RSV vaccine for older adults. During 
the year, the vaccine gained approvals in the US, EU, Japan 
and several other countries. Arexvy marked a turning point in 
efforts to reduce the burden of the RSV, a respiratory virus 
which has evaded prevention or therapeutic advances for over 
60 years. It also heralds the next wave of vaccine innovation at 
GSK. 

In oncology, Jemperli, in combination with chemotherapy, 
received approval in the US and EU as the first new frontline 
treatment option in decades for patients with dMMR/MSI-H 
primary advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. These 
approvals reinforced the potential of Jemperli to redefine 
cancer treatment as the backbone of immuno-oncology 
therapy. 

A number of other key regulatory milestones were also achieved 
during the year:

– Shingrix vaccine for shingles approved for people at risk over 
18 in Japan and positive data from first efficacy trial in China

– Apretude, a long-acting preventative treatment for HIV, 
approved as the first and only HIV prevention option in 
Europe

– Ojjaara/Omjjara, approved in the US, EU and UK as the first 
and only treatment for both newly diagnosed and previously 
treated myelofibrosis patients with anaemia

– gonorrhoea vaccine candidate received US FDA fast-track 

designation

129

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

The Committee was pleased with the progress made to 
accelerate the pipeline during the year, both in terms of 
investment in the late-stage pipeline to drive growth, as well as 
through rigorous decision-making with the early stage pipeline 
to maximise its potential impact on patients. 

R&D leadership changes
Continuing to accelerate the pipeline relies on attracting the 
best people and fostering a culture that is ambitious for 
patients, accountable for impact and always does the right 
thing. That is why the Committee was pleased with the R&D 
leadership changes made this year, including creating three 
dedicated Research Units: vaccines and infectious diseases, 
respiratory and immunology, and oncology. HIV research 
operates as part of our global specialist HIV company, ViiV 
Healthcare.

These changes mean the company can better focus on its core 
therapeutic areas and more easily identify the targets that will 
have the best outcomes for patients. Supporting these new 
teams is a single research technologies organisation, which 
brings together platform and data groups to integrate 
technology more effectively across GSK's workflow.

Business development transactions
Since the demerger, the CSO and his team have worked hard to 
accelerate business development to complement GSK’s organic 
pipeline. This called upon our Committee to devote nearly twice 
as much time in our meetings to critically vet business 
development proposals and transactions, compared with last 
year. 

Transactions reviewed by the Committee during the year 
include:

BELLUS Health: the acquisition of BELLUS, a late-stage 
biopharmaceutical company working to better the lives of 
patients suffering from refractory chronic cough (RCC). The 
acquisition provided GSK with access to camlipixant, a 
potential best-in-class treatment in phase III development for 
the first-line treatment of RCC. This acquisition aligned to GSK’s 
expertise in and prioritisation of respiratory medicines.

Hansoh Pharma: two exclusive licence agreements for 
antibody-drug conjugates: HS-20089, with best-in-class 
potential in ovarian and endometrial cancer and HS-20093, 
with promising initial clinical activity in lung cancer with the 
potential to address unmet medical need in broader solid 
tumour indications.  

Aiolos Bio: acquisition of Aiolos, which closed in February 2024, 
adds AIO-001 to GSK's respiratory biologics portfolio. AIO-001 is 
a phase II-ready long-acting antibody that could redefine the 
standard of care for asthma patients, with dosing every six 
months. It also has the potential to expand the company's 
reach to a broader range of asthma patients. 

Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals and Janssen Pharmaceuticals: 
the transfer of exclusive worldwide rights to further the 
development and commercialisation of an investigational 
therapeutic to treat chronic hepatitis B. GSK plans to evaluate 
this drug in a sequential regimen with bepirovirsen (GSK’s 
investigational antisense oligonucleotide) for the treatment of 
chronic hepatitis B. The transaction has the potential to 
redefine the treatment paradigm for chronic hepatitis B by 
enabling more patients to achieve functional cure. 

As a Committee, we are confident that these transactions have 
strong scientific justification and look forward to seeing them 
develop in the next few years. 

Deep-dives into innovative science

During the year the Committee has continued to undertake 
scientific deep-dives into some of the highly innovative 
technologies currently being explored by the CSO and his team. 
Deep-dives undertaken in 2023 included, but were not limited 
to, both liver disease and oligonucleotide strategy. 

GSK’s expertise in infectious disease, immunology and human 
genetics has driven research into chronic hepatitis B. In 2023, 
new data presented for bepirovirsen has improved 
understanding of the heterogeneous nature of hepatitis B 
infections. Insights – from the B-Clear and B-Together phase 
IIb trials for bepirovirsen – will help GSK progress towards a 
comprehensive functional cure for people living with chronic 
hepatitis B, a common cause of chronic liver disease.

Our deep-dive into oligonucleotide-based therapeutic 
strategies positions GSK to achieve leadership in this field. 
Oligonucleotides have a unique ability to address a wide range 
of genomic targets across many therapeutic areas, which 
means they offer enormous potential to help patients with 
diseases that have historically been difficult to treat. 

The company’s collaboration with Wave Life Sciences, initiated 
in 2022, brought together Wave’s PRISMTM platform and GSK’s 
expertise in genetics and genomics to progress up to eight 
preclinical programmes. The collaboration also granted GSK 
the exclusive licence for Wave’s preclinical programme to treat 
alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, complementing GSK’s own 
clinical-phase oligonucleotides, including bepirovirsen.

Committee changes
Since I became Chair, there have been no changes to the 
Committee’s composition during 2023. Work is underway by the 
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee to refresh 
the Board’s scientific expertise including a successor to Dr Jesse 
Goodman, who is due to retire from the Board in 2025. I look 
forward to providing an update on this next year. 

Dr Hal Dietz
Science Committee Chair
27 February 2024

130

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Nominations & Corporate Governance 
Committee report

Jonathan Symonds
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee

I am pleased to present my fifth report as Chair of the 
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee (the 
Committee). 

Evolving the Board and pipeline of talent 
In my Corporate governance statement on page 114, I discussed 
the important Board appointment processes that have been 
undertaken recently. Julie Brown, our new CFO, was appointed 
in September 2022 and joined the Board in 2023. Wendy 
Becker, our new Remuneration Committee Chair designate, was 
appointed and joined the Board in the second half of 2023. A 
transition process is underway to enable Wendy to succeed Urs 
Rohner as Remuneration Committee Chair at the close of the 
2024 AGM. These appointments are tailored to the biopharma 
company we now are. 

The Committee seeks to follow best practice in all the searches 
it makes and appointments it recommends to the Board, 
agreeing the criteria for each role, the most appropriate diverse 
interview panel and considering a comprehensive and diverse 
longlist of candidates. Shortlisted candidates are interviewed 
and assessed against the chosen criteria. Due diligence is then 
undertaken before the Committee makes its final 
recommendation. Executive search firms are appointed 
according to the company’s procurement policy and based on 
their expertise relative to each role. 

The Committee only engages search firms that are signatories 
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms on 
gender diversity and best practice.

The Committee worked with a number of executive search firms 
in 2023. They also provided additional consultancy services to 
the company: Korn Ferry (general recruitment, executive search 
and assessment services and other HR-related services); Egon 
Zehnder (executive search, assessment and coaching services 
to specific senior executives); Russell Reynolds (executive 
search services).

The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest 
and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against 
such conflicts. I look forward to reporting on the Committee's 
continued work and progress to evolve the Board further in next 
year's report.

The Committee also continues to review our diverse talent and 
succession pipelines and the development plans for key 
management roles and their successors. During the year, we 
undertook a deep-dive of the emerging senior talent that the 
GLT had identified – people who were exceeding expectations 
or exceptionally talented, and who have the potential to take 
on a GLT role in the future. This included reviewing the strategic 
approach to talent development planning. The Board seeks to 
meet with these individuals at employee receptions and 
through other Board engagement opportunities. 

Board and GLT diversity
We are committed to the diversity of our Board and its 
committees, just as GSK is committed to equal opportunities for 
all employees at every level of the company. The Board and 
management seek to support and encourage a diverse and 
inclusive culture throughout the company. 

An effective Board includes a range and balance of skills, 
experience and knowledge as well as diversity of ethnicity, 
gender, sexual orientation, professional and social-economic 
background, disability, age and independence, with individuals 
who are prepared to challenge each other collaboratively. This 
mix is complemented by a diversity of personal Board 
attributes, including character, intellect, judgement, honesty 
and courage.

The Committee is responsible for developing measurable 
objectives, in line with the relevant regulatory and best practice 
targets, and monitoring their progress – which is part of 
implementing the Board’s diversity policy (Policy). This includes 
gender and ethnicity diversity targets, and applying it to our 
Board committees. As a minimum, we seek to align our Policy 
objectives with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FTSE 
Women Leaders Review and Parker Review diversity targets 
(Regulatory and Best Practice Targets) and ensure that they 
are consistent with our public DEI aspirations. We currently 
meet or exceed our policy objectives and the Regulatory and 
Best Practice Targets shown on the next page.

Board and GLT diversity data collection

This year, diversity data has been gathered directly on a self-
identified basis as follows:

– Board members: using a questionnaire

– GLT members: individual election held on GSK's HR database 

All diversity data published in the following section of the report 
are as at 31 December 2023 and the date of publication. We 
also continue to oversee the developing pipeline of direct 
reports to the GLT by gender and from ethnically diverse 
backgrounds.

Full details of GSK’s representation of women and ethnically 
diverse leaders is covered on page 53, as part of the diversity of 
our global workforce. The pleasing progress against our DEI 
commitments, including gender and ethnicity, is illustrated in 
our ESG Performance Report on gsk.com. This good progress 
has been boosted since introducing a DEI measure in 2022 as 
part of the Annual bonus arrangements for our Executive 
Directors and other GLT members.

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Chair
27 February 2024

131

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Diversity, equity and inclusion
Ethnicity

Gender
% female composition1

l Ethnically diverse: 17%
l White: 83%

l Current/historic
l Expected

(1) Target female representation on the Board is 40%. Data from the GSK Annual Report published in the first quarter of each year. Current female 

representation is 42% and includes one of the very few all-female Executive Boards running a FTSE 100 company. This is expected to rise to 45% in May 
2024, after Urs Rohner retires from the Board

Board and GLT diversity objectives

At least:

– 40% of Board positions held by women

Status of objective

Performance

Met

42%

– one woman in a senior Board position (CEO, CFO, SID and/or Chair) by the end of 2025

Exceeded

– 40% of GLT positions held by women

– one Board Director is ethnically diverse

– one GLT member ethnically diverse by the end of 2025

FCA UK Listing Rule diversity reporting

Exceeded

Exceeded

Met

Two Directors      
(CEO and CFO)

50%

Two Directors

One GLT member

Gender identity or sex

Men

Women

Not specified/preferred not to say

Ethnic background

White British or other White (including 
minority white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/preferred not to say

Number of Board 
members

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and 
Chair)

Number in  Executive 
Management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

7

5

—  

10

—  

1

1

—  

—  

58%

42%

—  

83.3%

—  

8.3%  

8.3%  

—  

—  

2

2

—  

4

—  

— 

—  

—  

— 

6

6

—  

 50 %

 50 %

— 

10

83.3%

—  

1

—  

—  

1

— 

8.3%

— 

— 

8.3%

132

20202021202220232024 (current)2024 (post-AGM)01020304050 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Audit & Risk Committee report

Technology

Charles Bancroft
Audit & Risk Committee

I am pleased to present this report, which is my third as Chair of 
the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee), and in the 
following pages I aim to share insights into the activities 
undertaken or overseen by the Committee during the year.

2023 was GSK’s first full year as a focused global biopharma 
company. The Committee reviewed key operational features 
and risks of the governance platform that underpin our purpose 
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease 
together. I am also pleased to report on progress against the 
Committee's expanded remit to oversee and review ESG data 
assurance.

This Committee continues to have primary oversight for the 
Zantac litigation through regular legally privileged updates and 
review of the related accounting, disclosure and 
communication requirements. The Committee also reviews the 
current indicative timeline of cases. I report and summarise the 
key matters for the Board for its awareness, input or decision. 
We continue to defend all claims brought vigorously based on 
the science.  

Based on the work the Committee has done or inspected, GSK 
continues to exhibit a strong compliance culture, with a 
consistent tone and engagement from the top that runs 
throughout the organisation. Our financial reporting and 
controls framework remains robust and required no 
fundamental changes during the year.

Science
Strategic vaccine partnership in China: In Q3 2023, the 
company entered into an exclusive agreement with Chongqing 
Zhifei Biological Products, Ltd (Zhifei) to co-promote Shingrix in 
China to support accelerated market penetration for our 
innovative vaccine. The Committee scrutinised this 
arrangement before it was concluded. A significant amount of 
time and resources were devoted to due diligence of this 
arrangement, and key controls were introduced to ensure our 
compliance expectations would be met to mitigate risks.

The Committee was satisfied that the ongoing governance 
framework – with monthly reviews and monitoring 
arrangements – was appropriate. Experienced compliance 
personnel were also allocated to support the partnership. 

Chief Patient Officer: A new role of Chief Patient Officer was 
established from the beginning of 2024. The Committee 
assessed the controls and governance arrangements for this 
new role. The Chief Patient Officer's primary role is to provide 
medical leadership as part of one overarching GSK asset and 
disease strategy. The Chief Patient Officer reports to the Chief 
Commercial Officer to ensure patients treated with GSK 
products benefit from robust, compliant scientific information, in 
line with our commitment to patients. 

We also satisfied ourselves that key areas of medical ethics, 
safety and execution of clinical trials have clear lines of 
escalation to our Chief Medical Officer. This further enhanced 
the company’s Internal Control Framework and Independent 
Business Monitoring protocols.

Data privacy and ethics: This is a rapidly evolving principal risk 
for the Committee’s oversight. The number of privacy laws and 
regulations, often based on the EU General Data Protection 
Regulations, is increasing in a number of territories around the 
world. Consequently, the Committee was interested to further 
understand the regulatory approaches being adopted in some 
of our biggest markets, including the US, India and China, and 
how they may affect GSK’s operations, including our R&D 
operations. 

The Committee receives regular reports on the robust and 
integrated governance framework GSK operates to monitor and 
govern the use of data generally. GSK's framework is made up 
of specialist governance boards that include representative 
members from relevant internal functions. This framework has 
been further augmented with a team from the Legal and 
Compliance function with expertise to advise on global digital, 
privacy and cyber security matters.

The Committee discussed the tenets of the new enhanced 
flexible data privacy model being introduced. This is expected 
to comprise global privacy principles and standardised global 
controls meeting the EU standards. The reward would be 
flexibility to adopt different standards where local laws are 
incompatible with GSK's standardised global controls, provided 
they meet GSK's global privacy principles. 

More details of the measures taken during the year to mitigate 
this risk are described on page 60.

Information and cyber security: This is a principal risk for GSK 
and an area that remains a standing agenda item which is 
discussed at each of our scheduled meetings.

The Chief Digital and Technology Officer (CDTO), Chief 
Information and Security Officer (CISO) and Chief Compliance 
Officer (CCO) present updates on information and cyber 
security, as well as assessments of the status of their associated 
key risk indicators. 

The CDTO’s skills and experience, especially those related to 
cyber security, are set out on page 112. Our CISO has spent his 
career building and leading technology teams across several 
functional areas, including cyber security and IT infrastructure 
for digital communications and healthcare companies. He was 
also responsible for establishing the cyber security function for 
Haleon plc prior to its demerger. 

Our CCO focuses on ensuring that a consistent and cohesive 
approach to information and cyber security operates across all 
aspects of the business and enterprise risk management. The 
CCO is also responsible for the Risk Analytics and Monitoring 
organisation. He has previous experience in creating a 
dedicated Global Risk Office that combines enterprise risk 
management and reporting activities for GSK.   

During the year, the Committee reviewed progress against the 
first full year of our updated multi-year Cyber Security Plan 
(Plan) which was benchmarked against the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework (NIST-
CSF). At the end of 2023, to help validate how the company’s 
capabilities had improved, the Committee examined the results 
of an internal NIST assessment that was undertaken jointly by 
our Tech and Audit & Assurance functions. In 2024, building on 
this assessment, the Committee will review the scheduled 
external NIST review by specialist independent cyber experts.     
I look forward to providing an update on the results of this 
independent review in my report next year. 

133

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

The Committee has also been closely following the 
development, finalisation and introduction of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) new cyber security rules (Rules) 
effective from the end of 2023. We are satisfied that the 
company, as a foreign private issuer, has taken the necessary 
governance steps to ensure compliance with these 
requirements.

The Committee assesses the adequacy of GSK's insurance risk 
coverage arrangements annually, including the information and 
cyber security risk, as part of its insurance risk programme 
review. I then communicate the Committee’s recommendation 
to the Board before implementation.

Also on our agenda was cyber security training for GLT – which 
included cyber security simulation exercises and learnings – 
and for the wider workforce. We discussed mandatory training 
for new joiners and regular phishing-simulation exercises. 

I highlighted previously the relevant cyber security expertise my 
Board colleague, Dr Vishal Sikka, brings to our deliberations. 
We are looking to further strengthen our oversight in this area 
by running bespoke cyber incident training sessions for all 
Directors. Their cyber-related experience is included in the 
Board biographies on pages 108 to 111.

Further details of the other measures taken during the year to 
mitigate this risk are described on page 60.  

Artificial Intelligence (AI): The rapid advancement of AI, in 
particular generative technology and its potential application 
across the company, presents significant opportunities to drive 
innovation, growth and productivity and, in doing so, to 
accelerate our purpose. To this end, the Board is reviewing 
opportunities to scale use of AI for potential competitive 
advantage. Balanced against this is the awareness that there is 
a lack of harmonisation from new and emerging regulations 
that govern ethical and responsible use of AI. These new trends 
may impact the risk profile of our Research practices, Scientific 
and patient engagement, Data ethics and privacy, and 
Information and cyber security principal risks, and could have a 
future impact on GSK’s value chain. Therefore, these 
developments were being monitored very closely by 
management and the Committee. 

To this end, the Board approved the establishment of the AI 
Governance Council (Council), co-chaired by the General 
Counsel and CDTO and comprising cross-functional experts. In 
particular, the Council is assessing business activities against 
the current risk environment through our internal control 
framework. Importantly, the Council is fully connected to the key 
data management boards for data ethics and privacy and 
information and cyber security. I am pleased to report that the 
Council has approved and implemented a suite of written 
standards, controls for adopting new AI tools, and training 
tailored for developers, procurers and users of AI.  

The Committee and our auditor have a shared goal to leverage 
technology as appropriate. We were particularly interested in 
and discussed with the auditor how they can use AI to deliver 
increased effectiveness and efficiency in their audit. We are 
also keen to better understand the opportunities for GSK to use 
scalable AI-enabled innovations to improve the speed and 
performance of its tracking and detection capabilities. This is a 
key part of staying ahead of the increasingly sophisticated 
threats to the Group and our third parties. This will be an area 
we continue to focus on. 

ESG data assurance
The Committee oversaw the creation and implementation in Q3 
2023 of a new dedicated ESG data assurance hub in our 
Finance organisation. This formally established a consistent 
approach to governance, processes and controls which have 
been developed to further improve assurance of ESG data in 
support of the company’s performance against key ESG metrics. 
Meanwhile, our Corporate Responsibility Committee, on behalf 
of the Board, continues to oversee ESG strategy, performance 
assessment and reporting. 

The hub's initial focus is on environmental data. Later, as its 
processes and capabilities develop, the hub will look at social 
and governance areas too. Soon the Committee will also 
oversee the development and implementation of technology 
solutions to automate information gathering and to supplement 
the level of process and control standards that surround ESG 
performance data.

Looking forward, the Committee will continue to review 
upcoming regulations that might affect our future ESG 
assurance and reporting obligations, which have been 
highlighted by the hub’s horizon-scanning activities. In 
particular, the Committee discussed the initial results of the 
ongoing impact assessment that is underway for the Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive. This directive could become 
partially effective from our 2025 reporting year, and would be 
fully effective at a consolidated reporting level for GSK by 2028. 
We are also aware that reporting arrangements to reflect the 
published SEC Climate regulations are expected to become 
effective from the 2026 financial year.

Internal control framework
The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment of GSK’s current position and 
prospects. It is accountable for evaluating and approving the 
effectiveness of GSK’s internal controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls, and risk management 
processes. 

We ensure the reliability of our financial reporting, and 
compliance with laws and regulations, through our internal 
control framework. This is a comprehensive enterprise-wide risk 
management model, which supports the Board to identify, 
evaluate and manage the Group’s principal and emerging risks, 
as required by the FRC’s Code. The framework is designed to 
manage the risk of GSK not achieving its business objectives. 

A fit-for-purpose framework – complemented by our corporate 
culture and Speak Up processes – ensures that the risks 
associated with our business activities are actively and 
effectively controlled in line with our agreed risk appetite. We 
believe GSK’s framework provides reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 

The Board mandates the Group’s Risk Oversight and 
Compliance Council (ROCC) of senior leaders to support the 
Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control 
activities. It also provides the business with a framework for risk 
management and escalation of significant risks. Risk 
management and compliance boards (RMCBs) across the 
Group promote the ‘tone from the top’ and establish our risk 
culture, and ensure effective oversight of internal controls and 
risk management processes. 

134

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Each principal risk has an assigned risk owner, drawn from 
senior management, who is accountable for managing the 
principal risk with oversight from a GLT member, which includes 
setting and implementing risk mitigation plans. Risk owners 
report quarterly on their respective risk management approach 
and progress at the ROCC and the appropriate Board 
committee. Our Compliance function assists the ROCC and 
RMCBs. Compliance is responsible for advancing enterprise-
wide risk management and for developing risk-based and 
ethically sound working practices. It also actively promotes 
ethical behaviours by enabling all employees to operate in line 
with our culture and comply with applicable laws and 
regulations. 

Our Audit & Assurance (A&A) function provides independent 
assurance to senior management and the Board on the 
effectiveness of risk management Group-wide, in line with an 
agreed assurance plan. This helps senior management and the 
Board to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities to 
fulfil GSK’s strategic objectives and build trust with patients and 
other stakeholders. A&A has a dual reporting line to the CFO 
and the Committee. 

As a Committee we receive regular reports from principal risk 
owners, Compliance and A&A on areas of significant risk to the 
Group and on related internal controls. These reports assess the 
internal control environment within each principal risk area, 
including enhancements to strengthen controls. Once we have 
considered these reports, the Committee reports annually to the 
Board on the effectiveness of GSK’s internal controls. 

In 2023, through the authority delegated to the Committee, the 
Board conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s principal 
risks. This assessment in line with the FRC’s Code included 
consideration of the nature and extent of risk the Board is 
willing to take to achieve GSK’s strategic objectives.

The Board, via the Committee, also oversaw the effectiveness of 
our internal control environment and risk management 
processes across the Group for the whole year, up to the 
approval date of this Annual Report. 

More detail about the review of the Group’s risk management 
approach is further discussed in the Risk management section 
of the strategic report on pages 57 to 76.

The management of each principal risk is explained in ‘Principal 
risks and uncertainties’ on pages 284 to 294. The Group’s 
viability is discussed in the Strategic report on page 76. 

135

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering GSK’s quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results in the 2023 Annual Report, the Committee 
reviewed the significant issues and management judgements in determining those results. It reviewed management papers setting 
out the key areas of risk, actions taken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues, and judgements made by management on the 
appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.

The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 are set out in the 
following table, with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. The Committee and the external auditor have 
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in 
the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 166 to 179.

Significant issues considered by the Committee 
in relation to the financial statements

Going concern basis for the preparation 
of the financial statements

Revenue recognition, including returns 
and rebates (RAR) accruals

Provisions for legal matters, including 
investigations into the Group’s 
commercial practices

Provisions for uncertain tax positions

Impairments of intangible assets

Valuation of contingent consideration 
in relation to ViiV Healthcare

ViiV Healthcare put option

How the issue was addressed by the Committee

The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly and year-end 
reviews of current and forecast net debt positions and the various financing facilities 
and options available to the Group. The Committee also considered management’s 
review of the impacts of both the current economic environment and climate 
change. Following consideration of these assessments, which included stress testing 
and viability scenarios, sources of liquidity and funding, forecasts and estimates, the 
Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the 
preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.

The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of 
revenue and accruals for customer returns and rebates. The RAR accrual for US 
Commercial Operations was £6 billion at 31 December 2023 and the Committee 
reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with 
management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the 
process operated in US Commercial Operations in determining the level of accrual 
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 191 and 192.

The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both 
internal and external legal counsel including the Zantac litigation, together with a 
number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial practices. 
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure 
considered necessary in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also 
those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary, 
or its amount. At 31 December 2023, the provision for legal matters was £0.3 billion; 
see Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’ for more details.

The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and 
concurred with management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies 
required. At 31 December 2023, a tax payable liability of £0.6 billion, including 
provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s balance sheet. 

The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill 
and other intangible assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted 
management’s judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and 
the resulting impairment losses of £421 million in 2023. See Note 20 to the financial 
statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.

The Committee considered management’s judgement that it was necessary to 
increase the liability to pay contingent consideration primarily as a result of updated 
exchange rate assumptions as well as increases in sales forecasts and the unwind of 
the discount. After cash payments of nearly £1.1 billion in the year, at 31 December 
2023, the Group's balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of    
£5.7 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 33 to the financial statements, 
‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for more details.

The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option 
and concurred with management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option 
of £0.8 billion at 31 December 2023.

136

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Effectiveness and quality of external audit 
process
The Committee is committed to making sure that GSK receives 
a high-quality and effective external audit. In evaluating 
Deloitte’s performance during 2022, prior to making a 
recommendation on its reappointment in early 2023, the 
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of its performance 
against the criteria which it agreed with management at the 
beginning of 2022. 

The detailed criteria used to judge Deloitte's effectiveness as 
external auditor are available at gsk.com. These are based on 
the audit approach and strategy, ensuring a high-quality 
independent audit, effective partnership and value for money. 

The Committee monitors engagements with external 
stakeholders relevant to our areas of oversight, including the 
FRC and Securities and Exchange Commission.

We sought to ensure that Deloitte would deliver a smooth, 
thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2023 and so 
considered: 

– the overall quality of the audit 
– the independence of Deloitte 
– whether Deloitte showed an appropriate level of challenge 

and scepticism in its work 

Deloitte’s length of tenure was not taken into account when 
assessing its independence and objectivity, given it only 
commenced its role as auditor in 2018. However, the Committee 
did consider how effectively it had assumed its role as auditor. 
The Committee also considered feedback on the 2023 external 
audit, through a survey of Committee members and the 
financial management team at corporate and business unit 
level. The survey covered the: 

– effectiveness of the auditor’s challenge 
– integrity of Deloitte 
– transparency of its reporting to management and the 

Committee 

– the auditor's effective use of technology
– clarity of the auditor’s communications and ways of working 
– quality of the audit team’s leadership
– skills and experience of the audit team

As Committee Chair, I regularly meet independently with the 
audit partner. We also meet with the auditor privately at the 
end of each Committee meeting to discuss progress, as 
appropriate. 

Having reviewed the above feedback, and noted any areas of 
improvement to be implemented by the audit team for 2024, 
the Committee was satisfied with the: 

– effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process 
– auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise 

and resources 

We agreed to recommend to the Board Deloitte's 
reappointment at the next AGM, and did so free from the 
influence of any third party.

Auditor’s reappointment
External auditor

External auditor appointment

Last tender

Transition year

First shareholder approval of current 
auditor

May–December 2016

2017

May 2018

First audited Annual Report and 20-F Year ending 31 December 2018

New lead audit engagement partner 2023

Next audit tender required by 
regulations

2025/2026 (to take effect from 
2028)

There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the 
Group’s choice of external auditor. 

Audit partner rotation
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit engagement 
partner for GSK every five years. 

Our previous audit partner stepped down in March 2023 after 
the audit of GSK’s financial statements for 2022 was concluded. 

After a robust review process by the Committee, together with 
the former CFO, the new audit partner was selected. The 
Committee approved the appointment with effect from the 
start of the 2023 financial year.

We were satisfied that Deloitte managed an orderly handover 
to the new audit engagement partner. This resulted in a 
seamless transition and maintenance of high levels of audit 
quality and effectiveness throughout the reporting year.

Audit tender
The Committee considers that, during 2023, the company 
complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit 
committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and 
Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. 

As Deloitte continues to maintain its independence and 
objectivity, and the Committee remains satisfied with its 
performance, GSK does not intend to tender the external 
auditor contract before the end of the current required period 
of 10 years identified above and considers that this is in the best 
interests of shareholders. The Committee was mindful that there 
were appointments of a new CFO for GSK and audit partner for 
Deloitte during the 2023 financial year, which is helpful in  
further mitigating the risks of any over-familiarity between the 
company and the auditor. 

137

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Non-audit services

Audit and other services comparison (£m)

Management operates on the presumption that other 
accountancy firms will ordinarily provide non-audit services to 
GSK. However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience 
make it the only suitable supplier of non-audit support – such 
as for audit-related matters, tax and other services – it may be 
used, in the best interests of the company. 

In line with GSK’s non-audit services policy, the Committee 
ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are 
safeguarded by reviewing and pre-approving the external 
auditor’s provision of such services. The company policy 
complies with the FRC’s 2019 Revised Ethical Standard and the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It observes the following core 
policy features on engaging the external auditor for non-audit 
services:

GSK non-audit services policy, key features: 

Process:

Safeguards:

Fee cap:

All non-audit services over £50,000 are put to 
competitive tender with other financial services providers, 
in line with the Group’s procurement process, unless the 
skills and experience of the external auditor make it the 
only suitable supplier.

Adequate safeguards are established so that the 
objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not 
threatened or compromised.

The total fee payable for non-audit services should not 
exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special 
circumstances where there would be a clear advantage 
in the auditor undertaking the additional work.

Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘whitelist’ of permitted non-audit 
services in line with the relevant regulations. Any service 
not on this list is prohibited.

Pre-approval: All non-audit services require pre-approval as set out in 

the table below to ensure services approved are 
consistent with GSK’s non-audit policy for permissible 
services. This process ensures all services fall within the 
scope of services permitted and pre-approved by the 
Committee and does not represent a delegation of 
authority for pre-approval.

Value 
More than £50,000

Pre-approver
Committee Chair and CFO

Between £25,000 and 
£50,000

Under £25,000

Group Financial Controller

Designate of the Group 
Financial Controller

l Audit services
l Other Assurance services

Further fees payable to Deloitte for non-audit services relating to the 
Consumer Healthcare demerger were £4.4 million in 2022 and 
£2.4 million in 2021, as set out on page 115 of the 2021 Annual Report 
and page 128 of the 2022 Annual Report respectively. A fee of 
£0.2 million was paid to the auditor in respect of GSK pension schemes 
in each of 2021, 2022 and 2023

The fees paid to the company's auditor and its associates are 
set out above. Further details are given in Note 8 to the 
financial statements, ‘Operating profit’ on page 198.

The Committee considered the level of non-audit services 
incurred as part of its annual review of Deloitte’s independence 
set out on the previous page and was satisfied that the auditor 
continued to be independent and exercised objectivity 
throughout 2023.

Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
The need for an annual report to be fair, balanced and 
understandable is one of the key compliance requirements for a 
company’s financial statements. To ensure that GSK’s Annual 
Report meets this requirement, we have a well-established and 
documented process governing the coordination and review of 
Group-wide contributions to the publication. This runs in parallel 
with the process followed by the external auditor. The 
Committee received a summary of management’s approach to 
GSK’s 2023 Annual Report to ensure it met the requirements of 
the FRC’s Code. This enabled the Committee, and the Board, to 
confirm that GSK’s 2023 Annual Report as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy. 

Code of Conduct and reporting lines 
We have a number of well-established policies (including a new 
Code of Conduct), which are available on gsk.com, together 
with details of our confidential Speak Up lines for reporting and 
investigating unlawful conduct.

Charles Bancroft
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
27 February 2024

138

1.66.34.020.420.627.72023202220210102030Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Remuneration report
Committee Chair's annual statement

Dear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to 
present our Remuneration Report for 2023. This includes my 
Annual Statement, explaining the Committee’s work this year 
and our Annual Report on remuneration for 2023. A summary of 
our Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders 
at the 2022 AGM, is available on pages 158 to 162 of the 2022 
Annual Report and at gsk.com.

Context for 2023 remuneration and outcomes
As outlined earlier in this report, GSK delivered very strong 
performance in 2023, with sales, adjusted operating profit and 
adjusted EPS all growing at double-digit levels for the year 
(excluding COVID-19 solutions). There was also strong pipeline 
progress with four major product approvals, including the 
world's first RSV vaccine, Arexvy.

Overall, the company is delivering the step change in 
performance in the commitments it has previously made to 
shareholders.

2023 was the second year of operation of the company's new 
Remuneration policy. This is a fundamental part of the 
architecture of GSK post-separation to ensure we build a 
performance culture and generate sustained delivery of 
shareholder value. 

Our policy better links executive remuneration to delivery of 
outperformance, with the Annual Bonus opportunity 
significantly reduced for below target performance, and 
increased for exceptional outperformance. Under the new 
scheme, the increase in the Bonus opportunity does not 
increase the potential cash reward for executives, as any 
incremental award is delivered in the form of shares, deferred 
for three years. 

2023 Annual Bonus
It is against this delivery that the Committee reviewed the Bonus 
outcomes for the CEO and CFO. 

In terms of the two financial measures, the company delivered 
sales growth of 14% and adjusted operating profit growth of 
16% (excluding COVID-19 solutions). This was significantly 
higher than both the guidance the company provided at the 
start of the year and market expectations, and strongly 
supports delivery of GSK’s growth outlooks for the period 
2021-26. 

This very strong performance led to an overall payout under the 
financial elements of the Bonus of 190% of salary. The 2023 
targets were set after consideration of analyst consensus, and 
the Committee is comfortable that the payout is representative 
of very strong performance.

The Committee also reviewed performance against the non-
financial measures previously disclosed, together with 
executives’ delivery against their specific individual strategic 
and operational measures.

When this performance was combined the overall payout 
against a maximum of 300% was 288% of salary for the CEO 
(of which 188% of salary is delivered in deferred shares) and 
264% of salary for the CFO (197.5% of salary, after proration for 
the period she was employed in 2023; of which 99% of salary is 
delivered in deferred shares).

Long-term incentive (LTI) awards
69.95% of the grant under the 2021 Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) award vested based on performance to the end of 2023. 
The award vested in three out of four measures.

There was full vesting of the Pipeline Progress measure and 
almost full vesting under our Innovation Sales measure (20% 
and 19.95% respectively). The Cash Flow measure also vested in 
full (30%).  

We remain disappointed that we have not yet achieved vesting 
under our Relative TSR measure. In part this reflects the adverse 
share price reaction to Zantac litigation in the period, but we 
also recognise there have been relative concerns on the 
strength of the company’s pipeline. We are confident that the 
progress we are making to develop our portfolio, together with 
our improving longer-term outlooks for growth, will be 
increasingly reflected in GSK’s valuation. 

Summary of incentive outcomes 
Following a review of contextual factors including previous 
payouts, the Committee believes that the outcomes 
appropriately reflect performance in the round having 
considered the experience of all stakeholders including 
shareholders and our employees. 

The incentive awards in relation to 2023 were all made in 
accordance with the 2022 Remuneration policy. I also confirm 
that following careful review the Committee did not deem it 
necessary to exercise discretion. 

Remuneration policy implementation for 2024
Annual Bonus and LTI
The Committee has determined that no changes will be made 
to our Bonus and LTI measures for 2024. The total sales growth 
and adjusted operating profit growth targets exclude the 
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.

Annual Bonus measures will continue to be based on:

– annual total sales growth (30%)

– annual adjusted operating profit growth (30%)

– personal performance against strategic and operational 

measures (30%)

– ESG: diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) (10%)

PSP measures will remain as:

– relative TSR (30%)

– total sales growth over three years (20%)

– adjusted operating profit growth over three years (20%)

– pipeline progress (20%) 

– ESG: environment composite scorecard (10%)

The performance targets were also calibrated to consider a 
number of internal and external reference points, in particular 
analyst consensus. These were used to challenge the metrics 
and with input from our Science and Corporate Responsibility 
committees where relevant. The Committee is therefore 
satisfied that the targets set for 2024 are suitably stretching.

Salary
The Committee noted that a 4% increase has been agreed for 
the wider workforce in the UK. After careful consideration, 
including a review of the market and the CEO and CFO’s 
competitive positioning, it was agreed that they should each 
receive salary increases of 4% for 2024.  

139

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Thank you 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank both my fellow 
Committee members and shareholders for your support and 
engagement during my tenure as Committee Chair. 

I welcome all further feedback and look forward to receiving 
your support for this report at our Annual General Meeting on   
8 May 2024.

Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
27 February 2024

Committee Chair's annual statement continued

Workforce fairness
In setting executive pay it is important that the Committee does 
so with a good understanding of the Group’s wider workforce 
approach to pay, with an emphasis on fairness and equity. To 
that end, on an annual basis, I meet with senior Human 
Resources Leaders from across the company to understand 
their perspectives on pay and GSK’s remuneration 
arrangements for the wider workforce globally. This year was 
the fifth such annual meeting held. Details of this important 
check are given on page 122.

Board changes
As announced in September 2022, Julie Brown joined the Board 
on 1 May 2023 as CFO, at which point Iain Mackay stepped 
down from the Board. Details of the joining and leaving 
arrangements for this transition were described in last year’s 
report.

Remuneration Committee Chair succession
Finally, I will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director of GSK at 
the 2024 AGM and this will therefore be my final report as Chair 
of the Committee.

I was delighted to welcome Wendy Becker, who joined the 
Committee on 1 October 2023. Since then, Wendy and I have 
been working on a smooth transition and handover before she 
succeeds me as Committee Chair in May 2024. She has a 
wealth of experience chairing remuneration committees and is 
looking forward to chairing the Committee and leading our 
2025 Policy review. 

The Committee is planning to undertake a review of the 
effectiveness of our remuneration arrangements in advance of 
the scheduled Policy renewal at the 2025 AGM. Wendy and 
Jonathan Symonds, our Chair, are looking forward to engaging 
with investors to ensure we are clear on your perspectives as we 
work to update our Remuneration policy.

140

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Remuneration at a glance

  2023 Total Remuneration

   Emma Walmsley, CEO

   Julie Brown, CFO (from 1 May 2023)(1) 

2023 Pay for performance

2023 Annual bonus outcome

Financial measures

Total sales growth*

Target

7.0%

Adjusted operating profit growth* 11.0%

Delivered

13.9%

16.4%

Non-Financial measures

Overall Strategic 
and Operational 
measures

ESG
DEI

Emma Walmsley

Exceeded

Met in full

Julie Brown

Exceeded

Met in full

2023 Annual bonus delivery 

CEO
Overall bonus
288% of 
salary

CFO(1)
Overall bonus
197.5% of 
salary

(1)For service from employment 
on 3 April 2023

l Shares deferred for 3 years
l Cash

2021 PSP outcome 

Relative TSR 
0% of 30%

Overall
vesting             
69.95%

(1) See details of CFO joining arrangements on page 142
l Fixed pay – salary, benefits, pensions and other
l Performance pay – annual bonus and vested LTIs

l Vested

l Lapsed

   2024 Remuneration implementation

Base salary

4% increase for UK employees and Executive Directors

Benefits and pensions

No changes

Pay for Performance
Bonus and LTI measures remain as follows

Alignment to strategy

Total sales growth*

In line with sales growth ambitions

Adjusted operating profit growth*

In line with adjusted operating profit growth ambitions

Strategic and operational

Individual accountability for delivery of our strategy and public ambitions

Pipeline

Emphasis on Innovation – rewards acceleration and strengthening of 
pipeline

Relative total shareholder return

Alignment with shareholders

ESG ambitions

Nature and Climate ambitions 
2024 – DEI Priorities

*excluding COVID-19 solutions

Annual 
bonus

30%

30%

30%

–

–

–

10%

LTIs 
(PSP)

20%

20%

–

20%

30%

10%

–

141

20232022£0m£2m£4m£6m£8m£10m£12m£14m2023£0m£2m£4m£6m£8m65%35%50%50%Adjusted freecash flow 30% of 30%Innovation sales 19.95% of 20%Pipeline progress 20% of 20%  
     
    
     
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration

2023 Total remuneration (audited)

Fixed pay

Salary

Pension

Benefits

Read more on

page 143

Pay for performance

+

Annual Bonus

+

LTI awards 
(2021 PSP award vesting)

=

Total 
remuneration

pages 144 and 145

pages 146 and 147

below

The following sections from this page to page 160 provide details of each element of 2023 ‘Total remuneration’ and how the 
Committee implemented the company’s shareholder-approved 2022 Remuneration policy during the year in terms of fixed and 
performance pay.

 2023 Total remuneration (audited)

Emma Walmsley, CEO

Julie Brown, CFO 
(from 1 May 2023)

Iain Mackay, former CFO
(to 1 May 2023)

Fixed pay

Salary

Benefits

Pension
Other(1)

Total fixed pay

Pay for performance
Annual bonus(2) (3)
Vesting of PSP LTI awards(4) (5) (6)
Total pay for performance

2023
£000

1,310 

212 

94 

— 

1,616 

3,774 

7,328 

11,102 

2022
£000

1,260 

131 

253 

— 

1,644 

3,143 

3,662 

6,805 

2023
£000

635 

50 

44 

2,411 

3,140 

1,687 

— 

1,687 

Total remuneration

12,718 

8,449 

4,827 

2022
£000

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2023
£000

305 

82 

22 

— 

409 

728 

5,294 

6,022 

2022
£000

915 

291 

183 

— 

1,389 

2,082 

1,854 

3,936 

6,431 

5,325 

(1) Other: Represents the sum paid to Julie Brown, the CFO, as part of her Buyout arrangements in relation to leaving Burberry, as set out in full on page 149 

of the 2022 Annual Report. In setting the Buyout arrangements, which are staged over a two year period, the Committee sought to ensure she was 
compensated on a like-for-like basis as far as possible. In fulfilment of these arrangements, the CFO purchased 22,500 shares in June 2023

(2) Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP): The mandatory DABP bonus deferrals for 2022 and 2023 are set out on page 156
(3) Annual bonus: The 2023 bonus payment for Iain Mackay represents bonus earned in respect of the period from 1 January to 1 May 2023. Details of the 
bonus paid in respect of the remainder of the year can be found in the Leaving Directors section on page 154. The 2023 bonus payment for Julie Brown 
represents bonus earned in respect of the period from 1 May to 31 December 2023. Bonus for the full period of her employment in 2023 is shown on 
page 144

(4) 2020 PSP vesting in 2023: The Total remuneration figure for the CEO in 2022 included vesting of the top-up award made in May 2020 which did not 

vest until May 2023. The final actual value received has been updated, bringing the total value to £3.662 million (previously reported as £3.666 million)

(5) 2021 PSP vesting in 2024: For the CEO, the figure has been valued based on the vesting prices on 9 February 2024 of £16.60. The share price on 10 

February 2021, the date of grant, was £12.77. Of the vested amounts for the Executive Directors, 23.1% of the value was attributable to share price 
appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price 
changes 

(6) The PSP vesting value for the former CFO is unreduced and is an illustrative amount as the award will not vest until January 2025 in accordance with 
the terms of the Executive and Senior Management Recoupment Policy (Recoupment Policy). His award will then remain subject to the two-year 
holding period which started from the original vesting date of the award in February 2024. The actual value received will be updated in the 2024 
Annual Report. Further details of the former CFO’s leaving arrangements are set out in the Leaving Directors section on page 154

(7) The CEO and CFO each contribute the maximum of £250 and £125 a month into the Share Save plan and to buy shares under the Share Reward plan 

respectively. Further details of these HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved all-employee plans are set out on page 147

(8) Malus and clawback: The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply malus/clawback, as it determines 

appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee, there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or 
vesting levels (malus) applied during 2023 in respect of any of the CEO, CFO or the former CFO

142

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

2023 Total remuneration (audited) continued

Fixed pay (audited)

Salary
The Committee is very aware of the sensitivity amongst stakeholders to levels of pay. Before setting or reviewing salary, it considered 
the average increases awarded to employees below Executive Directors and the multiplier effect of increases in base salaries on 
total remuneration opportunity. The Committee considered the wider economic context, individual performance and market 
positioning of the increases awarded. The table below sets out the base salaries and increases agreed for 2023 and 2024 of the 
Executive Directors compared to increases of the UK workforce.

% change

Salary
£000

2023 effective date

2024

2023

2024

2023

2022

UK employees

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

1 April

1 January

1 May

 4 

 4 

 4 

 5 

 4 

 4 

1,363 

990 

1,310 

952 

1,260 

— 

Julie Brown's salary on the announcement of her appointment in September 2022 was set in line with her predecessor, given her extensive experience as a CFO. 
Her salary upon joining was increased to reflect the increases awarded to UK employees and the CEO in early 2023.

Benefits
This table provides an analysis of total benefits (grossed up 
for tax) received by the Executive Directors in 2023 and 2022.

The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the 
company to add into each Executive Director’s total benefits 
all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable 
benefit for them. These include employee benefits as well as 
business-related services provided to employees to assist or 
enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority has 
deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual. Because 
these are business expenses, the company meets the tax which 
arises on them and therefore the items are shown grossed up 
for tax. 

Emma Walmsley

Benefits available to employees

Business-related services

Total benefits

Julie Brown

Benefits available to employees

Business-related services

Total benefits

Benefits 
£000

2022

66 

65 

131 

— 

— 

— 

2023

118 

94 

212 

25 

25 

50 

Pensions
From 1 January 2023, pension arrangements for Executive Directors were aligned to the wider workforce. They received GSK pension 
contributions or cash supplements of 7% of base salary and matching contributions of up to 3% on the first £26,666 of salary to 31 
March 2023 and on the first £66,666 of salary for the rest of 2023.

The table shows the breakdown of the pension values included in 2023 Total remuneration on page 142. They are calculated as set 
out in the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) 
(Remuneration regulations).

Pension remuneration values

UK defined contribution

Employer cash contributions

Pension

Emma Walmsley 

2022

3 

250 

253 

2023

6 

88 

94 

Julie Brown 
(from May 2023)

2022

— 

— 

— 

2023

— 

44 

44 

143

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited)

Annual Bonus

Total sales 
growth 
30%

+

Adjusted 
operating profit 
growth 
30%

+

Strategic and 
operational 
measures 
30%

+

ESG: 
DEI 
10%

=

Annual Bonus

l Financial Measures: 60%

l Non-Financial Measures: 40%

2023 Annual Bonus performance 
The following table shows the Annual Bonuses earned compared to the bonus opportunity for 2023: 

2023 Bonus 
opportunity

Bonus

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Target
(% of salary)

Maximum
(% of salary)

2023 salary 
£000

100

300

1,310 

952 

% 
of Maximum 
Bonus

 96 

 66 

% of Salary

 288 

 197 

Cash

1,310 

940 

2023 Bonus 
outcome

Paid as
(£000)

Shares 
(DABP 
Award)

2,463 

940 

Details of the mandatory deferral by Executive Directors into the DABP for the 2023 bonus are set out on page 156. See page     
154 for details of Iain Mackay's 2023 bonus arrangements following his retirement from the company. Julie Brown's bonus has 
been pro-rated to reflect the period for which she was employed in 2023. The table on page 142 provides the details of her       
bonus from 1 May when she became an Executive Director.

2023 Financial measures

   Total sales growth                                                                                        Adjusted operating profit growth

These targets were set following consideration of analyst consensus as well as internal budgets. Threshold and maximum 
performance was at 1% below and 5% above target growth respectively. The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit 
growth targets and outcomes for the purposes of the Annual Bonus calculation are based on CER and excluding the 
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.

  Overview of performance against financial performance measures

– GSK delivered strong performance in 2023 with sales, adjusted operating profit and adjusted EPS all growing at double-
digit levels for the year (excluding COVID-19 solutions). This was significantly higher than the guidance provided at the 
start of the year, and strongly supports delivery of GSK’s growth outlooks for the period 2021-26

– Delivered full-year reported Group sales of £30.3 billion (+3% AER, +5% CER, +14% excluding COVID-19 solutions)
– Vaccines growth was 23% AER, 24% CER, with Arexvy sales of £1.2 billion since launch in Q3 2023 and Specialty growth 

was 21% AER, 23% CER (all excluding COVID-19 solutions)

– Adjusted Group Operating profit CER growth of 16% excluding COVID-19 solutions, driven by higher sales supported by 

prioritised increased investment in R&D and new product launches

– Adjusted EPS of 155.1p (+11% AER, +16% CER, +22% excluding COVID-19 solutions) was ahead of updated guidance  

144

 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

2023 Strategic and operational measures
The Committee received and considered a performance assessment report for each Executive Director showing the extent of their 
achievement against the individual personal strategic and operational measures agreed by the Committee for them to support the 
delivery of our strategic commitments during 2023. As with the financial elements of the Annual Bonus, the Committee was satisfied 
that the scale of Executive Directors’ achievements this year was excellent. These achievements focus on the pipeline, commercial 
execution and continued evolution of our culture.

Achievement during 2023

Performance assessment

Emma Walmsley

Innovation

– Delivered pipeline progression above target with four major product approvals in RSV prevention, HIV 

Exceeded

prevention and Oncology 

– Delivered innovation sales through successful launches including Arexvy. New products launched since 

2021 contributed £2.3 billion to sales in 2023

– Upgraded long-term outlooks for sales and profits with 2021-2026 outlooks for sales now more than 7% 
and adjusted operating profit growth now more than 11% CAGR (excluding COVID-19 solutions). 2031 
sales outlook increased to more than £38 billion (CER using 2023 average rates)

Performance

– Delivered the financial plan exceeding guidance set for 2023 – with Sales +14% excluding COVID-19 

Exceeded

solutions and adjusted operating profit up 12% with further positive impact of +4% excluding COVID-19 
solutions, and adjusted EPS grew 16% with further positive impact of +6% excluding COVID-19 solutions 
(All at CER). Group sales were £30.3 billion 

Trust

– Sector leader in S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment 
– Access and Global Health – 89 million people in lower income countries reached through access 

Exceeded

partnerships. Malaria vaccine roll out in up to 12 countries. 11 global health pipeline assets progressing 
– Environmental Sustainability – progress on all KPIs, including progression of low carbon Ventolin inhaler 

programme to phase III development 

– Diversity, Equity & Inclusion – 2025 aspirations for gender diversity and UK and US 2025 ethnicity 

aspirations at VP and above achieved 

Culture

– Annual survey of employee engagement reported increase to 81%

Exceeded

The Committee determined that the CEO clearly exceeded her individual objectives and that 78% out of the 90% maximum should be attributed to 
her overall bonus

Julie Brown

Demonstrate 
financial 
leadership

Cost discipline 
and cash flow 
management

Demonstrate 
strong 
culture and 
leadership

– Deep review of pipeline forecasting to support upgrading of long-term outlooks to 2031 and beyond 
– Design of new investor engagement programme, including development of an Investor Relations 

Exceeded

Roadmap and communication of long-term outlooks

– Deep review of capital allocation and pipeline value ‘unlocks’ to support investment in organic R&D 

Exceeded

and Business Development; and to maximise returns to shareholders 

– Initiated work to drive P&L efficiency with a focus on SG&A and operating margin improvement

– Successfully integrated into GSK and established strong partnership working with CEO and members of 

Met

GLT, with notable output to support R&D and the Commercial organisations

The Committee determined that the CFO clearly met her individual objectives and that 54% out of the 90% maximum should be attributed to her 
overall bonus

2023 ESG: DEI aspirations 

Emma Walmsley

Enterprise targets not met

Julie Brown

Directorate targets not met

Payout level

Nil (0%)

Enterprise targets met, but not all directorate targets

Personal directorate targets met

Target (10%)

Enterprise and all directorate targets met

Maximum (20%)

Outcome achieved

Maximum payout – 20%

Maximum payout – 20%

Overview of performance against DEI aspirations 

Our ESG: DEI measure reinforces delivery of our commitment to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Our broader 
DEI commitments are set out on page 52. As part of our effort to meet our 2025 Aspirational Targets for diversity of senior 
leadership, the Committee agreed interim, annual aspirational targets for 2023 including global gender representation and US and 
UK race and ethnicity representation aspirations at an enterprise level for the CEO and at a directorate level for the CFO. An 
internal governance team audited performance against these aspirations for the Committee.  

Delivery: These interim aspirations were met in 2023. At the year end the GSK Enterprise performance was 45% gender 
representation and 35.7% US ethnicity and 18.4% UK ethnicity in our VP and above employee population. Julie Brown's directorate 
also met its 2023 aspirations.

145

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

Vesting of PSP LTI awards

Pipeline 
Progress
20%

+

Innovation 
Sales 
20%

+

Adjusted Free 
Cash Flow
30%

+

Relative Total  
Shareholder Return 
30%

=

Total Vested LTI

Overview of Performance
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, actual performance against each measure is carefully reviewed and adjustments 
are made, as appropriate. This ensures that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance and has 
been delivered in line with our culture and values. The Committee did not deem it necessary to exercise any discretion in relation 
to the vesting of the awards or due to share price changes. Overall, 69.95% of the 2021 PSP awards vested against the targets 
set out below. During the 2021-23 performance period, significant progress was achieved in accelerating the delivery of our 
pipeline. Near full vesting was achieved under Innovation sales, reflecting increases in the performance of Trelegy, Nucala, 
Dovato and Benlysta during the period. Strong performance was evidenced with full vesting under the Adjusted free cash flow 
and Pipeline progress elements; however, disappointingly there was nil-vesting under Relative TSR. The percentage of award 
values vesting below have been rounded down to whole numbers for presentational purposes.

2021 PSP Outcomes

Performance measures
and relative weighting

Pipeline progress
(20%)

Performance targets

Targets strengthening our pipeline through progression of high quality assets into 
pivotal trials and the achievement of regulatory approvals in major markets. The 
points are allocated on achievement of these two equally weighted elements of 10%

Measure

Threshold
25%

Pivotal Trial starts

Major regulatory 
approval milestones

12

13

50%

14

15

75%

16

17

Maximum
100%

17

19

Innovation sales
(20%)

Recognises the importance of launching new products successfully and that 
driving their performance is key to our commercial success. This measure 
aggregates three-year sales for new innovative products launched in the three-
year performance period and the preceding two years, i.e. 2019-23

Innovation sales (billion)

% vesting

Maximum

Threshold

£18.67

£16.97

£16.12

£15.27

<£15.27

100

75

50

25

0

Outcome and vesting level

Outcome

% of
maximum

% of
award

18 points

20 points

£18.65 billion

100

100

99.8

20

19

Adjusted free
cash flow (AFCF)
(30%)

In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included 
adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, 
exchange rate movements and special pension contributions

£9.81 billion

100

30

Revised target (billion)(1)

% vesting

Maximum

Threshold

£6.54

£6.26

£5.69

£5.52

<£5.52

100

75

50

25

0

(1) The revised target has been further adjusted since the 2022 Annual Report as noted below

Relative TSR 
(30%)

TSR ranking within comparator 
group (10 companies)

Maximum

1st, 2nd, 3rd

Threshold(2)

4th

5th

Median

6th to 10th

% vesting

100

70

40

25

0

Ranked 9th

0

0

(2) The median vesting threshold falls between two companies. The Relative TSR comparator 
group is set out on page 152

Total  vesting in respect of 2021 PSP awards

69

The AFCF measure target, threshold and associated vesting scales for the 2021 PSP awards have been further adjusted since being restated in the 
2022 Annual Report. The net overall impact is an increase in the revised target from £5.64 billion to £5.69 billion for the 2021 PSP awards. The 
adjustment takes into account revised timings of restructuring payments linked to the Future Ready programme.  

146

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

2021 PSP vesting

Emma Walmsley 

Granted

550,757 

Vested(1)

441,309 

Value of vested shares(1)
(£000) 

£7,328 

(1) The number of shares which vested and the value they represented at vesting includes dividend reinvestments during the performance period. These 

are based on the vesting price of £16.60 on 9 February 2024 

(2) The PSP award for Dr Hal Barron vested and was adjusted for time worked during the performance period, including dividend reinvestments. 153,505 

shares vested at a value of $4.492 million. Shares were sold for tax and will be held for two years under the terms of the Recoupment Policy 

(3) The Committee is aware of the guidance from investor bodies regarding the potential executive benefit arising from share award grants around the 
time of the stock market fall at the onset of COVID-19 in March 2020. Our Remuneration policy contains sufficient flexibility to reduce the vesting of 
awards if required. No reduction was required in respect of the awards granted in February 2021. In making this determination, the Committee 
considered the share price at the time of the February 2021 award of £12.77, over the final quarter of 2023 of £14.46 and at the time of the previous 
award in February 2020 of £16.81. Whilst there have been upward and downward movements in GSK's share price over the period, taking these points 
into consideration the Committee was satisfied that there was no risk of windfall gains

2023 LTI grants
The 2023 DABP awards, in respect of the deferral of 2022 bonus, and the 2023 PSP awards are set out below. 

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Iain Mackay

% of total 2022 
bonus deferred

 60 

— 

 56 

2023 DABP awards

Face value 
of award(1)
£000

1,883

— 

1,167

Number of 
shares

125,482

— 

77,751

Award level as % 
of base salary

 575 

 400 

 — 

2023 PSP awards

Face value 
of award(2)(3)
£000

7,534

3,808

— 

Number of 
shares

501,927

264,026

— 

(1) The face value of the DABP awards has been calculated based on a share price of £15.01, being the closing price on 8 February 2023 (the day before 

grant). These are nil-cost options for the Executive Directors. No performance conditions are attached to the DABP awards, as they reflect the 
mandatory three-year deferrals in respect of the Annual Bonus for 2022

(2) The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.01 for Emma Walmsley and £14.422 for Julie Brown, being the 

closing price on 8 February 2023 and 26 April 2023 respectively (the days before the respective grants). The unreduced PSP award for Julie Brown was 
granted in conjunction with her joining arrangements as detailed on page 149 of the 2022 Annual Report. These are conditional shares, based on the 
performance measures above. Iain Mackay did not receive a PSP award due to his retirement from the company

(3) Performance period for the 2023 PSP awards is from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2025. Awards vest at 25% of maximum for threshold performance. 

Please see the 2022 Directors Remuneration Report for details of the measures and targets for the 2023 awards

Historical vesting for LTI plans 
The following table summarises LTI vesting by performance measure for GSK over the last ten years.

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

Relative TSR

Adjusted free cash flow

Innovation sales (previously R&D new product)

Pipeline progress

Business diversification

Total vested %

0 

0 

7 

7 

14 

0 

0 

21 

17 

38 

0 

0 

33 

15 

21 

33 

0 

26 

33 

0 

33 

33 

0 

33 

33 

0 

33 

25 

0 

30 

8 

14 

0 

30 

19 

20 

33 

69 

59 

67 

67 

58 

52 

69 

All-employee share plans
The Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved all-employee share plans, namely the company’s Share Save and 
Share Reward plans, along with the wider UK workforce. Participants of the Share Save plan may save up to £250 a month for three 
years and from which they have the option to buy GSK shares at a discount of up to 20% to the share price at the start of the 
savings contract. Participants of the Share Reward plan contribute up to £125 a month to purchase GSK shares which the company 
then matches on a one-for-one basis.

Malus and clawback policy
Our existing policy on malus and clawback is provided in the 2022 Remuneration policy report on page 147 of the 2021 Annual 
Report, available on gsk.com. The Committee reviews and discloses whether it, or the Recoupment Committee, has exercised malus 
or clawback. Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully 
resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore 
shareholders. In line with these disclosure guidelines, there were no matters to report during 2023. An administrative amendment to 
the malus and clawback section of the 2022 Remuneration policy, as described on page 163 of the 2022 Annual Report, was 
approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. The Committee then adopted an additional clawback policy in accordance with the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission's new clawback rules effective 30 November 2023.  

For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the 2022 
Remuneration policy report on pages 144 to 152 of the 2021 Annual Report, available on gsk.com. 

147

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

Pay for performance in 2024

2024 Annual Bonus – Performance measures
There are no changes to the operation of the Annual Bonus plan. For full details of the policy please refer to pages 145 and 146 of 
the 2021 Annual Report.

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Bonus opportunity % of salary

Maximum(1)

300

Target

100

(1) 50% of the equivalent of the first 200% of salary is deferred, and any portion in excess of 200% is deferred in full

Weighting of performance measures

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Total sales growth

Adjusted operating profit 
growth

Strategic and operational 
measures

ESG: diversity, equity and 
inclusion

Weighting of performance measures %

30

30

30

10

Inevitably, targets linked directly to our financial and strategic plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not 
consider it appropriate to disclose Annual Bonus targets during the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details 
of the performance targets will, as usual, be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2024 Annual Report.

2024 LTI Awards
The table below provides details of: 

– the mandatory deferral into the DABP of the 2023 Annual Bonus payments and the associated awards granted. The shares
    awarded have no performance conditions, but must be held for three years, regardless of continued employment 

– 2024 awards granted under the PSP

2023 bonus deferred to 
shares (% of salary)

Number of 
shares

Face value of 
award (£000) % base salary

Number of shares

Face value of award 
(£000)

DABP awards

PSP awards

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

 188 

 99 

147,271
56,190  

2,463 

940 

 575 

 400 

468,449

236,763

7,835

3,960

148

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

2024 LTI performance measures
The measures and weightings for the 2024 awards remain unchanged from those used for the 2023 awards:

Innovation

Performance

Trust

Measure

Pipeline progress

Relative TSR
Total sales growth
Adjusted operating profit growth

ESG: environment

Weighting

20%

30%
20%
20%

10%

Innovation
The Pipeline progress measure seeks to reward acceleration 
and strengthening of the pipeline. This is based on two equally 
weighted elements of our key assets or indications measured 
over a three-year performance period. 

Points are allocated for successful assets in each sub-measure 
based upon their forecast commercial value (peak year sales) 
at the end of the performance period. The sub-measures for 
the 2024 award will vest as follows: 

   Pivotal trial starts

Focuses mainly on phase III registrational trial starts, but may 
also include phase II starts. 

Performance level

Below Threshold

Threshold

Maximum

  Major regulatory approvals  

Performance level

Below Threshold

Threshold

Maximum

Points

<15

15

18

22

26

Points

<17

17

20

22

24

Payout

Nil

25%

50%

75%

100%

Payout

Nil

25%

50%

75%

100%

The Pipeline progress measure is commercially sensitive at the 
time of grant. At the end of the performance period we will 
provide disclosure of what has been achieved.

Performance
Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s 
Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 152). 
The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth 
measures recognise the importance of our commercial 
ambitions. The targets for total sales growth and adjusted 
operating profit growth are commercially sensitive at the 
time of grant.

Trust
The ESG: environment measure is based on our Climate and 
Nature goals (see page 49). The targets for the 2024 award 
focus on Nature goals relating to Water, Waste & Materials 
reduction and Biodiversity impact. Climate goals  
incorporate Scope 1 & 2 emission reduction targets, carbon 
offsetting and our industrialisation and availability of green 
Ventolin. 

To achieve:
– 25% vesting, targets for two measures achieved at the end 

of 2026, with one in Climate and one in Nature 

– 50% vesting, targets for four measures achieved at the 

end 
of 2026 

– 75% vesting, all six measures must have met their 2026 

targets 

– 100% vesting, two of the six measures, at least one in 
Climate and one in Nature, must have exceeded their 
2026 targets

149

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors’ pay in a wider setting

Internal context

  Comparison of remuneration structure for employees and Executive Directors during 2023 

Element

Salary

Wider workforce and Executive Director pay 

The market competitiveness of base salaries across the company is assessed at a local market level. The 
competitiveness of roles is kept under regular review

Increases may also be made to reflect a change in scope of an individual’s role, responsibilities or experience

For our Executive Directors following a performance review, increases in base salaries are considered in line with 
market practice, the average increase for the wider employee population and other comparator tools

In agreeing increases for Executive Directors, the Committee is mindful of the multiplier effect on the individual’s 
total remuneration

Benefits and 
pensions

The company seeks to provide an appropriate benefits and pensions package that is aligned to competitive            
market practices in those countries in which the company operates and where our employees and Executive 
Directors are based

Annual 
Bonus

With the exception of our sales force, who participate in separate arrangements, our wider workforce 
participates in a plan based on performance against four business and financial measures. These are structured 
to reflect the priorities of each specific business area 

This plan is designed to reward our employees’ collective contribution to business achievement 

Separate mechanisms are in place to recognise outstanding individual performance or to address under-
performance

Our Executive Directors participate in the plan as follows. Any bonus up to 200% of salary is paid 50% in cash 
and 50% in shares deferred for three years. Bonus earned in excess of this (up to a maximum of 300% of salary) 
would be delivered fully in shares deferred for three years. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply

LTI plans

Senior Vice President (SVP) and Vice President (VP) employees participate in the same Performance Share Plan 
as our Executive Directors. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply

Our SVP and VP employees, together with directors and managers below the GLT, receive annual Share Value 
Plan awards of restricted shares 

Share 
ownership

All UK-based employees can participate in HMRC approved Share Save and Share Reward employee share 
plans.

Dilution limits
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment 
Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive 
share plans (granted to senior executives). Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last ten years up to 
31 December 2023 is as follows:

   All GSK employee share plans                               

    Executive share plans

150

 
  
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors' pay in a wider setting continued

CEO and wider employee pay ratio

Financial year

Lower quartile
P25

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

207:1

144:1

154:1

130:1

160:1

Median
P50

152:1

106:1

108:1

96:1

119:1

Upper quartile
P75

94:1

67:1

67:1

62:1

73:1

GSK continues to use the Option A methodology because it is the most robust and statistically accurate way to calculate the 
three ratios from the options available under the Remuneration regulations. The pay ratio is higher than in 2022 influenced by 
the company's strong performance which has delivered an increased bonus for all. The CEO vest was also much higher than in 
previous years due to the improvement in the GSK share price. The 2021 award was granted at £12.77 and vested at £16.60.  

The pay ratios above are calculated using actual earnings for the CEO and UK employees. The CEO’s total single figure 
remuneration of £12.718 million for 2023 and £8.449 million for 2022 are detailed on page 142.

Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees on 31 December 2023 has been calculated in line with the single 
figure methodology. This reflects their actual earnings received in 2023 (excluding business expenses), which were used to 
produce the percentile calculation under Option A of the Remuneration regulations. Business expenses have been excluded as 
they are reimbursed to employees and are not sufficiently substantial in value to significantly impact the ratios.

The table below shows the salary, total pay and benefits for each of the percentiles.

£

2023

P25

2022

2021

2020

2023 

2022

2021

2020

P50

2022

2021

2020

2023

P75

Salary   39,903 

  37,776 

  37,251 

  36,924 

  55,057 

  52,107 

  51,492 

  50,000 

  78,496 

  74,905 

  72,997 

  70,203 

Total pay and benefits   61,490 

  58,883 

  53,151 

  54,133 

  83,783 

  79,428 

  76,234 

  73,340 

  135,819 

 126,594 

 122,852 

  113,830 

The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent with the company’s pay, reward and progression policies. 
The base salaries of all employees, including the Executive Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including 
market practice, experience and performance in role.

Relative importance of spend on pay
The table shows total employee pay and dividends paid to 
shareholders.

Total employee pay

Dividends paid in the year

Change 
%

 10.1 

 (35.2)   

2023
£m

8,473 

2,247 

2022
£m

7,693 

3,467 

The figures in this table, reflecting payments made during each 
year and the impact of movements in exchange rates, are as 
set out on pages 199 and 206. However, cash dividends 
declared in respect of 2023 were £2,352 million (2022: £2,470 
million) a decrease of 4.8%. Please see Note 16 to the financial 
statements for further details.  

Total employee pay is based on 70,244 employees, the average 
number of people employed during 2023 (2022: 69,130). See 
Note 9 to the financial statements for further details.

The last share repurchase made by the company was in 2014.

151

 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors' pay in a wider setting continued

External context
2023 target CEO total remuneration positioning
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee’s 
primary comparator group is the European cross-industry 
comparator group. It also references pay for the Global 
pharmaceutical comparator group.

Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on 
the Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology 

Historic CEO remuneration

2023

2022   

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

£000

 12,718 

 8,449 

 8,203 

 7,031 

 8,094  5,887 4,883(1)

 96% 

 83% 

 93% 

 49% 

 79% 

 93% 

 77% 

 69% 

 52% 

 58% 

 67% 

 67% 

 59% 

 69% 

Emma Walmsley

Total 
remuneration
% of maximum

Annual Bonus 
award

Vesting of LTI 
awards

Sir Andrew Witty

Total remuneration

% of maximum

Annual Bonus award

Vesting of LTI awards

£000

2016

2015

2014

 6,830 

 6,661 

 3,902 

 97% 

 100% 

 42% 

 33% 

 38% 

 14% 

2017
715 (2)

0%(2)
0%(3)

(1) Emma Walmsley’s total remuneration includes her pay for the period         

1 January to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO

(2) Sir Andrew Witty received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a 

variable bonus opportunity, in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration 
policy

(3) PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty granted in 2015 did not vest 

until April 2018, in accordance with the terms of the Recoupment Policy

Comparator groups 
The European cross-industry comparator group is the 
Committee's primary comparator group for the CEO and CFO. 
The Global pharmaceutical comparator group is the secondary 
group for the CEO, and is also used to measure relative TSR 
performance. 

Deutsche Telekom
Kering
Heineken
BASF
Vinci
Adidas
Bayer
Safran
Reckitt Benckiser

European cross-industry comparator group

Roche Holding AG 
Novartis
LVMH
Anheuser-Busch InBev 
Unilever
SAP
L’Oreal
Novo Nordisk A/S 
Airbus

Linde
Sanofi
AstraZeneca
Diageo
Siemens
Christian Dior
Inditex
BAT
Volkswagen

Global pharmaceutical comparator group

France
Sanofi

Switzerland
Novartis
Roche Holdings

UK
AstraZeneca

US
AbbVie(1)
Amgen(1)
Bristol-Myers Squibb
Eli Lilly
Johnson & Johnson
Merck & Co
Pfizer

(1) AbbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are 

not included in the relative TSR performance comparator group

TSR Performance graph 
The following graph sets out the performance of the company 
relative to the FTSE 100 Index and to the Global pharmaceutical 
performance comparator group for the ten-year period to 
31 December 2023. These indices were selected for comparison 
purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is 
a constituent and the industry in which GSK operates.

152

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Remuneration governance

Committee role and membership
These details are available on page 116 and are incorporated 
by reference into this Report. The Chair, CEO, Chief People 
Officer, Head of Reward, Group Financial Controller and the 
Company Secretary assisted the Committee during the year.

Adviser to the Committee

Independent 
adviser 

Willis Towers Watson plc (WTW)
WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and operates under its code of conduct for 
executive remuneration consulting in the UK which 
can be accessed at: 
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com

The principal proxy advisory firms are also consulted regularly. 
They were also invited to our Annual Governance Meeting and 
are sent engagement letters from the Committee and company 
Chairs.

AGM voting

Details of voting levels in respect of our Remuneration 
arrangements are set out below. 

Total votes 
cast (billion)

Total votes 
for (%)

Total votes 
against (%)

Votes 
withheld 
(million)

2023 AGM

2.8

2.9

3.6

3.6

88.8

99.0

91.1

61.8

11.2

1.0

8.9

38.2

70.1

10.7

12.3

13.3

Appointed

1 December 2022 following a tender process 

Remuneration Report

Amendments to 2022 
Remuneration Policy

2022 AGM

Remuneration Report

Remuneration Policy

Advice provided The Committee is comfortable that the WTW 
engagement partner and team that provides 
remuneration advice to the Committee do not have 
connections with the company or its Directors that 
may impair their independence

Fees

Conflicts of 
interest

Charged on a time and materials basis:  
2023: £63,419 (2022: £4,000 for one month in 2022)

WTW provides market data and other HR consulting 
services to the company. The Committee regularly 
reviews the arrangements for potential conflicts and 
where appropriate ensures safeguards are in place

Statement of consideration of shareholder views 

The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders 
and holds regular meetings with GSK’s largest investors to 
discuss and take feedback on its Remuneration policy practices 
and governance matters.

2023 ongoing engagement

Details of the extensive consultation by the Committee and 
company Chairs regarding remuneration matters prior to 
the 2023 AGM vote and continuing engagement with 
shareholders afterwards, are set out below.

Shareholder engagement 
events

Dates

Meetings held prior to 
AGM

January to April 
2023

Investor 
participation

Share capital 
represented

8 investors

10%

Meetings held after 
the AGM to the 
publication of this 
Annual Report

May 2023 to 
February 2024

22 investors 25%

2023 Annual 
Governance Meeting:    
– invitations
– attendance

November 2023
December 2023

78 investors
15 investors

50%
25%

153

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Remuneration governance continued

Committee focus during 2023

Items discussed

Remuneration policy

– Prepared, agreed and proposed administrative amendments to the 2022 Remuneration Policy
– Continued engagement with shareholders and reviewed and considered shareholder and proxy 

advisor feedback

Fixed Pay

– Considered Executive Director and GLT performance, benchmarking competitiveness against 

GSK comparator groups

– Reviewed GLT and Company Secretary salary recommendations for 2023
– Executive Director salary review recommendations for 2023 and 2024
– Reviewed company Chair’s fees for 2023 and 2024

Pay for Performance 
Annual Bonus

– Executive Director and GLT 2022 bonus recommendations and set 2023 Executive Directors’ 

bonus objectives

LTI plans

– Considered the LTI performance outcomes and award vesting for the CEO, Executive Directors, 

Governance and other 
areas of focus

GLT and below 

– Confirmed LTI grants for Executive Directors, GLT and below

– Remuneration considerations and Committee programme for 2023 and 2024
– Committee evaluation and Annual Review of its Terms of Reference
– Approved 2022 Remuneration report 
– Confirmed 2023 Group Budget for remuneration purposes 
– Considered AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external remuneration environment 

and performance target disclosure for incentive plans

– Agreed Committee's key messages for Annual Governance Meeting 
– Committee Chair consulted with employee representatives on wider workforce pay practices 

and pay generally

Leaving Directors
To support the CFO succession and transition process, as announced in September 2022 and set out in the 2022 Annual 
Report, after stepping down from the Board Iain Mackay continued to receive remuneration until he left GSK on 31 December 
2023. This was in line with the current Remuneration policy. His base salary was not increased during 2023. Whilst serving as 
an Executive Director (until 1 May 2023) he received total benefits of £82,000 (comprising £67,000 for benefits that are 
available to employees and £15,000 for business-related services). The value of his pension until May 2023 totalled £22,000 
(comprising £2,000 UK defined contribution and £20,000 employer cash contributions). See page 143 for further explanation.

As an employee to the end of 2023, he remained eligible to receive a bonus under the Executive bonus plan for 2023 based on 
delivery of the measures described on page 144. This was reviewed by the Committee and determined to be £2,196,810 in total 
for the year, comprising £915,335 in cash and £1,281,475 delivered as GSK shares deferred for three years under the DABP plan. 
The bonus value in respect of the period he served as an Executive Director was £728,000. 

He was not eligible for and therefore did not receive any further PSP awards in 2023 given he was due to leave GSK. Vesting of 
his existing LTI awards will be in accordance with the Recoupment Policy. With regard to the 2021 PSP award of 278,363 
ordinary shares, this will not vest until January 2025. 69.95% of the award (223,045 shares inclusive of dividends) will vest in 
accordance with the performance described on page 142. The illustrative unreduced value for this award is disclosed in the 
Single figure table on page and the value at the time of vesting will be updated in the 2024 Annual Report. 

Since his executive service contract ended on 31 December 2023, he will be required to satisfy the post-employment share 
ownership requirement as set out on page 156.

Payments (audited):

to past Directors

for loss of office

No payments were made to past Directors in 2023

No loss of office payments were made during 2023

154

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Non-Executive Directors’ fees

The company aims to provide the Chair and other Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by other 
companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits contained in its Articles of Association.

2023 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2023 are set out in the table below together with the fees for 2024:

Chair fee

Standard NED annual fee

Supplemental fees

Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee

Senior Independent Director

Scientific & Medical Experts

Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Science committees and, when appointed, 
Workforce Engagement Director

2023

£735,000

£113,800

£80,000

£50,000

£30,000

£40,000

Per annum

2024

£764,400

£118,352

£80,000

£50,000

£30,000

£40,000

Science Committee members undertaking significant additional responsibilities on behalf of GSK

Up to £200,000

Up to £200,000

Following a review and approval by the Committee at the end of 2023 it was determined that the Chair's fee should be 
increased from £735,000 with effect from 1 January 2024 by 4% to £764,400. The Chair and the CEO also recommended that 
the Board approve an increase to the Non-Executive Directors' standard annual fee, with effect from 1 January 2024, by 4% to 
£118,352 in line with the increase awarded to the wider UK workforce.

2023 Total fees (audited)
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and 
shares or ADS. Non-Executive Directors' fees paid in a currency other than Sterling are converted using an average exchange 
rate that is reviewed from time to time. The average exchange rates were updated in 2023. In 2023, Non-Executive Directors 
fees were converted to US Dollars using an exchange rate of $1.175. Benefits comprise the grossed up cash value of travel and 
subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings and in 
fulfilling their role.

Non-Executive Directors’ 
emoluments (000) (audited)

Sir Jonathan Symonds

Elizabeth Anderson

Charles Bancroft

Dr Hal Barron

Dr Anne Beal

Wendy Becker

Dr Hal Dietz

Dr Jesse Goodman

Urs Rohner

Dr Vishal Sikka

Fixed fees

Fixed fees

Cash

Shares/ADS

Benefits

Total pay

Cash

Shares/ADS

Benefits

Total pay

2023

2022

£551 

$100 

— 

$344 

$156 

£21 

$191 

$144 

£133 

— 

£184 

$33 

$295 

$33 

$33 

£7 

$33 

$33 

£28 

$134 

£30 

$30 

$28 

$78 

$34 

£4 

$40 

$44 

£40 

$13 

£765 

$163 

$323 

$455 

$223 

£32 

$264 

$221 

£201 

$147 

£525 

$35 

— 

$150 

$138 

— 

$174 

$182 

£112 

— 

£175 

$8 

$287 

$16 

$46 

— 

$58 

$61 

£31 

$58 

£10 

— 

$10 

$11 

$15 

— 

$2 

$31 

£23 

— 

£710 

$43 

$297 

$177 

$199 

— 

$234 

$274 

£166 

$58 

Non-Executive Director section of 2022 Remuneration policy
At the 2023 AGM, shareholders approved an administrative amendment to the Non-Executive Director section of the Remuneration 
policy to allow the notional shares or ADS previously allocated under the Non-Executive Director plan to be delivered to the Chair 
and Non-Executive Directors at such time as the Committee and Board considered appropriate after any applicable tax 
withholding. The Chair and Mr Rohner's notional shares were released to them after the AGM in 2023. It is expected that the other 
Non-Executive Directors holdings will be released to them following the company's AGM in May 2024. The company does not 
expect to make any significant changes to the fee structure for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors during the remainder of the 
2022 Remuneration policy period. 

155

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors’ interests in shares (audited)

Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Executive Directors of the company in office during 2023 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are 
shown in the table below:

As at 31 December 2023 or date of retirement

Unvested share plan interests

Total directors’ interests(1)

Beneficial interests

Not subject to performance

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown
Iain Mackay(6)

23 February 2024

31 December 2023 or 
date of retirement

1,974,235 

98,685 

— 

1,542,803 

23,105 

475,857 

    None of the Directors hold vested but unexercised options.

Shares(2)

733,961 

23,105 

21,892 

Shares(3)

549,998 

— 

287,488 

Options(4,7)

258,843 

— 

166,477 

Subject to 
performance

Shares(5)

1,636,924 

269,262 

555,267 

(1) Total directors’ interests includes beneficial interests and unvested share plan interests not subject to performance. For Emma Walmsley, the balance as 
at 23 February 2024 includes shares awarded in 2021, under the PSP and the DABP which vested in February 2024 less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities 
on the vested amounts where relevant. Shares awarded in 2021 under the PSP and the DABP to Iain Mackay will not vest until January 2025 in 
accordance with the terms of the Recoupment Policy. Executive Directors’ shareholdings against their SOR are outlined below

(2) Beneficial interests includes shares held by the Executive Directors and their PCAs. For Emma Walmsley and Julie Brown, this includes 2,463 shares and 

86 shares respectively purchased through the Share Reward plan

(3) Unvested shares not subject to performance represent PSP shares which have vested but are subject to an additional two-year holding period 
(4) Unvested options not subject to performance represent bonus deferrals under the DABP which are awarded as nil-cost options (as described in note 7 

below). This figure excludes 790 options and 828 options held by Emma Walmsley and Julie Brown respectively under the Share Save plan

(5) Unvested shares subject to performance represent unvested PSP awards
(6) Iain Mackay retired from the Board on 1 May 2023
(7) DABP: The table below shows bonus deferrals and subsequent reinvestment of dividends under the DABP. The amounts represent the gross share 

balances prior to the sale of any shares to satisfy tax liabilities on vesting 

DABP (Bonus deferrals)

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Iain Mackay

23 February 2024

31 December 2023 or 
date of retirement

1 January 2023

356,006 

56,190 

— 

258,843 

— 

166,477 

184,990 

— 

127,002 

The following table sets out details of nil-cost options exercised during 2023 by Executive Directors: 

Emma Walmsley

Iain Mackay

Date of grant

14.02.2020

14.02.2020

Number of shares
under option

60,707

40,985

Date of 
exercise

14.02.23

14.02.23

Grant price

£0.00

£0.00

Market price 
at exercise

Gain on exercise 
(000)

£14.87

£14.89

£903

£610

The nil-cost options awarded in 2020 under the DABP represent the bonus deferred by the Executive Director and recorded as 
remuneration (under Annual Bonus) in the 2019 Total remuneration table. The number of shares under option includes the initial 
award together with reinvested dividends accrued to the date of exercise.

Executive Directors' Share ownership requirements (SOR) (audited)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant 
holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors are required to continue to satisfy this SOR by holding 100% of their 
SOR for the first 12 months after leaving GSK and not less than 50% of their SOR for months 13-24 thereafter. Shares subject to 
performance conditions are excluded from the SOR calculation until the end of the performance period. These vested shares 
are then included to the extent that the performance conditions are met. The value of the holdings has been calculated on a 
post-tax basis. Iain Mackay exceeded his SOR at the date of his retirement from the Board and continues to maintain his SOR. 

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Value of holdings as % of salary 

SOR
 % of salary

23 February 
2024

31 December 
2023

6.5

3.0

16.60

1.12

12.84

0.35

156

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors interest in shares (audited) continued

Non-Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Non-Executive Directors in office during 2023 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are shown in the 
table below:

Total directors’ interests as at(2)

Prior NED share allocation plan 

Number of shares/ADS

NED SOR 23 
February 
2024(1)

23 February 
2024

31 December 
2023 

Beneficial 
interests at 
31 December 
2023(4)

Dividends
reinvested 
after 
year end

31 December 
2023

Elected & 
allocated 
during 
the year(5)

1 January 
2023

Shares

Sir Jonathan Symonds

Met  

68,207 

64,707 

Wendy Becker

In progress  

478 

478 

Urs Rohner

ADS

Met  

17,362 

17,362 

Elizabeth Anderson

In progress  

1,179 

1,171 

Charles Bancroft

Met  

23,564 

22,809 

64,707 

478 

17,362 

1,171 

7,005 

Dr Hal Barron

Dr Anne Beal

Dr Hal Dietz

Dr Jesse Goodman

Vishal Sikka

Met

641,269(3)

753,357 

530,020 

In progress  

In progress  

Met  

Met  

2,821 

2,605 

14,120 

4,454 

2,734 

2,527 

13,548 

4,422 

934 

934 

934 

4,422 

— 

— 

— 

— 

709 

— 

80 

71 

566 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

15,804 

— 

1,800 

1,593 

12,614 

— 

1,047 

34,391 

— 

564 

— 

240 

— 

23 

18 

238 

— 

— 

18,519 

— 

15,564 

— 

1,777 

1,575 

12,375 

— 

(1) NED Share Ownership Requirements: Since July 2022, the company has operated a minimum Non-Executive Director share ownership requirement     
(NED SOR) of at least one times the standard NED annual fee (or the Chair’s fee) to be maintained until after retirement. from the Board. The Chair 
and Non-Executive Directors have transitioned from the previous NED share allocation plan (NED Plan) to purchasing shares and ADSs in the market 
from their net fees. They all spend a minimum of 25% of their net fees in purchasing GSK shares or ADSs in the market

(2) Total directors’ interests include beneficial interests and any notional shares/ADS received as all or part of their fees under the previously operated 
NED Plan. Dividends received on notional shares/ADS under the prior NED Plan during the year and in January 2024 were converted into notional 
shares/ADS as at 11 January 2024. For Dr Hal Barron, this includes the PSP award that vested in February 2024, see page 147 

(3) The Total interests for Dr Barron have reduced since 31 December 2023 following the vesting of PSP and DABP awards granted to him in his former 

executive capacity as CSO. Details of the vesting level for the 2021 PSP is shown on page 147 and the DABP vest relates to the deferral of shares from 
the 2021 annual bonus. In addition, on vesting, shares are sold to meet an executive's tax liabilities. Details of his transition from CSO to a Non-
Executive Director are given on page 135 of the 2022 Annual Report 

(4) Beneficial interests includes shares/ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors and their PCAs
(5) Notional shares/ADS allocated during the year under the NED plan relates to dividends reinvested during the year

157

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Percentage change in remuneration of Directors

2023 percentage change

2022 percentage change

2021 percentage change

2020 percentage change

Salary/
fees
%

Benefits
%

Bonus
%

Salary/
fees 
%

Benefits
%

Bonus
%

Salary/
fees 
%

Benefits
%

Bonus
%

Salary/
fees 
%

Benefits
%

Bonus
%

 7.1 

 0.92 

 34.8 

 3.0 

 2.3 

 44.81 

 2.0 

0.0

 4.85 

 2.5 

 — 

 11.0 

 4.0 

 — 

 61.8 

 20.1 

 — 

 — 

 (2.2) 

 38.2 

 — 

 — 

 2.0 

 — 

 (5.0) 

 94.6 

 — 

 — 

 8.0 

 — 

 (26.6) 

 (33.4) 

 — 

 — 

UK employees(1)
Executive Directors(2,3)
Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Non-Executive Directors(2,5)
Sir Jonathan Symonds

 5.0 

 200.0 

Elizabeth McKee Anderson

 209.3 

 — 

Charles Bancroft
Dr Hal Barron(4)
Dr Anne Beal

Wendy Becker

Dr Hal Dietz

Dr Jesse Goodman

Urs Rohner

Dr Vishal Sikka
Retired Executive Directors(2)
Iain Mackay

 2.8 

 180.0 

 127.1 

 609.1 

 2.7 

 — 

 126.7 

 — 

 (3.4)   1900.0 

 (27.2) 

 12.6 

 131.0 

 41.9 

 73.9 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 3.0 

 — 

 0.0 

 — 

 233.3 

 — 

 36.7 

 100.0 

 — 

 121.7 

 — 

 — 

 11.0 

 5.9 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 34.8 

 109.1 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

0.0

 — 

 156.1 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 (5.6) 

 (5.6) 

 — 

 50.0 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

0.0

 175.0 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 201.7 

0.0

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 (12.5) 

 (65.2) 

 16.3 

 — 

 (69.2) 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 (66.7) 

 (71.8) 

 (65.0) 

 3.0 

 20.2 

 32.4 

 2.0 

 56.1 

 94.2 

 5.6 

 (11.5) 

 (31.6) 

(1) This table is provided in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Companies (Directors’ Remuneration Policy and Directors’ Remuneration Report) 

Regulations 2020. The UK employee population was considered to be the most relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic 
environment encountered by the Executive Directors 

(2) Percentage changes have been calculated based on the 2023 Total remuneration table on page 142 for Executive Directors and the 2023 Total fees 

table on page 155 for Non-Executive Directors

(3) Further information on Executive Directors’ salary and benefits can be found on page 143 
(4) Dr Hal Barron transitioned to a Non-Executive Director role on 1 August 2022 
(5) Fees of Non-Executive Directors include fees received as cash and in the form of shares or ADS 

Directors and Senior Management

Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group). 
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, other members of the GLT and the Company 
Secretary. For the financial year 2023, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during 
which they served in that capacity. 

Remuneration for 2023

Total compensation paid

Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation)

Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes

£

37,406,891

6,403

1,314,332

During 2023, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various LTI plans, as set out in the table 
below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and GLT members are required 
to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. GLT members are required to hold shares to an equivalent 
multiple of two times their base salary, and must continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum of 12 months 
after leaving GSK. 

Awarded during 2023

Performance Share Plan
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2)
Share Value Plan(2)

Shares

2,278,202 

— 

10,050 

Awards

ADS

64,427 

— 

— 

Shares

258,760 

11,694 

— 

(1) Notional shares and ADS 
(2) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan 

Dividend reinvestment awards

ADS

4,236 

328 

— 

158

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors and Senior Management continued

At 23 February 2024, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded 
under the various LTI plans are described in Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on pages 260 to 261.

Interests at 23 February 2024

Owned

Unexercised options

Deferred Annual Bonus Plan

Performance Share Plan
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 
Share Value Plan(2)

Shares

3,444,022

3,988

1,179,129

7,256,570

146,847

44,738

ADS

558,102

—

76,130

299,940

4,668

—

(1) Notional shares
(2) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan

   Executive Directors’ external appointments

The company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies. Such 
appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the company. Executive Directors are entitled to 
retain any fees received from such appointments.  

Emma Walmsley is an independent non-executive director of Microsoft Corporation. During the year, whilst Iain Mackay was a 
Director of GSK, he was also an independent Non-Executive Director of National Grid plc.

Service contracts and letters of appointment
The table below sets out the dates of the Executive Directors’ service contracts, which are available at the company’s registered 
office and on gsk.com.

Date of contract

Effective date

Expiry date

Emma Walmsley

29.03.17

Julie Brown

25.09.22

01.04.17

01.05.23

30.06.34

n/a

Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, which are also available to view at the company’s registered office.

Each Non-Executive Director is expected to serve on the Board until the end of the AGM following the third anniversary of their 
appointment, provided that they are elected and subsequently re-elected annually. Subject to mutual agreement, they may 
serve a further one or two, three year terms, depending on the needs of the Board.

How our Remuneration policy continues to reflect Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code)
The company’s Remuneration policy was approved on 4 May 2022 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting and has operated as intended 
in terms of company performance and quantum since its approval. The full policy is available at gsk.com in the Investors section. 
Two administrative amendments were approved by shareholders at GSK's 2023 Annual General Meeting, as described on page 163 
of the 2022 Annual Report.

Clarity and simplicity: The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors are set out in a clear and simple way.
Risk: We operate both deferral and post-vesting holding arrangements, in addition to operating malus and clawback provisions 
and the Committee has discretion to adjust the award outcomes.  
Predictability and proportionality: Our policy defines maximum limits on the total Annual bonus and Long-term incentive 
opportunities, and payouts under these elements are linked to fulfilment of performance conditions that support the company’s 
publicly stated ambitions and strategy.
Alignment to culture: GSK’s purpose, strategy and culture continue to be directly reflected in the performance conditions set under 
the Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive. 

.

159

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Operation and scope of Remuneration policy

(ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms of 
the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved 
Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or

(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of 
the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the 
payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a 
Director of the company. For these purposes ‘payments’ 
includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable 
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares or ADS, 
the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is 
granted.

Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are subject to the terms 
of the PSP plan rules under which the award has been granted. 
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in 
accordance with the provisions of the plan rules. This includes 
making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate events, such as 
a change in the company’s capital structure.

The Committee may also make minor amendments to the 
Policy (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative 
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without 
obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments. 

The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 144 to 152 
of the 2021 Annual Report, which is available in the Governance 
section at gsk.com. It is intended that the Policy for GSK’s 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a period 
of three years from the date of approval at the company’s 
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2022. 

The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the 
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst 
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement 
or an additional Executive Director during the operation of the 
Policy. The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the 
period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due 
consideration seek to change the Policy during this period, but 
only if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term 
success of the company, after consultation with shareholders 
and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.

The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including 
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such 
payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the 
Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed: 

(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s first 
shareholder-approved Directors’ Remuneration policy came 
into effect); 

Basis of preparation

The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In 
accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of the 
Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total 
remuneration figures for Executive Directors including further 
details for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits, 
pension, Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive awards); Non-
Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments received in the year; 
Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK share 
plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss of office; 
and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the 
opinion thereon is expressed on page 179. The remaining 
sections of the Annual report on remuneration are not subject 
to audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited 
sections. 

The Annual report on remuneration has been approved by the 
Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: 

Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair

27 February 2024

160

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Directors' report

Directors' powers
GSK Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our 
Articles of Association, which contain rules about their 
appointment and replacement. They provide that Directors 
may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or 
by a resolution of the Board. If appointed by the Board, the 
Director must retire at the next Annual General Meeting to be 
elected by shareholders

Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to seek 
re-election annually at our Annual General Meeting in 
accordance with the FRC's Code.

A Director will then cease to be a Director if he or she:

– becomes bankrupt
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or the 

Articles

– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves 

that he or she shall cease to be a Director

– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six 
months without permission and the Board resolves that he or 
she shall cease to be a Director

– is otherwise prohibited from being a Director by law
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
– is required to resign by the Board

Directors’ conflicts of interest
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to 
avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or 
indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict with the 
company. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board to 
authorise such conflicts.

The Board reviews any new potential or actual conflict, which is 
recorded by the Company Secretary. Directors are not counted 
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or 
potential conflicts. The Nominations & Corporate Governance 
Committee reviews the Register of Potential Conflicts on an 
annual basis which the Board subsequently approves.

On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for 
informing the Company Secretary of any such new actual or 
potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes in 
circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously 
given. Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not 
absolved from his or her statutory duty to promote the success 
of the company. If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation, 
the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt of 
the relevant information and participation in the debate, or 
suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, require 
the Director to resign.

The Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee 
reviewed the Register of Potential Conflict authorisations (the 
Register of Potential Conflicts) in January 2024. The Committee 
reported to the Board that the conflicts had been appropriately 
authorised and that the process for authorisation continued to 
operate effectively. The Committee then recommended the 
approval of the Register of Potential Conflicts to the Board 
which it subsequently approved. Except as described in Note 40 
to the financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during 
or at the end of the financial year no Director or Person Closely 
Associated had any material interest in any contract of 
significance with a Group company.

Our Articles prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution 
concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination 
of his or her appointment.

Independent advice
The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take 
independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s 
expense where they deem it necessary.

Indemnification of Directors
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the 
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors 
and former Directors who held office during 2023 and up to the 
approval and signature of the Annual Report.

Change of control and essential contracts
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which 
individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to 
operate effectively. Neither is the company party to any 
material agreements that would take effect, be altered, or 
terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid. 
We do not have agreements with any Director that would 
provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting 
from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s share 
plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans 
to vest on a takeover.

Details of the termination provisions in the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts are given in the full version of the company’s 
2022 Remuneration policy which is available on gsk.com in the 
Investors section.

Content of the Directors’ report

For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’ 
report of GSK plc for the year ended 31 December 2023 
comprises:
Directors’ report

Section

Corporate governance report

Employee engagement

Directors’ statements of responsibilities

Investor information

Pages

108 to 162

121

165 and 166

273 and 314

The Strategic report sets out those matters required to be 
disclosed in the Directors’ report which are considered to be of 
strategic importance:

Strategic report

Section

Risk management objectives and policies

Likely future developments of the company

Research and development activities

Business relationships

Diversity

Provision of information to and consultations with 
employees

Carbon emissions

Section 172 statement

Pages

57 to 76 and 
284 to 294

1 to 106

16 to 30

46 to 55

52 and 53

14, 15, 52 and 
53

49 to 52

123 to 127

161

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Directors' report continued

The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’ 
report:

Interest capitalised

Particulars of important post-balance 
sheet events of the company or its 
subsidiaries

Publication of unaudited financial 
information

Details of any long-term incentive 
schemes

Location in Annual Report

Financial statements, 
Notes 17 and 20

Financial statements, 
Note 48

Group financial review

Remuneration report

Waiver of emoluments by a Director

Not applicable

Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable

Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable

Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash 
by any unlisted major subsidiary 
undertaking

Not applicable

Parent company participation in a placing 
by a listed subsidiary

Not applicable

Provision of services by a controlling 
shareholder

Not applicable

Shareholder waiver of dividends

Shareholder waiver of future dividends

Financial statements, 
Notes 16 and 45

Financial statements, 
Notes 16 and 45

Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable

The Directors’ report 
– has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in 
reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to 
the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.

– was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2024 

and signed on its behalf by:

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
27 February 2024

162

Financial 
statements

In this section

Directors’ statement of responsibilities

Independent Auditor’s report

Financial statements

Notes to the financial statements

Financial statements of GSK plc
prepared under UK GAAP

164

166

180

184

267

GSK Annual Report 2023

163

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Directors' statement of responsibilities

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Remuneration report and the Group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.

UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required 
to prepare the Group consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting 
standards in conformity with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). The Directors have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) 
(Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework). Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and its profit or loss for that period. In preparing the financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:

– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 

consistently;

– make judgements and accounting estimates that are 

reasonable and prudent;

– state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS, 

as issued by the IASB and in conformity with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; 

– state with regard to the parent company financial 

statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the parent company financial statements; 
and

– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis 

unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.

In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors properly select 
and apply accounting policies; present information, including 
accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable information; provide 
additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS Standards are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and make an assessment of the 
company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to 
ensure that the Group financial statements and the 
Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Group financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2023, comprising principal statements and 
supporting notes, are set out in the ‘Financial statements’ on 
pages 180 to 266 of this report. The parent company financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2023, comprising 
the balance sheet and the statement of changes in equity for 
the year ended 31 December 2023 and supporting notes, are 
set out on pages 267 to 271.

The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial 
statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on 
pages 166 to 179.

The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed 
form and made available on our website. The Directors are 
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.

Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are 
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual 
Report 2023 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:

– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards 
and in conformity with the requirements of Companies Act 
2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group; 

– the strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report, 
which represent the management report, include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the company and the Group taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces; and

– the Annual Report and financial statement, taken as a whole, 

are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy.

164

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Directors' statement of responsibilities continued

Disclosure of information to auditor
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have 
each confirmed that:

– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit 

information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the 
company’s auditor is aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.

Going concern basis
Pages 78 to 106 and pages 62 to 69 contain information on the 
performance of the Group, its financial position, cash flows, net 
debt position, borrowing facilities and climate related risks. 
Further information, including Treasury risk management 
policies, exposures to market and credit risk and hedging 
activities, is given in Note 44, 'Financial instruments, and related 
disclosures' to the financial statements. Having assessed the 
principal risks and other matters considered in connection with 
the viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
the financial statements.

Internal control
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed 
the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that 
operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year 
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its 
approval by the Board of Directors. Further detail on the review 
of internal controls is set out in the Governance report on page 
134.

The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board considers that GSK plc applies the principles and 
complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as 
described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 118 to 
138. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy.

As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, 
the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of 
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code which are specified for their review.

Annual Report
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2023, 
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration 
report, the Financial statements and Additional information for 
investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors and 
signed on its behalf by

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
27 February 2024

165

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report to the members of GSK plc

Report on the audit of the financial statements

1. Opinion

In our opinion:

– The financial statements of GSK plc (the ‘Parent company’) 
and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of 
the state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;

– The Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international 
accounting standards and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB); 

– The Parent company financial statements have been 

properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and

– The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 

with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise the

Group

– Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;

– Consolidated income statement for the year then ended;

– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 

the year then ended;

– Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year 

then ended;

– Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then 

ended; and

– Notes 1 to 48 to the financial statements, which includes 

the material accounting policy information.

2. Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in 
the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements section of our report. 

We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in 
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the 
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as 
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We confirm that we have not provided any non-
audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to the 
Group or the Parent company, as noted in the Audit & Risk 
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of 
the Annual Report on page 133 and the disclosure provided in 
Note 8 regarding fees payable to the Group’s auditor.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

3. Summary of our audit approach

Key audit matters

The key audit matters that we identified in the current year 
were:

– Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent 

consideration liability

– Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals

– Valuation of other intangible assets

– Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing

Parent company

– Valuation of the contingent liabilities and significant legal 

– Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;

– Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; 

and

– Notes A to L to the financial statements, which includes 

the material accounting policy information.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law, 
United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards 
and IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Parent company financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).

proceedings.

Materiality

– The materiality that we used for the group financial 

statement was £280 million (2022: £210 million) which was 
determined on the basis of Statutory profit before tax, 
Adjusted profit before tax, Revenue and Net cash flows from 
operations.

Scoping

– The following components were subject to audit procedures 
as well as the assessment of the effectiveness of internal 
controls over financial reporting: Belgium, Canada, China, 
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom and the 
United States.

    Our audit scope addressed 80% (2022: 79%) of the Group’s 

revenue, 92% (2022: 91%) of the Group’s profit before tax and 
76% (2022: 86%) of the Group’s total assets.

Significant changes in our approach

– We have removed the key audit matters relating to the 

Consumer Healthcare demerger and IT systems that impact 
financial reporting. 

166

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

4. Conclusions relating to going concern

5. Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements of the current period and include the most 
significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or 
not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included 
those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole, we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.

We have removed two key audit matters in 2023; the Consumer 
Healthcare Demerger key audit matter following the 
completion of the demerger in the prior year, and the key audit 
matter relating to IT systems that impact financial reporting 
following the remediation of control deficiencies relating to 
governance and operation of infrastructure privileged access 
management in the prior year.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that 
the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in 
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and 
Parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting included:

– Enquiries of the Group directors and management regarding 
the assumptions used in the going concern models, including 
the potential impact of climate change; 

– Evaluating the Group’s existing access to sources of 

financing, including undrawn committed bank facilities, 
including the impact of changes in interest rates on 
profitability;

– Reading analyst reports, industry data and other external 
information, including understanding the macroeconomic 
environment, to determine if it provided corroborative or 
contradictory evidence in relation to assumptions used;
– Comparing forecasted sales to recent historical financial 

information; 

– Testing the underlying data generated to prepare the 
forecast scenarios and determined whether there was 
adequate support for the assumptions underlying the 
forecast; and

– Evaluating the Group’s disclosures on going concern against 

the requirements of IAS 1.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified 
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, 
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the 
Group’s and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the 
financial statements are authorised for issue.

In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to 
add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement 
in the financial statements about whether the Directors 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with 
respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections 
of this report.

167

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent 
consideration liability

The Group has completed a number of significant transactions 
which resulted in the recognition of material contingent 
consideration liabilities, which are a key source of estimation 
uncertainty. The most significant of these liabilities was the ViiV 
Healthcare Shionogi Contingent Consideration Liability (ViiV 
CCL). 

The Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% 
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012. 
Upon completion, the Group recognised a contingent 
consideration liability for the fair value of the expected future 
payments to be made to Shionogi. As at 31 December 2023 the 
liability was valued at £5,718 million.

We identified the ViiV CCL as a key audit matter because of 
the significant estimates and assumptions relating to the sales 
forecasts used in valuing the ViiV CCL and the sensitivity of the 
valuation to these inputs. The most significant of these relate to 
sales forecasts in the United States (US) on certain products in 
the treatment and prevention portfolio. Such forecasts are 
based on an assessment of the expected launch dates for 
pipeline assets, the ability to shift market practice and 
prescriber behaviour towards long-acting injectable 
treatments and 2-drug regimens, the size of long-acting 
prevention market and subsequent sales volumes. There is 
incremental challenge in forecasting sales associated with 
recently launched products due to the lack of historical actual 
data. The sales forecasts also required significant audit effort 
to perform appropriate audit procedures to challenge and 
evaluate the reasonableness of those forecasts. 

Contingent consideration liabilities, including the ViiV CCL, are 
disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3, 
of the Group financial statements with further disclosures 
provided in Note 33. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & 
Risk Committee report within the Corporate Governance 
section of the Annual Report.

Audit procedures performed

We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others, 
related primarily to the sales forecasts: 

– Tested the controls over the key inputs and assumptions 
used in the valuation of the contingent consideration 
liability, including review controls over the sales forecasts of 
the treatment product portfolio used to value the ViiV CCL; 

– Obtained the Group’s assessment of the key inputs and 

assumptions used in the sales forecasts and challenged the 
reasonableness of these, including through enquiries of key 
individuals from the senior leadership team, commercial 
strategy team and key personnel involved in the budgeting 
and forecasting process, and inspection of supporting 
evidence;

– Challenged the US volume assumptions made by the Group 
to estimate sales forecasts. This involved benchmarking 
forecast market share data against external data, such as 
total prescription volumes and new patient prescription 
volumes, in order to assess for any sources of contradictory 
evidence; 

– Challenged the reasonableness of US pricing assumptions 
by the Group, by comparing the forecasted Returns and 
Rebates rate by product against the current rate, and 
assessing the forecasted Returns and Rebates against 
comparable products considering expected changes in 
payer policy; 

– Considered the results of clinical studies undertaken in the 
year by the Group and key competitors in order to assess 
whether these are corroborative or contradictory to 
assumptions used in the product portfolio sales forecasts in 
the US; 

– Benchmarked the Group’s sales forecasts against those 

included in reports from nine analysts and considered sales 
forecasts on both a total ViiV basis and an individual 
product basis, assessing against identified contradictory 
data; and

– Together with our valuations specialists, assessed the 
reasonableness of the overall valuation methodology, 
including benchmarking the discount rate used and testing 
the valuation model for mechanical accuracy.

Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk 
Committee

The sales forecasts used in the valuation are reasonable and in 
line with relevant supporting information. We are satisfied that 
the sales forecasts appropriately reflect trends in the overall 
HIV treatment and prevention markets including the impacts 
of competition, healthcare reform and a predicted shift 
towards long-acting injectable products. 
The approach to valuing the ViiV CCL was consistent with prior 
periods and overall we are satisfied that the valuation liability 
is reasonable and consistent with IFRS.

168

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals

Audit procedures performed

We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others, 
related to estimates in the RAR accruals:

– Tested the key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals 
including the controls associated with the forecasting of 
utilisation rates process and the month-end accrual review 
controls;

– Challenged assumptions for a selection of utilisation rates, 
focusing on certain products where we concluded the 
accrual is most sensitive to these assumptions. Our 
challenge included comparison to historical utilisation rates, 
consideration of historical accuracy and assessment of how 
market changes such as the impact of competition, new 
product launches, changes in government legislation and 
macroeconomic factors are appropriately reflected in the 
RAR accruals; 

– Supplemented this with substantive analytical procedures 
by developing an independent expectation of the accrual 
balance for each of the key segments, based on historical 
claims received adjusted to reflect market changes in the 
period including an assessment of the time lag between the 
initial point of sale and the claim receipt. We then 
compared this independent expectation to those recorded 
to evaluate the appropriateness of the year ending accrual 
position;

– Considered the historical accuracy of estimates and 
evaluated whether forecast assumptions had been 
appropriately updated in a selection of cases where the 
actual rebate claims differed to the amount accrued; 
– Evaluated the appropriateness of, and completeness of, 

period-end adjustments to the liability made as part of the 
ongoing review of the estimated accrual; and

– Performed audit procedures over the actual rebate 

payments made in the year by agreeing to the relevant 
contract to assess whether the rebate payments were in line 
with the contractual terms.

Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk 
Committee

We are satisfied that the estimated liability of the RAR accruals 
at the year-end is appropriate. We observed a level of 
prudence in the estimate when assessing against our own 
independent expectations, which is in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with 
customers to limit the risk of a significant reversal of revenue.

In the US, the Group sells to customers under various 
commercial and government mandated contracts and 
reimbursement arrangements that include rebates, 
chargebacks and a right of return for certain pharmaceutical 
products. As such, revenue recognition reflects gross-to-net 
sales adjustments. These adjustments are known as the 
Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals and are a source of 
significant estimation uncertainty which could have a material 
impact on reported revenue. 

In the US Commercial business in 2023, £16,539 million of RAR 
deductions were made to gross revenue of £32,359 million, 
resulting in net revenue of £15,820 million. The balance sheet 
accrual at 31 December 2023 for the US Commercial business 
amounted to £5,951 million. 

The four most significant payer channels (also referred to as 
buying groups) to which the RAR accrual relates are managed 
healthcare organisations, Medicaid, Ryan White and Medicare 
Part D. 

The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are: 

– The utilisation rate, which is the portion of total sales that 

will be made into each payer channel, estimated in 
recording the accruals. The utilisation assumption is the 
most challenging of the key assumptions used to derive the 
accrual given that it is influenced by market demand and 
other factors outside the control of the Group; and 

– The time lag between the point of sale and the point at 

which exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon 
receipt of a claim. Those payer channels with the longest 
time lag result in a greater accrued period, and therefore, a 
greater level of estimation uncertainty in estimating the 
period-end accrual. 

The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by 
significant shifts in channel mix driven by changes in the 
competitive landscape, including competitor and generic 
product launches, changes in government legislation and other 
macroeconomic factors. As such, we focus on the utilisation 
assumptions for those products where we deem the level of 
estimation uncertainty to be the most significant.

We also focus on the period-end adjustments made to the 
RAR accruals. These adjustments reflected updates made to 
the initial assumptions included within the forecasted RAR 
rates and, in our view, present the greatest opportunity for 
fraud in revenue recognition (notwithstanding the existence of 
internal controls). 

US Commercial Operations returns and rebates are disclosed 
as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the 
Group financial statements with further disclosures provided in 
Note 29. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk 
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of 
the Annual Report.

169

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

Key audit matter description
Valuation of other intangible assets

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Audit procedures performed

As at 31 December 2023, the Group held £14,166 million of 
other intangible assets (including licenses, patents, trademarks, 
and trade names, but excluding goodwill and computer 
software). This includes £1,438 million of intangible assets 
acquired as part of the acquisition of Bellus Health during the 
year. 

We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others, 
over the forecast sales pricing, volume, growth rates, 
probability of technical and regulatory success, profit margin 
levels, and discount rates used in the assessment of the 
valuation of other intangible assets, such as those acquired as 
part of the Group’s acquisition of Bellus Health:

Intangible assets which are in-development and not available 
for use should be tested at least annually for impairment 
irrespective of whether an indication of impairment exists. 

When the carrying amount of an individual intangible asset, or 
an cash-generating unit to which an intangible asset belongs, 
exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment occurs. 
Recoverability of an intangible asset is derived from certain 
assumptions and estimates of future trading performance 
which create significant estimation uncertainty.

The underlying assumptions include forecast sales pricing, 
volume, growth rates and probability of technical and 
regulatory success of ongoing clinical trials. This includes 
assumptions on timing of cash flows determined by 
anticipated launch year, peak year sales, subsequent sales 
erosion due to generic product competition and profit margin 
levels. In addition, due to the impact of uncertainty driven by 
ongoing global macroeconomic volatility, the valuation of 
intangible assets will also be affected by discount rate 
assumptions made by the Group.

During 2023, impairment charges of £398 million were 
recorded. These were primarily full impairments due to 
cessation of research and development dictated by negative 
clinical trial readouts or lack of commercial attractiveness. 

We identified the valuation of other intangible assets as a key 
audit matter due to the inherent judgements involved in 
estimating future cash flows. Auditing such assumptions and 
estimates required extensive audit effort to challenge and 
evaluate the reasonableness of forecasts and management 
judgements.

The disclosures relating to other intangible assets, including 
those acquired as part of business combinations, are included 
in Note 20 and Note 41 of the Group financial statements. The 
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report 
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.

.

– Tested review controls over the key inputs and assumptions 
used in the valuation of other intangible assets. The controls 
encompass review of the valuation models, which contain a 
number of assumptions such as the probability of technical 
and regulatory success, launch dates plus other revenue 
and cost assumptions; 

– Inquired with key individuals from the corporate 

development team, commercial forecasting leads, and key 
personnel involved in the assets research and development 
process. We used the outcome of these inquiries to evaluate 
the Group’s evidence to support key assumptions such as 
overall sales forecasts, peak year sales (including 
anticipated market share, volume and uptake alongside 
price points where required), foreseeable competitive 
landscape, growth rates, probability of regulatory and 
technical success and margins;

– Evaluated the key inputs and assumptions applied in 

estimating sales and profit margin forecasts, including 
benchmarking of forecasts against external market data. 
This included independent market research of therapeutic 
area price points, price growth rates, and anticipated 
competitor market landscape, currently and at the time of 
forecast regulatory approval, plus assessment of any 
sources of contradictory evidence;

– Compared the forecast sales and profit margin levels to the 
Plan data (asset by asset internal forecasts) approved by 
the GSK Leadership Team and the Board of Directors, 
where the in-development intangible asset is forecast to 
launch within the next 3-year period;

– Assessed the historical accuracy of sales forecasts by 

performing retrospective reviews across marketed assets 
within the business; 

– Engaged our fair valuation specialists to assess the 
reasonableness of discount rates and valuation 
methodology applied as well as performing mechanical 
accuracy checks; and

– Considered whether events or transactions that occurred 

after the balance sheet date, but before the reporting date, 
affect the conclusions reached on the carrying values of the 
assets and associated disclosures.

Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk 
Committee

For those intangible assets which were acquired during the 
period as part of the Bellus Health business acquisition we 
concluded that the assumptions underpinning the fair value of 
intangible assets reflected in the purchase price allocations 
were reasonable and in accordance with IFRS. 
For those intangible assets in-development and subject to 
impairment reviews we concluded that the judgements made 
by management were reasonable and in accordance with 
IFRS. 

170

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing 

Audit procedures performed

The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are 
open tax and transfer pricing matters and exposures with UK, 
US and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax 
positions. There is a wide range of possible outcomes for 
provisions and contingencies. Certain judgements in respect of 
estimates of tax exposures and contingencies are required in 
order to assess the adequacy of tax provisions, which are 
sometimes complex as a result of the considerations required 
over multiple tax laws and regulations. 

At 31 December 2023, the Group has recorded provisions of 
£584 million in respect of uncertain tax positions. 

Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key source 
of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group financial 
statements with further disclosures included in Note 14. The 
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report 
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.

With the support of our tax specialists, we assessed the 
appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions, focused on 
those jurisdictions where the Group has the greatest potential 
exposure and where the highest level of judgement is required, 
by performing the following audit procedures amongst others: 

– Tested key controls over preparation, review and reporting 

of judgmental tax balances and transactions, which include 
provisions for uncertain tax provisions; 

– Assessed the assumptions and judgements that are 

required to determine the range of possible outcomes for 
recognition and measurement of provisions for uncertain 
tax positions in compliance with the requirements of IFRIC 
23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments; 

– Involved our transfer pricing specialists to evaluate the 

transfer pricing methodology of the Group and associated 
approach to provision recognition and measurement; and

– Considered evidence such as the actual results from the 
recent tax authority audits and enquiries, third-party tax 
advice obtained by the Group and our tax specialists’ own 
knowledge of market practice in relevant jurisdictions.

Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk 
Committee

We are satisfied that the estimates in relation to uncertain tax 
positions and the related disclosures are in accordance with 
IFRS. From our work we concluded that a consistent approach 
has been applied to estimating uncertain tax provisions which 
is appropriate and in accordance with IFRIC 23.

171

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Valuation of the contingent liabilities and significant legal 
proceedings 

Audit procedures performed

We performed the following audit procedures: 

The Group operates in an environment where it is subject to 
significant legal and administrative proceedings, including 
product liability, intellectual property, tax, anti-trust, consumer 
fraud and governmental regulations. 

The Group is currently exposed to a number of regulatory and 
litigation matters. The Group’s provision for these matters is 
£267 million at 31 December 2023. Other matters are disclosed 
as contingent liabilities where the criteria for recognising a 
provision under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets are not met, including the Zantac litigation 
described in Note 47.

Significant judgement is required by the Group in determining 
whether, under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets, in particular in relation to the Zantac 
litigation, as to: 

– Whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, 

particularly where the outcome of litigation is uncertain and 
subject to additional court proceedings; 

– The determination of a reliable estimate can be made of 

the amounts of the obligation; and

– The nature and extent of any contingent liabilities and 

underlying significant estimation uncertainties disclosed.

Contingent liabilities and significant legal proceedings are 
disclosed in Notes 35 and 47, respectively. The key audit matter 
is discussed within the Corporate Governance section of the 
Annual Report. 

– Tested the Group’s controls over the completeness of 
provisions, the robustness of the provision against the 
requirements of IAS 37, the appropriateness of judgements 
used to determine a ‘best estimate’ and completeness and 
accuracy of data used in the process;

– Evaluated the assessment of the provisions, associated 

probabilities, and potential outcomes in accordance with 
IAS 37;

– Evaluated the methodology, data and significant 

judgements and assumptions used in the valuation of the 
provisions are appropriate in the context of the applicable 
financial reporting framework;

– Inquired with and inspected correspondence from the 

Group’s internal and external counsel to assess the litigation 
matter and evaluate the Group’s significant judgements 
and assumptions;

– Where no provision was made for actual or expected trial 

outcomes or settlements, evaluated the Group’s conclusion, 
supportive and contradictory evidence and the 
requirements of IAS 37, particularly with respect to the 
Zantac litigation;

– Read board minutes and settlement agreements to 
evaluate management’s approach in respect of the 
litigation, and agreed the terms and conditions of such 
arrangements to the payments made to evaluate provisions 
already recorded and whether there is a requirement for 
additional provisions; 

– In respect of the Zantac litigation, inspected the evidence 

presented in relevant scientific studies and the outcomes of 
other product liability litigation in the same jurisdictions 
alongside the entity’s assessment of possible outcomes of 
each ongoing trial and expectation of which trials will go 
ahead as per the schedule of future trials; and

– Evaluated whether the disclosures made in the financial 
statements appropriately reflect the facts and critical 
accounting judgements.

Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk 
Committee

We are satisfied that the estimation of the provisions and 
contingent liability disclosures are consistent with the 
requirements of IAS 37.

172

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

6 Our application of materiality

We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the 
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our 
work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Group financial statements

Materiality

£280 million 
(2022: £210 million)

Parent company 
financial statements

£280 million 
(2022: £52.5 million)

Basis for 
determining 
materiality

In determining our benchmark for 
materiality, we considered the 
metrics used by investors and 
other readers of the financial 
statements. In particular, we 
considered: Statutory profit 
before tax, Adjusted profit before 
tax, Revenue and Net cash flows 
from operations. 

Materiality was 
determined using the 
total assets 
benchmark capped 
at 100% (2022: 25%) 
of Group materiality. 
Our materiality 
represents 0.62% of 
total assets.

Using professional judgement, we 
have determined materiality to 
be £280 million. See below for 
how our materiality compares to 
our benchmark metrics.

Metric
%
Statutory profit before tax 4.62%

Adjusted profit before tax* 3.45%

Revenue

Net cash inflow from 
operating activities

0.92%

4.14%

* A reconciliation between the 
Statutory profit before tax and 
Adjusted profit before tax is 
detailed in the Adjusting Items 
section of the strategic report.

Given the importance of the 
above metrics used by investors 
and other readers of the financial 
statements, we concluded 
`Statutory profit before tax` to be 
the primary benchmark. The 
adjusted profit before tax, 
Revenue and Net cash inflow 
from operating activities, have 
been used as supporting 
benchmarks. 

The component materiality 
allocated to the in-scope 
components ranged between 
£66 million and £196 million 
(2022: between £40 million and 
£125 million).

Rationale 
for the 
benchmark 
applied

The strength of the 
balance sheet is the 
key measure of 
financial health that is 
important to 
shareholders since the 
primary concern for 
the Parent company 
is the payment of 
dividends. Using a 
benchmark of total 
assets is therefore the 
appropriate metric.

The current year 
materiality has been 
increased to reflect 
the size, scale and 
nature of the Parent 
company. Where 
account balances are 
audited for the 
purpose of the 
consolidated financial 
statements, a lower 
component 
materiality is used.

We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality 
to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and 
undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the 
financial statements as a whole. Group and Parent company 
performance materiality was set at 70% of Group and Parent 
materiality respectively for the 2023 audit (2022:70%). In 
determining performance materiality, we considered factors 
including:

– Our risk assessment, including our assessment of the Group’s 

overall control environment and that we consider it 
appropriate to rely on controls over a number of business 
processes; and

– Our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a low 

number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements 
identified in prior periods.

We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would 
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £10 
million (2022: £10 million) as well as any differences below this 
threshold, which in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on 
disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.

173

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

7. Audit scope and execution

We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the 
Group is organised and ensured our audit was both effective 
and risk focused. 

The central control and common systems throughout the Group 
enables us to deploy and utilise technology and data analytics 
across the breadth of the Group, enabling a more detailed 
understanding of the flow of transactions, enabling us to focus 
our risk assessment and design targeted audit testing 
procedures.

We embed technology throughout our audit to improve quality 
and effectiveness, including in the areas of planning and 
scoping, project management, risks and controls assessment, 
substantive testing and reporting insights to management and 
the Audit and Risk Committee. We have piloted the use of 
artificial intelligence powered tools as we continue to invest in 
our use of technology across the audit.

Our audit approach can be summarised into the following 
areas that enabled us to obtain the evidence required to form 
an opinion on the Group and Parent company financial 
statements: 

– Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level. Our risk 
assessment procedures considered, amongst other factors, 
the impact of climate change and the wider macroeconomic 
environment on the account balances, disclosures and 
company practices. Our data analytical tools allow us to 
scrutinise large transactional data sets for unusual trends, 
characteristics, outliers or transaction flows to support our 
identification of audit risks. For example, we analysed US RAR 
data by product and payment channel to identify products 
where there are high values of total rebate deductions 
recognised, where there are significant differences on rebate 
rates offered between payers or where qualitative factors 
impacted the brands (see Section 5 - Valuation of US Returns 
and Rebates (RAR) accruals). We also used data analytics to 
determine products and regions where the valuation of the 
ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent consideration liability 
was most sensitive to the assumptions used (see Section 5 - 
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent 
consideration liability).  We appointed partners from the 
Group audit team to lead the global audit of the operating 
segments (commercial operations and research & 
development), in addition to partners responsible for the 
component and legal entity audits in each country.  These 
segment partners met regularly with senior segment 
management to understand the strategy, performance and 
other matters which arose throughout the year that could 
have impacted the financial reporting. In addition, we held 
regular meetings with members of the Internal Audit, the 
internal Legal Counsel and the Global Ethics & Compliance 
teams to understand their work and to review their reports to 
enhance our risk assessment;

– Audit work performed at global shared service centres 

A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes 
that cover financial reporting is undertaken in shared service 
centres. Our Group audit team included senior individuals 
responsible for each of the global processes who coordinated 
our audit work at the shared service centres utilising a live 
global project management platform. This structure enables 
us to develop a good understanding of the end-to-end 
processes that supported material account balances, classes 
of transactions and disclosures within the Group financial 
statements. We then evaluated the effectiveness of internal 
controls over financial reporting for these processes and 
considered the implications for the remainder of our audit 
work;

– Audit work executed at component level and individual legal 

entities. The following components were subject to audit 
procedures as well as the assessment of the effectiveness of 
internal controls over financial reporting: Belgium, Canada, 
China; France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom and 
the United States. The Group audit team was in active 
dialogue throughout the audit with the component audit 
teams responsible for the audit work under the direction and 
supervision of the Group audit team. This included 
determining whether the work was planned and performed in 
accordance with the overall Group audit strategy and the 
requirements of our Group audit instructions to the 
components. As part of supervising the work of the 
components, senior Group audit team members visited 
Belgium, USA, UK and China, as well as the shared service 
centre audits for Malaysia and Poland. To satisfy ourselves 
that our oversight and supervision was appropriate we 
performed reviews of audit working papers, increased the 
frequency and length of those reviews depending on the 
significance and risk of the component and continued to 
attend the planning and clearance meetings of components;

– Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the 

parent company. In addition to the above, we also performed 
audit work on the Group and Parent company financial 
statements, including but not limited to the consolidation of 
the Group’s results, the preparation of the financial 
statements, certain disclosures within the Directors’ 
Remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in 
addition to entity level and oversight controls relevant to 
financial reporting. All components or legal entities with 
annual revenue greater than 1.8% (2022:1.8%) of the total 
Group revenue were included in our audit scope. The 
components or legal entities not covered by our audit scope 
were subject to analytical procedures confirming that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the 
aggregated financial information; and

– Internal controls testing approach. We tested the 

effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting 
across all in-scope entities and entity level controls at the 
Group level. Common systems allowed for relevant IT controls 
to be tested centrally across all components and we utilised 
an automated controls testing tool which was leveraged to 
support our testing of both IT controls and automated 
business controls. We were able to place reliance on controls 
where planned.

Our audit scope addressed 80% (2022:79%) of the Group's 
revenue, 92% (2022: 91%) of the Group's profit before tax and 
76% (2022: 86%) of the Group's total assets.

174

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

The impact of climate change on our audit

In consultation with our climate change specialists, we:

Climate change has the potential to impact the Group in a 
number of ways as set out in the strategic report on pages 62 to 
70 of the Annual Report and Notes 17, 19 and 20 on pages 207, 
209 and 210 of the financial statements. The Group has 
committed to net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the 
Group’s full value chain by 2045.

In the planning of our audit, we have considered the potential 
impact of climate change on the Group’s business and its 
financial statements.

– Conducted detailed risk assessment procedures across all in-
scope balances and transactions to determine any risks of 
material misstatement in the financial statements by 
applying the expected impact of climate change to our 
understanding of the business; 

– Challenged the appropriateness of the Group’s assessment of 
the potential impact of climate change and the impact of 
these on the financial statements, including in the area of 
intangible assets; and 

We have sought to understand the Group’s identification and 
assessment of the potential impacts of climate change, how 
these risks influence the Group’s strategy and their implications 
on the financial statements.

– Used our own assessment of the impact of climate change to 

challenge the Group’s assessment of going concern, 
including considering the potential impact on future 
performance and availability of financing.

The Group’s assessment focused on the impacts of more 
frequent extreme weather conditions, water scarcity, changes in 
the political landscape and media focus which has the 
propensity to cause changes in consumer and market 
behaviour; volatility in the costs and availability of materials 
and resources that could impact future financial performance 
and asset valuations.

As part of our audit procedures, we are required to read and 
consider these disclosures to consider whether they are 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or 
knowledge obtained in the audit. We did not identify any 
material inconsistencies as a result of these procedures.

175

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

8. Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the 
Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the 
other information contained within the Annual Report. 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the 
other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly 
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in course of the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.

If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material 
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives 
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements 
themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact.

We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other 
information including those areas upon which we are 
specifically required to report:

Matters we are specifically required to report

Our responsibility

Our reporting

Principal risks and viability statement
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge 
gathered during the audit, such as through considering the directors’ 
processes to support the statements made, challenging key judgements 
and estimates, consideration of historical forecasting accuracy and 
evaluating macro-economic assumptions.

Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the 
Code.

Directors’ Remuneration report
Report whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be 
audited is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the 
Companies Act have been made.

Strategic report and directors’ report
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements 
and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in 
the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the 
Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.

As set out in the “Corporate governance statement” 
section, we have nothing material to report, add or 
draw attention to in respect of these matters.

As set out in the ‘Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006’ section, in our opinion, 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be 
audited has been prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

As set out in the “Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006” section, in our opinion, 
based on the work undertaken in the course of the 
audit, the information in these reports is consistent 
with the audited financial statements and has been 
prepared in accordance with applicable legal 
requirements.

As referenced on page 70, we have provided limited 
assurance in accordance with International Standards 
for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISAE 
3410 over selected metrics on page 70.

176

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

Other reporting on other information

Our responsibility

Alternative performance measures (APMs)
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting 
practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in the financial 
statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs, such as 
adjusted profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in its 
reporting of financial performance. 

We have reviewed and assessed the calculation and reporting of these 
metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions and 
policies for these items. 

We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the 
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by 
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance 
Measures Thematic Review published in October 2021. 

We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between 
the use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear 
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting have 
been provided.

Dividends and distribution policy
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent, and the dividends 
paid are consistent with the policy, as outlined in the strategic report on 
page 92.

Our reporting

In our opinion:

– The use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is 

consistent with the Group’s published definitions 
and policies; 

– The use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is 
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA 
and FRC; and

– There is an appropriate balance between the use 
of statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear 
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in 
financial reporting.

In our opinion the dividends policy is appropriately 
disclosed, and dividends paid are consistent with the 
policy.

9. Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are 
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to 
liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease 
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: 
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms 
part of our auditor’s report.

177

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

11. Extent to which the audit was considered 
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material 
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The 
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting 
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. 

Identifying and assessing potential risks related to 
irregularities
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in 
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance 
with laws and regulations, we considered the following:

– the nature of the industry and sector, control environment 
and business performance including the design of the 
Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’ 
remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets;

– results of our enquiries of the senior leadership team, internal 
audit and the Audit & Risk Committee, including obtaining 
and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the 
Group’s policies and procedures relating to:
– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and 

regulations and whether they were aware of any instances 
of non-compliance;

– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether 
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged 
fraud; and

– the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to 

fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
– the matters discussed among the engagement team 

including significant component audit teams and involving 
relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, 
pensions, IT and industry specialists regarding how and 
where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any 
potential indicators of fraud.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory 
frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions 
of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the 
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements. The key laws and regulations we 
considered in this context included the provisions of the UK 
Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax legislation. We 
have also considered key laws and regulations that had a 
fundamental effect on the operations of the Group, including 
the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA regulations, General Data 
Protection requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption policy and 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

Audit response to risks identified
As a result of performing the above, we identified the Valuation 
of US Returns and Rebates accruals as a key audit matter 
related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters 
section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also 
describes the specific procedures in response to that key audit 
matter. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also 
required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of 
management override. 

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks 
identified included the following:

– reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to 

supporting documentation to assess compliance with 
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as 
having a direct effect on the financial statements;

– enquiring of the senior leadership team, the Audit & Risk 
Committee and in-house and external legal counsel 
concerning actual and potential litigation and claims;

– performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or 
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud; 

– reading minutes of meetings of those charged with 
governance, reviewing internal audit reports and 
correspondence with regulators; and

– in addressing the risk of fraud through management override 
of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and 
other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made 
in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential 
bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant 
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of 
business.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations 
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and 
significant component audit teams and remained alert to any 
indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and 
regulations throughout the audit.

Report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements

12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of 
the audit:

– the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

– the strategic report and the directors’ report have been 

prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group 
and of the Parent company and their environment obtained in 
the course of the audit, we have not identified any material 
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

178

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Independent Auditor's report continued

Report on the audit of the financial statements continued

13. Corporate governance statement

The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statement in 
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of 
the corporate governance statement relating to the Group’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have 
concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate 
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the 
financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the 
audit: 

– the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness 
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any 
material uncertainties identified set out on page 165;

– the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s 
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the 
period is appropriate is set out on page 76;
– the directors’ statement on fair, balanced and 

understandable Annual Report set out on page 138;
– the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust 

assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on 
pages 57 to 61;

– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of 

effectiveness of risk management and internal control 
systems set out on pages 134 to 135; and

– the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk 

committee set out on page 133 to 138.

14. Matters on which we are required to report by 
exception

Adequacy of explanations received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:

– we have not received all the information and explanations we 

require for our audit; or

– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 

Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
– the Parent company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if 
in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

15. Other matters which we are required to 
address

Auditor tenure
Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, 
with effect from 1 January 2018 we were appointed by the 
Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods. The 
period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is six 
years. 

Consistency of the audit report with the additional report 
to the Audit & Risk Committee
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the 
Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in 
accordance with ISAs (UK).

16. Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Parent company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Parent company and the Parent company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.

As required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.15R-DTR 4.1.18R, 
these financial statements will form part of the Electronic 
Format Annual Financial Report filed on the National Storage 
Mechanism of the FCA in accordance with DTR 4.1.15R-DTR 
4.1.18R. This auditor's report provides no assurance over whether 
the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report has been 
prepared in compliance with DTR 4.1.15R-DTR 4.1.18R.

The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance 
with section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior 
statutory auditor’s name should not be stated.

Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
27 February 2024

179

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Turnover
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Selling, general and administration
Research and development
Royalty income
Other operating income/(expense)
Operating profit
Finance income
Finance expense
Share of after tax profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures
Profit/(loss) on disposal of interests in associates and joint ventures
Profit before taxation
Taxation
Profit after taxation from continuing operations

Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other gains/(losses) from the demerger

Re-measurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations
Total profit after taxation for the year
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing operations
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from discontinued operations
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations

Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests
Total profit attributable to shareholders

Basic earnings per share (pence) from continuing operations
Basic earnings per share (pence) from discontinued operations
Total basic earnings per share (pence)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) from continued operations
Diluted earnings per share (pence) from discontinued operations
Total diluted earnings per share (pence)

Notes

6  

7  
8  
11
12  
13  
13  

14  

15  

15  

2023
£m

30,328 
(8,565)   
21,763 
(9,385)   
(6,223)   
953 
(363)   
6,745 
115 
(792)   
(5)   
1 
6,064 

(756)   

5,308 

– 

– 
– 
5,308 

380 
4,928 
– 
– 
5,308 
380 
4,928 
5,308 
121.6p 
– 
121.6p 
119.9p 
– 
119.9p 

2022
£m

29,324 
(9,554)   
19,770 
(8,372)   
(5,488)   
758 
(235)   
6,433 
76 
(879)   
(2)   
– 
5,628 

(707)   
4,921 

3,049 

7,651 

10,700 
15,621 

460 
4,461 
205 
10,495 
15,621 
665 
14,956 
15,621 
110.8p 
260.6p 
371.4p 
109.2p 
257.0p 
366.2p 

2021
£m

24,696 
(8,163) 
16,533 
(7,070) 
(5,019) 
417 
(504) 
4,357 
14 
(769) 
33 
(36) 
3,599 
(83) 
3,516 

1,580 

– 

1,580 
5,096 

200 
3,316 
511 
1,069 
5,096 
711 
4,385 
5,096 
82.9p 
26.7p 
109.6p 
81.8p 
26.4p 
108.2p 

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Total profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to continuing operations income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
  associates
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement

Items that will not be reclassified to continuing operations income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests
Fair value movements on equity investments
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans
Tax on remeasurement losses/(gains) on defined benefit plans

Other comprehensive income /(expense) for the year from continuing operations
Other comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations
Total comprehensive income for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders
Non-controlling interests
Total comprehensive income for the year

Notes

2023
£m
5,308 

2022
£m
15,621 

2021
£m
5,096 

38  

38  

38  

38  

(22)   

113 

(339) 

(34)   
(1)   
1 
4 
(52)   

(25)   
(244)   
14 
(40)   
71 
(41)   
(265)   
(317)   
– 
4,991 

4,636 
355 
4,991 

2 
(18)   
9 
14 
120 

(28)   
(754)   
56 
(6)   
(786)   
211 
(1,307)   
(1,187)   
356 
14,790 

14,153 
637 
14,790 

(25) 
5 
(8) 
12 
(355) 

(20) 
(911) 
131 
– 
940 
(223) 
(83) 
(438) 
101 
4,759 

4,068 
691 
4,759 

180

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2023

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right of use assets

Goodwill

Other intangible assets

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Other investments

Deferred tax assets

Other non-current assets

Total non-current assets

Current assets

Inventories

Current tax recoverable

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Current equity investments

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Assets held for sale

Total current assets

Total assets

Current liabilities

Short-term borrowings

Contingent consideration liabilities

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial instruments

Current tax payable

Short-term provisions

Total current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Long-term borrowings

Corporation tax payable

Deferred tax liabilities

Pensions and other post-employment benefits

Other provisions

Contingent consideration liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

Total non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

Equity

Share capital

Share premium account

Retained earnings

Other reserves

Shareholders’ equity

Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Notes

2023
£m

2022
£m

17  

18  

19  

20  

21

23  

14  

24  

25  

14  

26  

44  

22  

30  

27  

28  

30  

33  

29  

44  

14  

32  

30  

14  

14  

31

32  

33  

34  

37  

37  

38  

38  

9,020 

937 

6,811 

14,768 

55 

1,137 

6,049 

1,584 

40,361 

5,498 

373 

7,385 

130 

2,204 

42 

2,936 

76 

8,933 

687 

7,046 

14,318 

74 

1,467 

5,658 

1,194 

39,377 

5,146 

405 

7,053 

190 

4,087 

67 

3,723 

98 

18,644 

59,005 

20,769 

60,146 

(2,813)   

(1,053)   

(3,952) 

(1,289) 

(15,844)   

(16,263) 

(114)   

(500)   

(744)   

(183) 

(471) 

(652) 

(21,068)   

(22,810) 

(15,205)   

(17,035) 

(75)   

(311)   

(2,340)   

(495)   

(5,609)   

(1,107)   

(127) 

(289) 

(2,579) 

(532) 

(5,779) 

(899) 

(25,142)   

(27,240) 

(46,210)   

(50,050) 

12,795 

10,096 

1,348 

3,451 

7,239 

1,309 

13,347 

(552)   

12,795 

1,347 

3,440 

4,363 

1,448 

10,598 

(502) 

10,096 

The financial statements on pages 180 to 266 were approved by the Board on 27 February, 2024 and signed on its behalf by

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair

181

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Shareholders’ equity

Share
capital
£m
1,346 

Share
premium
£m
3,281 

Non-controlling 
interests
£m
6,221 

At 31 December 2020

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Contributions from non-controlling interests

Dividends to shareholders

Shares issued

Realised after tax profits on disposal of equity
  investments

Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
  on disposal of equity investments
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts

Share-based incentive plans

Transaction with non-controlling interests

Tax on share-based incentive plans

At 31 December 2021

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Non-cash distribution to non-controlling interests

Contributions from non-controlling interests

Changes to non-controlling interests

Deconsolidation of former subsidiaries

Dividends to shareholders

Non-cash dividend to shareholders

Realised after tax losses on disposal or liquidation of 
  equity investments

Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
  on disposal of equity investments

Shares issued

Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts

Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

Share-based incentive plans

Tax on share-based incentive plans

Hedging gain after taxation transferred to
  non-financial assets
At 31 December 2022

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Contributions from non-controlling interests

Dividends to shareholders

Realised after tax losses on disposal or liquidation of 
  equity investments

Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
  on disposal of equity investments

Shares issued

Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts

Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

Share-based incentive plans
Hedging gain/(loss) after taxation transferred to
  non-financial assets

Tax on share-based incentive plans

At 31 December 2023

Retained
earnings
£m
6,755 

4,385 

454 

4,839 

– 

– 

(3,999)   

Other
reserves*
£m
3,205 

– 

(771)   

(771)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

132 

(132)   

20 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

1 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

Total
£m
14,587 

4,385 

(317)   

4,068 

– 

– 

(3,999)   

21 

– 

– 
– 

367 

– 

11 

(7)   

168 

– 

– 

– 

2,463 

– 

15,055 

14,956 

(714)   

(714)   

(803)   

14,153 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(14)   

(7)   

– 

911 

(1,200)   

– 

– 

9 

1,448 

– 

(247)   

(247)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(3,467)   

(15,526)   

– 

– 

25 

– 

– 

357 

(8)   

9 

10,598 

4,928 

(292)   

4,636 

– 

– 

(2,247)   

7 
(168)   

367 

– 

11 

7,944 

14,956 

(89)   

14,867 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(3,467)   

(15,526)   

14 

7 

– 

(911)   

1,086 

357 

(8)   

– 

4,363 

4,928 

(45)   

4,883 

– 

– 

(2,247)   

(26)   

26 

(7)   

– 

7 

– 

(324)   

324 

283 

307 

– 

7 

(285)   

– 

36 

– 

– 

– 

10 

– 

– 

307 

36 

7 

1,347 

3,301 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

25 

– 

114 

– 

– 

– 

1,347 

3,440 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

1 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

9 

– 

2 

– 

– 

– 

Total
equity
£m
20,808 

5,096 

(337) 

4,759 

(642) 

7 

(3,999) 

21 

– 

– 
– 

367 

10 

11 

711 

(20)   

691 

(642)   

7 

– 

– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

10 

– 

6,287 

665 

(28)   

637 

21,342 

15,621 

(831) 

14,790 

(1,409)   

(1,409) 

(2,960)   

(2,960) 

8 

(20)   

8 

(20) 

(3,045)   

(3,045) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(3,467) 

(15,526) 

– 

– 

25 

– 

– 

357 

(8) 

9 

(502)   

10,096 

380 

(25)   

355 

(412)   

7 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

5,308 

(317) 

4,991 

(412) 

7 

(2,247) 

– 

– 

10 

– 

– 

307 

36 

7 

1,348 

3,451 

7,239 

1,309 

13,347 

(552)   

12,795 

*

an analysis of Other reserves is presented as part of Note 38, ‘Movements in equity’.

182

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Cash flow from operating activities

Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the year

Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows

Cash generated from operations attributable to continuing operations

Taxation paid

Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing operating activities

Cash generated from operations attributable to discontinued operations

Taxation paid from discontinued operations

Net operating cash flows attributable to discontinued operations

Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities

Cash flow from investing activities

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment

Purchase of intangible assets

Proceeds from sale of intangible assets

Purchase of equity investments

(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired

Proceeds from sale of equity investments

Contingent consideration paid

Disposal of businesses 

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Proceeds from disposal of associates and joint ventures

Interest received

Dividend and distributions from investments

Dividends from associates and joint ventures

Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing investing activities

Net investing cash flows attributable to discontinued operations

Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities

Cash flow from financing activities

Issue of share capital

Repayment of long-term loans

Issue of long-term notes

Repayment of short-term loans

Net increase in/(repayment of) other short-term loans

Repayment of lease liabilities

Interest paid

Dividends paid to shareholders

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Contributions from non-controlling interests

Other financing items

Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing financing activities

Net financing cash flows attributable to discontinued operations

Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities

Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts

Cash and bank overdrafts at the beginning of year

Exchange adjustments

Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year

Cash and bank overdrafts at the end of year

Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts

Notes

42  

41

41

2023
£m

5,308 

2,788 

8,096 

2022
£m

4,921 

3,023 

7,944 

(1,328)   

(1,310)   

6,768 

– 

– 

– 

6,768 

6,634 

932 

(163)   

769 

7,403 

2021
£m

3,516 

3,733 

7,249 

(972) 

6,277 

1,994 

(319) 

1,675 

7,952 

(1,314)   

(1,143)   

28 

146 

(950) 

132 

(1,030)   

(1,115)   

(1,704) 

12 

(123)   

72 
(1,457)   

1,832 

(11)   

49 

– 

1 

115 

220 

11 

196 

(143)   

1 

(3,108)   

238 

(79)   

(43)   

(1)   

– 

64 

– 

6 

641 

(162) 

18 
– 

202 

(114) 

(17) 

(1) 

277 

14 

– 

9 

(1,595)   

– 

(1,595)   

(4,981)   

(3,791)   

(8,772)   

(1,655) 

(122) 

(1,777) 

37  

10 

25 

(144)   

(1,594)   

223 

1,025 

21 

– 

– 

(2,116)   

(5,074)   

(2,304) 

(333)   

(197)   

(766)   

1,021 

(202)   

(848)   

301 

(181) 

(772) 

(2,247)   

(3,467)   

(3,999) 

(412)   

(521)   

(239) 

43  

7 

334 

8 

376 

(5,641)   

(9,251)   

– 

(5,641)   

(468)   

3,425 

(99)   

(468)   

2,858 

2,936 

(78)   

2,858 

10,074 

823 

(546)   

3,819 

152 

(546)   

3,425 

3,723 

(298)   

3,425 

7 

40 

(7,126) 

(463) 

(7,589) 

(1,414) 

5,262 

(29) 

(1,414) 

3,819 

4,274 

(455) 

3,819 

183

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements

1. Presentation of the financial statements 

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group 
has considered the impact of both physical and transitional 
climate change risks, as well as the plans to mitigate against 
these, on the current valuation of assets and liabilities; 
particularly in the context of the risks identified in the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”).  

The Group does not believe that there is a material impact to 
judgements and estimates in relation to climate-related risks 
and, as a result, the valuation of the assets or liabilities have not 
been significantly impacted as at 31 December 2023. The 
Group has reviewed the recoverable values of property, plant 
and equipment, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets as 
those are the material balances impacted by climate-related 
risks, and the Group’s transition plans to mitigate those risks.

One of the climate-related risks identified relates to metered-
dose inhalers (MDI). The Group is addressing this risk by 
transitioning to a lower-carbon propellant. The transition is not 
expected to have a material impact on the recoverable 
amount, or estimated useful lives, of related property, plant and 
equipment. See Note 17 'Property, plant and equipment' for 
further details.

Whilst there is currently no significant medium-term impact 
expected, the Group is aware of the ever-changing risks 
attached to climate change and continues to assess the impact 
on judgements and estimates, and on the preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements.

Parent company financial statements
The financial statements of the parent company, GSK plc, have 
been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK 
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is 
presented on page 267 and the accounting policies are given 
on pages 268 to 271.

Description of business
GSK is a global biopharma group which prevents and treats 
disease with vaccines, specialty and general medicines. GSK 
focuses on the science of the immune system and the use of 
new platform and data technologies, investing in four core 
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/
immunology and oncology.

Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with UK-adopted international accounting standards in 
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and the International Financial Reporting Standards as issued 
by the IASB.

Composition of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, 
the functional currency of GSK plc, and in accordance with IFRS 
accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise:

– Consolidated income statement
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
– Consolidated balance sheet
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity
– Consolidated cash flow statement
– Notes to the financial statements.

Composition of the Group
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of 
the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net 
assets of the Group is given in Note 46, ‘Principal Group 
companies’.

Financial period

These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 
January to 31 December 2023, with comparative figures for the 
financial years from 1 January to 31 December 2022 and, where 
appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2021. 

Accounting principles and policies
The financial statements have been prepared using the 
historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain 
items, as stated in the accounting policies, and on a going 
concern basis.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board 
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. 
Information on the application of these accounting policies, 
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, 
‘Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty’. 

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ 
from those estimates.

184

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

2. Accounting principles and policies

Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include:

– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of 
the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates 

and joint ventures

– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses 

of joint operations.

The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up 
to 31 December each year.

Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the 
relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, 
generally through control over the financial and operating 
policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries. 

Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, 
and rights to, the net assets of entities, the entities are 
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability 
to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to 
specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the 
arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint 
operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise 
significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as 
associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates 
and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated 
financial statements using the equity method of accounting. 
The assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations 
are included in the consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with the Group’s rights and obligations. Interests 
acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Group 
acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from 
the date control ceases.

Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated 
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries 
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. The 
relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, 
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the 
products are sold to third parties. Transactions with non-
controlling interests are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax 
relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only to 
the extent that it is considered recoverable.

Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at 
acquisition date. The consideration transferred is measured at 
fair value and includes the fair value of any contingent 
consideration. 

The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is 
reassessed at each balance sheet date with changes 
recognised in the income statement. Payments of contingent 
consideration reduce the balance sheet liability and as a result 
are not recorded in the income statement.

The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of 
the fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is 
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement 
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the 
liability since the acquisition date is reported within operating 
cash flows. 

Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-
controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is 
recorded as goodwill. The costs of effecting an acquisition are 
charged to the income statement in the period in which they 
are incurred. 

Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of 
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of 
joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in the 
currency of the operation acquired.

Where the cost of acquisition is below the Group’s interest in the 
net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the 
income statement.

Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the 
non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the 
subsidiary, on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s 
ownership percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within 
equity. 

Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional 
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on 
the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences are included in the income statement.

On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related 
goodwill, of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, 
are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are translated into 
sterling using average rates of exchange. 

Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and 
the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less 
exchange differences arising on related foreign currency 
borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these 
operations, are taken to a separate component of equity within 
Retained Earnings.

When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and 
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary 
economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect 
current price levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged 
to the consolidated income statement.

185

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

2. Accounting principles and policies continued

Revenue

Turnover
The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external 
customers against orders received. The majority of contracts 
that GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single 
performance obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical and 
vaccine products. The average duration of a sales order is less 
than 12 months.

Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is 
passed to the customer. The point at which control passes is 
determined by each customer arrangement, but generally 
occurs on delivery to the customer. 

Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed 
and variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the 
sale of goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and 
accruals for estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is 
not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant 
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate 
rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the 
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past 
experience and projected market conditions. Estimates 
associated with returns and rebates are revisited at each 
reporting date or when they are resolved and revenue is 
adjusted accordingly. Please refer to Note 3, 'Critical 
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty' for the details on rebates, discounts and 
allowances.

The Group has entered into collaborative agreements, typically 
with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to 
develop, produce and market drug candidates and vaccines 
that do not qualify as joint arrangements. When GSK has 
control over the commercialisation activities, the Group 
recognises turnover and cost of sales on a gross basis. Profit 
sharing amounts and royalties due to the counterparty are 
recorded within cost of sales. Cost of sales includes net 
recoveries of cost of £45 million (2022: cost of  £1,635 million; 
2021: cost of £640 million) from profit sharing arrangements 
and royalties due to the counterparty. When the counterparty 
controls the commercialisation activities and records the sale, 
the Group is not the principal in the customer contract and 
instead records its share of gross profit as co-promotion 
income, on a net basis, within turnover. The nature of co-
promotion activities is such that the Group records no costs of 
sales. Commercial Operations turnover includes co-promotion 
revenue of £1 million (2022: £3 million; 2021: £7 million). 
Reimbursements to and from the counterparty under 
collaboration agreements for ‘selling, general and 
administration’ and ‘research and development’ costs are 
recorded net in the respective lines in the consolidated income 
statement.

Other operating income and royalty income
GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations and 
out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to other 
parties. These contracts give rise to fixed and variable 
consideration from upfront payments, development milestones, 
sales-based milestones and royalties. 

Income dependent on the achievement of a development 
milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a 
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue 
recognised will not occur, which is usually when the related 
event occurs. Sales-based milestone income is recognised when 
it is highly probable that the sales threshold will be reached.

Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are 
not recognised until the relevant product sale occurs. 

For all revenue, if the time between the recognition of revenue 
and payment from the customer is expected to be more than 
one year and the impact is material, the amount of 
consideration is discounted using appropriate discount rates. 

Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from 
revenue.

Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services 
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. 
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability 
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the 
obligation can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up 
costs between validation and the achievement of normal 
production are expensed as incurred. 

Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the 
income statement as incurred. 

Shipment costs on inter-company transfers are charged to cost 
of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are included in 
selling, general and administration expenditure. 

Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where 
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business 
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well 
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those 
affected has been undertaken.

Software as a service (SaaS) configuration costs are expensed 
as they are incurred where the software being configured is 
controlled by the SaaS provider.

Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the 
income statement in the period in which it is incurred. 
Development expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for 
recognising an asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing 
has been made in a major market and approval is considered 
highly probable. Property, plant and equipment used for 
research and development is capitalised and depreciated in 
accordance with the Group’s policy.

186

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

2. Accounting principles and policies continued

Legal and other disputes

Employee share plans

Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal 
or other disputes against the Group where an outflow of 
resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate can 
be made of the likely outcome. In respect of product liability 
claims related to certain products, provision is made when there 
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable 
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision 
required to cover asserted and unasserted claims. 

In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial 
technique is used to determine this estimate. In addition, 
provision is made for legal or other expenses arising from claims 
received or other disputes. 

The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in 
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess 
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to 
quantify or reliably estimate the liability. In these cases, 
appropriate disclosure about such cases is included but no 
provision is made. 

Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third 
parties are charged to the income statement as they are 
incurred.

Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes 
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and 
spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be 
derived from the employees’ services, consistent with the advice 
of qualified actuaries. 

Pension obligations are measured as the present value of 
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the 
yields of high-quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets 
are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.

The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in 
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread 
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived 
from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of 
qualified actuaries. 

The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees 
during the year, together with the cost of any curtailment, is 
charged to operating profit in the year.

Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise. 

The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are 
charged to the income statement as incurred.

Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees 
under share option and share award schemes. 

The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at 
their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model 
and charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting 
periods.

The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase 
company shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when 
employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the 
ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. 

Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other 
reserves. A transfer is made between other reserves and 
retained earnings over the vesting periods of the related share 
options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable 
from employees on exercise.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of 
purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and 
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of 
qualifying assets in construction.

Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual 
value of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line 
basis over the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are 
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted annually. The 
normal expected useful lives of the major categories of PP&E 
are:

Freehold buildings

20 to 50 years

Leasehold land and buildings

Lease term or 20 to 50 years

Plant and machinery

Equipment and vehicles

10 to 20 years

3 to 10 years

On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated 
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial 
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to 
the income statement.

Leases

The Group recognises right of use assets under lease 
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term 
leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) 
and leases of low value assets. Rights to use assets owned by 
third parties under lease agreements are capitalised at the 
inception of the lease and recognised on the consolidated 
balance sheet. 

The corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a lease 
obligation within short and long-term borrowings. The carrying 
amount is subsequently increased to reflect interest on the 
lease liability and reduced by lease payments made.

For calculating the discounted lease liability on leases with 
annual payments of £2 million or more, the implicit rate in the 
lease is used. If this is not available, the incremental borrowing 
rate with a lease specific adjustment is used. If neither of these 
is available, and for leases with annual payments of less than 
£2 million, the incremental borrowing rate is used. The 
incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest at which GSK 
would have been able to borrow for a similar term and with a 
similar security the funds necessary to obtain a similar asset in a 
similar market.

187

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

2. Accounting principles and policies continued

Finance costs are charged to the income statement so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining 
balance of the obligations for each accounting period.

Variable rents are not part of the lease liability and the right of 
use asset. These payments are charged to the income 
statement as incurred. Lease rental costs for short-term and 
low-value leases which are not capitalised are also charged to 
the income statement as incurred. 

Non-lease components are accounted for separately from the 
lease components in plant and equipment leases but are not 
separately accounted for in land and buildings or vehicle 
leases.

If modifications or reassessments of lease obligations occur, the 
lease liability and right of use asset are remeasured.

Right of use assets where title is expected to pass to GSK at a 
point in the future are depreciated on a basis consistent with 
similar owned assets. In other cases, right of use assets are 
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the 
lease term. 

Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed 
to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at 
least annually.

Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the 
consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately as a 
gain in the income statement.

Other intangible assets

Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for 
amortisation and impairments. 

Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately 
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are 
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not 
exceeding 30 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time 
they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for 
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent 
lives (exclusivity period), where applicable, as well as the value 
obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. For Pharmaceutical 
intangible assets, depending on the characteristics, competitive 
environment and estimated long-term profits of the asset, 
between 80% to 90% of the book value is amortised over the 
exclusivity period on a straight-line basis and the remaining 
book value is amortised over a non-exclusivity period of 5-15 
years on a straight-line basis. For Vaccines intangible assets, 
cost is usually amortised over the exclusivity period plus 10 
years, or 30 years if no exclusivity period is granted, on a 
straight-line basis. Asset lives are reviewed, and where 
appropriate adjusted, annually. 

Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point 
that the contingent event becomes probable. Any development 
costs incurred by the Group and associated with acquired 
licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off 
to the income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for 
recognition of an internally generated intangible asset are met, 
usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major 
market and approval is considered highly probable.

Acquired in process R&D and marketed products are valued 
independently as part of the fair value of businesses acquired 
from third parties where they have a value which is substantial 
and long term and where the assets either are contractual or 
legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest of the 
businesses acquired.

The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for 
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as 
intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a 
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the 
creation of a durable asset controlled by the Group. ERP 
systems software is amortised over seven to ten years and other 
computer software over three to five years using the straight-
line basis.

Impairment of non-current assets

The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for 
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger 
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets 
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill and intangible assets 
which are not yet available for use are tested for impairment 
annually. Any provision for impairment is charged to the income 
statement in the year concerned.

Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on 
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a 
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts 
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do 
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of 
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been 
recognised.

Investments in associates, joint ventures and 
joint operations

Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the 
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net 
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition 
retained profits or losses and other comprehensive income 
together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The Group 
recognises the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint 
operations in accordance with its rights and obligations. 

Inventories
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower 
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs 
and related production overheads) and net realisable value. 
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-
launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high 
probability of regulatory approval for the product. Before that 
point a provision is made against the carrying value to reduce it 
to its recoverable amount; the provision is then reversed at the 
point when a high probability of regulatory approval is 
determined.

188

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

2. Accounting principles and policies continued

Financial instruments

Financial assets
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value 
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is 
determined by reference to both the business model for 
managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow 
characteristics of the financial asset. For financial assets other 
than trade receivables a 12-month expected credit loss (ECL) 
allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there is 
subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk 
of an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime 
ECL. If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is 
written off. 

Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement 
on financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair 
value through other comprehensive income apart from equity 
investments.

Current equity investments
Current equity investments comprise equity investments which 
the Group holds with the intention to sell and which it may sell in 
the short term. Where acquired with this intention, they are 
measured at FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value and 
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. 
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income 
statement. Dividend income is recognised in the income 
statement when the Group’s right to receive payment is 
established. Purchases and sales of current equity investments 
are accounted for on the trade date. 

Other investments
Other investments comprise equity investments and investments 
in limited life funds. The Group has elected to designate the 
majority of its equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. They 
are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and 
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. 
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. On disposal of the equity investment, 
gains and losses that have been deferred in other 
comprehensive income are transferred directly to retained 
earnings. 

Investments in limited life funds are measured at FVTPL. They 
are initially recorded at fair value and then remeasured at 
subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and 
losses are recognised in the income statement.

Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds 
are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right 
to receive payment is established. 

Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for on 
the trade date.

Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the 
business model under which each portfolio of trade receivables 
is held. The Group has portfolios in each of the three business 
models under IFRS 9: to collect the contractual cash flows 
where there is no factoring agreement in place (measured at 
amortised cost); to sell the contractual cash flows where the 
trade receivables will be sold under a factoring agreement 
(measured at FVTPL); and both to collect and to sell the 
contractual cash flows where the trade receivables may be sold 
under a factoring arrangement (measured at FVTOCI). Trade 
receivables measured at amortised cost are carried at the 
original invoice amount less allowances for expected credit 
losses.

Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the 
simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision 
matrix applying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the 
trade receivables. The expected credit loss rate varies 
depending on whether, and the extent to which, settlement of 
the trade receivables is overdue and it is also adjusted as 
appropriate to reflect current economic conditions and 
estimates of future conditions. For the purpose of determining 
credit loss rates, customers are classified into groupings that 
have similar loss patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the 
nature of the business unit and the location and type of 
customer.

When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable 
expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any 
expected credit loss allowance available and then to the 
income statement. 

Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or 
written off are credited to the income statement. Long-term 
receivables are discounted where the effect is material.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost. 
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value 
through profit or loss because the funds fail the solely payments 
of principal and interest (SPPI) test.

Borrowings
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds 
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently 
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the 
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on 
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income 
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.

Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure 
to market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK 
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign 
exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not 
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or 
speculative purposes.

Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives 
embedded in host contracts which have been separated from 
the host contract, are measured at fair value. Changes in the 
fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for 
hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income 
statement.

189

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

2. Accounting principles and policies continued

Hedge accounting
Derivatives designated as the hedging instruments are 
classified at inception of hedge relationship as cash flow 
hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges. 

Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow 
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the 
extent that the hedges are effective and accumulated in the 
cash flow hedge reserve. Ineffective portions are recognised in 
profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in the cash flow 
hedge reserve are reclassified to the income statement when 
the hedged item affects profit or loss, or if the hedged forecast 
transaction is to purchase a non-financial asset, the amount 
deferred in the cash flow hedge reserve is transferred directly 
from equity and included in the carrying value of the recognised 
non-financial asset.

Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to 
cash flow hedges which are reclassified to the income 
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.

Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value 
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the 
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.

Taxation

Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, 
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. The tax charge for the 
period is recognised in the income statement, the statement of 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, according to the 
accounting treatment of the related transaction. 

Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same tax authority and the Company and its 
subsidiaries intend to settle their current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction (other than a business combination) 
that affects neither the accounting nor the taxable profit or loss. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each 
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax asset to be recovered. 

Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will 
make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be, 
assuming the relevant tax authority has full knowledge of the 
situation. Where it is assessed that an economic outflow is 
probable to arise, a provision is made for the best estimate of 
the liability. In estimating any such liability GSK applies a risk-
based approach which takes into account, as appropriate, the 
probability that the Group would be able to obtain 
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties. 
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances of 
each dispute and relevant external advice.

Discounting

Where the time value of money is material, balances are 
discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates. 
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income 
and finance expense.

Assets and liabilities held for sale or distribution 
and discontinued operations

Disposal groups are classified as held for sale or distribution if 
their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale 
or a distribution to shareholders rather than through continuing 
use, they are available for sale or distribution in their present 
condition and the sale or distribution is considered highly 
probable. Assets held in Assets held for sale or distribution are 
measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell or distribute. Non-current assets included in 
Assets held for sale or distribution are not depreciated or 
amortised. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale or 
distribution are presented in current assets and current liabilities 
separately from the other assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet. 

A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has 
been disposed of, distributed or is classified as held for sale or 
distribution and that represents a separate major line of 
business. The results of discontinued operations are presented 
separately in the consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated statement of other comprehensive income and 
the consolidated statement of cash flows and comparatives are 
restated on a consistent basis. 

190

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty 

Revenue is not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a 
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue 
recognised will not occur. The amount of turnover recognised in 
the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous 
periods is set out in Note 6, ‘Turnover and segment information’, 
and is an indication of the level of sensitivity in the estimate.

Future events could cause the assumptions on which the 
accruals are based to change, which could materially affect the 
future results of the Group.

Taxation
The tax charge for the year was £756 million (2022: £707 
million). At 31 December 2023, current tax payable was £500 
million (2022: £471 million), non-current corporation tax payable 
was £75 million (2022: £127 million) and current tax recoverable 
was £373 million (2022: £405 million). 

Judgement and estimates 
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue 
authorities. Management makes a judgement of whether there 
is sufficient information to be able to make a reliable estimate 
of the outcome of the dispute. If insufficient information is 
available, no provision is made.

If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax 
liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into 
account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would 
be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under 
international tax treaties. These estimates take into account the 
specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external 
advice, are inherently judgemental and could change 
substantially over time as each dispute progresses and new 
facts emerge. 

At  31 December 2023, the Group had recognised provisions of 
£584 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2022: £551 
million). Due to the number of uncertain tax positions held and 
the number of jurisdictions to which these relate, it is not 
practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates. No 
uncertain tax position is individually material to the Group.

Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in 
Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made 
adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open 
assessments. Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability for 
such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is 
dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant 
tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.

In preparing the financial statements, management is required 
to make judgements about when or how items should be 
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and 
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, 
revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. 
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. 
The following are considered to be the critical accounting 
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.

Turnover
Reported Group turnover for 2023 was £30,328 million (2022: 
£29,324 million). 

Estimates
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and 
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by 
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements 
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the 
submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of 
the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for the 
estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns 
to be made, based on available market information and 
historical experience.

Sales of pharmaceutical and vaccine products in the US have 
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. 
Turnover of Commercial Operations products in the US for 2023 
of £15,820 million (2022: £14,542 million) was after recording 
deductions of £16,539 million (2022: £15,272 million) for rebates, 
allowances, returns and other discounts. At  31 December 2023, 
the total accrual amounted to £5,951 million (2022: £5,855 
million). Due to the nature of these accruals it is not practicable 
to give meaningful sensitivity estimates due to the large volume 
of variables that contribute to the overall rebates, chargebacks, 
returns and other revenue accruals.

As there can be significant variability in final outcomes, the 
Group applies a constraint when measuring the variable 
element within revenue, so that revenue is recognised at a 
suitably cautious amount. The objective of the constraint is to 
ensure that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of 
revenue will not occur when the uncertainties are resolved. The 
constraint is applied by making suitably cautious estimates of 
the inputs and assumptions used in estimating the variable 
consideration. Because the amounts are estimated they may 
not fully reflect the final outcome, and the amounts are subject 
to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of 
buying group and product sales mix. The constraints applied in 
recognising revenue mean that the risk of a material downward 
adjustment to revenue in the next financial year is low.

The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and 
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal 
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected 
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using 
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research 
data and internally generated information. It is reasonably 
possible that there could be a significant adjustment within the 
next 12 months to recognise additional revenue, if actual 
outcomes are better than the cautious constrained estimates. 

191

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty  continued

Legal and other disputes

Pensions and other post-employment benefits

Judgement
Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or there is 
potential for a surplus to arise from committed future 
contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group 
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered in 
determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of the 
surplus that is recognised. Three UK schemes are in surplus 
(2022: two UK schemes), with a combined surplus of £457 
million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £109 million). There are 
further recognised pension surpluses totalling £177 million 
spread across five countries (2022: £120 million across five 
countries). GSK has made the judgement that these amounts 
meet the requirements of recoverability.

Estimates
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment 
benefits are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by 
management. These assumptions include future earnings and 
pension increases, discount rates, expected long-term rates of 
return on assets and mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 
31, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. 

Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields 
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate 
bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity 
analysis is provided in Note 31, ‘Pensions and other post-
employment benefits’, a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate 
would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of 
approximately £391 million and an increase in the annual 
pension cost of approximately £18 million. Similarly, a 0.25% 
increase in the discount rate would lead to a decrease in the 
net pension deficit of approximately £373 million and a 
decrease in the annual pension cost of approximately £18 
million. 

A 0.75% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an 
increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £1,231 
million and an increase in the annual pension cost of 
approximately £51 million. Similarly, a 0.75% increase in the 
discount rate would lead to a decrease in the net pension 
deficit of approximately £1,071 million and a decrease in the 
annual pension cost of approximately £58 million. The selection 
of different assumptions could affect the future results of the 
Group.

Legal costs for the year were £271 million (2022: £144 million). At  
31 December 2023 provisions for legal and other disputes 
amounted to £267 million (2022: £218 million).

Judgement
Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient 
information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely 
outcome of the dispute and the legal and other expenses 
arising from claims against the Group. If insufficient information 
is available, no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is 
given.

The estimated provisions take into account the specific 
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are 
inherently judgemental and could change substantially over 
time as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details 
of the status and various uncertainties involved in the significant 
unresolved disputes are set out in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.

The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have 
established provisions after taking into account the relevant 
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance 
with accounting requirements. In respect of product liability 
claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history of 
claims made and settlements to enable management to make 
a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted 
claims. 

The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in 
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess 
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to 
quantify or reliably estimate the liability. In these cases, 
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be provided, 
but no provision would be made and no contingent liability can 
be quantified. 

The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts 
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation 
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement 
negotiations. The position could change over time and, 
therefore, there can be no assurance that any losses that result 
from the outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed the 
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial 
statements by a material amount.

Contingent consideration
The 2023 income statement charge for contingent 
consideration was £768 million (2022: £1,645 million).

At 31 December 2023, the liability for contingent consideration 
amounted to £6,662 million (2022: £7,068 million). Of this 
amount, £5,718 million (2022: £5,890 million) related to the 
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture 
in 2012.

Estimates
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration 
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based on 
risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate 
post-tax discount rates. The fair values are reviewed on a 
regular basis, and any changes are reflected in the income 
statement. See Note 33, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.

192

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

4. New accounting requirements

International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules - 
Amendments to IAS 12
The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 12 which have 
been introduced in response to the OECD’s BEPS Pillar Two 
rules and include: 

Other amendments
The adoption of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and amendments 
to certain other IFRS accounting standards in the year ended 
31 December 2023, did not have a material impact on the 
results or financial position of the Group.

– A mandatory temporary exception to the recognition and 
disclosure of deferred taxes arising from the jurisdictional 
implementation of the Pillar Two model rules; and

– Disclosure requirements for affected entities to help users of 

the financial statements better understand an entity’s 
exposure to Pillar Two income taxes arising from that 
legislation. 

Certain amendments to IFRS accounting standards and 
interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 
31 December 2023 reporting periods and have not been 
adopted early by the Group. These amendments and 
interpretations are not expected to have a material impact on 
the results or financial position of the Group in future reporting 
periods. 

GSK has applied the mandatory exception and is not 
recognising any deferred tax impact. Further information about 
the impact of the Pillar Two model framework, including the 
impact on the effective tax rate for 2024, is set out in Note 14, 
'Taxation'.  

Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 7 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Supplier Finance 
Arrangements, require additional disclosure of information 
about Group supplier finance arrangements. The disclosure 
requirements will apply for annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2024, but not for any interim periods 
ending on or before 31 December 2024.

5. Exchange rates

The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The 
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

Average rates:

US$/£

Euro/£

Yen/£

Period end rates:

1.24

1.15

175

1.24

1.17

161

1.38

1.16

151

US$/£

Euro/£

Yen/£

1.27

1.15

180

1.20

1.13

159

1.35

1.19

155

193

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

6. Turnover and segment information

Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities 
of the GSK Leadership Team (GLT). GSK reports under two segments;  Commercial Operations and Total R&D. Members of the GLT 
are responsible for each segment.

Originally GSK reported 2021 results under four segments:  Pharmaceuticals, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer 
Healthcare. However, the reporting of operating segments was changed in 2022 and with the demerger of Consumer Healthcare 
only two operating segments are reportable. Comparative information was retrospectively revised on a consistent basis in 2022. 
There is no change to the reportable segments in 2023.  

R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the business. However for segment reporting the Commercial Operating profits 
exclude allocations of globally funded R&D.

The Total R&D segment is the responsibility of the Chief Scientific Officer and is reported as a separate segment. The operating 
costs of this segment includes R&D activities across Specialty Medicines, including HIV and Vaccines. It includes R&D and some 
Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) costs relating to regulatory and other functions.

The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the segment in which that sale is 
recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.

Turnover by segment

Commercial operations

2023
£m

30,328 

30,328 

 2022
£m

29,324 

29,324 

2021
£m

24,696 

24,696 

For 2023, product sales are reported within three product groups: Vaccines, Specialty Medicines and General Medicines.

Commercial Operations:

Shingles

Meningitis

RSV

Influenza

Established Vaccines

Pandemic Vaccines

Vaccines

HIV

Respiratory/Immunology and Other

Oncology

Pandemic

Specialty Medicines

Respiratory

Other General Medicines

General Medicines

Total Commercial Operations

2023
£m

3,446 

1,260 

1,238 

504 

3,266 

9,714 

150 

9,864 

6,444 

3,025 

731 

10,200 

44 

10,244 

6,825 

3,395 

10,220 

2022
£m

2,958 

1,116 

– 

714 

3,085 

7,873 

64 

7,937 

5,749 

2,609 

602 

8,960 

2,309 

11,269 

6,548 

3,570 

10,118 

2021
£m

1,721 

961 

– 

679 

2,970 

6,331 

447 

6,778 

4,777 

2,027 

489 

7,293 

958 

8,251 

6,048 

3,619 

9,667 

30,328 

29,324 

24,696 

194

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

6. Turnover and segment information continued

During 2023, sales were made to three US wholesalers of £4,494 million (2022:£4,045 million; 2021: £3,159 million), £4,498 million 
(2022: £4,161 million; 2021: £3,081 million) and £3,531 million (2022: £3,227 million; 2021: £2,670 million) respectively, after allocating 
final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.

Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £1,751 million (2022: £1,601 
million) including £728 million (2022: £898 million) impacting turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of RAR (returns 
and rebates) accruals, £37 million (2022: £115 million) of milestone income and £986 million (2022: £588 million) of royalty income 
recognised in the current year.

Segment profit

Commercial Operations

Research and development

Segment profit

Corporate and other unallocated costs

Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit

Total Operating profit

Finance income

Finance costs

Gain/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates

Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures

Profit before taxation from continuing operations

Taxation

Profit after taxation for the year from continuing operations

 2023
£m

 2022
£m

2021
£m

14,656 

13,590 

11,467 

(5,607)   

(5,060)   

(4,567) 

9,049 

(263)   

(2,041)   

6,745 

8,530 

(379)   

(1,718)   

6,433 

115 

76 

(792)   

(879)   

1 

(5)   

– 

(2)   

6,064 

5,628 

(756)   

5,308 

(707)   

4,921 

6,900 

(407) 

(2,136) 

4,357 

14 

(769) 

(36) 

33 

3,599 

(83) 

3,516 

Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit. 
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible 
assets and computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals 
of products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government investigations, 
other operating income other than royalty income and other items. Please refer to the detail of Other reconciling items between 
segment profit and operating profit in the analysis of adjusting items (Group financial review).

Depreciation and amortisation by segment

Commercial Operations

Research and development

Segment depreciation and amortisation

Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation

Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and total depreciation and
  amortisation

Total depreciation and amortisation

 2023
£m

893 

572 

1,465 

110 

719 

2,294 

2022
£m

829 

467 

1,296 

112 

739 

2,147 

2021
£m

915 

378 

1,293 

68 

761 

2,122 

195

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

6. Turnover and segment information continued

PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment

Commercial Operations

Research and development

Segment impairment

Corporate and other unallocated impairment

Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment

Total impairment

PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment

Commercial Operations

Research and development

Segment impairment reversals

Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals

Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals

Total impairment reversals

Net operating assets by segment

Commercial Operations

Research and development

Segment net operating assets

Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets

Net operating assets

Net debt

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Current equity investment

Derivative financial instruments

Current and deferred taxation

Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents)

Net assets

2023
£m

27 

13 

40 

35 

432 

507 

(16)   

(9)   

(25)   

(14)   

– 

(39)   

2022
£m

29 

32 

61 

20 

420 

501 

(6)   

(19)   

(25)   

– 

(1)   

(26)   

2021
£m

30 

55 

85 

63 

392 

540 

(8) 

(2) 

(10) 

– 

(2) 

(12) 

2023
£m

12,302 

7,021 

19,323 

625 

19,948 

2022
£m

10,288 

7,299 

17,587 

264 

17,851 

(15,040)   

(17,197) 

55 

2,204 

16 

5,536 

76 

12,795 

74 

4,087 

7 

5,176 

98 

10,096 

The Commercial Operations segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,718 million 
(2022: £5,890 million) and the Pfizer put option of £848 million (2022: £1,093 million). 

Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile. 

Turnover by location of customer

UK

US

Rest of World

External turnover

Non-current assets by location of subsidiary

UK

US

Belgium

Rest of World

Non-current assets

2023
£m

693 

15,820 

13,815 

30,328 

2022
£m

695 

14,542 

14,087 

29,324 

2023
£m

6,464 

13,280 

5,337 

6,606 

31,687 

2021
£m

656 

11,914 

12,126 

24,696 

2022
£m

5,134 

14,024 

5,415 

6,593 

31,166 

Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments, 
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables. There are no other 
countries with individually material external revenue or non-current assets.

196

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

7. Other operating income/(expense)

Upfront settlement income(1)
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments

Disposal of businesses and assets

2023
£m

– 

(122)   

61 

2022
£m

922 

256 

215 

2021
£m

– 

37 

552 

Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations

(791)   

(1,607)   

(1,058) 

Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends

Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments

Other income

245 

7 

237 

(85)   

3 

61 

(48) 

(4) 

17 

(363)   

(235)   

(504) 

(1) On 1 February 2022, ViiV Healthcare reached agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc (Gilead) to settle the global patent infringement litigation relating to the 
commercialisation of Gilead’s Biktarvy concerning ViiV Healthcare’s patents relating to dolutegravir, an anti-retroviral medication used, together with other 
medicines, to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Under the terms of the global settlement and licensing agreement, Gilead made an upfront 
payment of $1.25 billion (£922 million) to ViiV Healthcare on 15 February 2022. In addition, Gilead will also pay a 3% royalty on all future US sales of Biktarvy 
and in respect of the bictegravir component of any other future bictegravir-containing products sold in the US. These royalties will be payable by Gilead to 
ViiV Healthcare from 1 February 2022 until the expiry of ViiV Healthcare’s US Patent No. 8,129,385 on 5 October 2027 and will be recorded as royalty income 
in the income statement.

Fair value remeasurement on equity investments in 2023 included a loss of £17 million from the remeasurement of the Group’s 
retained investment in Haleon plc. See details in Note 22 'Current equity investments'.

Disposal of businesses and assets in 2023 primarily includes milestone income.

Disposal of businesses and assets in 2022 includes milestone income and the reversal of provisions no longer required. 

Disposal of businesses and assets in 2021 included a net gain on disposal of the rights to the royalty stream for cabozantinib and a 
net gain on disposal of the cephalosporin antibiotic brands to Sandoz.

Fair value re-measurements on contingent consideration recognised as business combinations included a net charge of £934 
million related to the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture, £187 million net credit payable to Novartis 
related to the Vaccines acquisition, together with fair value movements on related hedging contracts and a charge of £44 million 
relating to the contingent consideration on the acquisition of Affinivax primarily relating to the unwind of the discount.

Other income in 2023 primarily includes net income from dividends related to investments, including £49 million dividends received 
from the retained investment in Haleon plc.

197

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

8. Operating profit

The following items have been included in operating profit:

Employee costs (Note 9)

Advertising

Distribution costs

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment

Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals

Depreciation of right of use assets

Impairment of right of use assets

Amortisation of intangible assets

Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets held for sale, net of reversals

Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses

Inventories:

 Cost of inventories included in cost of sales

 Write-down of inventories

 Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories

Short-term lease charge

Low-value lease charge

Variable lease payments

2023
£m

8,473 

835 

199 

892 

17 

190 

10 

1,212 

418 

23 

11 

6,576 

979 

2022
£m

7,693 

735 

192 

885 

70 

176 

40 

1,086 

365 

– 

11 

6,137 

687 

(598)   

(483)   

8 

2 

17 

6 

2 

9 

Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below)

22.0 

26.9 

2021
£m

7,680 

433 

169 

855 

87 

179 

5 

1,088 

435 

1 

(4) 

5,885 

800 

(325) 

7 

3 

10 

31.7 

The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior 
to inventory expiration.

Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses include a net gain of £34 million (2022: £2 million loss; 2021: £35 million gain) arising from the 
recycling of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries. The recycling of exchange on disposal of overseas 
associates is £nil (2022: £nil). The recycling of exchange on disposal of overseas subsidiaries does not include recycling of exchange 
on disposal of Consumer Healthcare subsidiaries as this is reported as Profit after taxation on demerger of discontinued operations.

Included within operating profit are Major restructuring charges of £382 million (2022: £321 million; 2021: £424 million), see Note 10, 
‘Major restructuring costs’.

Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates:

Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements including attestation under 
  s.404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002

Audit of the company’s subsidiaries

Total audit services

Audit-related and other assurance services

Total audit services, audit-related and other assurance services

2023
£m

10.2 

10.2 

20.4 

1.6 

22.0 

2022
£m

10.9 

9.7 

20.6 

6.3 

26.9 

2021
£m

13.2 

14.5 

27.7 

4.0 

31.7 

The other assurance services provided by the auditor related to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of 
statutory audit requirements. Audit related and other assurance services include £nil (2022: £4.4 million; 2021: £2.4 million) due to 
reporting accountant work performed in preparation for the Consumer Healthcare demerger. 

In addition to the above, fees paid to the auditor in respect of the GSK pension schemes were: 

Audit

2023
£m

0.2 

2022
£m

0.2 

2021
£m

0.2 

198

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

9. Employee costs

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 31)

Cost of share-based incentive plans

Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities

2023
£m

6,706 

818 

356 

321 

272 

2022
£m

6,110 

763 

369 

314 

137 

2021
£m

5,858 

793 

415 

345 

269 

8,473 

7,693 

7,680 

The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including in some markets, 
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.

The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:

Share value plan

Performance share plan

Share option plans

Cash settled and other plans

The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year: 

Manufacturing

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

Total Continuing Operations

Discontinued Operations

Total

2023
£m

244 

58 

5 

14 

321 

2022
£m

243 

55 

4 

12 

314 

2021
£m

258 

51 

5 

31 

345 

2023
Number

23,209

34,446

12,589

70,244

2022
Number

2021
Number

22,946  

23,562 

34,642  

36,909 

11,542  

69,130  

10,874 

71,345 

–

21,292  

20,616 

70,244

90,422

91,961

Note: Consumer Healthcare was divested on 18 July 2022 and is shown as Discontinued Operations in the above table.

The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the 
end of each financial year are given in the financial record on page 276. 

The compensation of the Directors and senior management (members of the GLT) in aggregate, was as follows:

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Pension and other post-employment costs

Cost of share-based incentive plans

2023
£m

37 

4 

1 

32 

74 

2022
£m

31 

5 

2 

28 

66 

2021
£m

27 

3 

3 

27 

60 

Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the sections of the Annual Report on remuneration labelled as 
audited within pages 143 to 149.

199

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

10. Major restructuring costs

Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the 
business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D 
sites, are likely to take several years to complete. 

Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration costs 
following material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related projects 
exceed £25 million. 

In January 2020, the Board approved a Separation Preparation programme to prepare for the separation of GSK into two 
companies. This programme is largely complete. After the acquisition of Sierra Oncology (July 2022) and Affinivax (August 2022), 
the Board approved a Major restructuring programme for the integration of significant acquisitions designed to integrate and 
achieve synergies. In June 2023 GSK acquired Bellus Health Inc.

The total restructuring costs of £382 million in 2023 (2022: £321 million; 2021: £424 million) were incurred in the following areas: 

– Restructuring costs for separation of GSK into two companies
– Continued transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital 

synergies, simplification of applications and staff reductions

– The integration of acquisitions.

The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes was as follows:

Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 32)

Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 32)

Impairment losses recognised

Other non-cash charges/(credit)

Other cash costs

2023
£m

172 

(55)   

33 

86 

146 

382 

2022
£m

138 

(111)   

122 

(7)   

179 

321 

2021
£m

321 

(140) 

14 

25 

204 

424 

Provision reversals of £55 million reflected provision releases mainly related to the Separation Preparation programme. Asset 
impairments of £33 million and other non-cash charges of £86 million principally comprised fixed asset write-downs of 
manufacturing and administrative facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been shortened in the supply chain 
manufacturing network as a result of the Major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and 
include site closure costs, consultancy and project management costs.

The analysis of Major restructuring charges by programme was as follows:

Separation Preparation programme

Significant acquisitions

Legacy programmes

Separation Preparation programme

Significant acquisitions

Legacy programmes

The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income statement line was as follows:

Cost of sales

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

Cash
£m

199 

65 

(1)   

263 

Non-cash
£m

117 

1 

1 

119 

Cash
£m

177 

20 

9 

206 

2023
£m

164 

216 

2 

382 

Non-cash
£m

110 

– 

5 

115 

2022
£m

102 

180 

39 

321 

2023

Total
£m

316 

66 

– 

382 

2022

Total
£m

287 

20 

14 

321 

2021
£m

102 

277 

45 

424 

200

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

11. Finance income

Finance income arising from:

Financial assets measured at amortised cost

Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss

Net gains arising from the forward element of forward contracts in net investment hedge relationships

Other finance income

12. Finance expense

Finance expense arising on:

Financial liabilities at amortised cost

Net losses arising from:

Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss

Retranslation of loans

Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income

Unwinding of discounts on provisions

Finance expense arising on lease liabilities

Other finance expense

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

48 

60 

– 

7 

115 

31 

31 

12 

2 

76 

11 

2 

– 

1 

14 

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

(672)   

(789)   

(735) 

(23)   

25 

(4)   

(15)   

(38)   

(65)   

(792)   

743 

(761)   

(2)   

(7)   

(30)   

(33)   

(879)   

(565) 

565 

(2) 

(2) 

(27) 

(3) 

(769) 

201

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

13. Associates and joint ventures

The Group’s share of after-tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:

Share of after-tax (losses)/profits of associates

Share of after-tax losses of joint ventures

2023
£m

(2)   

(3)   

(5)   

2022
£m

1 

(3)   

(2)   

2021
£m

36 

(3) 

33 

During the year, the Group disposed of an investment in a joint venture for £nil consideration, with the release of related 
commitments for future capital contributions resulting in a net £1 million profit on disposal.  

In May 2021, the Group agreed with Innoviva Inc. to sell all of its shares in Innoviva back to Innoviva for £277 million. Following the 
disposal, at 31 December 2023, 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, the Group held no significant individual associates. 

Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva until May 2021 is set out below. 

The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information below represent the estimated earnings of 
Innoviva in the relevant periods, based on publicly available information. Figures for 2021 include share of Innoviva’s turnover, profit 
and total comprehensive income until the date of the disposal.

Turnover

Profit after taxation

Total comprehensive income

Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:

Share of after-tax losses

Share of other comprehensive income/(expense)

Share of total comprehensive income/(expense)

2023
£m

(5)   

7 

2 

2022
£m

(2)   

(9)   

(11)   

The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £nil in 2023 (2022: £nil; 2021: £nil). 

Please refer to the balance sheet information on Note 21, 'Investments in associates and joint ventures'.

2021
£m

108 

106 

106 

2021
£m

– 

28 

28 

202

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

14. Taxation

The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.

Taxation charge based on profits for the year

UK current year charge

Rest of World current year charge

Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods

Current taxation

Deferred taxation

2023
£m

207 

1,371 

43 

1,621 

(865)   

756 

2022
£m

200 

1,351 

(60)   

1,491 

(784)   

707 

2021
£m

119 

593 

219 

931 

(848) 

83 

In 2023, GSK made corporate income tax payments globally of £1.3 billion (2022: £1.5 billion), of which £205 million (2022: £48 
million) was UK corporation tax paid to HMRC. These amounts are for corporate income tax only, and do not include the various 
other business taxes borne by GSK each year.

The deferred tax credits in each period reflect current year losses where offset against taxable profits in future periods is probable 
and the release of deferred tax liabilities. The latter relates primarily to the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets.

The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax 
charge for the year.

Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits

Profit before tax

UK statutory rate of taxation

Differences in overseas taxation rates

Benefit of intellectual property incentives

R&D credits

Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers

Other permanent differences

Re-assessments of prior year current tax estimates

Re-assessments of prior year deferred tax estimates

Changes in tax rates

Tax charge/tax rate

2023
£m

6,064 

1,425 

159 

(696) 

(121) 

10 

102 

43 

(147) 

(19) 

756 

2023
%

 23.5 

 2.6 

 (11.5)   

 (2.0)   

 0.2 

 1.7 

 0.7 

 (2.4)   

 (0.3)   

 12.5 

2022
£m

5,628 

1,069 

318 

(600) 

(119) 

275 

82 

(60) 

(233) 

(25) 

707 

2022
%

 19.0 

 5.6 

 (10.7)   

 (2.1)   

 4.9 

 1.5 

 (1.1)   

 (4.1)   

 (0.4)   

 12.6 

2021
£m

3,599 

685 

302 

(382) 

(100) 

(3) 

(4) 

219 

(281) 

(353) 

83 

2021
%

 19.0 

 8.4 

 (10.6) 

 (2.8) 

 (0.1) 

 (0.1) 

 6.1 

 (7.8) 

 (9.8) 

 2.3 

As a global biopharmaceutical company, we have a substantial business and employment presence in many countries around the 
world. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than 
the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2023 were Belgium and Japan. This adverse impact was offset by the benefit 
of intellectual property incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Innovation Income Deduction regimes, which provide a 
reduced rate of corporation tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. We claim these incentives in the manner intended by the 
relevant statutory or regulatory framework.

Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers in 2022 includes tax on internal restructuring to simplify the group 
structure.

The Group’s tax rate is also influenced by updates to estimates of prior period tax liabilities following closure of open issues with tax 
authorities in various jurisdictions and changes in tax rates. The cumulative impact of these items in 2023 is a 2% reduction in the 
tax rate.

In 2021, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the enactment of the increase in the headline rate of UK corporate 
income tax from 19% to 25% (effective 2023). 

Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings, 
the location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our 
tax affairs up to date around the world.

During 2023 the UK Government substantively enacted legislation introducing a global minimum corporate income tax rate, to have 
effect from 2024 in line with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Pillar Two model framework. 
We anticipate that the rules will restrict our ability to benefit from innovation incentives, such as the UK and Belgium Patent Box 
regimes, and consequently our underlying effective tax rate is forecast to increase by around 2% from 2024.

203

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

14. Taxation continued

Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income

Current taxation

Share-based payments

Defined benefit plans

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Fair value movements on equity investments

Deferred taxation

Share-based payments

Defined benefit plans

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Fair value movements on equity investments

Total charge/(credit) to equity and statement of comprehensive income

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

(1)   

(143)   

– 

(6)   

(150)   

(6)   

184 

(1)   

(8)   

169 

19 

(3)   

– 

– 

12 

9 

11 

(211)   

(9)   

(68)   

(277)   

(268)   

– 

– 

5 

36 

41 

(11) 

223 

3 

(167) 

48 

89 

All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments. 

Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at 
a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD 
guidelines, we base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle and support our transfer prices with economic analysis 
and reports. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute further profit to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction 
potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters as the 
deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. GSK applies a risk based approach to 
determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to obtain 
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.

The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of 
certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, 
as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2023 the Group had recognised provisions of £584 million in 
respect of such uncertain tax positions (2022: £551 million). The net increase in recognised provisions during 2023 was driven by the 
reassessment of estimates, the agreement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions and amounts 
related to discontinued operations. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is 
dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the Group continues 
to consider that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax authorities.

A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £165 million as at 31 December 2023 (2022: £157 million) has been made in respect of 
taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of 
unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £18 billion (2022: £16 billion), the majority of these unremitted 
profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions 
provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary 
differences of £869 million (2022: £660 million) arising on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future 
reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.

204

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

14. Taxation continued

Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities

At 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Credit/(charge) to income statement

Credit/(charge) to statement of comprehensive 
income

Acquisitions/Disposals

R&D credits utilisation

Transfer of assets for sale/distribution

At 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Credit/(charge) to income statement

Credit/(charge) to statement of comprehensive 
income

Acquisitions/Disposals

R&D credits utilisation

At 31 December 2023

Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m

Intangible
assets
£m

Contingent 
consideration
£m

Pensions & 
other post 
employment 
benefits
£m

Intra-
Group
profit
£m

Share
option
and award
schemes
£m

Other
net
temporary
differences
£m

Tax
losses
£m

Total

(211)   

(3,711)   

(29)   

(264)   

122 

126 

850 

– 

142 

999 

(40)   

258 

640 

1,450 

64 

6 

91 

1 

(32)   

104 

(22)   

1,554 

1,662 

160 

190 

(102) 

888 

– 

– 

(1)   

(637)   

– 

62 

– 

3,667 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

182 

– 

– 

42 

67 

– 

(11)   

(12)   

201 

– 

– 

76 

(495) 

(76)   

(76) 

(118)   

(60)   

(8)   

(2)   

(250)    3,291 

(57)   

(819)   

992 

1,099 

794 

1,661 

11 

72 

– 

– 

– 

58 

229 

– 

(144)   

– 

– 

(70)   

(24)   

(2)   

(71)   

223 

(15)   

335 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(184)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

26 

(676)   

921 

1,252 

571 

1,994 

57 

– 

12 

5 

– 

– 

74 

1,642 

  5,369 

(100)   

(127) 

80 

865 

10 

– 

(169) 

(144) 

(56)   

(56) 

1,576 

  5,738 

Deferred tax liabilities in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising as a result of historic 
business combinations. Acquisitions within the year predominantly relate to Bellus Health (see Note 41, 'Acquisitions and disposals'). 

The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable 
to minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.

A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the 
consolidated accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference 
arises that will reverse at the point in time inventory is sold externally.

The deferred tax asset of £1,994 million (2022: £1,661 million) recognised on tax losses relates to trading losses. Such deferred tax 
assets are only recognised to the extent Group long-range forecasts indicate sufficient future taxable profits will be available to 
utilise such assets by around 2030. Other net temporary differences included accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only 
available on a paid basis.

Deferred tax asset and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:

Deferred tax assets

Deferred tax liabilities

Unrecognised tax losses

Trading losses expiring:

Within 10 years

More than 10 years

Available indefinitely

At 31 December

Capital losses expiring:

Available indefinitely

At 31 December

Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.

2023
£m

6,049 

(311)   

5,738 

2022
£m

5,658 

(289) 

5,369 

2022

Unrecognised 
deferred tax 
asset
£m

Tax losses
£m

2023

Unrecognised 
deferred tax 
asset
£m

Tax losses
£m

939 

1,238 

228 

2,405 

2,261 

2,261 

149 

66 

47 

262 

567 

567 

967 

44 

192 

1,203 

2,326 

2,326 

175 

13 

41 

229 

548 

548 

205

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

15. Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share from continuing operations

Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations

Total basic earnings per share

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations

Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations

Total diluted earnings per share

2023
pence

121.6 

– 

121.6 

119.9 

– 

119.9 

2022
pence

110.8 

260.6 

371.4 

109.2 

257.0 

366.2 

2021
pence

82.9 

26.7 

109.6 

81.8 

26.4 

108.2 

Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of 
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts for the future exercise of share options and share 
awards and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their rights to cash dividends on the GSK shares held by the ESOP Trusts.

Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic 
calculation to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share 
schemes where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance 
conditions attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date. 

The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.

Weighted average number of shares in issue

Basic

Dilution for share options and awards

Diluted

16. Dividends

2023
millions

4,052 

59 

4,111 

2022
millions

4,026 

58 

4,084 

2021
millions

4,003 

49 

4,052 

First interim

Paid/payable

13 July 2023  

Second interim

12 October 2023  

Third interim

Fourth interim

Total

11 January 2024  

11 April 2024  

Dividend
per share
(pence)

14.00 

14.00 

14.00 

16.00 

58.00 

2023

Total
dividend
£m

Dividend
per share
(pence)

Paid

567 

1 July 2022  

568  6 October 2022  

568 

12 January 2023  

649 

2,352 

13 April 2023  

17.50 

16.25 

13.75 

13.75 

61.25 

2022

Total
dividend
£m

704 

654 

Paid

8 July 2021

7 October 2021

555 

13 January 2022  

557* 

7 April 2022  

2,470 

Dividend
per share
(pence)

23.75 

23.75 

23.75 

28.75 

100 

2021

Total
dividend
£m

951 

951 

952 

1,157 

4,011 

*  The estimate for the fourth interim dividend for 2022 disclosed in the 2022 annual report was £555 million, £2 million less than the dividend that was ultimately paid.

Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays 
a dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2023 financial statements 
recognise those dividends paid in 2023, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2022, and the first and second interim 
dividends for 2023.

The demerger of Consumer Healthcare in 2022 was effected by GSK declaring an interim dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares. 
The fair value of the distribution was £15,526 million.

The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:

Cash dividends to shareholders

Dividends in specie to shareholders in Haleon plc shares (Note 41)

2023
£m

2,247 

– 

2,247 

2022
£m

3,467 

15,526 

18,993 

2021
£m

3,999 

– 

3,999 

206

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

17. Property, plant and equipment

Cost at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Additions through business combinations

Other additions

Capitalised borrowing costs

Disposals and write-offs

Reclassifications

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Cost at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Additions through business combinations

Other additions

Capitalised borrowing costs

Disposals and write-offs

Reclassifications

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Cost at 31 December 2023

Depreciation at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Charge for the year

Disposals and write-offs

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Depreciation at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Charge for the year

Disposals and write-offs

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reclassifications

Depreciation at 31 December 2023

Impairment at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Disposals and write-offs

Impairment losses

Reversal of impairments

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Impairment at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Disposals and write-offs

Impairment losses

Reversal of impairments

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reclassifications

Impairment at 31 December 2023

Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2022

Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2023

Net book value at 1 January 2022

Net book value at 31 December 2022

Net book value at 31 December 2023

Land and
buildings
£m

Plant,
equipment
and vehicles
£m

Assets in
construction
£m

7,212 

403 

5 

13 

– 

11,816 

542 

8 

79 

– 

(64)   

146 

(222)   

689 

(1,067)   

(1,959)   

6,648 

10,953 

(189)   

(265)   

– 

11 

– 

(136)   

134 

(13)   

– 

99 

– 

(732)   

701 

(52)   

1,750 

105 

17 

1,153 

21 

(5)   

(874)   

(317)   

1,850 

(44)   

– 

1,185 

36 

(16)   

(869)   

(22)   

Total
£m

20,778 

1,050 

30 

1,245 

21 

(291) 

(39) 

(3,343) 

19,451 

(498) 

– 

1,295 

36 

(884) 

(34) 

(87) 

6,455 

10,704 

2,120 

19,279 

(3,281)   

(6,744)   

(191)   

(226)   

47 

376 

(310)   

(726)   

181 

1,130 

(3,275)   

(6,469)   

90 

153 

(210)   

(682)   

66 

6 

– 

662 

29 

(4)   

(3,323)   

(6,311)   

(264)   

(9)   

9 

(33)   

– 

37 

(514)   

(14)   

47 

(45)   

9 

45 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(43)   

(1)   

5 

(5)   

– 

2 

(10,025) 

(501) 

(952) 

228 

1,506 

(9,744) 

243 

(892) 

728 

35 

(4) 

(9,634) 

(821) 

(24) 

61 

(83) 

9 

84 

(260)   

(472)   

(42)   

(774) 

4 

27 

(11)   

3 

– 

– 

(237)   

(3,535)   

(3,560)   

3,667 

3,113 

2,895 

7 

114 

(32)   

23 

– 

– 

(360)   

(6,941)   

(6,671)   

4,558 

4,012 

4,033 

1 

13 

– 

– 

– 

– 

12 

154 

(43) 

26 

– 

– 

(28)   

(42)   

(28)   

1,707 

1,808 

2,092 

(625) 

(10,518) 

(10,259) 

9,932 

8,933 

9,020 

207

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

17. Property, plant and equipment continued

The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2022: 4%). Disposals and write-offs in the 
year included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.

The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and were calculated based on fair value less costs of 
disposal. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable 
market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations determine 
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a 
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific 
segment, country and currency risk. 

Assets that continue to be used by the Group are generally assessed as part of their associated cash generating unit on a value in 
use basis. For value in use calculations, the post-tax cash flows do not include the impact of future uncommitted restructuring plans 
or improvements. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially different 
result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-
tax discount rate of approximately 9%. 

Net impairment reversals have been credited to cost of sales: £1 million  (2022: net impairment losses £11 million) and R&D: £5 million 
(2022: net impairment losses £7 million). Net impairment losses have been charged to SG&A: £23 million (2022: £55 million), after 
charging impairment losses of £27 million (2022: £34 million) arising from the Major restructuring programmes.

Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original 
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. £17 million of the impairment reversal has been credited to cost of sales, £5 million of 
the impairment reversal has been credited to R&D expenses and £4 million of the impairment reversal has been credited to SG&A. 
During 2022, the full impairment reversal of £9 million was credited to cost of sales.

During 2023, £34 million (2022: £39 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible assets  
on becoming ready for use.

The Group has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and 
concluded that there are no material impairments. As of 31 December 2023, £53 million has been capitalised in property, plant and 
equipment regarding the transition to a lower-carbon propellant.

18. Right of use assets

Net book value at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Additions through business combinations

Other additions

Depreciation

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Disposals

Impairments

Net book value at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Additions through business combinations

Other additions

Depreciation

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Disposals

Impairments

Reclassifications

Net book value at 31 December 2023

Land and 
buildings 
£m

Plant and 
equipment
£m

Vehicles
£m

633 

47 

53 

140 

(131)   

(115)   

(27)   

(39)   

561 

(30)   

1 

355 

(121)   

– 

(11)   

(10)   

6 

751 

9 

– 

– 

2 

(3)   

(1)   

(1)   

– 

6 

– 

– 

– 

(2)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

4 

98 

8 

– 

91 

(58)   

(11)   

(8)   

– 

120 

(6)   

– 

144 

(67)   

– 

(9)   

– 

– 

182 

Total
£m

740 

55 

53 

233 

(192) 

(127) 

(36) 

(39) 

687 

(36) 

1 

499 

(190) 

– 

(20) 

(10) 

6 

937 

The Group has entered into some commitments for lease contracts that have not yet commenced. See Note 36, 'Commitments'.

An analysis of lease liabilities is set out in Note 30, ‘Net debt’. 

208

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

19. Goodwill

Cost at 1 January

Exchange adjustments

Additions through business combinations (Note 41)

Other movements (Note 41)

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Cost at 31 December

Net book value at 1 January

Net book value at 31 December

All goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:

Commercial operations

Total R&D

Net book value at 31 December

2023
£m

7,046 

(313)   

109 

(31)   

2022
£m

10,552 

550 

1,127 

– 

– 

(5,183) 

6,811 

7,046 

6,811 

7,046 

10,552 

7,046 

2023
£m

5,951 

860 

6,811 

2022
£m

6,148 

898 

7,046 

The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less 
costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-
adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value. 

The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7% (2022: 7%), as most cash generating units have integrated operations 
across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks. 
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation 
technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.

The R&D segment is evaluated on an arm's length pricing model, see assumptions below.

Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests are as follows:

Valuation basis

Key assumptions

Determination of assumptions

Fair value less costs of disposal

Sales growth rates 
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate

Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each jurisdiction.

Period of specific projected cash flows

Five years 

Terminal growth rate and discount rate

Terminal growth rate

Discount rate

2023

Commercial operations

R&D

2022

Commercial operations

R&D

0% p.a

0% p.a

0% p.a

0% p.a

7% p.a

7% p.a

7% p.a

7% p.a

The terminal growth rate does not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for relevant markets, reflects the impact of future 
generic competition and take account of new product launches. Goodwill is monitored for impairment at the segmental level and 
the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an 
impairment of the related goodwill.

The Group has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and 
concluded that there are no material impairments.

209

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

20. Other intangible assets

Cost at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Capitalised development costs

Additions through business combinations

Other additions

Disposals and asset write-offs

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reclassifications

Cost at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Capitalised development costs

Additions through business combinations

Other additions

Disposals and asset write-offs

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reclassifications

Cost at 31 December 2023

Amortisation at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Charge for the year

Disposals and asset write-offs

Transfer to assets held for sale

Amortisation at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Charge for the year

Disposals and asset write-offs

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reclassifications

Amortisation at 31 December 2023

Impairment at 1 January 2022

Exchange adjustments

Impairment losses

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reversal of impairments

Disposals and asset write-offs

Impairment at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Impairment losses

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Reversal of impairments

Disposals and asset write-offs

Impairment at 31 December 2023

Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2022

Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2023

Net book value at 1 January 2022

Net book value at 31 December 2022

Net book value at 31 December 2023

Computer
software
£m
2,424 

Licences, patents, 
amortised brands 
£m
21,439 

63 

– 

– 

149 

(203)   

(513)   

39 

1,959 

(30)   

– 

– 

144 

(125)   

2 

34 

1,984 

(1,369)   

(33)   

(204)   

129 

254 

(1,223)   

18 

(203)   

100 

(3)   

4 

934 

317 

2,964 

626 

(33)   

(496)   

(34)   

25,717 

(664)   

363 

1,438 

525 

(13)   

– 

(3)   

27,363 

(8,262)   

(307)   

(931)   

19 

300 

(9,181)   

174 

(1,009)   

8 

– 

1 

(1,307)   

(10,007)   

(91)   

(2)   

(72)   

10 

1 

73 

(81)   

1 

(23)   

– 

3 

25 

(2,480)   

(138)   

(313)   

34 

17 

7 

(2,873)   

70 

(398)   

– 

– 

11 

(75)   

(3,190)   

(1,304)   

(1,382)   

964 

655 

602 

(12,054)   

(13,197)   

10,697 

13,663 

14,166 

Indefinite life
brands
£m
18,626 

1,112 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(19,772)   

34 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(208)   

(1)   

(17)   

226 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

18,418 

– 

– 

Total
£m
42,489 

2,109 

317 

2,964 

775 

(236) 

(20,781) 

39 

27,676 

(694) 

363 

1,438 

669 

(138) 

2 

31 

29,347 

(9,631) 

(340) 

(1,135) 

148 

554 

(10,404) 

192 

(1,212) 

108 

(3) 

5 

(11,314) 

(2,779) 

(141) 

(402) 

270 

18 

80 

(2,954) 

71 

(421) 

– 

3 

36 

(3,265) 

(13,358) 

(14,579) 

30,079 

14,318 

14,768 

The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2022: 4%).

The net book value of computer software included £270 million (2022: £479 million) of internally generated costs.

The carrying value at 31 December 2023 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged in the year following those 
impairments, was £533 million (2022: £83 million), resulting from the appraisal of GSK’s assumptions related to in-licences and 
collaboration agreements. The carrying value at 31 December 2023 of intangible assets, for which impairment reversals have been 
charged in the year following those impairment reversals, was £nil million (2022: £776 million). No individual intangible asset 
accounted for a material impairment.

210

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

20. Other intangible assets continued

The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 281 to 283. Please refer to Note 
2, 'Accounting principles and policies' to the Group’s accounting policy and estimate of the useful life for intangible assets over the 
exclusivity and non-exclusivity periods.

Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:

Cost of sales

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

Amortisation

Net impairment losses

2023
£m

668 

103 

441 

1,212 

2022
£m

663 

116 

307 

1,086 

2023
£m

1 

18 

399 

418 

2022
£m

2 

66 

299 

367 

Licences, patents, amortised brands etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and 
marketing rights, which are either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 41, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of 
additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:

Tesaro Assets

Meningitis Portfolio

Momelotinib

Camlipixant

Affinivax Assets

Dolutegravir (including Cabotegravir)

Iteos Assets

Alector Assets

Benlysta

Shingrix

Okairos

BMS Assets

CureVac Assets

Spero

RSV

Relvar/Breo/Anoro

Stiefel Trade Name

Wave Life Sciences

UCB

Arrowhead

DT

Fluarix/FluLaval

Vir Assets

Others

2023
£m

2,656 

1,717 

1,470 

1,438 

1,429 

1,059 

443 

425 

424 

289 

198 

191 

191 

163 

139 

125 

116 

116 

115 

114 

104 

100 

1 

2022
£m

2,858 

1,855 

1,499 

– 

1,473 

1,150 

443 

509 

541 

288 

202 

196 

178 

163 

40 

181 

142 

– 

137 

90 

115 

147 

159 

1,143 

14,166 

1,297 

13,663 

After announcement on 13 December 2022, GSK and Wave Life Sciences Ltd. entered into a strategic collaboration in January 
2023, to advance oligonucleotide therapeutics focusing on novel genetic targets.

On 28 June 2023, GSK has completed the acquisition of Bellus Health Inc, a late-stage biopharmaceutical company. The 
acquisition provides GSK access to camlipixant. (Refer to Note 41, 'Acquisitions and disposals').

The Group does not consider that any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of 
the intangible assets disclosed above to fall below their carrying values.

The Group has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and 
concluded that there are no material impairments.

211

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

21. Investments in associates and joint ventures

At 1 January

Exchange adjustments

Additions

Disposals

Distributions received

Net fair value movements through other comprehensive income

Impairment of interest in associates

Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income 
  statement

At 31 December

Joint
ventures
£m

Associates
£m

2023
Total
£m

Joint
ventures
£m

Associates
£m

10 

– 

– 

(7)   

– 

– 

– 

(3)   

– 

64 

(3)   

– 

– 

(11)   

7 

– 

(2)   

55 

74 

(3)   

– 

(7)   

(11)   

7 

– 

(5)   

55 

12 

1 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(3)   

10 

76 

1 

1 

– 

(6)   

(9)   

– 

1 

64 

2022
Total
£m

88 

2 

1 

– 

(6) 

(9) 

– 

(2) 

74 

During the year, the Group disposed of an investment in a joint venture for £nil consideration. 

Please refer to the income statement information in Note 13, 'Associates and joint ventures'.

22. Current equity investments

Current

At 1 January

Additions

Net fair value movements through profit or loss

Disposals and Settlements

Exchange adjustments

At 31 December

Investments 
measured at 
FVTPL
2023
£m

Investments 
measured at 
FVTPL
2022
£m

4,087 

– 

(17)   
(1,863)   

(3)   

– 

3,852 

233 
– 

2 

2,204 

4,087 

Current equity investments represent Haleon plc shares held after the demerger of Consumer Healthcare. Shares are held for 
trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) based on the Haleon plc share price. Changes in fair value are 
presented as Other operating income/(expense) in continuing operations. The Group’s investment in Haleon plc at the end of 
December 2023 is held by Glaxo Group Limited, 2.8% (2022: 5.4%), GSK Scottish Limited Partnership (No.1), 4.6% (2022: 4.7%), GSK 
Scottish Limited Partnership (No.2), nil (2022: 1.8%), GSK Scottish Limited Partnership (No.3), nil (2022: 1.0%) and the ESOP Trusts, nil 
(2022: 0.6%). 

212

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

23. Other investments

Non-current

1 January

Exchange adjustments

Additions

Net fair value movements through other comprehensive income

Net fair value movements through profit or loss

Held for sale

Disposals

31 December

Investments 
designated as 
measured at 
FVTOCI
£m

Investments 
measured at 
FVTPL
£m

1,153 

(26)   

93 

(253)   

– 

(16)   

(20)   

931 

314 

(15)   

29 

– 

(122)   

– 

– 

206 

Investments 
designated as 
measured at 
FVTOCI
£m

Investments 
measured at 
FVTPL
£m

1,927 

75 

87 

(716)   

– 

– 

(220)   

1,153 

199 

25 

63 

– 

27 

– 

– 

314 

2023
£m

1,467 

(41)   

122 

(253)   

(122)   

(16)   

(20)   

1,137 

2022
£m

2,126 

100 

150 

(716) 

27 

– 

(220) 

1,467 

Non-current other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet 
date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted 
bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, 
including the current market value of similar instruments, recent financing rounds and discounted cash flows of the underlying net 
assets. Net fair value movements include the impact of exchange losses of £37 million through Other comprehensive income and 
£nil through profit or loss (2022: gains of £134 million through Other comprehensive income and £nil through profit or loss). Other 
investments include listed investments of £741 million (2022: £823 million).  

GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through Other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2023 were in Crispr Therapeutics AG, which had a fair 
value at 31 December 2023 of £158 million (2022: £109 million) and Vir Biotechnology.Inc. which had a fair value at 31 December 
2023 of £67 million (2022: £180 million). The fair value of the investment in Nimbus Therapeutics, LLC, disclosed as a significant 
investment at 31 December 2022, was £5 million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £139 million). The other investments include equity 
stakes in companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in companies which provide access to biotechnology 
developments of potential interest. 

On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair value 
reserve to retained earnings. Investments measured at FVTOCI with a fair value of £20 million (2022: £220 million) were disposed of 
during the year. The cumulative loss on these investments after tax was £26 million (2022: gain of £14 million).

Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives and investments acquired with an intention to sell, are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2023 was SR 
One Capital Fund I-B, LP which had a fair value at 31 December 2023 of £102 million (2022: £211 million). 

24. Other non-current assets

Amounts receivable under insurance contracts

Pension schemes in surplus

Other receivables

2023
£m

854 

634 

96 

1,584 

2022
£m

857 

229 

108 

1,194 

Amounts receivable under insurance contracts are held at cash surrender value with movements through profit or loss.

Within the other receivables of £96 million (2022: £108 million), £27 million (2022: £34 million) is classified as financial assets of 
which £18 million (2022: £13 million) is classified as fair value through profit or loss. On the remaining balance of £9 million 
(2022: £21 million), the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2023 and 2022. 

Other receivables include £7 million relating to carbon-based nature removal projects (2022: £2 million). 

213

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

25. Inventories

Raw materials and consumables

Work in progress

Finished goods

2023
£m

1,594 

2,449 

1,455 

5,498 

2022
£m

1,576 

2,286 

1,284 

5,146 

As part of the TCFD one of the climate-related risks identified affects the metered dose inhalers (MDI). There is no impact on the 
recoverable value of the associated inventories held at year end.

26. Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables, net of loss allowance

Accrued income

Prepayments

Interest receivable

Employee loans and advances

Other receivables

2023
£m

5,905 

69 

355 

2 

9 

1,045 

7,385 

2022
£m

5,452 

19 

343 

2 

11 

1,226 

7,053 

There were no trade or other receivable balances (2022: £nil) due from associates and joint ventures. The most significant 
component of other receivables comprises receivables for indirect and other taxes of £565 million (2022: £492 million). Other 
significant balances within other receivables are royalties receivable of £226 million (2022: £188 million) and an amount receivable 
from collaboration partners of £nil (2022: £263 million).

Loss allowance - trade receivables

At 1 January

Exchange adjustments

Charge for the year

Transfer to assets held for sale

Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for

Utilised

At 31 December

2023
£m

91 

(6)   

11 

– 

(9)   

(2)   

85 

2022
£m

150 

9 

35 

(60) 

(19) 

(24) 

91 

Of the total trade receivables balance, £10 million (2022: £58 million) is considered credit impaired, against which a £8 million 
(2022: £26 million) expected credit loss allowance has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated credit impaired.

Within the other receivables of £1,045 million (2022: £1,226 million), £408 million (2022: £683 million) is classified as financial assets 
of which £nil (2022: £nil) is classified as held at fair value through profit or loss. At 31 December 2023, an expected credit loss 
allowance of £3 million (2022: £6 million) was recognised in respect of financial assets, with a release in expected credit loss 
allowance of £3 million (2022: £nil) reported in profit or loss during the year. 

For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 44, 'Financial instruments and related disclosures'.

214

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

27. Cash and cash equivalents

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash equivalents 

2023
£m

748 

2,188 

2,936 

2022
£m

879 

2,844 

3,723 

Cash and cash equivalents included £190 million (2022: £200 million) not available for general use due to restrictions applying in the 
subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on repatriation. During 2022, £1,421 million was 
transferred to assets held for sale relating to Consumer Healthcare which was demerged during that year (see Note 41, 'Acquisitions 
and disposals').

28. Assets held for sale

Property, plant and equipment

Other

2023
£m

60 

16 

76 

2022
£m

83 

15 

98 

Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be 
recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and 
fair value less costs to sell. 

215

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

29. Trade and other payables

Trade payables

Wages and salaries

Social security

ViiV Healthcare put option

Other payables

Deferred income

Customer return and rebate accruals

Other accruals

2023
£m

3,717 

1,683 

126 

848 

346 

222 

6,799 

2,103 

15,844 

2022
£m

3,866 

1,488 

126 

1,093 

418 

299 

6,627 

2,346 

16,263 

Trade and other payables included £nil (2022: £nil) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides limited supplier 
financing arrangements to certain suppliers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2023 were not material.

Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2023 was £192 million (2022: £85 million). 

Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of estimated rebates, discounts or 
allowances payable to customers as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 105. At 31 December 2023, 
customer return and rebate accruals included £5,781 million (2022: £5,717 million) in respect of US Commercial Operations. Accruals 
are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the 
sale. As the amounts are estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, 
amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in 
light of historical experience of actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions 
on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.

Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at 
any time and if either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK 
to acquire its shareholding. The amount of the liability for this put option, which is held on the gross redemption basis, is derived 
from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow and multiples-based 
methodologies.

The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to 
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.

Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement

10% increase in sales forecasts*

15% increase in sales forecasts*

10% decrease in sales forecasts*

15% decrease in sales forecast*

1% (100 basis points) increase in discount rate

1.50% (150 basis points) increase in discount rate

1% (100 basis points) decrease in discount rate

1.50% (150 basis points) decrease in discount rate

10 cent appreciation of US Dollar

15 cent appreciation of US Dollar

10 cent depreciation of US Dollar

15 cent depreciation of US Dollar

10 cent appreciation of Euro

15 cent appreciation of Euro

10 cent depreciation of Euro

15 cent depreciation of Euro

2023
£m
84 

126 

(84)   

(126)   

(18)   

(26)   

19 

28 

54 

85 

(46)   

(67)   

22 

34 

(18)   

(26)   

*  The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the ViiV Healthcare put option.

Other accruals includes interest accrued on financial liabilities at amortised cost of £162 million  (2022: £207 million).

An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 84.

2022
£m
100 

149 

(99) 

(149) 

(32) 

(48) 

35 

53 

66 

103 

(56) 

(80) 

29 

46 

(24) 

(35) 

216

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

30. Net debt

Current assets:

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Short-term borrowings:

Commercial paper

Bank loans, overdrafts and other

0.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023

0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023

0.534% US$ Medium Term Note 2023

3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024

1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024

Lease liabilities

Long-term borrowings:

Listing exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024

New York Stock Exchange

1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024

4.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2025

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025

New York Stock Exchange

1.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026

1.250% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026

3.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2027

3.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2027

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

2023
£m

42 

2,936 

2,978 

(815)   

(191)   

– 

– 

– 

(784)   
(867)   

(156)   

2022
£m

67 

3,723 

3,790 

(1,191) 

(448) 

(665) 

(443) 

(1,038) 

– 

– 

(167) 

(2,813)   

(3,952) 

– 

– 

(650)   

(783)   

(608)   

(867)   

(434)   

(306)   

(829) 

(884) 

(663) 

(827) 

(620) 

(885) 

(442) 

(306) 

3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028

New York Stock Exchange

(1,370)   

(1,450) 

0.883% ¥ Euro Medium Term Note 2028

1.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2028

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2029

New York Stock Exchange

1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2029

1.750% € Euro Medium Term Note 2030

3.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2032

5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2033

5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034

1.625% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2035

6.375% US$ US Medium Note 2038

6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039

5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2042

4.200%US$ US Medium Term Note 2043

4.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2045

Other long-term borrowings

Lease liabilities

Net debt

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

London Stock Exchange

(235)   

(745)   

(778)   

(433)   

(650)   

(604)   

(566)   

(390)   

(745)   

– 

(744) 

(822) 

(441) 

(663) 

(616) 

(640) 

(412) 

(744) 

(2,139)   

(2,264) 

(627)   

(472)   

(385)   

(366)   

(1)   

(1,051)   

(695) 

(472) 

(408) 

(366) 

(1) 

(841) 

(15,205)   

(17,035) 

(15,040)   

(17,197) 

217

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

30. Net debt continued

Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost. At 31 December 2023, they included US Treasury Notes and 
other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2023 was approximately 0.9% (2022: 
approximately 0.1%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2023 earning interest at floating rates amount to £31 million 
(2022: £67 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2023 earning interest at fixed rates amount to £11 million (2022: 
£nil). 

Balances reported within cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less. The effective interest rate on 
cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2023 was approximately 4.7% (2022: approximately 3.1%). Cash and cash equivalents at 
31 December 2023 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amounted to £2,720 million and £38 million respectively (2022: £3,441 
and £10 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amounted to £178 million (2022: £272 million).

GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 44, ‘Financial instruments and related 
disclosures’.

Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.8 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $850 million (£667 million) was in issue at 
31 December 2023 (2022: $900 million (£748 million)). GSK has a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme, of which €170 
million (£148 million) was in issue at 31 December 2023 (2022: €500 million (£443 million)). GSK has a £1.6 billion three-year 
committed facility and $2.2 billion (£1.7 billion) 364 day committed facility. The three-year committed facility was agreed in February 
2022 and extended by one year in August 2023 to September 2026. The 364-day committed facility was agreed in September 
2023. These facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2023.

The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2023 was 5.1% (2022: 3.5%).

The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2023 was 4.6% (2022: 7.8%).

The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short-term at 31 December 2023 was 2.4% (2022: 0.4%). 

Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £15.2 billion (2022: £17.0 billion), of which £8.7 billion (2022: £11.1 billion) fell due in 
more than five years. 

During 2023 through a bilateral buyback for outstanding Sterling Notes, GSK repurchased £76m of the 5.250% £ Euro Medium Term 
Note 2033 and £69m of the 6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039.

The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2023 was approximately 3.7% (2022: 
approximately 3.5%).

Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.5% and 6.6%, with repayment dates 
ranging from 2029 to 2045.

Both effective rates exclude the impact of one-off premiums associated with the early repayment of the Sterling Notes.

Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $54 million (£42 million), (2022: $56 million 
(£47 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance 
activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 32, 
'Other provisions’. 

Lease liabilities
The maturity analysis of discounted lease liabilities recognised on the Group balance sheet is as follows:

Rental payments due within one year

Rental payments due between one and two years

Rental payments due between two and three years

Rental payments due between three and four years

Rental payments due between four and five years

Rental payments due after five years

Total lease liabilities

2023
£m

156 

214 

134 

114 

88 

501 

1,207 

2022
£m

167 

201 

127 

97 

80 

336 

1,008 

218

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits

Pension and other post-employment costs

UK pension schemes

US pension schemes

Other overseas pension schemes

Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes

Analysed as:

Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes

Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes

Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes

Defined benefit schemes

Defined contribution pension schemes

2023
£m

96 

56 

146 

58 

356 

134 

35 

58 

227 

129 

356 

2022
£m

114 

48 

154 

53 

369 

152 

31 

53 

236 

133 

369 

2021
£m

185 

40 

153 

37 

415 

231 

23 

37 

291 

124 

415 

The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:

Cost of sales

Selling, general and administration

Research and development

2023
£m

94 

91 

42 

227 

2022
£m

104 

90 

42 

236 

2021
£m

106 

136 

49 

291 

GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. 
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be 
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds 
arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based 
on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service. 

Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit credit method. In 
certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, 
independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years. 

Remeasurement movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are 
derived from AA rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where 
government bond yields are used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected 
inflation rates and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed 
interest government bonds. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS S3 standard mortality tables to reflect 
recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2022 
projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.0% per year for both males and females. In the US, mortality rates are 
calculated using the PRI-2012 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected using MP-2020 to 
allow for future improvements in life expectancy.

219

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2043 for an individual then 
at the age of 60 is as follows:

Current

Projected for 2043

Male
Years

27.1

28.2

UK

Female
Years

28.0

29.2

Male
Years

27.3

28.9

US

Female
Years

28.7

30.2

The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a 
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and 
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset allocation 
strategy for three of the four UK plans is 36% in return-seeking assets and 64% in liability-matching assets. During 2019, a buy-in 
insurance contract was purchased to cover substantially all of the obligations of the other UK plan. At 31 December 2023, the value 
of the insurance contract was £387 million (2022: £402 million). The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at 25% return-
seeking assets and 75% liability-matching assets. 

The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the 
investment returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase. 

In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future 
pension obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a broad 
range of assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term 
inflation, equities, property, currency and bank counterparty risk. 

The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive to 
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-
term inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the 
liabilities. 

The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the plan 
liabilities. 

For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure of 
the plan liabilities. 

Climate-related impacts, along with other environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations, can be financially material 
with regard both to expected returns and to risk implications. The incorporation of such considerations into investment policy is 
subject to local regulations and fiduciary obligations.

In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former 
SmithKline Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK 
employees are entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement 
healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US. 

The UK defined benefit plans closed to future accrual effective from 31 March 2022. As a result, post closure the accrued benefits of 
active participants are revalued in line with inflation (RPI for the legacy Glaxo Wellcome plans and CPI for the legacy SmithKline 
Beecham plans subject to the relevant caps for each arrangement) rather than capped pay increases. From 1 April 2022, former 
defined benefits plans employees were transferred to the defined contribution plans. All defined benefit plan participants who were 
still active at 1 April 2022 received a defined pension contribution of £10,000 each in 2022. 

The US cash balance pension plan closed to future accrual from 1 January 2021.  

The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:

Rate of increase of future earnings

Discount rate

Expected pension increases

Cash balance credit/conversion rate

Inflation rate

2023
% pa

n/a

4.60

2.90

n/a

2.90

2022
% pa

n/a

4.80

3.10

n/a

3.10

UK

2021
% pa

2.00

2.00

3.20

n/a

3.20

2023
% pa

n/a

5.00

n/a

4.00

2.50

2022
% pa

n/a

5.30

n/a

3.90

2.50

US

2021
% pa

n/a

2.70

n/a

2.00

2.25

2023
% pa

3.20

3.10

2.50

0.60

2.00

Rest of World

2022
% pa

3.40

3.40

2.40

0.80

2.30

2021
% pa

2.90

1.10

2.30

0.20

1.90

Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 227. The analysis provided reflects the 
assumption changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group. 

220

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 
2023 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:

2023

Amounts charged to operating profit

Current service cost

Past service cost

Net interest cost

Gains from settlements

Expenses

Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of 
comprehensive income

2022

Amounts charged to operating profit

Current service cost

Past service cost/(credit)

Net interest (income)/cost

Gains from settlements

Expenses

UK
£m

– 

3 

(5)   

– 

14 

12 

28 

UK
£m

13 

6 

(11)   

– 

14 

22 

Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of 
comprehensive income

(1,169)   

2021

Amounts charged to operating profit

Current service cost

Past service cost/(credit)

Net interest (income)/cost

Gains from settlements

Expenses

UK
£m

53 

27 

3 

– 

15 

98 

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

Pensions

Group
£m

Post-retirement
benefits

Group
£m

5 

– 

35 

– 

16 

56 

45 

91 

– 

16 

(6)   

– 

101 

38 

96 

3 

46 

(6)   

30 

169 

111 

12 

– 

47 

– 

(1) 

58 

(40) 

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

Pensions

Group
£m

Post-retirement
benefits

Group
£m

7 

– 

20 

– 

21 

48 

36 

126 

– 

9 

(22)   

– 

113 

261 

146 

6 

18 

(22)   

35 

183 

22 

– 

32 

– 

(1) 

53 

(872)   

228 

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

Pensions

Group
£m

Post-retirement
benefits

Group
£m

9 

2 

18 

– 

12 

41 

119 

(10)   

7 

(2)   

2 

116 

181 

19 

28 

(2)   

29 

255 

17 

(3) 

22 

– 

– 

36 

Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of 
comprehensive income1

572 

98 

186 

856 

68 

The amounts included within past service costs in the UK included £3 million (2022: £6 million; 2021: £26 million) of augmentation 
costs which arose from Major restructuring programmes.

221

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set 
out in the table below:

Recognised in other non-current assets:

Pension schemes in surplus

Recognised in pensions and other post-employment benefits:

  Pension schemes in deficit

  Post-retirement benefits

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

634 

229 

741 

(1,397)   

(1,585)   

(943)   

(994)   

(2,340)   

(2,579)   

(1,870) 

(1,243) 

(3,113) 

In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of surplus 
assets following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes is 
recognised in full.

The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for 
other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:

At 31 December 2023

Equities: 

Multi-asset funds

Property: 

Corporate bonds: 

Government bonds: 

Insurance contracts

Other (liabilities)/assets

Fair value of assets

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

Present value of scheme obligations

Net surplus/(obligation)

Included in other non-current assets

Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits

Actual return on plan assets

UK
£m

1,647 

– 

852 

– 

467 

2,019 

– 

4,897 

990 

(1,374)   

9,498 

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

447 

349 

– 

– 

– 

119 

698 

– 

774 

– 

104 

2 

– 

– 

24 

205 

15 

527 

771 

89 

Group
£m

2,443 

2 

852 

– 

610 

2,922 

15 

6,198 

1,761 

(1,181) 

2,142 

1,982 

13,622 

(9,222)   

(2,757)   

(2,406)   

(14,385) 

276 

457 

(181)   

276 

647 

(615)   

(424)   

– 

(615)   

(615)   

196 

177 

(601)   

(424)   

138 

(763) 

634 

(1,397) 

(763) 

981 

The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes, 
increasing diversification within the growth portfolio. The value of funds in this asset class with a quoted market price is £209 million 
(2022: £211 million).  

The ‘Other (liabilities)/assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of derivative positions.

Index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan of £1,853 million at 
31 December 2023 (2022: £2,376 million; 2021: £513 million) is deducted within ‘Other assets’.

222

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

At 31 December 2022

Equities: 

Multi-asset funds

Property: 

Corporate bonds: 

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

–  unlisted

Government bonds: 

–  listed

Insurance contracts

Other (liabilities)/assets

Fair value of assets

Present value of scheme obligations

Net surplus/(obligation)

Included in other non-current assets

Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits

UK
£m

1,351 

– 

1,101 

– 

464 

1,692 

– 

4,048 

1,003 

(645)   

9,014 

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

437 

– 

– 

– 

140 

779 

– 

723 

– 

181 

371 

2 

– 

19 

1 

124 

15 

558 

691 

89 

2,260 

1,870 

Group
£m

2,159 

2 

1,101 

19 

605 

2,595 

15 

5,329 

1,694 

(375) 

13,144 

(9,117)   

(3,030)   

(2,353)   

(14,500) 

(103)   

(770)   

(483)   

(1,356) 

— 
109 

(212)   

(103)   

— 
– 

(770)   

(770)   

— 
120 

(603)   

(483)   

— 
229 

(1,585) 

(1,356) 

Actual return on plan assets

(4,710)   

(253)   

(550)   

(5,513) 

At 31 December 2021

Equities:

Multi-asset funds

Property:

Corporate bonds: 

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

–  unlisted

–  listed

–  unlisted

Government bonds:

–  listed

Insurance contracts

Other (liabilities)/assets

Fair value of assets

Asset ceiling restrictions

Present value of scheme obligations

Net surplus/(obligation)

Included in Other non-current assets

Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits

UK
£m

3,954 

– 

1,415 

– 

502 

1,503 

– 

5,054 

1,334 

(130)   

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

522 

– 

– 

– 

154 

975 

– 

724 

– 

149 

731 

4 

– 

68 

1 

140 

15 

984 

917 

72 

Group
£m

5,207 

4 

1,415 

68 

657 

2,618 

15 

6,762 

2,251 

91 

13,632 

2,524 

2,932 

19,088 

– 

– 

(26)   

(26) 

(13,299)   

(3,248)   

(3,644)   

(20,191) 

333 

(724)   

(738)   

(1,129) 

606 

(273)   

333 

– 

(724)   

(724)   

135 

(873)   

(738)   

741 

(1,870) 

(1,129) 

Actual return on plan assets

541 

97 

48 

686 

223

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

Movements in fair values of assets

Assets at 1 January 2021

Exchange adjustments

Interest income

Expenses

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurement

Employer contributions

Scheme participants’ contributions

Benefits paid

Assets at 31 December 2021

Exchange adjustments

Interest income

Expenses

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurement

Employer contributions

Scheme participants’ contributions

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Benefits paid

Assets at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Interest income

Expenses

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurement

Employer contributions

Scheme participants’ contributions

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Benefits paid

Assets at 31 December 2023

UK
£m

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

Post-retirement
benefits

Group
£m

Pensions

Group
£m

19,206 

13,582 

2,635 

– 

187 

(15)   

– 

354 

139 

3 

(618)   

13,632 

– 

271 

(14)   

– 

31 

57 

(12)   

– 

40 

40 

– 

(267)   

2,524 

286 

71 

(21)   

– 

(4,981)   

(324)   

755 

– 

– 

(649)   

9,014 

— 

430 

(14)   

– 

217 

363 

– 

– 

50 

– 

– 

(326)   

2,260 

(125)   

111 

(16)   

– 

85 

125 

– 

– 

2,989 

(184)   

18 

– 

(7)   

30 

133 

24 

(153)   

262 

(27)   

(7)   

424 

312 

27 

(97)   

(982)   

2,906 

19,062 

122 

28 

– 

(8)   

(578)   

114 

15 

(624)   

(105)   

1,870 

(84)   

60 

— 

2 

78 

118 

11 

– 

408 

370 

(35)   

(8)   

(5,883)   

919 

15 

(624)   

(1,080)   

13,144 

(209)   

601 

(30)   

2 

380 

606 

11 

– 

(512)   

9,498 

(298)   

2,142 

(73)   

1,982 

(883)   

13,622 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

105 

15 

(120) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

117 

18 

– 

(135) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

98 

18 

– 

(116) 

– 

The final instalment of the cash funding or technical provision deficits of £1,080 million identified in the 31 December 2020 pension 
scheme valuations in three GSK UK Pension Schemes was paid in 2023.

During March 2022, GSK transferred 7,004 GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (GSKCHH) C Ordinary Shares (representing 
11.03%. (in aggregate) of GSK’s interest in GSKCHH to three Scottish Limited Partnerships (“SLPs”), each providing a funding 
mechanism for a separate GSK UK defined benefit pension scheme. As part of the steps relating to the demerger and separation, 
the SLPs transferred their applicable portion of GSKCHH C Ordinary Shares to Haleon plc (“Haleon”) in consideration for shares in 
Haleon. At the time of demerger the SLPs together held shares representing 7.5% of the total issued share capital of Haleon. The 
contributions were collateralised by the creation of three Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs). Each of the three principal UK 
defined benefit pension schemes (two benefiting current and former Glaxo Welcome employees, with the third benefiting current 
and former SmithKline Beecham employees) had an interest in one of the SLPs at the time of demerger.

Scottish Limited Partnership

General Partner

Limited Partners

GSK (No. 1) Scottish Limited Partnership

GSK GP1 Ltd

GSK LP Ltd

GSK (No. 2) Scottish Limited Partnership

GSK GP1 Ltd

GSK LP Ltd

GSK (No. 3) Scottish Limited Partnership

GSK GP2 Ltd

GSK LP Ltd

Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Ltd acting on 
behalf of the GSK Pension Scheme (ceased to be a 
Limited Partner effective from 28 June 2023)

Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Ltd acting on 
behalf of the GSK Pension Fund (ceased to be a Limited 
Partner effective from 28 June 2023)

SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Ltd acting on 
behalf of the SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan  (ceased 
to be a Limited Partner effective from 28 June 2023)

224

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

Each pension scheme, through its SLP interest received a distribution from that SLP with regards to the net proceeds of sales of 
Haleon shares and dividend income on the Haleon shares up to the amount equal to the agreed threshold (“Proceeds Threshold”). 
of £1,080 million increased by £7 million notional interest. Payment of this amount fully funded the cash funding or “technical 
provisions” deficits in the three pension schemes shown by the 31 December 2020 valuations. As at 31 December 2023, total cash 
contributions totalling £353 million (2022: £691 million; 2021: £44 million) were made towards the Proceeds Threshold leaving no 
further outstanding amount due to the UK pension schemes. The cash contributions included £17 million of distributions of dividends 
on Haleon shares from the SLPs to the Schemes. 

The GSK UK Pension Schemes exited the SLP partnership on 28 June 2023 after receipt of the Proceeds Threshold and notional 
interest. The remaining economic interest in the SLPs is held by GSK LP Ltd, a 100% owned subsidiary of GSK plc and the GSK-
controlled General Partner of each SLP. 

Employer contributions for 2024, are estimated to be approximately £350 million in respect of defined benefit pension schemes and 
£80 million in respect of other post-retirement benefits.

Movements in defined benefit obligations

Obligations at 1 January 2021

Exchange adjustments

Service cost

Past service cost

Interest cost

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurement

Scheme participants’ contributions

Benefits paid

Obligations at31 December 2021

Exchange adjustments

Service cost

Past service cost

Interest cost

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurement

Scheme participants’ contributions

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Benefits paid

Obligations at 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Service cost

Past service cost

Interest cost

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurement

Scheme participants’ contributions

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Benefits paid

Obligations at 31 December 2023

UK
£m

US
£m

Rest of World
£m

Pensions

Group
£m

Post-retirement
benefits

Group
£m

(13,858)   

(3,445)   

(4,007)   

(21,310)   

(1,363) 

– 

(56)   

(28)   

(190)   

– 

218 

(3)   

618 

(40)   

(9)   

(2)   

(76)   

– 

57 

– 

267 

258 

(151)   

25 

(23)   

17 

164 

(24)   

97 

218 

(216)   

(5)   

(289)   

17 

439 

(27)   

982 

4 

(29) 

(12) 

(26) 

– 

78 

(15) 

120 

(13,299)   

(3,248)   

(3,644)   

(20,191)   

(1,243) 

– 

(13)   

(6)   

(260)   

– 

3,812 

– 

– 

649 

(371)   

(7)   

– 

(91)   

– 

360 

– 

– 

326 

(124)   

(126)   

– 

(37)   

29 

839 

(15)   

621 

105 

(495)   

(146)   

(6)   

(388)   

29 

5,011 

(15)   

621 

1,080 

(125) 

(22) 

– 

(32) 

– 

228 

(18) 

83 

135 

(9,117)   

(3,031)   

(2,352)   

(14,500)   

(994) 

– 

– 

(3)   

(425)   

– 

(189)   

– 

– 

512 

166 

(5)   

– 

(145)   

– 

(40)   

– 

– 

298 

87 

(91)   

– 

(76)   

4 

(40)   

(11)   

– 

73 

253 

(96)   

(3)   

(646)   

4 

(269)   

(11)   

– 

883 

53 

(13) 

– 

(47) 

– 

(40) 

(18) 

– 

116 

(9,222)   

(2,757)   

(2,406)   

(14,385)   

(943) 

225

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:

Funded

Unfunded

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

(13,782)   

(13,887)   

(19,419) 

(603)   

(613)   

(772) 

(14,385)   

(14,500)   

(20,191) 

The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension 
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.75% (2022: 7%) in 2023, grading down to 5% in 2031 and 
thereafter. At 31 December 2023, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £785 million (2022: £870 million; 2021: 
£1,059 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.

The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:

At 1 January

Exchange adjustments

Service cost

Past service cost

Interest cost

Settlements and curtailments

Remeasurements:

Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest

(Loss)/gain from change in demographic assumptions

Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions

Experience (loss)/gain

Employer contributions

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Expenses

At 31 December

The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:

Gain from change in demographic assumptions

Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions

Experience gains

The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:

Active

Retired

Deferred

The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:

Active

Retired

Deferred

The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:

Pension benefits

Post-retirement benefits

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

(1,356)   

(1,129)   

(2,104) 

44 

(96)   

(3)   

(45)   

6 

380 

135 

(137)   

(267)   

606 

– 

(30)   

(763)   

2023
£m

7 

(43)   

(4)   

(40)   

(87)   

(146)   

(6)   

(18)   

21 

(5,883)   

92 

5,868 

(949)   

919 

(3)   

(35)   

65 

(216) 

(5) 

(27) 

10 

424 

(62) 

716 

(215) 

312 

– 

(27) 

(1,356)   

(1,129) 

2022
£m

21 

219 

(12)   

228 

2023
£m

1,508 

8,730 

4,147 

2022
£m

1,390 

8,540 

4,570 

14,385 

14,500 

2023
£m

277 

666 

– 

943 

2023
years

11

10

2022
£m

306 

688 

– 

994 

2022
years

12

10

2021
£m

19 

35 

24 

78 

2021
£m

4,196 

11,115 

4,880 

20,191 

2021
£m

494 

748 

1 

1,243 

2021
years

15

12

226

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued

Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2024 annual defined benefit pension and post-
retirement costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the liabilities and 
the overall profile of the plan memberships.

Discount rate

(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost

Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost

(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation

(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation

(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost

Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost

(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation

(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation

Inflation rate

Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost

Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation

Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost

Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation

Life expectancy

Increase in annual pension cost

Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost

Increase in pension obligation

Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation

Rate of future healthcare inflation

Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost

Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation

0.25% 
increase
£m

(18) 

1 

(373) 

(20) 

0.75%
increase
£m

(58) 

3 

(1,071) 

(57) 

0.25%
increase
£m

16 

289 

0.75%
increase
£m

46 

897 

1 year
 increase
£m

20 

2 

432 

32 

1%
increase
£m

2 

34 

0.25% 
decrease
£m

18 

(1) 

391 

22 

0.75%
decrease
£m

51 

(3) 

1,231 

66 

0.25%
decrease
£m

(14) 

(280) 

0.75%
decrease
£m

(40) 

(803) 

227

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

32. Other provisions

At 1 January 2023

Exchange adjustments

Charge for the year

Reversed unused

Unwinding of discount

Utilised

Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution

Additions through business combinations

Reclassifications and other movements

Transfer to Pension obligations

At 31 December 2023

To be settled within one year

To be settled after one year

At 31 December 2023

Legal
and other
disputes
£m

Major
restructuring
programmes
£m

Employee
related
provisions
£m

Other
provisions
£m

218 

(21)   

266 

(4)   

10 

351 

(13)   

172 

(55)   

– 

(202)   

(169)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

267 

248 

19 

267 

– 

– 

(1)   

(3)   

282 

215 

67 

282 

309 

(9)   

177 

(33)   

– 

(62)   

– 

– 

1 

– 

306 

(5)   

124 

(143)   

– 

(88)   

– 

– 

113 

– 

Total
£m

1,184 

(48) 

739 

(235) 

10 

(521) 

– 

– 

113 

(3) 

383 

307 

1,239 

172 

211 

383 

109 

198 

307 

744 

495 

1,239 

Legal and other disputes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other 
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in 
Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other 
disputes include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, 
government investigations, contract terminations and self 
insurance. 

The Group may become involved in significant legal 
proceedings in respect of which it is not possible to 
meaningfully assess whether the outcome will result in a 
probable outflow, or to quantify or reliably estimate the liability, 
if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the 
proceedings. In these cases, the Group would provide 
appropriate disclosures about such cases, but no provision 
would be made.

The net charge for the year of £262 million (including reversals 
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to 
provisions for product liability cases, commercial disputes and 
various other government investigations.

The discount on the provision is £10 million in 2023 (2022:
£3 million). The discount was calculated using risk-adjusted 
projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return.

In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, 
provision is made when there is sufficient history of claims made 
and settlements to enable management to make a reliable 
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims, 
and to determine the probability of the outflow of cash. The 
ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts 
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation 
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement 
negotiations.

The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, 
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the 
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material 
amount the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s 
financial accounts.

It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these 
matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over 
many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various 
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, 
and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be 
protracted. Indemnified disputes will result in a provision charge 
and a corresponding receivable.

The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of 
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based 
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes, 
estimates that £248 million of the amount provided at 
31 December 2023 will be settled within one year. For a 
discussion of legal issues, see Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.

Major restructuring programmes
During 2023, the Group had two major restructuring 
programmes: the Separation Preparation programme which 
focused on preparing for the separation of GSK into two 
companies and is now largely complete, plus the Significant 
Acquisitions programme which is focused on the integration of 
recent acquisitions.

Restructuring provisions primarily include severance costs when 
management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain 
positions and this has been communicated to the groups of 
employees affected and appropriate consultation procedures 
completed, where appropriate. No provision is made for staff 
severance payments that are paid immediately.

The discount on the provisions increased by £0.4 million in 2023 
(2022: increased by £1 million).

Pension augmentation includes £3 million relating to the 
defined benefit plan arising from staff redundancies, as shown 
in Note 31, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. 

228

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

32. Other provisions continued

Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain 
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in 
the US. 

At 31 December 2023, the provision for these benefits 
amounted to £48 million (2022: £66 million). Other employee 
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs, 
jubilee awards and other long-service benefits. 

Given the nature of these provisions, the amounts are likely to 
be settled over many years.

Other provisions

Included in other provisions are provisions for onerous contracts, 
insurance provisions and a number of other provisions including 
vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.

33. Contingent consideration liabilities

The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales 
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:

At 1 January 2021

Remeasurement through income statement

Cash payments: operating cash flows

Cash payments: investing activities

At 31 December 2021

Remeasurement through income statement

Exchange movement through reserves

Initial recognition from business combinations

Cash payments: operating cash flows

Cash payments: investing activities

At 31 December 2022

Remeasurement through income statement

Exchange movement through reserves

Cash payments: operating cash flows

Cash payments: investing activities

At 31 December 2023

Shionogi-ViiV 
Healthcare
£m

Affinivax
£m

Novartis
Vaccines
£m

5,359 

1,026 

(721)   

(105)   

5,559 

1,431 

– 

– 

(1,031)   

(69)   

5,890 

934 

– 

(1,106)   

– 

5,718 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

17 

2 

482 

– 

– 

501 

44 

(29)   

– 

– 

516 

477 

32 

(21)   

(9)   

479 

231 

– 

– 

(27)   

(10)   

673 

(210)   

– 

(28)   

(11)   

424 

Other
£m

33 

5 

– 

– 

38 

(34)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

4 

– 

– 

– 

– 

4 

Total
£m

5,869 

1,063 

(742) 

(114) 

6,076 

1,645 

2 

482 

(1,058) 

(79) 

7,068 

768 

(29) 

(1,134) 

(11) 

6,662 

Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2023, £1,053 million (2022: £1,289 million) is expected to be paid within 
one year. 

The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture, Affinivax and the Novartis Vaccines  
business are expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present 
values, shown above. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8% (2022: 8%), the Affinivax 
contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% (2022: 9.9%) and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liability is 
discounted at 7.5% (2022: 7.5%) for commercialised products and at 8.5% (2022: 8.5%) for pipeline assets.

The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the 
forecast sales performance of specified products over the lives of those products.  

The Affinivax contingent consideration is based upon two potential milestone payments, each of $0.6 billion (£0.5 billion) which will 
be paid if certain paediatric clinical development milestones are achieved.  

229

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

33. Contingent consideration liabilities continued

The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes 
in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.

Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in 
income statement

Shionogi-ViiV
Healthcare
£m

Affinivax
£m

Novartis
Vaccines
£m

Shionogi-ViiV
Healthcare
£m

Affinivax
£m

2023

10% increase in sales forecasts*

15% increase in sales forecasts*

10% decrease in sales forecasts*

15% decrease in sales forecasts*

1% increase in discount rate

1.5% increase in discount rate

1% decrease in discount rate

1.5% decrease in discount rate

10 cent appreciation of US Dollar

15 cent appreciation of US Dollar

10 cent depreciation of US Dollar

15 cent depreciation of US Dollar

10 cent appreciation of Euro

15 cent appreciation of Euro

10 cent depreciation of Euro

15 cent depreciation of Euro

10% increase in probability of milestone success

10% decrease in probability of milestone success

539 

807 

(539) 

(808) 

(174)   

(256)   

184 

281 

386 

604 

(330)   

(478)   

91 

144 

(79) 

(113) 

n/a  

n/a  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

(12)   

(18)   

13 

19 

44 

69 

(38)   

(54)   

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

75 

(75)   

63 

94 

(62)   

(92)   

(26)   

(38)   

30 

47 

11 

17 

(8)   

(12)   

19 

30 

(16)   

(22)   

21 

(10) 

556 

834 

(555) 

(833) 

(199)   

(292)   

214 

328 

411 

645 

(347)   

(501)   

109 

171 

(91) 

(130) 

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

(7)   

(10)   

7 

11 

45 

71 

(38)   

(56)   

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

82 

(82)   

2022

Novartis
Vaccines
£m

103 

154 

(103) 

(153) 

(55) 

(80) 

65 

101 

22 

36 

(19) 

(27) 

23 

36 

(19) 

(28) 

20 

(10) 

*  The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration. An explanation of the accounting for 

ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 84.

34. Other non-current liabilities

Accruals

Deferred income

Other payables

2023
£m

4 

254 

849 

1,107 

2022
£m

11 

83 

805 

899 

Other payables includes a number of employee-related liabilities including employee savings plans. 

35. Contingent liabilities

At 31 December 2023, contingent liabilities where GSK has a present obligation as a result of a past event, comprising guarantees 
and other items arising in the normal course of business, amounted to £32 million (2022: £58 million). At 31 December 2023, £0.2 
million (2022: £0.5 million) of financial assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome 
of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a 
reliable estimate of that outflow. If it is not possible to meaningfully assess whether the outcomes will result in a probable outflow, or 
to quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, no provision is recorded. Descriptions of the significant legal and other disputes to 
which the Group is a party are set out in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.

230

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

36. Commitments

Contractual obligations and commitments

Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:

Intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Investments

Purchase commitments

Pensions and post-retirement benefits

Interest on loans

Future finance charges on leases

Lease contracts that have not yet commenced

2023
£m

2022
£m

16,329 

10,659 

762 

153 

31 

– 

5,446 

254 

5 

743 

138 

161 

345 

6,322 

146 

395 

22,980 

18,909 

The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development 
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are 
achieved. The amounts disclosed are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The increase in intangible asset commitments in 2023 is 
mainly attributable to new R&D collaborations including collaborations with Wave Life Sciences USA, Inc. and Shanghai Hansoh 
Biomedical Co. Ltd.

In 2022, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions of £1,080 million, 
to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2020 actuarial funding valuation. Prior to the Consumer Healthcare 
demerger, GSK agreed to collateralise this commitment and accelerate funding with additional contributions (Refer to Note 31 
'Pensions and other post-employment benefits'). At 31 December 2023, £nil (2022: £345 million) additional contributions were 
unpaid.

Included within the total commitments above is £30 million related to nature based carbon removal projects that support GSK’s net-
zero and nature positive goals and £46 million related to the transition to a lower-carbon propellant.

The table excludes any amounts already capitalised in the Financial Statements for the year end 2023.  

231

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

37. Share capital and share premium account

Share Consolidation
Following completion of the Consumer Healthcare business demerger on 18 July 2022, GSK plc Ordinary shares were consolidated 
to maintain share price comparability before and after demerger. The consolidation was approved by GSK shareholders at a 
General Meeting held on 6 July 2022. Shareholders received 4 new Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 31¼ pence each for 
every 5 existing Ordinary shares which had a nominal value of 25 pence each. Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, 
adjusted earnings per share and dividends per share were retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Share Consolidation in all the 
periods presented in years 2021 and 2022.

Share capital issued and fully paid:

At 1 January 2021

Issued under employee share schemes

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

At 31 December 2021

Impact of share consolidation

Issued under employee share schemes

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

At 31 December 2022

Issued under employee share schemes

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

At 31 December 2023

Ordinary shares of 25p each pre-share consolidation
Ordinary shares of 31¼p each post-share consolidation

Share
premium

Number

£m

£m

5,385,189,617 

1,346 

3,281 

1,825,442 

– 

1 

– 

20 

– 

5,387,015,059 

1,347 

3,301 

(1,077,403,011)   

1,731,293 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

25 

114 

4,311,343,341 

1,347 

3,440 

802,642 

– 

1 

– 

9 

2 

4,312,145,983 

1,348 

3,451 

At 31 December 2023, of the issued share capital, 58,817,197 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, out of which 58,493,518 shares 
were held for the future exercise of share options and share awards and 323,679 shares were held for the Executive Supplemental 
Savings plan. 197,068,169 shares were held as Treasury shares and 4,056,260,617 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully 
paid and there are no shares authorised but not in issue. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP 
Trusts are disclosed in Note 45, ‘Employee share schemes’. 

38. Movements in equity

Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £8,548 million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £5,811 million; 2021: £10,407 million) 
of which £451 million (2022: £463 million; 2021: £476 million) related to associates and joint ventures. 

The cumulative translation exchange in equity is as follows:

Net translation exchange included in:
Non-
controlling
interests
£m

Fair value
reserve
£m

Retained
earnings
£m

At 1 January 2021

Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 
and associates

At 31 December 2021

Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
  and associates

Movement attributable to continuing operations
Movement attributable to discontinued operations1
At 31 December 2022

Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
  and associates

At 31 December 2023

(539)   

(239)   

(25)   

(803)   

109 

2 

(692)   

263 

(429)   

(41)   

(34)   

(504)   

(9)   

– 

– 

(9)   

4 

– 

(5)   

– 

(5)   

19 

– 

14 

(161)   

(20)   

– 

(181)   

(28)   

– 

(209)   

112 

(97)   

(25)   

– 

(122)   

Total
translation
exchange
£m

(709) 

(259) 

(25) 

(993) 

85 

2 

(906) 

375 

(531) 

(47) 

(34) 

(612) 

(1) Includes £554 million reclassification to the consolidated income statement of net exchange gains related to the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare 

business.

232

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

38. Movements in equity continued

The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:

2023

Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:

Retained
earnings
£m

Other
reserves
£m

Non-
controlling
interests
£m

Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

(41)   

19 

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
  and associates

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income

Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:

Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests

Fair value movements on equity investments

Tax on fair value movements on equity investments

Remeasurement on defined benefit plans

Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year

2022

Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:

Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
  and associates

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income

Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:

Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests

Fair value movements on equity investments

Tax on fair value movements on equity investments

Remeasurement on defined benefit plans

Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year from continuing operations

Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year from discontinued operations

Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year

2021

Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:

Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges

Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
  and associates

Fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges

Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement

Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:

Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests

Fair value movements on equity investments

Tax on fair value movements on equity investments

Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans

Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans

Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year

Total
£m

(22) 

(34) 

(1) 

1 

4 

(25) 

(244) 

14 

71 

(41) 

(40) 

(317) 

Total
£m

113 

2 

(18) 

9 

14 

(28) 

(754) 

56 

(786) 

211 

(6) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(25)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(25)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(28)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Retained
earnings
£m

Other
reserves
£m

Non-
controlling
interests
£m

(34)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

71 

(41)   

– 

(45)   

– 

(1)   

1 

4 

– 

(244)   

14 

– 

– 

(40)   

(247)   

109 

2 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(786)   

211 

– 

(464)   

375 

(89)   

4 

– 

(18)   

9 

14 

– 

(754)   

56 

– 

– 

(6)   

(695)   

(19)   

(714)   

(28)   

(1,187) 

– 

(28)   

356 

(831) 

Retained
earnings
£m

Other
reserves
£m

Non-
controlling
interests
£m

(239)   

(25)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

941 

(223)   

454 

– 

– 

5 

(8)   

12 

– 

(911)   

131 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(20)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

(771)   

(20)   

Total
£m

(239) 

(25) 

5 

(8) 

12 

(20) 

(911) 

131 

941 

(223) 

(337) 

233

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

38. Movements in equity continued

Information on net investment hedges is provided in part (d) of Note 44 ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures'.

The analysis of other reserves is as follows:

ESOP Trust
shares
£m

Fair value
reserve
£m

Cash flow
hedge reserve
£m

Other
reserves
£m

At 1 January 2021

Exchange adjustments

Transferred to income and expenses in the year on impairments of equity
  investments

Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments

Net fair value movement in the year

At 31 December 2021

Exchange adjustments

Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments

Balances derecognised on demerger

Net fair value movement in the year

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts

At 31 December 2022

Exchange adjustments

Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments

Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement

Hedging gain/(loss) transferred to non-financial assets

Net fair value movement in the year (including tax)

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts

Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts

At 31 December 2023

1,302 

(31)   

2,129 

– 

– 

– 

10 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(21)   

2,129 

2,463 

– 

– 

(139)   

(780)   

383 

28 

(21)   

– 

(698)   

– 

– 

(5)   

33 

– 

– 

12 

17 

(169)   

141 

– 

– 

(20)   

(2)   

– 

4 

36 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

2,129 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(230)   

(40)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

(510)   

(22)   

2,129 

Total
£m

3,205 

(1) 

168 

(139) 

(770) 

4 

(4) 

(169) 

(557) 

(1,200) 

911 

1,448 

19 

33 

4 

36 

(270) 

(285) 

324 

1,309 

(195)   

(1)   

168 

– 

– 

(28)   

(36)   

– 

– 

– 

(1,200)   

911 

26 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(285)   

324 

(288)   

(353)   

(308)   

Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2023 
(2022: £1,849 million; 2021: £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share 
buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £280 million; 2021: £280 million). 

39. Non-controlling interests

Total non-controlling interests includes the following individually material non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests 
are individually not material.

ViiV Healthcare
GSK holds 78.3% of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial 
information available at the latest practicable date in respect of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group is as follows:

Turnover

Profit after taxation

Other comprehensive income/(expense)

Total comprehensive income

Non-current assets

Current assets

Total assets

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net liabilities

2023
£m

6,308 

2,034 

(19)   

2,015 

2023
£m

2,528 

3,330 

5,858 

2022
£m

5,619 

1,528 

94 

1,622 

2022
£m

2,716 

3,354 

6,070 

(3,881)   

(8,453)   

(3,762) 

(8,983) 

(12,334)   

(12,745) 

(6,476)   

(6,675) 

2021
£m

4,637 

1,087 

(17) 

1,070 

234

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

39. Non-controlling interests continued

Net cash inflow from operating activities

Net cash outflow from investing activities

Net cash outflow from financing activities

Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year

2023
£m

2,192 

2022
£m

3,442 

(2)   

(174)   

2021
£m

2,128 

(287) 

(2,463)   

(2,718)   

(1,608) 

(273)   

550 

233 

The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related 
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £2,034 million (2022: 
£1,528 million; 2021: £1,087 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK and Pfizer and after a charge of 
£858 million (2022: £1,483 million; 2021: £1,218 million) for remeasurement of contingent consideration payable. This consideration is 
expected to be paid over a number of years. 

The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s financial statements:

Share of profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest

Dividends paid to non-controlling interest

Non-controlling interest in the consolidated balance sheet

40. Related party transactions

2023
£m

373 

398 

2022
£m

415 

480 

2021
£m

196 

224 

(648)   

(611)   

(570) 

At 31 December 2023, a loan of £0.8 million (2022: £nil) to Index Ventures and a loan of £0.6 million (2022: £nil ) to Medicxi Ventures 
I LP remained due to GSK. Cash distributions were received from investment in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £10.7 million (2022: Medicxi 
Ventures I LP of £6 million).

In December 2023, Qura Therapeutics LLC was liquidated, the investment and the associated commitment for future contributions 
were de-recognised from the balance sheet.  An immaterial gain (less than £1 million) was recognised. 

The Group had no other significant related party transactions which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by 
the users of these Financial Statements.

The aggregate compensation of the Directors and GLT is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.

235

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

41. Acquisitions and disposals

Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:

2023
Business acquisitions
On 28 June 2023, GSK completed the acquisition of BELLUS Health Inc. ("Bellus") which was effected through a Plan of 
Arrangement (the “Arrangement”) pursuant to the Canada Business Corporations Act. The Arrangement was approved by Bellus’ 
shareholders on 16 June 2023. Upon completion, GSK acquired all outstanding common shares of Bellus for US$14.75 per common 
share in cash, representing a total equity value of US$2 billion (£1.6 billion). The acquisition provides GSK access to camlipixant, a 
potential best-in-class and highly selective P2X3 antagonist currently in phase III development for the first-line treatment of adult 
patients with refractory chronic cough (RCC). 

Net assets acquired:

Intangible assets

Non-current equity investments

Right of use assets

Trade and other receivables

Investments held as current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Lease liabilities

Trade and other payables

Deferred tax liabilities

Non-controlling interest

Goodwill

Total consideration

Total
£m

1,438 

2 

1 

96 

51 

148 

(1) 

(103) 

(136) 

1,496 
– 

109 

1,605 

In 2023, the provisional values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in the Affinivax, Inc. business combination were 
updated for the finalisation of the fair value of intangible assets, resulting in an increase in intellectual property of £39 million, a 
decrease to goodwill of £31 million and a decrease to deferred tax of £8 million. The amounts recognised at 31 December 2022 
have not been restated on the basis of materiality. 

Business disposals
GSK completed no material business disposals in 2023.

Associates and joint ventures
GSK completed no material investments or disposals of associates or joint ventures during the year. 

Cash flows

Cash consideration (paid)/ received

Net deferred consideration paid

Transaction costs

Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested)

Cash (outflow)/inflow

Business 
Acquisitions
£m

Business 
Disposals
£m

(1,605)   

– 

(17)   

148 

(1,474)   

68 

(19) 

– 

– 

49 

236

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

41. Acquisitions and disposals continued

2022
Business acquisitions
On 1 July 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of Sierra Oncology, Inc., a California-based, late-stage biopharmaceutical 
company focused on targeted therapies for the treatment of rare forms of cancer, for $1.9 billion (£1.6 billion). The main asset is 
momelotinib which targets the medical needs of myelofibrosis patients with anaemia. Total transaction costs were £52 million.

On 15 August 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of Affinivax, Inc. a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company based in 
Cambridge, Boston, Massachusetts focused on pneumococcal vaccine candidates. The consideration for the acquisition comprised 
an upfront payment of $2.2 billion (£1.8 billion) as adjusted for working capital acquired paid upon closing and two potential 
milestone payments each of $0.6 billion (£0.5 billion) to be paid upon the achievement of certain paediatric clinical development 
milestones. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration payable was £482 million. The values were provisional and 
were subject to change. The total transaction costs were £71 million. 

During 2022, no sales arising from the Sierra Oncology or Affinivax businesses were included in Group turnover and no revenue is 
expected until regulatory approval is received on the acquired assets.

GSK continues to support the ongoing development of the acquired assets and consequently these assets will be loss making until 
regulatory approval on these assets is received. The development of these assets has been integrated into the Group’s existing R&D 
activities, so it was impracticable to quantify these development costs or the impact on Total profit after taxation for the period 
ended 31 December 2022.

Goodwill of £1,127 million (£162 million for Sierra Oncology and £965 million for Affinivax), which is not expected to be deductible for 
tax purposes, has been recognised. The goodwill represents workforce in place, and specific synergies available to GSK from the 
business combinations. The goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s Commercial Operations and R&D segments (refer to Note 
19 ‘Goodwill’ for allocation methodology). 

Net assets acquired

Intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right of use assets

Inventory

Trade and other receivables

Cash and cash equivalents

Lease liabilities

Trade and other payables

Taxation

Goodwill

Total

Total cash

Fair value of contingent consideration

Sierra 
Oncology
£m

Affinivax
£m

Total
£m

1,497 

1,467 

2,964 

– 

1 

60 

2 

175 

(1)   

(40)   

(259)   
1,435 

162 

1,597 

1,597 

– 

30 

52 

– 

17 

109 

(55)   

(77)   

(236)   
1,307 

965 

2,272 

1,790 

482 

30 

53 

60 

19 

284 

(56) 

(117) 

(495) 
2,742 

1,127 

3,869 

3,387 

482 

On 24 November 2022 GSK signed an agreement to buy out the 25% non-controlling interest in Glaxo Saudi Arabia Ltd for 
SAR94 million (£21 million), paid in 2023.

237

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

41. Acquisitions and disposals continued

Demerger of Consumer Healthcare business

On 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated its Consumer Healthcare business from the GSK Group to form Haleon, an independent listed 
company. The separation was effected by way of a demerger of 80.1% of GSK’s 68% holding in the Consumer Healthcare business to 
GSK shareholders. Following the demerger, 54.5% of Haleon was held in aggregate by GSK shareholders, 6.0% was held by GSK 
(including shares received by GSK’s consolidated ESOP trusts) and 7.5% was held by certain Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs) set up 
to provide collateral for a funding mechanism pursuant to which GSK will provide additional funding for GSK’s UK defined benefit 
pension schemes (Note 31, 'Pensions and other post-employment benefits'). The aggregate ownership by GSK (including ownership by 
the ESOP trusts and SLPs) after the demerger of 13.5% was measured at fair value with changes through profit or loss. In 2022, Pfizer 
held 32% of Haleon after the demerger.

Under IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’ a liability and an equity distribution are measured at the fair value of 
the assets to be distributed when the dividend is appropriately authorised and it is no longer at the entity’s discretion. The liability 
and equity movement, and associated gain on distribution were recognised in Q3 2022 when the demerger distribution was 
authorised and occurred. 

The asset distributed was the 54.5% ownership of the Consumer Healthcare business. The net carrying value of the Consumer 
Healthcare business in the consolidated financial statements, including the retained 13.5% and net of the amount attributable to 
the non-controlling interest, was approximately £11 billion at the end of June. GSK’s £6.3 billion share of the shareholder loans made 
in Q1 2022 in advance of the pre-separation dividends was eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The assets 
distributed were reduced by Consumer Healthcare transactions up to 18 July that principally included pre-separation dividends 
declared and settled after the end of Q2 2022 and before 18 July 2022. Those dividends included: £10.4 billion (£7.1 billion 
attributable to GSK) of dividends funded by Consumer Healthcare debt that was partially on-lent during Q1 2022 and dividends of 
£0.6 billion (£0.4 billion attributable to GSK) from available cash balances.

The fair value of the 54.5% ownership of the Consumer Healthcare business distributed was £15.5 billion. This was measured by 
reference to the quoted average Haleon share price over the first five days of trading, this being a fair value measured with 
observable inputs which was considered to be representative of the fair value at the distribution date. A gain on distribution of this 
fair value less book value of the attributable net assets of the Consumer Healthcare business of £7.7 billion was recorded in the 
income statement in 2022. There was an additional gain of £2.4 billion to remeasure the retained 13.5% from its book value to fair 
value of £3.9 billion using the same fair value methodology as used for the distributed shares. The gain on distribution and on 
remeasurement of the retained stake upon demerger was presented as part of discontinued operations. Any future gains or losses 
on the retained stake in Haleon will be recognised in continuing operations. In addition, there was a reclassification of the Group’s 
share of cumulative exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency net assets of the divested subsidiaries and 
offsetting net investment hedges from reserves into the income statement of £0.6 billion. The total gain on demerger of Consumer 
Healthcare was £10.1 billion. These transactions were presented in profit from discontinued operations in 2022. 

Fair value of the Consumer Healthcare business distributed (54.5%)

Fair value of the retained ownership in Haleon plc (13.5%)

Total fair value

Carrying amount of the net assets and liabilities distributed/de-recognised

Carrying amount of the non-controlling interest de-recognised

Gain on demerger before exchange movements and transaction costs

Reclassification of exchange movements and net investment hedge movements on disposal of overseas subsidiaries

Total gain on the demerger of Consumer Healthcare

2022
£m

15,526 

3,853 

19,379 

(12,887) 

3,038 

9,530 

554 

10,084 

Consumer Healthcare was presented as a discontinued operation as at 30 June 2022 and disclosed as such in the interim financial 
statements. The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement distinguish discontinued operations from 
continuing operations. Comparative figures have been restated on a consistent basis. Financial information relating to the 
operations of Consumer Healthcare for the period is set out on the following page and includes financial information until 18 July 
2022. 

This financial information differs both in purpose and basis of preparation from the Historical Financial Information and the Interim 
Financial Information included in the Haleon prospectus and from that which was published by Haleon on 2 March 2023. As a 
result, whilst the two sets of financial information are similar, they are not the same because of certain differences in accounting and 
disclosure under IFRS.

238

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

41. Acquisitions and disposals continued

Total results

Turnover

Expense

Profit before tax

Taxation

Tax rate %

(Loss)/profit after taxation from discontinued operations: Consumer Healthcare

Other gains/(losses) on demerger

Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger

Profit after taxation on demerger of discontinued operations

Non-controlling interest in discontinued operations

Earnings attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations

Earnings per share from discontinued operations

Other business disposals
There were no other material business disposals in 2022.

Cash flows
Cash consideration

Net deferred consideration paid

Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired

Transaction costs paid

Cash (outflow)/inflow

2022
£m
5,581 

2021
£m
9,418 

(4,730)   

(7,575) 

851 

(235)   

 27.6% 

616 

2,433 

7,651 

10,700 

205 

10,495 

260.6p 

1,843 

(263) 

 14.3% 

1,580 

– 

– 

1,580 

511 

1,069 

26.7p 

Business
acquisitions
£m

Business 
disposals - 
demerger
£m

Business 
disposals - 
other
£m

(3,392)   

– 

284 

(3,108)   

(79)   

– 

– 

(933)   

(933)   

(141)   

(3,187)   

(1,074)   

– 

(34) 

(9) 

(43) 

– 

(43) 

Cash consideration for business acquisitions included £5 million related to other business acquisition activity.

2021
Business acquisitions
GSK completed no material business acquisitions in 2021.

Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £10 million. The profit on the disposal of 
the businesses in the year of £24 million was calculated as follows:

Consideration:

Cash consideration including currency forwards, purchase adjustments and deferred consideration

Total

Net assets sold:

Property, plant and equipment

Cash and cash equivalents

Other net assets

Total

Costs:

Deal costs

Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income

Gain on disposals in 2021

Total
£m

10 

10 

3 

1 

1 

5 

(16) 

35 

24 

239

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

41. Acquisitions and disposals continued

Associates and joint ventures
On 20 May 2021 GSK agreed with Innoviva, Inc. (“Innoviva”) to sell all of its approximately 32 million shares of common stock of 
Innoviva back to Innoviva at a price of $12.25 per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately $392 million. Following settlement 
of the transaction, GSK will no longer hold any Innoviva stock. See details in Note 21 ‘Investment in associates and joint ventures’.

Cash flows

Cash consideration received

Net deferred consideration paid

Transaction costs

Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired

Cash (outflow)/inflow

.

42. Adjustments reconciling Total profit after tax to 
operating cash flows

Associates 
and joint 
ventures 
disposals
£m

Business 
disposals
£m

43 

(51)   

(8)   

(1)   

(17)   

277 

– 

– 

– 

277 

Total profit after tax from continuing operations

Tax on profits

Share of after-tax (profits)/losses of associates and joint ventures

Finance expense net of finance income

Depreciation

Amortisation of intangible assets

Impairment and assets written off

Profit on sale of businesses

Profit on sale of intangible assets

(Profit)/loss on sale of investments in associates

Profit on sale of equity investments

Changes in working capital:

 Decrease/(increase) in inventories

 (Increase) in trade receivables

 Increase/(decrease) in trade payables

 (Increase)/decrease in other receivables

Contingent consideration paid (see Note 33)

Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities

Increase/(decrease) in other payables

Decrease in pension and other provisions

Share-based incentive plans

Fair value adjustments

Other

Operating cash flow from continuing operations

Operating cash flow from discontinued operations

2023
£m

5,308 

756 

5 

677 

1,082 

1,212 

467 

– 

(12)   

(1)   

– 

(424)   

(794)   

(15)   

145 

2022
£m

4,921 

707 

2 

803 

1,061 

1,086 

481 

(36)   

(185)   

– 

(1)   

(269)   

(158)   

494 

(458)   

(1,134)   

(1,058)   

492 

689 

(457)   

307 

(107)   

(100)   

8,096 

– 

1,628 

(5)   

(962)   

346 

(283)   

(170)   

7,944 

932 

2021
£m

3,516 

83 

(33) 

755 

1,034 

1,088 

529 

(47) 

(539) 

36 

(8) 

51 

(780) 

229 

(382) 

(742) 

1,063 

1,505 

(299) 

343 

(31) 

(122) 

7,249 

1,994 

Total cash generated from operations

8,096 

8,876 

9,243 

240

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

43. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt

Net debt, at beginning of year, as adjusted

Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts

Decrease in liquid investments

Issue of long-term loans

Repayment of short-term notes

Repayment of/(increase in) other short-term loans

Repayment of long-term loans

Repayment of lease liabilities

Investments/(debt) of subsidiary undertakings acquired

Exchange adjustments

Other non-cash movements

Decrease/(increase) in net debt from continuing operations

Decrease/(increase) in net debt from discontinued operations

2023
£m

2022
£m

2021
£m

(17,197)   

(19,838)   

(20,780) 

(468)   

(7,597)   

(2,504) 

(72)   

(223)   

2,116 

333 

144 

197 

50 

554 

(474)   

2,157 

(1)   

(1,025)   

5,074 

(1,021)   

1,594 

202 

(24)   

(1,531)   

(207)   

(4,536)   

– 

7,177 

(18) 

– 

2,304 

(301) 

– 

181 

– 

314 

(134) 

(158) 

1,100 

Total net debt at end of year

(15,040)   

(17,197)   

(19,838) 

At 1 January 
2023 
£m

Exchange
£m

Other
£m

Interest 
expense
£m

Change 
in fair value
£m

Reclass-
ifications
£m

Cash flow
£m

At 
31 December 
2023
£m

Analysis of changes in net debt

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts

Debt due within one year:

Commercial paper

European/US MTN & Bank facilities

Lease liabilities

Other

Debt due after one year:

European/US MTN & Bank facilities

Lease liabilities

Net debt

Interest payable

Derivative financial instruments

Total liabilities from financing
  activities*

67 

– 
3,723 

(298)   

3,425 

(1,191)   

(2,146)   

(167)   

(150)   

(3,654)   

(16,194)   

(841)   

(17,035)   

(4)   

– 
(105)   

6 

(99)   

56 

48 

12 

21 

137 

469 

42 

511 

51 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(3)   

3 

– 

– 

(447)   

(447)   

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(19)   

– 

(19)   

(17,197)   

545 

(396)   

(19)   

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(207)   

8 

1 

– 

(29)   

(693)   

– 

– 

343 

(20,888)   

649 

(476)   

(712)   

343 

*  Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

(1,669)   

(195)   

– 

(72)   

– 
(682)   

214 

42 

– 
2,936 

(78) 

(468)   

2,858 

320 

2,116 

197 

13 

(815) 

(1,651) 

(156) 

(113) 

(1,864)   

2,646 

(2,735) 

1,669 

195 

1,864 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(79)   

(14,154) 

– 

(1,051) 

(79)   

(15,205) 

2,027 

(15,040) 

766 

(335)   

(162) 

16 

2,998 

(18,086) 

241

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

43. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued

At 1 January 
2022
£m

Exchange
£m

Other
£m

Interest 
expense
£m

Change 
in fair value
£m

Reclass-
ifications
£m

Demerger
£m

Cash flow
£m

At 
31 December 
2022
£m

(1)   

67 

7,496 

(7,734)   

– 

137 

3,723 

(298) 

7,496 

(7,597)   

3,425 

(7,496)   

7,052 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(545)   

3,425 

(909)   

5,050 

201 

(87)   

(1,191) 

(2,146) 

(167) 

(150) 

4,255 

(3,654) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(4,426)   

(186)   

– 

(4,612)   

(3)   

(4,615)   

1,559 

1,559 

(1,466)   

– 

2,789 

(3,654) 

4,426   

–   

569 

– 

(16,194) 

(841) 

569 

(17,035) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Analysis of changes in net debt

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts

Liquid investments attributed to 
  continuing operations

Liquid investments attributed to
  discontinued operations

Debt due within one year:

Commercial paper

European/US MTN & Bank facilities

Lease liabilities

Other

Debt due within one year attributed
  to continuing operations

Debt due within one year attributed
  to discontinued operations

Debt due after one year:

61 

3,861 

(450)   

3,411 

407 

3,818 

7 

99 

15 

114 

37 

151 

(252)   

(2,596)   

(173)   

(52)   

(30)   

(174)   

(14)   

(2)   

(3,073)   

(220)   

(72)   

(3)   

(3,145)   

(223)   

– 

1 

– 

1 

– 

1 

– 

– 

5 

(9)   

(4)   

(15)   

(19)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

European/US MTN & Bank facilities

(19,760)   

(1,386)   

– 

Lease liabilities

(725)   

(59)   

(243)   

(43)   

– 

Debt due after one year attributed to 
  continuing operations

Debt due after one year attributed to  
  discontinued operations

Net debt

Interest payable

Derivative financial instruments

Total liabilities from financing
  activities*

(20,485)   

(1,445)   

(243)   

(43)   

(87)   

(777)   

(6)   

(20,572)   

(2,222)   

(249)   

(4)   

(47)   

(19,838)   

(2,287)   

(267)   

(47)   

(244)   

(22)   

(5)   

– 

(33)   

(865)   

– 

– 

48 

48 

48 

– 

670 

(23,983)   

(2,450)   

(301)   

(912)   

718 

186 

4,612 

3 

4,615 

– 

– 

– 

– 

*  Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.

For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 30, ‘Net debt’.

10,059 

10,059 

(9,236)   

– 

(8,667)   

(17,035) 

11,618 

(6,424)   

(17,197) 

92 

– 

848 

(640)   

(207) 

8 

11,710 

(5,670)   

(20,888) 

242

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures

The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the net 
cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility to benefit 
earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of financial 
instruments to finance its operations and derivative financial 
instruments to manage market risks from these operations. 
Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange forward 
contracts and swaps which are used to swap borrowings and 
liquid assets into currencies required for Group purposes as well 
as interest rate swaps which are used to manage exposure to 
financial risks from changes in interest rates. These financial 
instruments reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency 
transactions and interest payments.

Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation 
to underlying business activities and not as trading or 
speculative instruments.

Capital management
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities 
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the 
capital structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of 
debt and equity. 

The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of £15 
billion (see Note 30, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, including items 
related to non-controlling interests, of £13 billion (see 
‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on page 182). 
Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling 
interests, is £28 billion.

The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit 
profile that particularly targets ratings of at least A2/A 
(Moody's/S&P), through the cycle. The Group’s long-term credit 
rating with Standard & Poor’s is A (stable outlook) and with 
Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) is A2 (stable outlook). The 
Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard 
& Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. 

Liquidity risk management
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated 
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity 
sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access 
to financial markets. Each day, GSK sweeps cash to or from a 
number of global subsidiaries and central Treasury accounts for 
liquidity management purposes. GSK utilises both physical and 
notional cash pool arrangements as appropriate by location 
and currency. For notional cash pools, liquidity is drawn against 
foreign currency balances to provide both local funding and 
central liquidity as required and with balances actively 
managed and maintained to appropriate levels. As balances in 
notional pooling arrangements are not settled across 
currencies, gross cash and overdraft balances are reported.

At 31 December 2023, GSK had £2.8 billion of borrowings 
repayable within one year and held £3.0 billion of cash and 
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £2.2 billion 
was held centrally. 

GSK has access to short-term finance under a $10 billion 
(£7.8 billion) US commercial paper programme; $850 million 
(£667 million) was in issue at 31 December 2023 (2022: 
$900 million (£748 million)). GSK has access to short-term 
finance under a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme; 
€170 million (£148 million) was in issue at 31 December 2023 
(2022: €500 million (£443 million)). GSK has a  £1.6 billion three-
year and a $2.2 billion (£1.7 billion) 364 day committed facility. 
These committed facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2023. 
GSK considers this level of committed facilities to be adequate, 
given current liquidity requirements.

GSK has a £20 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme and 
at 31 December 2023, £9.2 billion of notes were in issue under 
this programme. The Group also had $8.4 billion (£6.6 billion) of 
notes in issue at 31 December 2023 under a US shelf 
registration. GSK’s borrowings mature at dates between 2024 
and 2045.

The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is exercisable. 
In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers that sufficient 
financing options are available should the put option be 
exercised.

Market risk
Interest rate risk management
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and 
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating rates over time.

The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and 
investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing 
fixed rate debt where any changes in interest rates will affect 
future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The 
policy on interest rate risk management limits the net amount of 
floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed no 
less than annually by the Board.

The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and 
changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly 
affect the Group’s net interest charge. Short-term borrowings 
including bank facilities are exposed to the risk of future 
changes in market interest rates as are the majority of cash and 
liquid investments.

Foreign exchange risk management 
The Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas 
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local 
currency income with local currency costs where possible. 
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external and 
internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal 
trading transactions are matched centrally and inter-company 
payment terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. 
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing 
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward 
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating 
currency. 

In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the 
Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our 
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily 
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can 
be swapped into other currencies as required. 

243

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies 
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be 
treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward 
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure 
to the Group’s investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net 
investment hedges’ section of this note for further details).

Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its 
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group 
and arises on cash and cash equivalents and favourable 
derivative financial instruments held with banks and financial 
institutions as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail 
customers, including outstanding receivables.

The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December 
2023 to be £9,528 million (31 December 2022: £10,180 million) 
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the 
exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity 
investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit risk. See 
page 247 for details on the Group’s total financial assets. At 
31 December 2023, GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk 
was £1.2 billion with a wholesaler in the US (2022: £1.1 billion with 
a wholesaler in the US). See page 245 for further information on 
the Group’s credit risk exposure in respect of the three largest 
US wholesaler customers. 

There has been no change in the estimation techniques or 
significant assumptions made during the current reporting 
period in assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at 
amortised cost or at FVTOCI since the adoption of IFRS 9 at the 
start of the 2018 reporting period.

Treasury-related credit risk
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking 
and investment counterparties based on long-term credit 
ratings from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Usage of these 
limits is actively monitored.

GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing 
surplus cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s 
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate 
cash centrally as much as possible. The table below sets out the 
credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid 
investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives. 

The gross asset position on each derivative contract is 
considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA 
agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each 
counterparty. Table (e) on page 255 sets out the Group’s 
financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.

244

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

At 31 December 2023, £44 million (2022: £60 million) of cash is categorised as held with unrated or sub-investment grade rated 
counterparties (lower than BBB-/Baa3). This exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used for local cash management or 
investment purposes, including: £18 million in Saudi Arabia with Saudi British Bank; £15 million with Halk Bank in the UK; £7 million in 
Nigeria held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Stanbic IBTC Bank; £2 million in Brazil held with Banco 
Bradesco, Itau UniBanco, Banco Do Brasil and Caixa Economica Federal; and £1 million with Banco De La Produccion in Ecuador. 
Of the £55 million of bank balances and deposits held with BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £3.4 million was held with BBB-/Baa3 
rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of £2.6 million with State Bank of India in India. These banks are used for local 
investment purposes.

GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings and 
associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial derivatives are 
deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has been experienced during 2023.

Credit ratings are assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ, 
GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the 
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables. 
These credit ratings form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury-related balances held at amortised 
cost being bank balances and deposits and Government securities. 

2023

Bank balances and deposits

US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds

Liquidity funds

Government securities

Third party financial derivatives

Total

2022

Bank balances and deposits

US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds

Liquidity funds

Government securities

Third party financial derivatives

Total

AAA/Aaa
£m

AA/Aa
£m

– 

155 

839 

– 

– 

994 

28 

– 

– 

42 

– 

70 

AAA/Aaa
£m

AA/Aa
£m

– 

146 

2,253 

– 

– 

2,399 

– 

– 

– 

67 

– 

67 

A/A
£m

1,815 

– 

– 

– 

130 

1,945 

A/A
£m

1,215 

– 

– 

– 

188 

1,403 

BB+/Ba1
and below
/unrated 
£m

BBB/Baa
£m

55 

– 

– 

– 

– 

55 

44 

– 

– 

– 

– 

44 

BB+/Ba1
and below
/unrated 
£m

BBB/Baa
£m

49 

– 

– 

– 

– 

49 

60 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Total
£m

1,942 

155 

839 

42 

130 

3,108 

Total
£m

1,324 

146 

2,253 

67 

188 

60 

3,978 

GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £2.2 billion 
at 31 December 2023, all available within three months. This 
includes £2.0 billion of cash managed by the Group for ViiV 
Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested 
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA 
rated US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 
and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.

Wholesale and retail credit risk
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the 
Group’s trade receivables balance. 

In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the 
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers 
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other 
groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to 
approximately 79% (2022:79%) of the sales of the US 
Commercial Operations business in 2023. 

At 31 December 2023, the Group had trade receivables due 
from these three wholesalers totalling £3,319 million or 56% of 
total trade receivables (2022: £3,001 million or 55%). The Group 
is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these 
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters 
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the 
Group’s financial results.

This concentration of trade receivables is reflective of standard 
market practice in the US pharmaceuticals sector where a 
significant portion of sales are made to these three wholesalers, 
as disclosed in Note 6 'Turnover and segment information'. 
GSK’s assessment is that there is limited credit risk associated 
with these customers.

The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these 
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial 
information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development 
of GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic 
review of credit limits. 

All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and 
existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually. 
The vetting process and subsequent reviews involve obtaining 
information including the customer’s status as a government or 
private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau 
reports, debt rating agency (e.g. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s) 
reports, payment performance history (from trade references, 
industry credit groups) and bank references. 

245

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Trade receivables consist of amounts due from a large number 
of customers, spread across diverse industries and 
geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on 
the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where 
appropriate, credit insurance is purchased or factoring 
arrangements put in place. 

The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level 
of exposure being considered. The information is evaluated 
quantitatively (i.e. credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. 
judgement) in conjunction with the customer’s credit 
requirements to determine a credit limit.

Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that 
have similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other 
receivables and other financial assets are assessed individually. 
Historical and forward-looking information is considered to 
determine the appropriate expected credit loss allowance.

The Group believes there is no further credit risk provision 
required in excess of the allowance for expected credit losses 
(see Note 26, ‘Trade and other receivables’). 

Credit enhancements
The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring and 
credit insurance to minimise the credit risk of the trade 
receivables in the Group. At 31 December 2023, £421 million 
(2022: £332 million) of trade receivables were insured in order 
to protect the receivables from loss due to credit risks such as 
default, insolvency and bankruptcy.

Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private 
customers to determine if credit insurance is required. 

Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and 
are used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk 
concentrations. All factoring arrangements are non-recourse. 

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
excluding lease liabilities
The table on page 247 presents the carrying amounts and the 
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities 
excluding lease liabilities at 31 December 2023 and 
31 December 2022. 

The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included 
at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date.

The following methods and assumptions are used to measure 
the fair values of significant financial instruments carried at fair 
value on the balance sheet:

– Other investments – equity investments traded in an active 

market determined by reference to the relevant stock 
exchange quoted bid price; other equity investments 
determined by reference to the current market value of 
similar instruments, recent financing rounds or the discounted 
cash flows of the underlying net assets

– Trade receivables carried at fair value – based on invoiced 

amount 

– Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, 

swaps and options – based on the present value of 
contractual cash ﬂows or option valuation models using 
market sourced data (exchange rates or interest rates) at the 
balance sheet date

– Cash equivalents carried at fair value – based on net asset 

value of the funds

– Contingent consideration for business acquisitions and 

divestments – based on present values of expected future 
cash flows.

The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate 
the fair values of significant financial instruments which are not 
measured at fair value on the balance sheet:

– Receivables and payables, including put options, carried at 

amortised cost – approximates to the carrying amount
– Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
– Cash and cash equivalents carried at amortised cost – 

approximates to the carrying amount

– Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1 
fair value measurement) in the case of European and US 
Medium Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount in 
the case of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate bank 
loans

– Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper – 

approximates to the carrying amount because of the short 
maturity of these instruments.

246

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Financial assets measured at amortised cost:

Other non-current assets

Trade and other receivables

Liquid investments

Cash and cash equivalents

Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
  income (FVTOCI):

Other investments designated at FVTOCI

Trade and other receivables

Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
  (FVTPL):

Current equity investments and other investments

Other non-current assets

Trade and other receivables

Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and 
  effective hedging relationship

Cash and cash equivalents

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value
  movements through other comprehensive income)

Total financial assets

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:

Borrowings excluding obligations under lease liabilities:

–  bonds in a designated hedging relationship

–  other bonds

–  bank loans and overdrafts

–  commercial paper in a designated hedging relationship

–  other commercial paper

–  other borrowings

Total borrowings excluding lease liabilities

Trade and other payables

Other provisions

Other non-current liabilities

Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL):

Contingent consideration liabilities

Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and 
  effective hedging relationship

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value
  movements through other comprehensive income)

Total financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities

Notes

b

b

a

a,b

a

a,b

a,b

a,d,e

a

a,d,e

Carrying
value
£m

9 

3,829 

42 

1,942 

2023

Fair
value
£m

9 

3,829 

42 

1,942 

Carrying
value
£m

21 

3,789 

67 

1,324 

2022

Fair
value
£m

21 

3,789 

67 

1,324 

931 

2,541 

931 

2,541 

1,153 

2,327 

1,153 

2,327 

2,410 

2,410 

4,401 

4,401 

18 

23 

98 

994 

18 

23 

98 

994 

13 

50 

165 

2,399 

13 

50 

165 

2,399 

32 

32 

25 

25 

12,869 

12,869 

15,734 

15,734 

d

(5,348)   

(5,233)   

(6,322)   

(6,035) 

(10,456)   

(10,762)   

(12,017)   

(11,930) 

(191)   

(148)   

(667)   

(1)   

(191)   

(148)   

(667)   

(1)   

(447)   

(443)   

(748)   

(2)   

(447) 

(443) 

(748) 

(2) 

(16,811)   

(17,002)   

(19,979)   

(19,605) 

(13,383)   

(13,383)   

(14,065)   

(14,065) 

(199)   

(54)   

(199)   

(54)   

(63)   

(84)   

(63) 

(84) 

(6,662)   

(6,662)   

(7,068)   

(7,068) 

(78)   

(78)   

(77)   

(77) 

(36)   

(36)   

(106)   

(106) 

(37,223)   

(37,414)   

(41,442)   

(41,068) 

f

c

c

c

a,c

a,d,e

a,d,e

Net financial assets and financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities

(24,354)   

(24,545)   

(25,708)   

(25,334) 

The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 246. 

Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration 
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 249 to 250. 

247

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2023, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £288 million 
(2022: £354 million) and a market value of £853 million (2022: £861 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held by 
the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2023, the carrying value, 
which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At 
31 December 2023, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £3,447 million (2022: £3,797 million) which has been deducted from 
retained earnings.

(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in 
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, 
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable 
market data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument 
is classified as Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities 
with which the Group has entered into research collaborations and investments which provide access to biotechnology 
developments of potential interest.

At 31 December 2023

Financial assets at fair value

Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):

Other investments designated at FVTOCI

Trade and other receivables

Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):

Current equity investments and other investments

Other non-current assets

Trade and other receivables

Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship

Cash and cash equivalents

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI)

Financial liabilities at fair value

Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):

Contingent consideration liabilities

Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI)

At 31 December 2022

Financial assets at fair value

Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):

Other investments designated at FVTOCI

Trade and other receivables

Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):

Current equity investments and other investments

Other non-current assets

Trade and other receivables

Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship

Cash and cash equivalents

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI)

Financial liabilities at fair value

Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):

Contingent consideration liabilities

Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI)

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

Level 3
£m

Total
£m

741 

– 

– 

2,541 

190 

– 

931 

2,541 

2,204 

– 

– 

– 

994 

– 

– 

– 

23 

98 

– 

32 

206 

2,410 

18 

– 

– 

– 

– 

18 

23 

98 

994 

32 

3,939 

2,694 

414 

7,047 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(6,662) 

(6,662) 

(78) 

(36) 

(114) 

– 

– 

(78) 

(36) 

(6,662) 

(6,776) 

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

Level 3
£m

Total
£m

823 

– 

– 

2,327 

4,087 

– 

– 

– 

2,399 

– 

– 

– 

50 

165 

– 

25 

330 

– 

314 

13 

– 

– 

– 

– 

1,153 

2,327 

4,401 

13 

50 

165 

2,399 

25 

7,309 

2,567 

657 

10,533 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(7,068)   

(7,068) 

(77)   

(106)   

– 

– 

(77) 

(106) 

(183)   

(7,068)   

(7,251) 

248

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:

At 1 January

Exchange adjustments

Net losses recognised in the income statement

Net (losses)/ gains recognised in other comprehensive income

Contingent consideration related to business acquisitions in the period

Settlement of contingent consideration liabilities

Additions

Disposals and settlements

Transfers from Level 3

At 31 December

2023
£m

2022
£m

(6,411)   

(5,657) 

– 

(863)   

(142)   

– 

1,145 

57 

(25)   

(9)   

46 

(1,627) 

91 

(482) 

1,137 

97 

(16) 

– 

(6,248)   

(6,411) 

Of the total net losses of £863 million (2022: £1,627 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the 
income statement, £857 million (2022: £1,623 million) were in respect of financial instruments which were held at the end of the year 
and were reported in Other operating income/expense. Charges of £934 million (2022: £1,431 million) arose from remeasurement of 
the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. A remeasurement 
gain of £210 million (2022: £231 million loss) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition 
of the Novartis Vaccines business. The acquisition of Affinivax in 2022 resulted in the additon of £482 million of contingent 
consideration to Level 3 financial liabilities, with charges of £44 million (2022: £17 million) arising on the remeasurement of the 
contingent consideration liability for the year. There were transfers of £9 million out of Level 3 financial instruments in the year (2022:  
no transfers into or out of Level 3 financial instruments). Movements arising on the translation of overseas net assets for 
consolidation into the Group accounts are recorded as exchange adjustments. Net gains and losses include the impact of other 
exchange movements. 

Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,718 million (2022: £5,890 million) in 
respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This 
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products 
and movements in certain foreign currencies. A further £424 million (2022: £673 million) is in respect of contingent consideration for 
the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will 
vary in line with the future performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone targets and movements in 
certain foreign currencies. As a result of the acquisition of Affinivax in 2022, contingent consideration payable of £516 million (2022: 
£501 million) is recognised at 31 December. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line 
with the achievement of certain development milestones and movements in the USD/GBP exchange rate. Sensitivity analysis on 
these balances is provided in Note 33, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.

(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall 
within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Non-
financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IFRS 9.

At 
FVTPL
£m

At 
FVTOCI
£m

Amortised
cost
£m

Financial 
instruments
£m

Non-
financial 
instruments
£m

At 
FVTPL
£m

At 
FVTOCI 
£m

Amortised
cost
£m

Financial 
instruments
£m

Total
£m

2023

Non-
financial 
instruments 
£m

2022

Total
£m

23 

  2,541 

3,829 

6,393 

992 

  7,385 

  50 

  2,327 

3,789 

6,166 

887 

  7,053 

18 

– 

9 

27 

1,557 

  1,584 

13 

– 

21 

34 

1,160 

1,194 

41 

  2,541 

3,838 

6,420 

2,549 

  8,969 

63 

  2,327 

3,810 

6,200 

2,047 

  8,247 

Trade and other
  receivables (Note 26)

Other non-current assets 
  (Note 24)

Trade and other receivables include trade receivables of £5,905 million (2022: £5,452 million). The Group has portfolios in each of 
the three business models under IFRS 9: £23 million (2022: £50 million), measured at FVTPL, is held to sell the contractual cash flows 
as the receivables will be sold under a factoring arrangement, £2,541 million (2022: £2,327 million), measured at FVTOCI, is held to 
either collect or sell the contractual cash flows as the receivables may be sold under a factoring agreement, and £3,341 million 
(2022: £3,075 million), measured at amortised cost, is held to collect the contractual cash flows and there is no factoring agreement 
in place.

249

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration liabilities and Other non-
current liabilities in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration 
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial 
liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Non-financial instruments include payments on account, tax and social security 
payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside 
the scope of IFRS 9. 

Trade and other payables
  (Note 29)

Other provisions 
  (Note 32)

Contingent consideration
  liabilities (Note 33)

Other non-current liabilities  
(Note 34)

At FVTPL
£m

Amortised
cost
£m

Financial 
instruments
£m

Non-
financial 
instruments
£m

Total
£m

At FVTPL
£m

Amortised 
cost
£m

Financial 
instruments
£m

Non-
financial 
instruments
£m

2023

2022

Total
£m

– 

– 

(13,383)   

(13,383)   

(2,461)   

(15,844)   

(199)   

(199)   

(1,040)   

(1,239)   

– 

– 

(14,065)   

(14,065)   

(2,198)   

(16,263) 

(63)   

(63)   

(1,121)   

(1,184) 

(6,662)   

– 

(6,662)   

– 

(6,662)   

(7,068)   

– 

(7,068)   

– 

(7,068) 

– 

(54)   

(54)   

(1,053)   

(1,107)   

– 

(84)   

(84)   

(815)   

(899) 

(6,662)   

(13,636)   

(20,298)   

(4,554)   

(24,852)   

(7,068)   

(14,212)   

(21,280)   

(4,134)   

(25,414) 

(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for trading’, 
other than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are expected to be 
settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The Group has the 
following derivative financial instruments:

Current

Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts 
  (net principal amount – £175 million (2022: £167 million))

Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts 
  (net principal amount – £12,339 million (2022: £7,197 million))

Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments

Current

Foreign exchange contracts
  (net principal amount – £10,375 million (2022: £5,908 million))

Embedded and other derivatives

Derivatives classified as held for trading

Total derivative instruments

2023
Fair value

2022
Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

– 

32 

32 

98 

– 

98 

130 

(2) 

(34) 

(36) 

(78) 

– 

(78) 

(114) 

5 

20 

25 

163 

2 

165 

190 

– 

(106) 

(106) 

(76) 

(1) 

(77) 

(183) 

250

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.

Net investment hedges
At 31 December 2023, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign 
currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro), American (USD), Singaporean 
(SGD), Canadian (CAD) and Japanese (JPY) foreign operations as shown in the table below. 

The carrying value of bonds on page 247 included £5,348 million (2022: £6,322 million) that were designated as hedging 
instruments in net investment hedges. 

Cash flow hedges
During 2022 and 2023, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow 
hedges. These were entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated coupon 
payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, and to hedge foreign currency 
payments due on acquisitions, and collaboration or licensing arrangements. 

The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a 
balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years 
and in the current year. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.

Foreign exchange risk 
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net 
investment hedges. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial 
instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following tables detail the foreign exchange 
forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information on the related hedged items. 

Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness 
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters 
into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so 
a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that 
the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical 
derivative method to assess effectiveness. 

The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own credit 
risk on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged 
item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging 
relationships. No ineffectiveness was recorded from cash flow hedges in 2023 (2022: £nil). No ineffectiveness was recorded from net 
investment hedges (2022: £nil).

Hedging instruments

Cash flow hedges

Foreign exchange contracts

Buy foreign currency:

Less than 3 months

3 to 6 months

Over 6 months

Sell foreign currency:

Less than 3 months

Average 
exchange rate

Foreign
currency

Net Notional
value
£m

Carrying
value
£m

2023

Periodic 
change in 
value for 
calculating 
hedge
ineffectiveness
£m

1.27 

– 

1.25 

1.16 

USD  

– 

USD  

EUR  

145 

– 

35 

(5)   

175 

(1)   

– 

(1)   

– 

(2)   

(1) 

– 

(1) 

– 

(2) 

251

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Hedging instruments

Net investment hedges

Foreign exchange contracts

Sell foreign currency:

Less than 3 months

Over 6 months

Borrowings:

Less than 3 months

3 to 6 months

Over 6 months

Hedged items

Cash flow hedges

Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast
  transaction

Net investment hedges

Net investment in foreign operations

Hedging instruments

Cash flow hedges

Foreign exchange contracts

Buy foreign currency:

Less than 3 months

3 to 6 months

Over 6 months

Sell foreign currency:

Less than 3 months

Average 
exchange rate

Foreign
currency

Net notional
value
£m

Carrying
value
£m

2023

Periodic 
change in 
value for
 calculating 
hedge
ineffectiveness
£m

1.15 

181.42 

1.27 

1.67 

1.66 

EUR  

JPY  

USD  

CAD  

SGD  

EUR  

– 

JPY  

EUR  

9,146 

133 

2,633 

260 

167 

148 

– 

236 

5,127 

17,850 

(12)   

(1)   

8 

2 

1 

(148)   

– 

(235)   

(5,113)   

(5,498)   

126 

28 

97 

10 

7 

12 

– 

(3) 

125 

402 

2023

Periodic change in value 
for calculating hedge 
ineffectiveness
£m

Cumulative balance in cash 
flow hedge reserve/foreign 
currency translation reserve 
for continuing hedges
£m

Balance in cash flow hedge 
reserve arising from hedging 
relationships for which hedge 
accounting is no longer applied
£m

2 

(402)   

(2)   

(725)   

Average 
exchange rate

Foreign
currency

Net notional
value
£m

Carrying
value
£m

1.23 

1.16 

1.15 

1.14 

USD  

EUR  

EUR  

EUR  

100 

50 

24 

(7)   

167 

2 

2 

1 

– 

5 

– 

– 

2022

Periodic 
change in 
value for 
calculating 
hedge
ineffectiveness
£m

2 

2 

1 

– 

5 

252

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Hedging instruments

Net investment hedges

Foreign exchange contracts

Sell foreign currency:

Less than 3 months

3 to 6 months

Over 6 months

Borrowings:

Less than 3 months

3 to 6 months

Over 6 months

Hedged items

Cash flow hedges

Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast
  transaction

Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure 
  arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to
  debt issued

Net investment hedges

Net investment in foreign operations

Average 
exchange rate

Foreign
currency

Net notional
value
£m

Carrying
value
£m

2022

Periodic 
change in 
value for 
calculating 
hedge
ineffectiveness
£m

1.14 

160.90 

– 

1.57 

1.59 

EUR  

JPY  

– 

CAD  

SGD  

EUR  

EUR  

EUR  

6,559 

194 

– 

270 

174 

293 

150 

6,341 

13,981 

(103)   

(3)   

– 

18 

2 

(293)   

(150)   

(6,322)   

(6,851)   

(317) 

(9) 

– 

15 

1 

(4) 

(3) 

(300) 

(617) 

2022

Periodic change in value 
for calculating hedge 
ineffectiveness
£m

Cumulative balance in cash 
flow hedge reserve/foreign 
currency translation reserve 
for continuing hedges
£m

Balance in cash flow hedge 
reserve arising from hedging 
relationships for which hedge 
accounting is no longer applied
£m

(2)   

(3)   

617 

2 

2 

(1,120)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

£nil (2022: £3 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no 
longer applied. 

The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to 
profit or loss:

Amount reclassified to profit or loss Amount reclassified to balance sheet

2023

Hedging 
gains/(losses) 
recognised in 
reserves
£m

Amount 
of hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
£m

Line item 
in profit or 
loss in 
which hedge 
ineffectiveness 
is included

Hedged 
future cash 
flows 
no longer 
expected to 
occur
£m

Due to 
hedged item 
affecting 
profit or loss 
£m

Line item in 
profit or loss 
in which 
reclassification 
adjustment 
is included

Due to hedged 
item affecting 
balance sheet 
£m

Line item 
in balance 
sheet in which 
reclassification 
adjustment 
is included

(41)   

(1)   

– 

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

Finance 
income or 
expense

– 

– 

– 

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

Finance 
income or 
expense

37 

– 

Intangible 
assets

– 

402 

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

– 

7 

Other 
income or 
expense

– 

– 

253

Cash flow hedges

Variability in cash flows from a 
highly probable forecast 
transaction

Variability in cash flows from 
foreign exchange exposure 
arising on Euro denominated 
coupon payments relating to 
debt issued

Net investment hedges

Net investment in foreign 
operations

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Amount reclassified to profit or loss Amount reclassified to balance sheet

2022

Hedging 
gains/(losses) 
recognised in 
reserves
£m

Amount 
of hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
£m

Line item 
in profit or 
loss in 
which hedge 
ineffectiveness 
is included

Hedged 
future cash 
flows 
no longer 
expected to 
occur
£m

Due to 
hedged item 
affecting 
profit or loss 
£m

Line item in
profit or loss
in which
reclassification
adjustment
is included

Due to hedged 
item affecting
balance sheet 
£m

Line item 
in balance 
sheet in which 
reclassification 
adjustment 
is included

Cash flow hedges

Variability in cash flows from 
a highly probable forecast 
transaction

Variability in cash flows from 
foreign exchange exposure 
arising on Euro denominated 
coupon payments relating to 
debt issued

Net investment hedges

Net investment in foreign 
operations

(5)   

4 

– 

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

Finance 
income or 
expense

(617)   

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(2) 

Finance 
income or 
expense

8 

– 

Intangible 
assets

– 

194  Discontinued 
Operations (1)

– 

– 

(1) Reclassified to the Consolidated income statement on the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business.

Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the 
difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal 
amounts are exchanged.

There are none of these swaps outstanding at 31 December 2023 or at 31 December 2022.

The only impact on these financial statements of interest rate swaps is where the interest rate risk on an element of future debt 
issuance has been managed by entering into forward starting interest rate swaps, effectively to lock in the interest rates on the debt 
in advance. These were closed out at the time of issuing the debt, and the resulting gain or loss held in the Cash flow hedge reserve 
and reclassified to income statement as the interest payments on the debt impacted the income statement.

Forward starting interest rate swaps
Forward starting interest rate contracts, exchanging floating interest for fixed interest, were designated as cash flow hedges to 
hedge the interest variability of the interest cash flows associated with future fixed rate debt.

Interest rate swaps
Interest rate swap contract assets and liabilities are presented (when applicable) in the line ‘Derivative financial instruments’ (either 
as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet.

£21 million (2022: £24 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedge relationships for which hedge 
accounting is no longer applied.

The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to 
profit or loss:

Amount reclassified to profit or loss

2023

Hedging 
gains/(losses) 
recognised in 
reserves
£m

Amount 
of hedge 
ineffectiveness
recognised
in profit or loss
£m

Line item 
in profit or 
loss in 
which hedge 
ineffectiveness is 
included

Due to 
hedged future 
cash flows 
no longer 
expected to 
occur
£m

Line item 
in profit or loss in 
which 
reclassification 
adjustment 
is included

Due to 
hedged item 
affecting 
profit or loss
£m

– 

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

– 

4 

Finance 
income or 
expense

Cash flow hedges

Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates:
Matured in the past

254

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

Amount reclassified to profit or loss

2022

Hedging 
gains/(losses) 
recognised in 
reserves
£m

Amount 
of hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
£m

Line item 
in profit or 
loss in 
which hedge 
ineffectiveness is 
included

Due to 
hedged future 
cash flows 
no longer 
expected to 
occur
£m

Line item 
in profit or loss in 
which 
reclassification 
adjustment 
is included

Due to 
hedged item 
affecting 
profit or loss
£m

(23)   

– 

Finance 
income or 
expense

– 

3 

Finance 
income or 
expense

Cash flow hedges

Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates:

Matured in the past

(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right 
to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. There are also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be 
offset in certain circumstances, such as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract. 

The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements 
and other similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the 
impact on the Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised. 

31 December 2023

Financial assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial instruments

31 December 2022

Financial assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial instruments

Gross
financial
assets/
(liabilities)
£m

Gross 
financial
(liabilities)/
assets set off
£m

Net financial 
assets/
(liabilities) per 
balance sheet
£m

Related 
amounts not 
 set off in the 
balance sheet
£m

6,394 

130 

(1)   

– 

6,393 

130 

– 

(108)   

Net 
£m

6,393 

22 

(13,384)   

(114)   

1 

– 

(13,383)   

(114)   

– 

108 

(13,383) 

(6) 

Gross
financial
assets/
(liabilities)
£m

Gross
Financial
(liabilities)/
assets offset
£m

Net financial 
assets/
(liabilities)
£m

Related 
amounts not 
offset
£m

Net
balance
£m

6,166 

190 

(14,065)   

(183)   

– 

– 

– 

– 

6,166 

190 

– 

(163)   

6,166 

27 

(14,065)   

(183)   

– 

163 

(14,065) 

(20) 

Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances 
principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each 
party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally 
enforceable right of offset, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the 
table above.

255

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis 
of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this 
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than lease liabilities.

Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year

Between one and two years

Between two and three years

Between three and four years

Between four and five years

Between five and ten years

Greater than ten years

Total

Original issuance profile:

Fixed rate interest

Floating rate interest

2023

Total
debt
£m

(2,657)   

(1,434)   

(1,475)   

(740)   

(2,350)   

(3,031)   

(5,124)   

(16,811)   

2022

Total
£m

(3,785) 

(1,714) 

(1,490) 

(1,505) 

(748) 

(4,736) 

(6,001) 

(19,979) 

(15,847)   

(18,355) 

(964)   

(1,624) 

(16,811)   

(19,979) 

256

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements 
in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the 
sensitivity analysis reflects management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.

Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US 
Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in 
the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a 
weakening and strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables 
below. The tables exclude financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with 
another financial instrument.

Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures

10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar

15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar

10 cent appreciation of the Euro

15 cent appreciation of the Euro

10 yen appreciation of the Yen

15 yen appreciation of the Yen

Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures

10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar

15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar

10 cent depreciation of the Euro

15 cent depreciation of the Euro

10 yen depreciation of the Yen

15 yen depreciation of the Yen

2023

2022

Increase/(decrease) in
income
£m

Increase/(decrease) in
income
£m

61 

97 

(4)   

(7)   

– 

– 

99 

155 

(7) 

(12) 

– 

(1) 

2023

2022

Increase/(decrease) in
income
£m

Increase/(decrease) in
income
£m

(52)   

(76)   

4 

5 

– 

– 

(84) 

(121) 

6 

9 

– 

– 

The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments 
hedging the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange 
exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term 
Note programme.

Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures

10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar

15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar

10 cent appreciation of the Euro

15 cent appreciation in Euro

Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures

10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar

15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar

10 cent depreciation of the Euro

15 cent depreciation of the Euro

2023

2022

Increase/(decrease) 
in equity
£m

Increase/(decrease) 
in equity
£m

(209)   

(327)   

(1,372)   

(2,160)   

– 

– 

(1,290) 

(2,034) 

2023

2022

Increase/(decrease) 
in equity
£m

Increase/(decrease) 
in equity
£m

178 

258 

1,152 

1,662 

– 

– 

1,080 

1,557 

257

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based 
on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 30, 'Net debt', adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not 
part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.

Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt

10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar

15  cent appreciation of the US Dollar

10 cent appreciation of the Euro

15 cent appreciation of the Euro

10 yen appreciation of the Yen

15 yen appreciation of the Yen

Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt

10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar

15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar

10 cent depreciation of the Euro

15 cent depreciation of the Euro

10 yen depreciation of the Yen

15 yen depreciation of the Yen

2023

2022

(Increase)/decrease 
in net debt
£m

(Increase)/decrease 
in net debt
£m

(622)   

(974)   

386 

609 

(5)   

(7)   

(999) 

(1,570) 

11 

17 

13 

20 

2023

2022

(Increase)/decrease 
in net debt
£m

(Increase)/decrease 
in net debt
£m

531 

769 

(325)   

(468)   

4 

6 

846 

1,222 

(9) 

(13) 

(12) 

(17) 

Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will 
affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.

The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the 
Group’s net interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.

The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro 
floating rate financial assets and liabilities. A 1% (100 basis points) or 1.5% (150 basis points) movement in EUR, USD or Sterling 
interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.  A 1% (100 basis points) or 1.5% (150 basis points) decrease in EUR, 
USD or Sterling interest rates would have an equal and opposite impact to that shown below.

Income statement impact of interest rate movements

1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates

1.5% (150 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates

1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates

1.5% (150 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates

1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates

1.5% (150 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates

2023

2022

Increase/(decrease) 
in income
£m

Increase/(decrease) 
in income
£m

41 

62 

(34)   

(51)   

(9)   

(13)   

36 

55 

(34) 

(51) 

(13) 

(19) 

258

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued

(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-
derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings 
except for lease liabilities. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future issuance. 
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are 
translated using spot rates at 31 December. 

At 31 December 2023

Due in less than one year

Between one and two years

Between two and three years

Between three and four years

Between four and five years

Between five and ten years

Greater than ten years

Gross contractual cash flows

At 31 December 2022

Due in less than one year

Between one and two years

Between two and three years

Between three and four years

Between four and five years

Between five and ten years

Greater than ten years

Debt
£m

(2,660)   

(1,436)   

(1,477)   

(742)   

(2,359)   

(3,054)   

(5,172)   

(16,900)   

Debt
£m

(3,786)   

(1,717)   

(1,496)   

(1,508)   

(751)   

(4,765)   

(6,063)   

Gross contractual cash flows

(20,086)   

Interest 
on debt
£m

(547)   

(507)   

(466)   

(449)   

(399)   

(1,611)   

(1,467)   

(5,446)   

Interest 
on debt
£m

(594)   

(570)   

(531)   

(489)   

(472)   

(1,810)   

(1,856)   

(6,322)   

Lease 
liabilities
£m

(156)   

(214)   

(134)   

(114)   

(88)   

(325)   

(176)   

Finance 
charge 
on lease 
liabilities
£m

Trade payables 
and other 
liabilities not
in net debt
£m

Total
£m

(41)   

(36)   

(31)   

(27)   

(23)   

(75)   

(21)   

(14,526)   –  

(17,930) 

(1,469)   –  

(1,150)   –  

(1,406)   –  

(940)   –  

(2,037)   –  

(1,043)   –  

(3,662) 

(3,258) 

(2,738) 

(3,809) 

(7,102) 

(7,879) 

(1,207)   

(254)   

(22,571)   –  

(46,378) 

Lease 
liabilities
£m

(167)   

(201)   

(127)   

(97)   

(80)   

(201)   

(135)   

Finance 
charge 
on lease 
liabilities
£m

Trade payables 
and other
liabilities not
in net debt
£m

Total
£m

(15,362) 

(19,934) 

(25)   

(22)   

(19)   

(15)   

(13)   

(41)   

(11)   

(1,097) 

(1,034) 

(1,277) 

(1,008) 

(2,641) 

(1,134) 

(3,607) 

(3,207) 

(3,386) 

(2,324) 

(9,458) 

(9,199) 

(51,115) 

(1,008)   

(146)   

(23,553) 

The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding 
equity options which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted 
cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign 
exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement 
arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.

2023

2022

Gross cash inflows

Gross cash outflows

Gross cash inflows

Gross cash outflows

Foreign exchange forward 
contracts and swaps
£m

Foreign exchange forward 
contracts and swaps
£m

Foreign exchange forward 
contracts and swaps
£m

Foreign exchange forward 
contracts and swaps
£m

Less than one year

Gross contractual cash flows

31,961 

31,961 

(31,944) 

(31,944) 

24,418 

24,418 

(24,410) 

(24,410) 

259

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

45. Employee share schemes

GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to 
acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc at no cost after a three-year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards are 
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified 
performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost 
of the schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related 
share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GSK plc at a discounted price. 

Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are 
normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash. Grants under 
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK practice, the 
majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the 
date of grant. Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.

The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2023 was £321 million (2022: £314 million; 2021: £345 million). Of this amount, 
£244 million (2022: £243 million; 2021: £258 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee costs’ for further details.

GSK share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to 
three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing 
share price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 3.8% (2022: 3.2%; 2021: 3.8%) over the 
duration of the award.

Number of shares and ADS issuable

Shares
Number (000)

Weighted
fair value

ADS
Number (000)

Weighted
fair value

At 1 January 2021

Awards granted

Awards exercised

Awards cancelled

At 31 December 2021

Awards granted

Awards exercised

Awards cancelled

At 31 December 2022

Awards granted

Awards exercised

Awards cancelled

At 31 December 2023

£13.28 

£13.00 

£12.79 

28,874 

11,220 

(10,074) 

(1,776) 

28,244 

10,987 

(9,538) 

(1,718) 

27,975 

11,548 

(8,599) 

(1,144) 

29,780 

$36.68 

$30.64 

$31.65 

16,116 

6,358 

(5,240) 

(1,705) 

15,529 

6,133 

(4,919) 

(1,314) 

15,429 

6,449 

(4,856) 

(797) 

16,225 

Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of 
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested 
during the same period. For awards granted from 2020, the performance conditions are based on four measures over a three-year 
performance period. These are adjusted free cash flow (30%), TSR (30%), R&D new product performance (20%) and pipeline 
progress (20%). For awards granted from 2022, the performance conditions are based on five measures over a three-year 
performance period. These are TSR (30%), pipeline progress (20%), profit measure (20%), sale measure (20%) and ESG 
environment (10%).  

The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements, this 
is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.

During 2023, awards were made of 4.3 million shares at a weighted fair value of £12.40 and 1.0 million ADS at a weighted fair value 
of £29.96. At 31 December 2023, there were outstanding awards over 13.3 million shares and 2.7 million ADS.

260

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

45. Employee share schemes continued

Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing 
model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:

Risk-free interest rate

Dividend yield

Volatility

Expected life

Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount)

Options outstanding for the Share Save Plan

At 31 December 2023

Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end

Weighted average market price on exercise during year

Weighted average remaining contractual life

2023 Grant

2022 Grant

2021 Grant

 4.57% 

 4.0% 

 34% 

 3.37% 

 3.3% 

 36% 

 0.74% 

 3.8% 

 27% 

3 years

3 years

3 years

£11.20 

£11.39 

£12.07 

Savings-related
share option schemes

Number
000

6,196 

Weighted
exercise
price

£11.13 

£10.34  —     £14.15 

£14.32 

1.9 years

Options over 1.9 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average 
fair value of £4.08. At 31 December 2023, 4.2 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. 

There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.

Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GSK plc to satisfy awards made 
under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts 
purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are 
charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised down to the 
value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have waived their 
rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts. 

At 31 December 2023, 58,817,197 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, out of which 58,493,518 were held for the future exercise of 
share options and share awards and 323,679 shares were held for the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.

Shares held for share award schemes

Number of shares (000)

Nominal value

Carrying value

Market value

Shares held for share option schemes

Number of shares (000)

Nominal value

Carrying value

Market value

2023

58,817 

2022

59,814 

£m

18 

288 

853 

2023

– 

£m

– 

– 

– 

£m

19 

353 

861 

2022

65 

£m

– 

1 

1 

261

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

46. Principal Group companies

The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2023. The equity 
share capital of these entities is shown in the percentage columns. All companies are incorporated in their principal country of 
operation except where stated.

Scotland
GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited Partnership

US
Affinivax, Inc

Corixa Corporation

GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.

GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.

GlaxoSmithKline LLC

GSK Equity Investments, Limited

Human Genome Sciences, Inc

Stiefel Laboratories, Inc

Tesaro, Inc.
ViiV Healthcare Company

Others
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited (Saudi Arabia)

Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd (Singapore)

GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited (Thailand)

GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)

GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)

GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. (Taiwan)

GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)

GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)

GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)

GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)

GlaxoSmithKline Limited (Hong Kong)

GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)

GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan)

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India)

GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd (China)

GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited (Vietnam)

ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)

ViiV Healthcare K.K (Japan)

ViiV Healthcare ULC (Canada)

%
 100 

%
 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 
 78.3 

%

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 82.6 

 75 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 78.3 

 78.3 

England
Glaxo Group Limited

Glaxo Operations UK Limited 

Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited 

GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc  

GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited(a) 
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited(a)
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited 

GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited 

Setfirst Limited

SmithKline Beecham Limited

ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited 

ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited

Viiv Healthcare UK Limited

Europe
GlaxoSmithKline AG (Switzerland)

Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S (France)

GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands)

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium)

GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany)

GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA (Italy)

GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH (Austria)

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium)

GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain)

GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy)

GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. (Greece)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of
  Ireland)(b)
GSK Capital B.V. (Netherlands)(b)
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland)

GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany)

GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy)

JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading (Russia)

Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France)

Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain)

ViiV Healthcare GmbH (Germany)

ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. (Italy)

ViiV Healthcare SAS (France)

%

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 78.3 

 78.3 

 78.3 

%
 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 78.3 

 78.3 

 78.3 

 78.3 

 Tax resident in UK.

(a) Directly held wholly-owned subsidiary of GSK plc.
(b)
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of 
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc, GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc, GSK Capital BV and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is 
a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities 
issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc, GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc, GSK Capital BV and 
GlaxoSmithKline LLC.

+ See pages 306 to 314 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial statements.

262

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

47. Legal proceedings

The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative 
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, 
tax, anti-trust, consumer fraud and governmental investigations. 
The most significant of these matters, other than tax matters, 
are described below. The Group makes provision for these 
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, 
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 32, ‘Other 
provisions’. Note 2 also describes when disclosure is made of 
proceedings for which there is no provision. Legal expenses 
incurred and provisions related to legal claims are charged to 
selling, general and administration costs. The Group does not 
believe that information about the amount sought by plaintiffs, 
if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal 
proceedings. This is due to a number of factors, including, but 
not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the entitlement of 
parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories of liability, 
damages and governing law.

At 31 December 2023, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal 
and other disputes (not including tax matters described in Note 
14, ‘Taxation’) was £267 million. There can be no assurance that 
any losses that result from the outcome of any legal 
proceedings will not materially exceed the amount of the 
provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements. If this 
were to happen, it could have a material adverse impact on the 
results of operations of the Group in the reporting period in 
which the judgements are incurred or the settlements entered 
into.

Intellectual property
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity 
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or 
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those 
patents. A loss in such cases could result in loss of patent 
protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any 
such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that 
product and could materially affect future results of operations 
for the Group.

Coreg
In 2014, GSK initiated suit against Teva for inducing 
infringement of its patent relating to the use of carvedilol 
(Coreg) in decreasing mortality caused by congestive heart 
failure. In June 2017, the case proceeded to a jury trial in the US 
District Court for the District of Delaware. The jury returned a 
verdict in GSK’s favour, awarding GSK lost profits and 
reasonable royalties for a total award of $235.51 million. On 29 
March 2018, the trial judge ruled on post-trial motions filed by 
Teva and found that substantial evidence at trial did not 
support the jury’s finding of induced infringement, overturning 
the jury award. GSK appealed, and on 2 October 2020, a 
divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit 
reversed the district court’s ruling and reinstated the jury award 
in GSK’s favour.

On 2 December 2020, Teva filed a petition for rehearing en 
banc. The court granted Teva’s petition, but only for a rehearing 
by the three-member panel that issued the original decision. On 
5 August 2021, the original panel issued its rehearing opinion 
where the majority again reinstated the jury’s damages award 
of $235.51 million in GSK’s favour. 

Teva again filed a petition for rehearing en banc which was 
rejected by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 11 
February 2022. On 11 July 2022, Teva filed a petition for writ of 
certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking 
to overturn the Federal Court decision. On 15 May 2023, the US 
Supreme Court denied Teva’s request. Certain issues remain to 
be resolved at the District Court and the parties await the 
scheduling of a status conference.

Dolutegravir Proceedings
– Tivicay/Triumeq

In September 2021, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV 
letter from Lupin relating to the Tivicay 5mg dosage for oral 
suspension, challenging only the crystal form patent. On 2 
November 2021, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin in the 
US District Court for the District of Delaware. In March 2023, the 
parties reached a settlement, thereby concluding the matter.

– Juluca

On 12 June 2020, Cipla sent ViiV Healthcare a paragraph IV 
letter related to Juluca, and on 22 July 2020, ViiV Healthcare 
filed suit against Cipla in federal court in Delaware. In March 
2023, the parties reached a settlement, thereby concluding the 
matter.

RSV
On 7 June 2022, Pfizer, Inc. filed suit in the London High Court 
challenging the validity and requesting revocation of three GSK 
European patents relating to RSV vaccine technology. 
Corresponding invalidity suits against additional patents were 
filed in the District Court of the Hague in the Netherlands in 
January 2023 and in the French-speaking Enterprise Court of 
Brussels in Belgium in March 2023. In each of those matters 
GSK counterclaimed that Pfizer’s RSV vaccine infringes GSK’s 
patents. On 2 August 2023, GSK filed a patent infringement suit 
against Pfizer in the United States District Court for the District 
of Delaware alleging infringement of four US GSK patents by 
Pfizer’s RSV vaccine, Abrysvo. Another two GSK patents were 
added to the US litigation on 30 November 2023.

The trial in the UK action took place in June 2023. A decision is 
expected by the end of Q2 2024. In the Netherlands, two 
separate first-instance hearings have been scheduled. The first 
was held on 26 January 2024 and the second is scheduled for 1 
March 2024. In Belgium, trial on the merits is expected in Q3 
2024 with a first instance decision likely in Q1 2025. A trial date 
in the US has yet to be set. GSK is seeking monetary 
compensation from Pfizer for Pfizer’s infringing sales of Abrysvo. 
GSK’s sales of Arexvy are not at issue in these litigations.

263

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

47. Legal proceedings continued

Product liability

The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product 
liability lawsuits.

Avandia
There are two pending US class actions (both filed in 2010) by 
third-party payers which assert claims under the Racketeer 
Inﬂuenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and state 
consumer protection laws. In December 2019, the Third Circuit 
Court of Appeals reversed the summary judgements granted in 
favour of the Group and remanded the third-party payer cases 
back to district court. Discovery is complete, and class 
certification and summary judgment briefing has been 
completed. A hearing on certain Daubert motions relating to 
experts was held on 1 February 2024. GSK has requested oral 
argument on class certification, which could be scheduled 
thereafter. 

Zantac
In 2019, the Group was contacted by several regulatory 
authorities regarding the detection of N-Nitroso-dimethylamine 
(NDMA) in Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based on information 
available at the time and correspondence with regulators, the 
Group made the decision to suspend the release, distribution 
and supply of all dose forms of Zantac to all markets pending 
the outcome of the ongoing tests and investigations. Also, as a 
precautionary action, the Group made the decision to initiate a 
voluntary pharmacy/retail level recall of Zantac products 
globally.

On 30 April 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
recommended the suspension of ranitidine medicines. Following 
the publication of the EMA’s recommendation, the Company 
communicated a decision not to re-enter the market. In the US, 
FDA requested that all manufacturers withdraw ranitidine 
products from the market.

The Group was named as a defendant in approximately 2,200 
personal injury cases filed in the federal Zantac Multidistrict 
Litigation (MDL) court proceeding in the Southern District of 
Florida. In the MDL, plaintiffs originally identified 10 different 
types of cancers they wished to pursue. Plaintiffs subsequently 
dropped 5 of the 10 cancers, and proceeded only as to bladder, 
esophageal, stomach, liver, and pancreatic cancers, although 
plaintiffs in state courts continue to pursue claims beyond the 5 
designated cancers. On 6 December 2022, the court presiding 
over the federal MDL proceeding granted Defendants’ Daubert 
motions, finding that Plaintiffs’ experts’ causation opinions 
regarding whether Zantac can cause the five cancers at issue in 
the MDL (liver, bladder, pancreatic, esophageal, and stomach) 
are unreliable and thus inadmissible. Without expert causation 
opinions, the MDL Court granted summary judgment to GSK 
and the other brand defendants. The MDL Court found that 
“there is no scientist outside this litigation who concluded 
ranitidine causes cancer, and the plaintiffs’ scientists within this 
litigation systemically utilized unreliable methodologies,” and 
failed to use “consistent, objective, science-based standards for 
the even-handed evaluation of data.” This ruling effectively 
dismissed approximately 2,200 filed cases in the MDL and is 
binding on all of the claims in the Census Registry. 
Approximately 13,000 Plaintiffs (which includes plaintiffs with 
filed cases and registry claimants) have appealed the MDL 
decision to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Plaintiffs’ 
briefs are due on 10 April 2024. Following the Court’s Daubert 
decision, it entered a final order dismissing the medical 
monitoring and consumer class actions based on the reasoning 
in its Daubert holding. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal in 
the medical monitoring and consumer class action cases. 

GSK has been named as a defendant by approximately 78,000 
plaintiffs in several US state jurisdictions. Of these plaintiffs, 
approximately 72,000 plaintiffs filed in Delaware. Most of the 
Delaware plaintiffs allege a cancer other than the five cancers 
being pursued by Plaintiffs in the MDL proceeding. The 
Delaware court held a general causation hearing on the 
admissibility of expert testimony for the 10 cancers Plaintiffs 
have decided to pursue (breast, colorectal, kidney, prostate, 
pancreatic, lung, bladder, liver, esophageal, and stomach) on 
22-24 January 2024.

In the California Zantac litigation Cases JCCP 5150 (JCCP), the 
court issued a Sargon ruling in the first case scheduled for trial 
(Goetz). The court found that the plaintiff’s experts’ causation 
opinions are admissible and can be presented to a jury. The 
ruling applied only to the Goetz case and does not affect any 
other state court cases. On 23 June 2023, GSK reached a 
confidential settlement in the Goetz case. On 11 October 2023, 
GSK announced it had reached confidential settlements in the 
Cantlay/Harper case as well as the three remaining breast 
cancer bellwether cases in California. On 1 February 2024, GSK 
announced it had reached a confidential settlement in the 
Browne case filed in California state court. The case, which was 
set to begin trial on 20 February 2024, will be dismissed. The 
settlements reflect GSK’s desire to avoid the distraction related 
to protracted litigation. GSK does not admit any liability in the 
settlements and will continue to vigorously defend itself based 
on the facts and the science in all other Zantac cases. The next 
case scheduled for trial in the JCCP is Boyd (colorectal). The 
Court has set a Sargon hearing for 29 February 2024 and a trial 
date of 2 April 2024. Additional bellwether cases in the JCCP 
have been and will be set for trial in Q2 and Q3 2024.

Multiple trials in other state courts have been set with dates in 
2024 and 2025, including in Illinois, Texas, and Florida. The first 
of these cases is Valadez (colorectal) which is scheduled for trial 
on 25 April 2024. There are 14 additional cases in Illinois with 
trial dates in 2024 and 2025. Cases in Texas and Florida do not 
yet have firm trial dates, although trials are expected to occur in 
2024 and 2025. 

Outside the US, there are two proposed class actions pending 
against GSK in Ontario and Quebec, Canada along with a class 
action in Israel. In Canada, a certification hearing was held in 
October 2022 in the British Columbia proposed class action. 
This was the first class action to proceed to a certification 
hearing and the class action sought to certify a national class. 
In May 2023, the Court dismissed the proposed class action 
against the manufacturer defendants. An appeal from that 
decision was abandoned. The Ontario action will also be 
discontinued. There are also approximately 120 individual 
actions that have been filed in Canada.  

Given the complex ownership and marketing of Zantac 
prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medicine over many 
years, numerous claims involve several defendants. As a result, 
some defendants have served one another, including the 
Group, with notice of potential indemnification claims about 
possible liabilities connected particularly with Zantac OTC. 
Given the current stage of the proceedings, the Group cannot 
meaningfully assess what liability, if any, it may have, nor can it 
meaningfully assess the liability of other parties under relevant 
indemnification provisions.

264

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

47. Legal proceedings continued

In addition, on 20 March 2020, the Department of Justice 
(DOJ) sent the Group notice of a civil investigation it had 
opened into allegations of False Claims Act violations by the 
Group related to Zantac. On 18 June 2020, the DOJ served a 
Civil Investigative Demand (CID) on the Group, formalising its 
request for documents. The Group continues to cooperate with 
the DOJ on the CID. On the same day, the New Mexico 
Attorney General filed a lawsuit against multiple defendants, 
including the Group, alleging violations of state consumer 
protection and false advertising statutes, among other claims. 

On 11 November 2020, the Mayor & City of Baltimore filed an 
action against the Group alleging that Zantac increased the risk 
of cancer and/or caused cancer in Baltimore patients, and that 
the Group failed to warn of or concealed those risks. Fact and 
expert discovery is ongoing. The court has set a trial date of 2 
June 2025.

Zofran
The Group was a defendant in over 400 product liability cases 
involving Zofran pending in a Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) 
proceeding in the District of Massachusetts. The cases alleged 
that children suffered birth defects due to their mothers’ 
ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for pregnancy- 
related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs asserted that the Group 
sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed 
to warn of the risks and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for 
use by pregnant women.

On 1 June 2021, the MDL Court granted the Group’s motion for 
summary judgment on federal pre-emption grounds. The Court 
found that the FDA was fully informed of all relevant safety 
information regarding Zofran and had repeatedly rejected any 
attempt to add a birth defect warning to the label. At that time, 
the Court granted judgment for the Group in all cases pending 
in the MDL (approximately 431 cases) and closed the MDL 
proceeding. Plaintiffs appealed this decision and, on 9 January 
2023, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit 
affirmed the district court’s decision in favour of the Group.

There remains one state court case and four proposed class 
actions in Canada, which are not currently active.

Sales and marketing and regulation
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical 
and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental 
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under 
various theories of law.

GSK Korea – Proceedings under Fair Trade Laws
In August 2020, GSK Korea was indicted under Korea’s 
Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade laws in relation to 
government tenders of HPV (Cervarix) and PCV (Synflorix) 
vaccines in 2018 and 2019. The prosecutor alleged that GSK 
Korea, through the actions of at least one of its employees, 
interfered with the tender process under the National 
Immunisation Programme by using “straw bidders.”

A former GSK Korea employee was also charged in his 
individual capacity by the prosecutor in relation to the same 
matter. Further, a number of wholesalers are co-defendants in 
the proceedings. On 1 February 2023, the court rendered a 
guilty verdict in respect of all defendants. GSK Korea was fined 
KRW70 million which is approximately £45,000. Appeal 
proceedings are ongoing.

The Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) also commenced 
proceedings regarding the same matter. KFTC hearings took 
place in July 2023 and GSK Korea was found in violation of 
applicable fair trade law. The KFTC imposed a fine of 
KRW351 million which is approximately £212,000.

US electronic health records subpoena
On 19 March 2023, the Group received a subpoena from the 
United States Attorney’s Office for the Western District of 
Virginia, which is working with the United States Department of 
Justice Civil Division, seeking documents relating to the Group’s 
electronic health record programmes. The Group is cooperating 
with this enquiry.

Senate HELP Enquiry
The Group received a letter dated 8 January 2024 from 
majority members of the US Senate Health, Education, Labor 
and Pensions (“HELP”) Committee initiating an investigation 
into the pricing of inhalers for the treatment of asthma and 
COPD. The letter is similar to letters received by a number of 
other pharmaceutical companies and requests information on 
pricing, research in the treatment of respiratory diseases, 
patenting and business practices. The Group is cooperating 
with the enquiry.

Orange Book Challenge
In November 2023, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 
wrote to the Group and identified five patents that it is 
challenging through an FDA Orange Book listing dispute 
process, reserving the right to take further action. A number of 
other companies were also contacted, with the FTC citing a 
total of 62 patents. As to the five patent listings challenged by 
the FTC, the Group has asked the FDA to remove four patents 
from the Orange Book with respect to certain products. It is the 
Group's position that these patents were properly listed at the 
time of the listing decision. No generic competition was 
impacted by the previous listings and all de-listed patents 
remain valid and enforceable. Subsequent to the FTC’s 
challenge, the Group received letters from US Senator Elizabeth 
Warren and US Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, US Senator 
Amy Klobuchar, and US Senator Tammy Baldwin, reiterating 
the FTC position and requesting further information about the 
Group’s Orange Book-listed patents and the Group’s response 
to the FDA challenge process. The Group is cooperating with 
these enquiries.

Anti-trust/competition
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been 
brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or 
anti-trust laws.

Lamictal
Purported classes of direct purchasers filed suit in the US 
District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the 
Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay 
generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the 
purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive 
reverse payment settlement to resolve patent infringement 
litigation. A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising 
the market.

On 13 December 2018, the trial judge granted plaintiffs’ class 
certification motion, certifying a class of direct purchasers. The 
Group filed a Rule 23(f) motion in the Court of Appeals for the 
Third Circuit, challenging the class certification decision. On 22 
April 2020, the Court of Appeals vacated the lower court’s grant 
of class certification and remanded the issue back to the lower 
court for further analysis.

265

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the financial statements continued

47. Legal proceedings continued

On 9 October 2020, the district court heard argument on 
plaintiffs’ renewed motion for class certification after remand. 
On 9 April 2021, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for 
class certification of the putative direct purchaser class, leaving 
a potential class of brand-only purchasers. Plaintiffs moved to 
supplement their expert report and seek additional discovery to 
support the addition of certain generic purchasers. On 21 
January 2022, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion to 
supplement their expert report and seek additional discovery 
and held that the issue of generic purchasers had already been 
decided and denied in the court’s ruling on decertification. The 
parties conducted briefing on class certification as to the 
remaining brand-only purchasers, with plaintiffs also seeking to 
add a smaller category of purchasers.

On 1 February 2023, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ renewed 
class certification motion. A series of follow-on complaints have 
been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of 
Pennsylvania by groups of alleged purchasers. The cases have 
been consolidated with the previously pending case in the 
District of New Jersey. Discovery is ongoing.

Commercial and corporate
The Group is involved in certain contractual and/or commercial 
disputes.

48. Post balance sheet events

Zejula Royalty Dispute
In October 2012, Tesaro, Inc. (now a wholly owned subsidiary of 
GSK) entered into two worldwide patent license agreements 
with AstraZeneca UK Limited related to niraparib (later 
approved as Zejula). 

In May 2021, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit against Tesaro in the 
High Court, England and Wales alleging that Tesaro failed to 
pay some of the royalties due under the license agreements. 
Tesaro has counterclaimed based on a calculated 
overpayment. Trial was held the week of 6 March 2023 and 
judgment was entered against the Group on 5 April 2023, ruling 
that all current uses of Zejula generate royalty-bearing sales 
under the wording of the two license agreements. On 12 June 
2023, the Court of Appeal of England and Wales granted the 
Group’s request for permission to appeal the 5 April 2023 
judgment. The appeal was heard on 17 January 2024 and on 9 
February 2024 the Court of Appeal ruled in the Group’s favour, 
overturning the trial court’s judgment and determining that only 
Zejula sales for uses falling within the licensed patents could be 
deemed royalty-bearing. The appropriate quantum of royalties 
in accord with the Court of Appeal’s judgment may be the 
subject of further proceedings.

Acquisition of Aiolos Bio, Inc
On 9 January 2024, GSK announced it had entered into an agreement to acquire Aiolos Bio, Inc, (Aiolos) a clinical stage 
biopharmaceutical company focused on addressing the unmet treatment needs of patients with certain respiratory and 
inflammatory conditions, for an upfront payment of US$1 billion and up to US$400 million in certain success-based regulatory 
milestone payments. In addition, GSK will also be responsible for success-based milestone payments as well as tiered royalties owed 
to Jiangsu Hengrui Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Hengrui). The transaction was subject to customary conditions, including applicable 
regulatory agency clearances under the Hart- Scott-Rodino Act in the US, and subsequently closed on 14 February 2024. Given the 
timing of the closure of the transaction, GSK expects to disclose the provisional accounting for the acquisition in the Q1 2024 Results 
Announcement.

Disposal of shares in Haleon plc
On 17 January 2024, GSK completed the sale of 300 million shares in Haleon plc equivalent to 3.2% of Haleon plc’s issued share 
capital at a price of 326 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of £978 million. Following the sale, GSK holds approximately 385 
million ordinary shares in Haleon plc, representing over 4.0% of the issued share capital of Haleon plc.

266

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2023

Notes

2023
£m

Fixed assets – investments

Current assets:

Trade and other receivables

Cash at bank

Total current assets

Trade and other payables

Total current liabilities

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Provisions for liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

Net assets

Capital and reserves

Share capital

Share premium account

Other reserves

Retained earnings:

At 1 January

Profit/(loss) for the year

Ordinary shares issued under share option/award schemes

Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust

Dividends in specie

Dividends paid to shareholders

Equity shareholders’ funds

E  

F  

G  

H  

I

J  

J  

K  

K

2023
£m

22,631 

22,657 

17 

22,674 

(740)   

(740)   

21,934 

44,565 

(20)   

(388)   

44,157 

1,348 

3,451 

1,420 

2022
£m

2022
£m

22,881 

17,748 

20 

17,768 

(545) 

(545) 

17,223 

40,104 

(13) 

(645) 

39,446 

1,347 

3,440 

1,420 

33,239 

6,643 

20 

283 

– 

(2,247)   

50,596 

710 

– 

1,089 

(15,689)   

(3,467)   

37,938 

44,157 

33,239 

39,446 

The financial statements on pages 267 to 271 were approved by the Board on 27 February 2024 and signed on its behalf by

Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair GSK plc
Registered number: 3888792

Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023

At 1 January 2022

Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders

Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust

Dividends to shareholders (Note D)

Dividends in specie (Note D)

Shares issued under employee share schemes

At 31 December 2022

Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders

Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust

Dividends to shareholders (Note D)

Shares issued under employee share schemes

At 31 December 2023

Share
capital
£m

1,347 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

1,347 

– 

– 

– 

1 

Share 
premium
account
£m

3,301 

– 

– 

– 

– 

139 

3,440 

– 

– 

– 

11 

Other
reserves
£m

Retained
earnings
£m

Total
equity
£m

1,420 

50,596 

56,664 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

710 

1,089 

710 

1,089 

(3,467)   

(3,467) 

(15,689)   

(15,689) 

– 

139 

1,420 

33,239 

39,446 

– 

– 

– 

– 

6,643 

283 

6,643 

283 

(2,247)   

(2,247) 

20 

32 

1,348 

3,451 

1,420 

37,938 

44,157 

267

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)

A) Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business
GSK Plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global 
biopharma group which prevents and treats disease with  
vaccines, specialty and general medicines. GSK focuses on the 
science of the immune system and the use of new platform and 
data technologies, investing in four core therapeutic areas: 
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology and oncology.

Preparation of financial statements
The financial statements, which are prepared using the 
historical cost convention (as modified to include the 
revaluation of certain financial instruments) and on a going 
concern basis, are prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and 
with UK accounting presentation and the Companies Act 2006 
as at 31 December 2023, with comparative figures as at 
31 December 2022 

As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
income statement of the company is not presented in this 
Annual Report.

Key accounting judgements and estimates
No key accounting judgements or estimates were required in 
the current year.

B) Accounting policies
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange 
rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets 
and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date.

Dividends paid and received
Dividends paid and received are included in the financial 
statements in the period in which the related dividends are 
actually paid or received.

Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services 
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. 
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability 
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the 
obligation can be reliably estimated.

The company is included in the Group financial statements of 
GSK plc, which are publicly available. 

The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have 
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, 
in accordance with FRS 101: 

Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any 
provision for impairment and also includes a capital 
contribution in relation to movements in contingent 
consideration.

– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based 

payment’

– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ 

comparative information requirements in respect of 
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1

– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D), 111 
and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’

– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes 

in accounting estimates and errors’

– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the 

further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party 
transactions entered into between two or more members of a 
Group.

Accounting convention and standards
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost 
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting 
standards.

Accounting principles and policies
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the balance 
sheet. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.

The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the 
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and 
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently 
applied, unless otherwise stated.

Impairment of investments
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment 
when there is an indication that the investment might be 
impaired. The assessment method used is to compare the 
carrying value of each investment against its share of the net 
assets value of the investment or against its share of the 
valuation of the subsidiary based on expected discounted cash 
flows. Any impairment charge is recognised in the income 
statement in the year concerned.

Assets held for sale/distribution
Non-current assets are held for disposal/demerger only if 
available for immediate disposal/demerger in their present 
condition, a disposal/demerger is highly probable and 
expected to be completed within one year from the date of 
classification.  Such assets are measured at the lower of 
carrying value and fair value less the cost of disposal.

Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are carried at amortised cost less 
allowance of expected credit losses. Expected credit losses are 
calculated in accordance with the approach permitted by IFRS 
9. The majority of the balance within trade and other 
receivables is amounts owed by Group undertakings. The 
Company applies a general approach to calculate the 
expected credit losses. If a receivable is determined to be non-
collectable it is written off, firstly against any expected credit 
loss allowance available and then to the statement of 
comprehensive income. Subsequent recoveries of amounts 
previously provided for are credited to the statement of 
comprehensive income. Long term receivables are discounted 
where the effect is material.

Share-based payments
The company issues shares to employees on behalf of its 
subsidiary companies for cash consideration.

268

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)

Treasury shares
The purchase price paid for the treasury shares is included 
within retained earnings. Treasury shares are transferred to the 
ESOP trust at the fair market price at the date of the transfer 
for cash consideration. If the proceeds are equal to or less than 
the purchase price paid by the company for the shares, the 
proceeds are treated as a realised loss. If the proceeds exceed 
the purchase price, the excess over the purchase price is 
transferred to the share premium account. The purchase price 
paid by the company for the shares is determined by the use of 
a weighted average price method.

Taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid 
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial 
statements. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the 
extent that they are considered recoverable against future 
taxable profits.

Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary 
differences are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax 
liabilities and assets are not discounted.

Financial guarantees
Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on 
behalf of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value 
and subsequently measured at the higher of:

1. the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) measured used the general 

approach; and 

2. the amount initially recorded less, when appropriate, 

accumulated amortisation.   

C) Operating profit
A fee of £14,752 (2022: £12,600) relating to the audit of the 
company has been charged in operating profit.

D) Dividends
In 2023 the Directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend for the year of 58.00 pence. For further details, see Note 
16 'Dividends' to the Group financial statements.

The demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business was implemented by GSK declaring an interim dividend in July 2022 as follows.

Dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares distributed to external shareholders

Dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares distributed to the ESOP Trusts

E) Fixed assets – investments

Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited

Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited

Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited

Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited

Shares in GSK LP Limited

Capital contribution relating to share-based payments

Contribution relating to contingent consideration

2022
£m

15,526 

163 

15,689 

2022
£m

637 

18 

2023
£m

654 

18 

17,888 

17,888 

33 

2,476 

21,069 

1,139 

423 

33 

2,493 

21,069 

1,139 

673 

22,631 

22,881 

269

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)

F) Trade and other receivables

Amounts due within one year:

Other debtors

Amounts owed by Group undertakings

Amounts due after more than one year:

Amounts owed by Group undertakings

2023
£m

2022
£m

1 

22,367 

22,368 

289 

22,657 

2 

17,422 

17,424 

324 

17,748 

The amounts owed by Group undertakings due within one year primarily include a call account balance with GSK Finance plc which 
is unsecured, repayable on demand with interest received at SONIA rate less 0.05% per annum (2022: SONIA rate less 0.05%).

The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts owed by Group undertakings approximates to their fair values. No 
provision for expected credit loss has been recognised as the counter-party has access to sufficient funds and assets to fulfil its 
future obligations. Amounts owed by Group undertakings are not past due and no increased credit risk experienced since initial 
recognition.

The movement in the Amounts owed by Group undertakings in the period, as reflected within Notes F and G, primarily reflects the 
receipt of dividend income from subsidiaries and utilisation of the company’s current account to fund the payment of interim 
dividends.

G) Trade and other payables

Amounts due within one year:

Other creditors

Contingent consideration payable

Corporation tax

Amounts owed to Group undertakings

2023
£m

349 

35 

201 

155 

740 

2022
£m

396 

28 

18 

103 

545 

The company has guaranteed debt issued by certain subsidiary companies and for which it receives an annual fee from one of the 
subsidiaries. In aggregate, the company has outstanding guarantees over £16.5 billion of debt instruments (2022: £19.5 billion). The 
financial guarantee contract liability of £327 million (2022: £371 million) is included within other creditors. The amounts due from the 
subsidiary company in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade 
and other receivables’ (see Note F). 

H) Provisions for liabilities

At 1 January

Charge for the year

Utilised

At 31 December

The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.

I) Other non-current liabilities

Contingent consideration payable

2023
£m

13 

28 

(21)   

20 

2022
£m

12 

43 

(42) 

13 

2023
£m

388 

2022
£m

645 

The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The 
current year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’. For further details, see Note 33 'Contingent consideration 
liabilities' to the Group financial statements.

270

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)

J) Share capital and share premium account

Share capital issued and fully paid

1 January 2022

Impact of share consolidation

Issued under employee share schemes

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trust

At 31 December 2022

Issued under employee share schemes

Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trust

At 31 December 2023

Ordinary shares

Share
premium
account

Number

£m

£m

5,387,015,059  

1,347 

3,301 

(1,077,403,011)  

1,731,293  

–  

– 

– 

– 

– 

25 

114 

4,311,343,341

1,347 

3,440 

802,642

–

1

–  

9

2 

4,312,145,983  

1,348 

3,451 

At 31 December 2023, of the issued share capital, 58,817,197 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts (out of which 58,493,518 were held 
for future exercise of share options and share awards and 323,679 shares were held for the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan), 
197,068,169 shares were held as Treasury shares and 4,056,260,617 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid and 
there are no shares authorised but not in issue. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are 
disclosed in Note 45, ‘Employee share schemes’. 

K) Retained earnings and other reserves
The profit of GSK plc for the year was £6,643 million (2022: £710 million). After dividends paid of £2,247 million (2022: £19,156 million 
which included the Consumer Healthcare business demerger dividend of £15,689 million), and the effect of £283 million Treasury 
shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2022: £1,089 million) retained earnings at 31 December 2023 stood at £37,938 million 
(2022: £33,239 million), of which £12,938 million is not considered by the Company to be available for distribution (2022: 
£8,140 million). Dividends to shareholders are paid out of the reserves of the Company considered to be available of distribution, 
which at 31 December 2023 amounted to £25,000 million (2022: £25,099 million).

Other reserves includes a capital redemption reserve and a reserve reﬂecting historical contributions of shares in the company 
which were issued to satisfy share option awards granted to employees of subsidiary companies.

L) Group companies
See pages 306 to 314 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other significant shareholdings, which forms 
part of these financial statements.

271

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investor
Information

In this section

Commercial Operations turnover

Three year record

Product development pipeline

Products, competition and intellectual property

Principal risks and uncertainties

Share capital and control

Dividends

Financial calendar 2023

Annual General Meeting 2023

Tax information for shareholders

Shareholder services and contacts

US law and regulation

Group companies

Glossary of terms

273

275

277

281

284

295

297

298

298

299

301

303

306

315

GSK Annual Report 2023

272

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Financial record

Commercial Operations turnover by therapeutic area 2023

Total

US

2023

Growth

2023

Growth

2023

Europe

Growth

International

2023

Growth

Shingles
Shingrix
Meningitis
Bexsero
Menveo
Other

RSV
Arexvy
Influenza
Fluarix/FluLaval
Established Vaccines
Infanrix, Pediarix
Boostrix
Hepatitis
Rotarix
Synflorix
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix
Cervarix
Others

Vaccines ex COVID
Pandemic vaccines
Pandemic adjuvant
Vaccines
HIV

Dolutegravir products
Tivicay
Triumeq
Juluca
Dovato
Rukobia
Cabenuva
Apretude
Others

Respiratory/Immunology and Other

Nucala
Benlysta
Other
Oncology
Zejula
Blenrep
Jemperli
Ojjaara
Other

Specialty Medicines ex COVID
Pandemic
Xevudy
Specialty Medicines
Respiratory

Arnuity Ellipta
Anoro Ellipta
Avamys/Veramyst
Flixotide/Flovent
Incruse Ellipta
Relvar/Breo Ellipta
Seretide/Advair
Trelegy Ellipta
Ventolin
Other Respiratory

Other General Medicines

Dermatology
Augmentin
Avodart
Lamictal
Other

General Medicines
Total Commercial Operations

£% CER%
 17 
 16 
 17 
 16 
 14 
 13 
 14 
 13 
 12 
 10 
 67 
 72 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 (29) 
 (29) 
 (29) 
 (29) 
 7 
 6 
 (6) 
 (7) 
 4 
 3 
 8 
 7 
 18 
 17 
 (10) 
 (10) 
 41 
 41 
 5 
 3 
 11 
 13 
 24 
 23 
>100  
>100
>100
>100
 25 
 24 
 13 
 12 
 5 
 4 
 2 
 – 
 (14) 
 (14) 
 4 
 4 
 33 
 32 
 44 
 43 
>100
>100
>100
>100

£m
  1,880 
  1,880 
610 
311 
299 
– 
1,194 
1,194 
371 
371 
  1,254 
291 
394 
336 
192 
– 
16 
– 
25 
  5,309 
– 
– 
  5,309 
  4,283 
  3,418 
801 
1,074 
511 
1,032 
110 
587 
149 
19 
  2,100 
978 
1,121 
1 
396 
257 

£m
  3,446 
  3,446 
  1,260 
849 
380 
31 
1,238 
1,238 
504 
504 
  3,266 
554 
614 
611 
614 
275 
265 
120 
213 
  9,714 
150 
150 
  9,864 
  6,444 
  5,408 
1,386 
1,542 
661 
1,819 
117 
708 
149 
62 
  3,025 
1,655 
1,349 
21 
731 
523 
36 
>100
141 
33 
 – 
(2)  >(100)
 14 
 (98) 
 (98) 
 (9) 
 4 
 (36) 
 15 
 (7) 
 (17) 
 (17) 
 (4) 
 (2) 
 27 
 (3) 
 (11) 
 (5) 
 (3) 
 9 
 5 
 (15) 
 (9) 
 1 
 3 

 10,200 
44 
44 
 10,244 
  6,825 
36 
557 
299 
451 
162 
1,103 
1,139 
  2,202 
749 
127 
  3,395 
363 
628 
345 
435 
1,624 
 10,220 
 30,328 

 (35) 
 16 
 16 
 18 
 (48) 
 21 
 13 
 (69) 

 (33) 
 18 
 18 
 19 
 (42) 
 23 
 15 
 (69) 

>100
 – 
>(100)
 15 
 (98) 
 (98) 
 (8) 
 6 
 (34) 
 16 
 (4) 
 (16) 
 (17) 
 (2) 
 1 
 29 
 – 
 (5) 
 2 
 4 
 17 
 7 
 (13) 
 1 
 5 
 5 

 (39) 
 15 
 11 
 18 
 – 
 27 
 9 
(2)  >(100)
>100
 – 
 – 
 15 
 (99) 
 (99) 
 1 
 7 
 (40) 
 15 
 – 
 (20) 
 (25) 
 (12) 
 11 
 28 
 (3) 
 (100) 
 (23) 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 (27) 
 (13) 
 4 
 9 

108 
33 
– 
  6,779 
10 
10 
  6,789 
  3,442 
29 
269 
– 
283 
78 
436 
341 
  1,606 
  400 
– 
280 
– 
– 
– 
194 
86 
  3,722 
 15,820 

£% CER%
 (4) 
 (4) 
 (4) 
 (4) 
 6 
 7 
 (6) 
 (7) 
 25 
 25 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 (32) 
 (32) 
 (32) 
 (32) 
 9 
 8 
 (11) 
 (11) 
 10 
 9 
 (1) 
 (2) 

>100
 – 
 60 
 – 
 14 
 25 
 – 
 – 
 25 
 14 
 3 
 (3) 
 (12) 
 3 
 33 
 39 
 100 
>100

>100
 – 
 60 
 – 
 9 
 26 
 – 
 – 
 26 
 14 
 4 
 (2) 
 (11) 
 4 
 33 
 41 
>100
>100

 (42) 
 15 
 11 
 19 
 – 
 27 
 10 
>(100)
>100
 – 
 – 
 15 
 (99) 
 (99) 
 1 
 8 
 (40) 
 16 
 – 
 (20) 
 (24) 
 (12) 
 11 
 29 
 (2) 
 (100) 
 (22) 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 (27) 
 (11) 
 5 
 9 

£m
  908 
  908 
433 
417 
12 
4 
4 
4 
39 
39 
742 
121 
122 
177 
118 
36 
129 
33 
6 
  2,126 
130 
130 
  2,256 
1,423 
1,290 
267 
280 
136 
607 
7 
103 
– 
23 
468 
383 
99 
(14) 
289 
222 
38 
31 
– 
(2) 
  2,180 
3 
3 
  2,183 
  1,402 
– 
193 
57 
70 
59 
366 
256 
275 
100 
26 
723 
107 
186 
109 
111 
210 
  2,125 
  6,564 

£% CER%
 30 
 32 
 30 
 32 
 17 
 20 
 21 
 24 
 (45) 
 (40) 
 (20) 
 (20) 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 (33) 
 (32) 
 (33) 
 (32) 
 2 
 3 
 (8) 
 (8) 
 (13) 
 (12) 
 23 
 25 
 (5) 
 (3) 
 3 
 6 
 30 
 33 
 45 
 50 
 (76) 
 (82) 
 15 
 16 
>100  
>100
>100
>100
 18 
 20 
 7 
 9 
 3 
 4 
 (4) 
 (2) 
 (24) 
 (22) 
 6 
 7 
 25 
 27 
>100
>100
>100
>100
 – 
 – 
 (25) 
 (18) 
 26 
 28 
 26 
 28 
 18 
 19 
 12 
 18 
 13 
 14 
 12 
 14 
 (27) 
 (27) 

>100
 – 
 (100) 
 13 
 (99) 
 (99) 
 (8) 
 1 
 – 
 17 
 (12) 
 (5) 
 (8) 
 5 
 (11) 
 17 
 (14) 
 (13) 
 4 
 – 
 23 
 2 
 2 
 (5) 
 2 
 3 

>100
 – 
 – 
 11 
 (99) 
 (99) 
 (10) 
 – 
 – 
 15 
 (14) 
 (5) 
 (9) 
 4 
 (12) 
 16 
 (16) 
 (17) 
 2 
 (1) 
 21 
 (1) 
 1 
 (7) 
 1 
 2 

£m
658 
658 
217 
121 
69 
27 
40 
40 
94 
94 
1,270 
142 
98 
98 
304 
239 
120 
87 
182 
  2,279 
20 
20 
  2,299 
738 
700 
318 
188 
14 
180 
– 
18 
– 
20 
457 
294 
129 
34 
46 
44 
– 
2 
– 
– 
1,241 
31 
31 
1,272 
1,981 
7 
95 
242 
98 
25 
301 
542 
321 
249 
101 
  2,392 
256 
442 
236 
130 
1,328 
  4,373 
  7,944 

£% CER%
>100
>100
 29 
 61 
 (13) 

>100
>100
 20 
 46 
 (19) 

>100
 – 
 – 
 (13) 
 (13) 
 5 
 4 
 2 
 14 
 (2) 
 (12) 
 48 
 (8) 
 37 
 26 
>100
>100
 27 
 8 
 9 
 12 
 (15) 
 (7) 
 50 
 – 
>100
 – 
 (44) 
 11 
 21 
 13 
 (40) 
 28 
 29 
 – 
>100
 – 
>(100)
 10 
 (97) 
 (97) 
 (41) 
 1 
 (13) 
 12 
 (5) 
 (17) 
 (11) 
 – 
 (4) 
 34 
 2 
 (10) 
 (5) 
 (5) 
 4 
 6 
 (5) 
 (9) 
 (2) 
 (6) 

>100
 – 
 – 
 (10) 
 (10) 
 7 
 10 
 4 
 17 
 2 
 (12) 
 53 
 (4) 
 34 
 31 
>100
>100
 31 
 16 
 17 
 21 
 (11) 
 (7) 
 59 
 – 
>100
 – 
 (31) 
 21 
 33 
 25 
 (33) 
 61 
 65 
 – 
>100
 – 
 (100) 
 19 
 (97) 
 (97) 
 (36) 
 9 
 – 
 20 
 (2) 
 (11) 
 (7) 
 8 
 3 
 44 
 11 
 (1) 
 6 
 6 
 16 
 10 
 4 
 3 
 7 
 1 

273

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Financial record continued

Commercial Operations turnover by therapeutic area 2022

Shingles
Shingrix
Meningitis
Bexsero
Menveo
Other
Influenza
Fluarix/Flulaval
Established vaccines
Infanrix, Pediarix
Boostrix
Hepatitis
Rotarix
Synflorix
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix
Cervarix
Others

Vaccines ex COVID
Pandemic vaccines
Pandemic adjuvant
Vaccines
HIV

Dolutegravir products
Tivicay
Triumeq
Juluca
Dovato
Rukobia
Cabenuva
Apretude
Others

Respiratory/Immunology and Other

Nucala
Benlysta
Other
Oncology
Zejula
Blenrep
Jemperli
Other

Specialty Medicines ex COVID
Pandemic
Xevudy
Specialty Medicines
Respiratory

Arnuity Ellipta
Anoro Ellipta
Avamys/Veramyst
Flixotide/Flovent
Incruse Ellipta
Relvar/Breo Ellipta
Seretide/Advair
Trelegy Ellipta
Ventolin
Other Respiratory

Other General Medicines

Dermatology
Augmentin
Avodart
Lamictal
Other

General Medicines
Total Commercial Operations

2022

£m
  2,958 
  2,958 
1,116 
753 
345 
18 
714 
714 
  3,085 
594 
594 
571 
527 
305 
188 
117 
189 
  7,873 
64 
64 
  7,937 
  5,749 
  5,191 
1,381 
1,799 
636 
1,375 
82 
340 
41 
95 
  2,609 
1,423 
1,146 
40 
602 
463 
118 
21 
– 
  8,960 
  2,309 
  2,309 
  11,269 
  6,548 
56 
483 
321 
545 
196 
1,145 
1,159 
1,729 
771 
143 
  3,570 
376 
576 
330 
511 
1,777 
  10,118 
 29,324 

Total

Growth

2022

Growth

2022

US

Europe

Growth

2022

£% CER%

£% CER%
 60 
 72 
 60 
 72 
 11 
 16 
 12 
 16 
 18 
 27 
 (54) 
 (54) 
 (4) 
 5 
 (4) 
 5 
 – 
 4 
 3 
 9 
 7 
 14 
 16 
 24 
 (3) 
 (3) 
 (15) 
 (15) 
 (29) 
 (28) 
 (20) 
 (15) 
 26 
 26 
 17 
 24 
 (86) 
 (86) 
 (86) 
 (86) 
 11 
 17 
 12 
 20 
 6 
 14 
 (7) 
 – 
 (11) 
 (4) 
 14 
 23 
 65 
 75 
 64 
 82 
>100
>100
 – 
 – 
 (29) 
 (25) 
 20 
 29 
 18 
 25 
 20 
 31 
>100
>100
 17 
 23 
 12 
 17 
 25 
 33 
>100
>100
– 
– 
 15 
 23 
>100  
>100
>100
>100
 29 
 37 
 3 
 8 
 9 
 19 
 (9) 
 (4) 
 6 
 8 
 15 
 23 
 (10) 
 (4) 
 (2) 
 2 
 (17) 
 (15) 
 32 
 42 
 2 
 7 
 6 
 4 
 (2) 
 (1) 
 (5) 
 (6) 
 38 
 35 
 (3) 
 (1) 
 1 
 7 
 (10) 
 (10) 
 1 
 5 
 13 
 19 

£m
  1,964 
1,964 
573 
333 
240 
– 
549 
549 
1,157 
327 
360 
343 
95 
– 
10 
– 
22 
  4,243 
– 
– 
  4,243 
  3,756 
  3,311 
823 
1,217 
494 
777 
79 
294 
41 
31 
  1,830 
881 
949 
– 
313 
235 
66 
13 
(1) 
  5,899 
828 
828 
  6,727 
  3,209 
48 
233 
– 
353 
104 
498 
308 
1,253 
411 
1 
363 
(1) 
– 
– 
265 
99 
  3,572 
 14,542 

£% CER%
 32 
 46 
 32 
 46 
 14 
 26 
 19 
 32 
 8 
 20 
 – 
 – 
 9 
 20 
 9 
 20 
 18 
 7 
 (3) 
 8 
 20 
 33 
 15 
 28 
 (23) 
 (14) 
 – 
– 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 (17) 
 (8) 
 18 
 31 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 10 
 22 
 17 
 30 
 19 
 8 
 (3) 
 8 
 (8) 
 2 
 13 
 26 
 64 
 82 
 65 
 84 
>100
>100
 – 
 – 
 (45) 
 (37) 
 16 
 29 
 15 
 28 
 18 
 31 
 – 
– 
 3 
 14 
 – 
 11 
 8 
 (3) 
>100
 – 
 29 
 38 
 38 
 30 
 10 
 20 
 (16) 
– 
 28 
 (5) 
 2 
 (37) 
 47 
 5 
 – 
 10 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 14 
 – 
 10 
 22 

>100
 – 
 16 
 24 
 24 
 17 
 (1) 
 10 
 (24) 
 – 
 16 
 (14) 
 (8) 
 (43) 
 32 
 (5) 
 – 
 (1) 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 3 
 (9) 
 (1) 
 10 

£m
688 
688 
362 
337 
20 
5 
57 
57 
720 
131 
138 
142 
122 
34 
97 
22 
34 
1,827 
57 
57 
  1,884 
1,310 
1,239 
273 
361 
127 
478 
3 
40 
 – 
28 
366 
300 
83 
(17) 
253 
194 
52 
8 
(1) 
  1,929 
456 
456 
  2,385 
  1,384 
– 
165 
65 
74 
64 
347 
287 
236 
116 
30 
695 
107 
151 
107 
109 
221 
  2,079 
  6,348 

>100
>100
 2 
 3 
 (5) 
 – 
 (44) 
 (44) 
 3 
 13 
 (1) 
 30 
 3 
 (24) 
 (22) 
 (12) 
 55 
 27 
 – 
 – 
 31 
 10 
 8 
 (5) 
 (20) 
 14 
 58 
 50 
>100
 – 
 (22) 
 13 
 17 
 22 
 – 
 30 
 19 
 86 
>100
 – 
 13 
>100
>100
 34 
 3 
– 
 11 
 – 
 7 
 (9) 
 4 
 (11) 
 18 
 7 
 11 
 (14) 
 (18) 
 22 
 (9) 
 (3) 
 (31) 
 (3) 
 18 

>100  
>100
 3 
 4 
 (10) 
 – 
 (44) 
 (44) 
 4 
 13 
 (1) 
 31 
 5 
 (22) 
 (22) 
 (8) 
 45 
 28 
 – 
 – 
 32 
 10 
 8 
 (4) 
 (19) 
 15 
 59 
 50 
>100
 – 
 (22) 
 13 
 17 
 22 
 – 
 31 
 20 
 86 
>100
 – 
 13 

£m
306 
306 
181 
83 
85 
13 
108 
108 
  1,208 
136 
96 
86 
310 
271 
81 
95 
133 
  1,803 
7 
7 
1,810 
683 
641 
285 
221 
15 
120 
– 
6 
 – 
36 
413 
242 
114 
57 
36 
34 
– 
– 
2 
1,132 
>100   1,025 
1,025 
>100
  2,157 
 35 
  1,955 
 3 
8 
– 
85 
 11 
256 
 2 
118 
 7 
28 
 (7) 
300 
 4 
564 
 (11) 
240 
 19 
244 
 8 
112 
 7 
  2,512 
 (13) 
270 
 (18) 
425 
 23 
223 
 (8) 
137 
 (3) 
1,457 
 (31) 
  4,467 
 (3) 
  8,434 
 19 

International

Growth

£% CER%
>100
>100
 20 
 23 
 71 
 (62) 
 (16) 
 (16) 
 8 
 6 
 (15) 
 (1) 
 1 
 (14) 
 (43) 
 (22) 
 32 
 6 
 (97) 
 (97) 
 (5) 
 (3) 
 (3) 
 (19) 
 (9) 
 8 
>100
– 
>100
 – 
 (17) 
 47 
 28 
 43 
>100
 75 
 75 
– 
– 
 – 
 13 
>100
>100
 70 
 9 
 – 
 10 
 8 
 16 
 – 
 2 
 1 
 48 
 10 
 5 
 2 
 1 
 44 
 – 
 – 
 (6) 
 5 
 14 

>100
>100
 18 
 20 
 67 
 (62) 
 (11) 
 (11) 
 (7) 
 10 
 (14) 
 5 
 (1) 
 (13) 
 (40) 
 (16) 
 28 
 8 
 (97) 
 (97) 
 (3) 
 – 
 – 
 (14) 
 (8) 
 15 
>100
– 
>100
 – 
 (14) 
 45 
 24 
 44 
>100
 80 
 70 
– 
– 
 – 
 14 
>100
>100
 69 
 10 
 14 
 10 
 10 
 18 
 8 
 – 
 3 
 47 
 11 
 2 
 1 
 – 
 41 
 5 
 2 
 (7) 
 5 
 14 

274

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Financial record continued

Three-year selected financial data

A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in 
the selected financial data (except for number of employees and adjusted results) is prepared in accordance with International 
Accounting Standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and also with IFRS as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board.  

Group turnover by geographic region
US

Europe

International

Group turnover by product group
Vaccines

Specialty Medicines

General Medicines

Vaccines turnover
Shingles

Meningitis

RSV

Influenza

Established Vaccines

Pandemic Vaccines

Specialty Medicines turnover
HIV

Respiratory/Immunology and other

Oncology

Pandemic

General Medicines

Respiratory

Other General Medicines

Financial results – Total
Turnover

Profit after taxation from continuing operations

Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other gains/(losses) from the demerger

Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger

Profit after taxation from discontinued operations

Profit after taxation for the year

Basic earnings per share from continuing operations

Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations

Total basic earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations

Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations

Total diluted earnings per share

2023
£m
15,820 

6,564 

7,944 

2022
£m
14,542 

6,348 

8,434 

2021
£m
11,914 

5,370 

7,412 

30,328 

29,324 

24,696 

2023
£m
9,864 

10,244 

10,220 

30,328 

2023
£m
3,446 

1,260 

1,238 

504 

3,266 

150 
9,864 

2023
£m
6,444 

3,025 

731 

44 

10,244 

2023
£m

6,825 

3,395 

10,220 

2023
£m
30,328 

5,308 

– 

– 

– 

5,308 

pence

121.6p

–

121.6p
119.9p

–

119.9p

2022
£m
7,937 

11,269 

10,118 

2021
£m
6,778 

8,251 

9,667 

29,324 

24,696 

2022
£m
2,958 

1,116 

– 

714 

3,085 

64 
7,937 

2022
£m
5,749 

2,609 

602 

2,309 

11,269 

2022
£m

6,548 

3,570 

10,118 

2022
£m
29,324 

4,921 

3,049 

7,651 

10,700 

15,621 

pence

110.8p

260.6p

371.4p
109.2p

257.0p

366.2p

2021
£m
1,721 

961 

– 

679 

2,970 

447 
6,778 

2021
£m
4,777 

2,027 

489 

958 

8,251 

2021
£m

6,048 

3,619 

9,667 

2021
£m
24,696 

3,516 

1,580 

– 

1,580 

5,096 

pence

82.9p

26.7p

109.6p
81.8p

26.4p

108.2p

275

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Financial record continued

Three-year selected financial data continued

Financial results – Adjusted
Turnover
Continuing operating profit
Continuing profit before taxation
Continuing profit after taxation

2023
£m
30,328 
8,786 
8,112 
6,855 

2022
£m
29,324 
8,151 
7,358 
6,220 

2021
£m
24,696 
6,493 
5,774 
4,856 

2021
£m
4,357 
761 
347 
424 
1,143 
(539) 
6,493 

pence
82.9p

15.2p

6.6p

8.7p

18.1p

(21.2)p

110.3p

The reconciliation between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last three years can be summarised as follows:

Total continuing operating profit
Intangible asset amortisation
Intangible asset impairment
Major restructuring
Transaction-related items
Divestments, significant legal and other items
Adjusted continuing operating profit

2023
£m
6,745 
719 
398 
382 
572 
(30)   

8,786 

2022
£m
6,433 
739 
296 
321 
1,750 
(1,388)   
8,151 

The reconciliation between total and Adjusted earnings per share over the last three years can be summarised as follows:

Total continuing earnings per share

Intangible asset amortisation

Intangible asset impairment

Major restructuring

Transaction-related items

Divestments, significant legal and other items

Adjusted continuing earnings per share

Return on capital employed

pence
121.6p 

13.9p 

7.5p 

7.4p 

6.9p 

(2.2) p

155.1p 

%
 53.0 

pence
110.8p

14.6p

5.8p

5.9p

34.1p

(31.5)p

139.7p

%
n/m

%
 25.8 

For 2021 and 2023 return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets 
over the year and is not restated. Return on capital employed is not calculated for 2022 as it is not meaningful (n/m) as the average 
net assets over the year included Consumer Healthcare which was demerged on 18 July 2022.

Balance sheet
Non-current assets
Current assets
Total assets

Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Total liabilities

Net assets

Shareholders’ equity
Non-controlling interests
Total equity

Number of employees
US

Europe

International

Manufacturing
Selling
Administration
Research and development

2023
40,361 
18,644 
59,005 

2022
39,377 
20,769 
60,146 

2021
60,429 
18,674 
79,103 

(21,068)   
(25,142)   
(46,210)   

(22,810)   
(27,240)   
(50,050)   

(23,670) 
(34,091) 
(57,761) 

12,795 

10,096 

21,342 

13,347 

(552)   

12,795 

10,598 

(502)   

10,096 

2023
12,205 

32,675 

25,332 

70,212 

23,159 
26,193 
7,888 
12,972 
70,212 

2022
11,946 

31,800 

25,654 

69,400 

23,292 
26,310 
7,605 
12,193 
69,400 

15,055 
6,287 
21,342 

2021
14,289 

38,809 

36,998 

90,096 

32,141 
34,846 
11,014 
12,095 
90,096 

The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of 
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are 
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.

276

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition

Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline

Key †

^

In-license or other alliance relationship with third party

ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with GSK, 
Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, is responsible 
for developing and delivering HIV medicines

BLA

MAA

NDA

Biological Licence Application

Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)

New Drug Application (US)

A

S

Approved

Submitted

Phase I

Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers

Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a 

small number of patients

Phase III

Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established 
treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety

MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates 
are not included in this list.

Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type

Indication

Phase

MAA

NDA/BLA

JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor

Myelofibrosis

Approved

A:Jan24 A:Sep23

Achieved regulatory 
review milestones

Compound
Oncology

Ojjaara/Omjjara 
(momelotinib)†

Jemperli
(dostarlimab)†

Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 
receptor (PD-1) antibody

Zejula
(niraparib)†

Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 
1/2 inhibitor

Blenrep 
(belantamab 
mafodotin)†

ADC targeting B-cell maturation 
antigen

dMMR/MSI-H 1L endometrial cancer
1L endometrial cancer combination with 
Zejula (niraparib)
Peri-operative dMMR/MSI-H colon cancer
Non-small cell lung cancer1
Neoadjuvant dMMR/MSI-H rectal cancer

1L maintenance ovarian cancer combination 
with Jemperli (dostarlimab)
1L maintenance non small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) combination with pembrolizumab

2L+ multiple myeloma combination with 
Pomalyst and dexamethasone
2L+ multiple myeloma combination with 
Velcade and dexamethasone
Multiple myeloma in combination with anti-
cancer treatments (platform study) 
1L multiple myeloma combination with Velcade, 
Revlimid and dexamethasone

cobolimab†

Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin 
domain-3 (TIM-3) antibody

Non-small cell lung cancer combination with 
Jemperli (dostarlimab) and docetaxel

belrestotug†

Anti-TIGIT

4381562†
6097608†
XMT-20562
(wholly owned by 
Mersana Therapeutics)

Anti-PVRIG

Anti-CD96

STING agonist ADC

Non-small cell lung cancer combination with 
Jemperli (platform study)
Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck 
combination with Jemperli and GSK6097608 
(platform study)
Cancer

Cancer

Cancer

B-cell maturation antigen binder

Multiple myeloma

DNA polymerase theta inhibitor

Cancer

ADC targeting B7-H4

Gynecologic malignancies

belantamab
4524101†
5733584†
HIV^

Apretude 
(cabotegravir)
3810109†
3739937

4004280

4011499
4524184†

HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor 
(long-acting)

HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis
HIV infection

Approved
I

A:Sep23 A:Dec21

HIV broadly neutralising antibody

HIV infection

HIV maturation inhibitor

HIV capsid protein inhibitor

HIV capsid protein inhibitor

HIV integrase inhibitor

HIV infection

HIV infection

HIV infection

HIV infection

II

II

II

II

II

Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.

Footnotes
(1) non-registrational.
(2) GSK has an exclusive global license option to co-develop and commercialize the candidate.

277

Approved
III

A:Dec23 A:Jul23

III
II
II

III

III

III
III

III

II

I

III

II

II

I

I

I

I

I

I

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition continued

Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued

Compound

Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type

Indication

Phase

MAA

NDA/BLA

Achieved regulatory 
review milestones

Infectious Diseases

Arexvy
(RSV vaccine)†

Recombinant protein, adjuvanted
vaccine

Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in adults 
60 years and older 
Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older 
adult population 50-59 years of age

Approved

A:Jun23

A:May23

Registration

S:Jan24

S:Dec23

gepotidacin†

bepirovirsen†
Bexsero vaccine

3536819
(Men ABCWY vaccine)

tebipenem pivoxil†
ibrexafungerp†
ganfeborole†
alpibectir†
3437949†
(Malaria fractional 
dose)
3536852†

3528869†
(Therapeutic HBV) 

4178116
(Varicella new strain)

sanfetrinem cilexetil†
4106647†
(HPV9-AS04)

Triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II 
topoisomerase inhibitor

Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) 
Urogenital gonorrhea (GC)

HBV antisense oligonucleotide

Chronic hepatitis B virus infection

Recombinant protein and outer 
membrance vesicle vaccine

Prevention of invasive disease caused by N. 
meninigitidis serogroup B in individuals 2 months 
of age and older (US)

Recombinant protein, outer 
membrance vesicle, glycoconjugate 
vaccine
Antibacterial carbapenem

Prevention of invasive disease caused by N. 
meninigitidis serogroups A,B,C,W and Y in 
adolescents 10-25 years of age
Complicated urinary tract infection (cUTI)

Antifungal glucan synthase inhibitor

Invasive candidiasis

Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor

Tuberculosis

Ethionamide booster

Tuberculosis

Recombinant protein, adjuvanted 
vaccine

Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum)

Generalized Modules for Membrane 
Antigens (GMMA) vaccine

Prime-boost with viral vector co- or 
sequentially administrated with 
adjuvanted recombinant proteins

4023393
(Men ABCWY, 2nd 
Gen)

Recombinant protein, outer 
membrance vesicle – conjugated 
vaccine

Live attenuated vaccine

Serine beta lactamase inhibitor

Tuberculosis

Recombinant protein-adjuvanted 
vaccine

Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis

Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B infections – 
aims at functional cure by controlling and 
resolving the clinical sequelae of the infection 
and reducing the need for further treatment

Prevention of invasive disease caused by N. 
meninigitidis serogroup A,B,C,W and Y in 
adolescents and children 6 weeks of age and 
older

Active immunization for the prevention of 
varicella in individuals 12 months of age and 
older

Active immunization of girls and women, boys 
and men (9-45 years), for the prevention of 
cancer, genital warts and precancerous or 
dysplastic lesions (girls, boys AIN only) caused by 
Human papillomavirus  (HPV)

Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B virus infection 
in individuals >18 years without decompensated 
cirrhosis

4388067
(CHBV ASO combo)†

Targeted Immunotherapy (viral vector; 
adjuvanted recombinant proteins) & 
Direct Acting Antiviral (GSK's 
bepirovirsen)

5101955†

MAPS Pneumococcal 24-valent paed Prevention of pneumonia and invasive 
pneumococcal disease caused by the 
Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes 
included in the vaccine in children aged 6 weeks 
– 17 years

5101956†

MAPS Pneumococcal 24-valent

4406371
(MMRV new strain)

Live attenuated vaccine

Prevention of pneumonia and invasive 
pneumococcal disease caused by the 
Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes 
included in the vaccine in adults aged 18 years 
and older

Active immunization for the prevention of 
measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in 
children 12 months through 12 years of age

III
III

III

III

III

III

III

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.

278

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition continued

Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued

Compound

Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type

Indication

Phase

MAA

NDA/BLA

Achieved regulatory 
review milestones

Infectious Diseases continued

3993129
(CMV)
4382276†
(mRNA Seasonal Flu)

4396687†
(mRNA COVID-19)

3943104†
(Therapeutic HSV)
4077164†
(iNTS (Typhimurium 
+ Enteritidis))
4077164†
(iNTS (S. typhimurium
+ S. enteritidis + 
S. Typhi))

Recombinant subunit – adjuvanted 
vaccine

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection prophylaxis in 
females 16-49 years of age

mRNA vaccine

mRNA vaccine

Recombinant protein-adjuvanted

Active immunization for the prevention of 
influenza disease in adults 18 years and older

Active immunization to prevent COVID-19 
disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 in individuals 12 
years and older

Treatment for the suppression of recurrent 
genital herpes in adults aged 18 years and older

Bivalent Generalized Modules for 
Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine

Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella

Bivalent Generalized Modules for 
Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine 
and typhoid conjugate vaccine (TCV)

Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella and typhoid 
fever

4348413
(Gonorrhoea)

Generalized Modules for Membrane 
Antigens (GMMA) vaccine

Hepatitis B virus-targeted siRNA 
sequential combination

FimH antagonist

CRK-12 inhibitor

Proteasome inhibitor

Active immunization for the prevention of 
gonorrhea infection in individuals aged 16 to 50 
years

Chronic hepatitis B virus infection

Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI)

Visceral leishmaniasis

Visceral leishmaniasis

Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor

Tuberculosis

PI4K beta inhibitor

Viral COPD exacerbations

Bivalent Typhoid and Paratyphoid A 
conjugate

Salmonella typhoid and paratyphoid (A) enteric 
fever

PAPD5/PAPD7 inhibitor

Chronic hepatitis B virus infection

TLR8 agonist

Chronic hepatitis B virus infection

P falciparum whole cell inhibitor 

P falciparum whole cell inhibitor

Malaria

Malaria

daplusiran + 
tomligisiran
3882347†
3186899†3
3494245†
2556286†
3923868
3536867†
(Salmonella (typhoid + 
paratyphoid A))
3965193
5251738†
3772701†
4024484†

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

II

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.

Footnote
(3) Transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner.

279

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition continued

Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued

Compound

Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type

Indication

Phase

MAA

NDA/BLA

Achieved regulatory 
review milestones

Immunology and Respiratory

Nucala (mepolizumab) Anti-IL5
depemokimab†

Anti-IL5 (long-acting)

latozinemab†

Anti-sortilin monoclonal antibody

COPD

Asthma
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps 
(CRSwNP)
Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis 
(EGPA)
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES)

Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to 
Heterozygous Mutations in the Progranulin Gene
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to 
Mutations in the C9orf72 Gene

camlipixant

P2X3 receptor antagonist

Refractory chronic cough

Ventolin, low carbon 
version of metered 
dose inhaler

Beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonist

Asthma4

Benlysta (belimumab) Anti-B lymphocyte stimulator 

monoclonal antibody

Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung 
disease

3858279†

Anti-CCL17

Osteoarthritis pain
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain

Anti-sortilin monoclonal antibody

Alzheimer's disease

Anti-IL18

Anti-IL7

Atopic dermatitis

Autoimmune disease

Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) inhibitor

Pulmonary fibrosis

RNA-editing oligonucleotide

Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency

Anti-IL33

COPD

Interferon pathway modulator

Systemic lupus erythematosus

III

III
III

III

III

III

II
II

III

III

II

II
II

II

II

I

I

I

I

I

4527226 (AL101)†
1070806
3888130†
3915393†

5462688†

3862995

4347859

Opportunity Driven

Jesduvroq 
(daprodustat)

linerixibat

4532990†
4172239†

Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor

Anaemia of chronic kidney disease

Approved

A:Feb23

Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) 
inhibitor

Cholestatic pruritus in PBC (primary biliary 
cholangitis)

HSD17B13 silencer

DNMT1 inhibitor

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)

Sickle cell disease

III

II

I

Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.

Footnote
(4) Phase III start expected in 2024.

280

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition continued

Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property

Products

Compounds

Indication(s)

competitor brands

US

EU

Major

Patent expiry dates1

Respiratory

Anoro Ellipta

umeclidinium bromide/
vilanterol trifenatate

COPD

Avamys/Veramyst

fluticasone furoate

Allergic rhinitis

Spiolto/Stiolto Respimat, 
Utibron/Ultibro 
Breezhaler, Duaklir Genuair
Bevespi Aerosphere,
Brimica Genuair

Dymista, Xhance, 
Nasonex, Fluticasone Gx

Nucala

mepolizumab

Asthma, CRSwNP, EGPA, 
HES

Fasenra

Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ 
vilanterol trifenatate

Asthma, COPD

Seretide/Advair

salmeterol xinafoate/
fluticasone propionate

Asthma, COPD

Symbicort, Foster, 
Budesonide/Formoterol 
generics, Fluticasone 
Propionate/Salmeterol 
generics, Beclomethasone/
Formoterol generics, Atectura

Symbicort, Foster, 
Budesonide/Formoterol 
generics, Fluticasone 
Propionate/Salmeterol 
generics, Beclomethasone/
Formoterol generics, Atectura

2027
(NCE)
2027-2031
(device)

2029
(NCE)
2024-2026
(device)

expired

expired

expired2

expired2

2025 
(NCE)
2027-2031
(device)

2027 
(NCE)
2024-2026
(device)

expired
(Diskus device)
2023-2026
(HFA-device)

expired
(Diskus device)
expired
(HFA-device)

Trelegy Ellipta

fluticasone furoate/
vilanterol trifenatate
umeclidinium bromide

COPD, asthma

Breztri Aerosphere, Trimbow 2027

(NCE)
2027-2031
(device)

2029
(NCE)
2024-2026
(device)

Ventolin

Salbutamol sulphate

Asthma, COPD

Salbutamol/SABA generics, 
Symbicort as reliever (PRN & 
MARTI)3, Airsupra (US only)

2023-2026
(HFA-device)

expired
(HFA-device)

Xevudy

sotrovimab

Early treatment of COVID-19 REGEN-COV, bamlanivimab/

2041

2041

Central nervous system

Lamictal

lamotrigine

Epilepsy, bipolar disorder

Keppra

levetiracetam

Epilepsy

etesevimab, Evusheld

Vimpat, Trokendi XR, 
Inovelon, Keppra, generics

Briviact, Vimpat, Lamictal, 
Depakene, Depacon, 
generics

expired

expired

NA

NA

Cardiovascular and urogenital

Avodart & Duodart dutasteride

dutasteride + tamsulosin

Anti-bacterials

Augmentin

Amoxicillin trihydrate/
potassium clavulanate

Benign prostatic hyperplasia 
(BPH)

Generics, Finasteride, Alpha 
Blockers

expired

expired

Common bacterial infections Generics, Oral 

NA

expired

Cephalosporins – Cefuroxime 
axetil, Cefixime, 
Cefpodoxime, Cefdinir, 
Cephalexin
Oral Macrolides –
Azithromycin, Clarithromycin

(1) Unless otherwise stated, patent expiry dates relate to the latest expiring new molecular entity patents in the relevant territory. Where appropriate, these 

patent expiry dates include granted Patent Term Extensions in the US, granted Supplementary Protection Certificates in multiple countries of the EU and in 
the UK, and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. Additional exclusivities (for example regulatory data protection or other types of patents) may exist but are not 
listed in the table.

(2) Regulatory data protection expires 2027 (US) and 2026 (EU).
(3) PRN = use as required *MART = maintenance and reliever therapy.

281

Dermatology

Dermovate, 
Betnovate, 
Cutivate, 
Eumovate

Oncology

Zejula

Jemperli

dostarlimab

Ojjaara/Omjjara

momelotinib

Immuno-inflammation

Benlysta, Benlysta 
(SC and IV)

belimumab

Renal

Jesduvroq, Duvroq Daprodustat

HIV

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition continued

Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued

Products

Compounds

Indication(s)

competitor brands

US

EU

Major

Patent expiry dates1

Clobetasol propionate,
Betamethasone valerate, 
Fluticasone propionate, 
Clobetasone butyrate

Inflammatory skin conditions Generics, Other topical 

corticosteroids like 
Mometasone furoate, 
Methylprednisolone 
aceponate and 
Hydrocortisone

Not marketed 
in US

expired

niraparib

ovarian cancer

Lynparza, Rubraca

Blenrep

belantamab mafodotin

relapsed/refractory multiple 
myeloma

Abecma, Carvykti, Tecvayli, 
Talvey, Elrexfio

dMMR/MSI-H recurrent/ 
advanced endometrial 
cancer, dMMR solid tumours

myelofibrosis in patients with 
anemia

systemic lupus 
erythematosus, lupus 
nephritis

Keytruda, Imfinzi+Lynparza

2034

Jakafi, Inrebic, Vonjo

2030

2028

Lupkynis, Saphnelo

2025

2026

anaemia of chronic kidney 
disease

Evrenzo (roxadustat), 
vadadustat

2031

2032

2027 

2026

2026

2029

2028

2032

2032

2034

Not approved 
in EU

2031

2031

2025

2029

2029

2029

2029

Apretude

Cabotegravir

HIV prevention

Descovy, Truvada

Cabenuva/Vocabria 
+ Rekambys

Cabotegravir, rilpivirine

HIV/AIDS

Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 
Biktarvy

Rukobia

Dovato

Fostemsavir

HIV/AIDS

Trogarzo, Sunlenca

Dolutegravir, lamivudine

HIV/AIDS

Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 
Biktarvy

Juluca

Dolutegravir, rilpivirine

HIV/AIDS

Triumeq

Dolutegravir, lamivudine and 
abacavir

HIV/AIDS

Tivicay

Dolutegravir

HIV/AIDS

Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 
Biktarvy

2028

Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 
Biktarvy

2028

Isentress, Prezista Symtuza, 
Reyataz, Biktarvy

2028

(1) Unless otherwise stated, patent expiry dates relate to the latest expiring new molecular entity patents in the relevant territory. Where appropriate, these 

patent expiry dates include granted Patent Term Extensions in the US, granted Supplementary Protection Certificates in multiple countries of the EU and in 
the UK, and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. Additional exclusivities (for example regulatory data protection or other types of patents) may exist but are not 
listed in the table.

282

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Pipelines, products and competition continued

Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 

Major

Patent expiry dates1

Compounds

Indication(s)

competitor brands

Respiratory syncytial virus 
vaccine

Respiratory syncytial virus 
vaccination

Abrysvo

meningococcal group-B 
vaccine

Meningitis group B 
prophylaxis

Trumenba

diphtheria, tetanus, acellular
pertussis

diphtheria, tetanus, acellular
Pertussis booster vaccination

Adacel

diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis,
polio, hepatitis B, 
Haemophilus influenzae type 
B (EU)

Prophylaxis against 
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, 
polio, hepatitis B, 
Haemophilus influenzae type 
B (EU)

Pentacel, Pediacel, Pentaxim, 
Pentavac,
Hexaxim, Hexyon
Vaxelis

US

2030

2027

EU

2032

2028

expired

expired

expired

expired

human papilloma virus
type 16 and 18

Gardasil (Silgard)

Not marketed 
in US

expired

HPV 16 & 18 virus like 
particles (VLPs), AS04
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)

split inactivated influenza
antigens (2 virus subtypes A 
and 2 subtype B)

seasonal influenza 
prophylaxis

split inactivated influenza 
antigens (2 virus subtypes A 
and 2 subtype B)

seasonal influenza 
prophylaxis

Intenza, Flumist QIV,
Vaxigrip QIV,
Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose

Vaxigrip, Mutagrip,
Fluzone, Influvac,
Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist

expired

expired

expired

expired

Products

Arexvy

Bexsero

Boostrix

Infanrix Hexa/
Pediarix

Cervarix

Fluarix Tetra

FluLaval

Menveo

meningococcal group A, C, 
W-135 and Y conjugate 
vaccine

Meningitis group A, C, W-135
and Y prophylaxis

Nimenrix, MenQuadfi

2025

2025

Priorix, Priorix 
Tetraa, Varilrix

live attenuated MMR, 
Varicella and MMRV 
vaccines

measles, mumps, rubella and 
chickenpox prophylaxis

MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro)
Proquad, Varivax

expired

expired

Rotarix

Synflorix

Shingrix

Human rotavirus RIX4414 
strain

conjugated pneumococcal
polysaccharide

Rotavirus prophylaxis

Rotateq

expired

expired

Prophylaxis against invasive
disease, pneumonia, acute 
otitis media

Prevenar (Prevnar)

Note marketed 
in US

2026

zoster vaccine
recombinant, adjuvanted

herpes zoster
(shingles)

Zostavax

2029

2031

(1) Unless otherwise stated, patent expiry dates relate to the latest expiring new molecular entity patents in the relevant territory. Where appropriate, these 

patent expiry dates include granted Patent Term Extensions in the US, granted Supplementary Protection Certificates in multiple countries of the EU and in 
the UK, and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. Additional exclusivities (for example regulatory data protection or other types of patents) may exist but are not 
listed in the table.

283

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties

We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties relevant 
to GSK’s business, financial condition and operations that may 
affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. 
These are the risks that we believe could cause our actual 
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. 

Operating in the biopharmaceutical sector carries various 
inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.

We must comply with a broad range of laws and regulations 
which apply to the research and development, manufacturing, 
testing, approval, distribution, sales, and marketing of 
pharmaceutical and vaccine products. These affect the cost of 
product development, the time required to reach the market 
and the likelihood of doing so successfully on an uninterrupted 
basis. 

As rules and regulations change, government interpretation 
and policy evolves, and our business activities develop, the 
nature of a particular risk may also alter. Changes to regulatory 
regimes may be substantial. Any alteration in, and failure to 
comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially 
and adversely affect our financial results. 

Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and 
government investigations, including product liability litigation, 
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing 
litigation.

Litigation and government investigations, and the related 
provisions we may make for unfavourable outcomes and 
increases in related costs, such as insurance premiums, could 
also materially and adversely affect our financial results.

More detail on the status and various uncertainties in our 
significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out 
in Note 47 ‘Legal proceedings’on page 239. 

More details regarding our risk management framework and 
how we identify our principal risks can be found on pages 57 to 
61 and incorporated in this section. Other risks related to 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) which are not at 
the level of principal risks, including environmental sustainability 
and climate change, are managed through our six focus areas, 
and as described in our ESG Performance Report. Additional 
information on climate-related risk management is in our 
climate-related financial disclosure on pages 62 to 70. 

UK regulations require a description of principal risks and 
uncertainties and an explanation of how these are being 
managed or mitigated. Below is a description of each of our 
principal risks, together with a summary of their impact and how 
we manage each risk across our businesses. They are not listed 
in order of significance and are consistent with the principal 
risks detailed on pages 59 to 61.

Patient safety

Risk definition
The risk that GSK, including our third parties, fails to 
appropriately collect, assess, follow up, or report human safety 
information, including adverse events, from all potential sources 
or that GSK potentially fails to appropriately act on any relevant 
findings that may affect the benefit-risk profile of a medicine or 
vaccine in a timely manner.

Risk impact
GSK will not tolerate an unfavourable benefit-to-risk profile for 
patients who use our products. As the most important 
consequence of ineffective pharmacovigilance is the potential 
for harm to patients, we maintain robust processes for 
managing human safety information, conducting timely safety 
signal detection, and ensuring appropriate measures are in 
place to manage risks to patients. GSK also intends to fully 
comply with pharmacovigilance and other relevant regulations 
worldwide. Non-compliance could result in inspection findings, 
regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal sanctions and either 
temporary or permanent loss of product marketing 
authorisation. We regularly review and respond to all patient 
safety risks to limit the potential for reputational damage, loss 
of trust by patients and healthcare providers, product-related 
litigation, and loss of shareholder confidence.

Context
We are accountable for safeguarding patients and clinical trial 
participants who receive our medicines and vaccines, whether 
in development or marketed, from harm. While an unforeseen 
event that unfavorably shifts the benefit/risk profile is not a 
probable occurrence, such an event cannot be fully discounted; 
we mitigate this risk through robust safety evaluation and 
product risk management activities. 

Our Chief Medical Officer is the single point of accountability 
for benefit/risk decision-making. Cross-functional Safety 
Review Teams continually assess new safety and efficacy 
information for every GSK product throughout its life cycle. Our 
Global Safety Board, under the leadership of our Chief Medical 
Officer and Head of Global Safety, reviews product safety at 
established milestones and in every situation where there might 
be a potential impact on a benefit/risk profile.

We must operate in a complex and restrictive 
pharmacovigilance regulatory environment, sometimes 
complicated by variable requirements between regulatory 
agencies. Such regulatory complexity is further illustrated by 
instances of regulatory agencies taking decisions on the safety 
of medicines and vaccines based on externally available data 
that may not be accessible to the marketing authorisation 
holder. This trend could inhibit our ability to make timely 
decisions and take appropriate action in relation to the safety 
of our products, or to confirm or refute conclusions asserted by 
external parties. This has the potential to extend beyond 
regulatory agencies to next-generation digital health data held 
by technology companies or other data custodians, and 
inaccessible by our industry and/or regulatory agencies. 

284

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Patient safety continued

There are many sources of information that might trigger an 
increase in reporting related to products and/or adverse events 
(such as media coverage, social media, government health 
authorities, etc.). Ineffective management of patient safety risks 
could not only result in reputational damage, loss of trust by 
patients and healthcare providers, and decline in shareholder 
confidence, but could also increase the volume of product-
related litigation, including class-action lawsuits, which is 
regularly faced by GSK and our industry in general.

Mitigating actions
Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for the Patient Safety 
enterprise risk and human safety matters, in collaboration with 
the Head of Global Safety. A cross-enterprise safety 
governance board oversees implementation of our control 
framework, including risk management. Our Global Safety 
Board ensures that we address human safety proactively 
throughout a product’s lifecycle. Our global policy on 
management of human safety information requires that all 
employees immediately report issues relating to the safety of 
our products. Our third party risk management framework 
supports us in identifying and training any third parties who 
may encounter human safety information.

Product quality

In 2023, we took additional steps to strengthen how we 
safeguard patients and enhance the execution of our 
pharmacovigilance operational activities. We have added risk 
management and benefit/risk expertise to our Global Safety 
organisation that will enhance our ability to define the risk 
management strategy for an evolving portfolio for which more 
complex risk minimisation measures may be required, to be 
followed in 2024 with a new system that will better enable us to 
track the implementation and effectiveness of our risk 
management plans. We have transitioned to a simplified, more 
efficient approach for collecting, following up, and reporting 
human safety information including adverse events from all 
potential sources. We are continuing to build capability across 
all GSK staff who hold accountability for our Pharmacovigilance 
Quality Management System and are in the process of 
embedding a simplified process for managing 
pharmacovigilance agreements and safety clauses between 
GSK and third parties, including our strategic partners. 

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure 
appropriate controls and governance of quality for 
development and commercial products are in place; 
compliance with industry practices and regulations in 
manufacturing and distribution activities; and terms of GSK 
product licenses and supporting regulatory activities are met.

Mitigating actions
We align an extensive global network of quality and 
compliance professionals from site-level to senior management 
within each business unit to provide oversight and assist with 
the delivery of quality performance and operational 
compliance. We deliver this management oversight through a 
hierarchy of quality councils and a Global Head of Quality. 

Risk impact
A failure to ensure product quality could have far-reaching 
implications for patient safety, cause product launch delays, 
drug shortages or product recalls, and have regulatory, legal, 
and financial consequences. These could materially and 
adversely affect GSK’s reputation and financial results.

Context
The external environment for product quality remains 
challenging. An increase in supplier mergers in our supply 
network can create challenge in influencing their quality 
standards. The rapid advancement and use of digital 
technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine 
learning (AI/ML) within an evolving regulatory framework 
introduces both opportunity for modernisation and potential to 
impact product quality if not adequately controlled. There will 
be a need to adopt and adapt to new, updated guidance on 
this as it emerges. The threat of cyber-attacks and data 
breaches across the industry could risk the integrity of product 
quality data and its audit trail. Additionally, a gradual 
divergence in regulatory expectations during inspections, 
particularly from some health authorities, presents a challenge 
to our sites as they prepare for inspections. Retaining expertise 
in biopharma and the deep capability to support digital 
progression has the potential to be a challenge in a highly 
competitive environment.

We are expanding our Quality Management System, Good 
Manufacturing Practice Audit and Quality assurance oversight 
programme across R&D to ensure that we mitigate potential 
product quality risk across the end-to-end process. We have 
implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and 
managing third party suppliers that provide materials used in 
our finished products including monitoring third party labs and 
how they are independently checking goods. We expect 
contract manufacturers that make our products to comply with 
GSK standards and regularly conduct audits to provide us with 
assurance. We use key risk indicators to support risk 
management activities and provide leadership teams and 
quality councils with an integrated assessment of product 
quality performance. 

Throughout 2023, we continued to actively manage the 
deployment of plans to align with the New Annex 1 guidance for 
the manufacture of sterile medicinal products in the context of 
global equipment and component supply chain constraints 
effecting the industry. We are increasingly applying advanced 
digital technologies and insights to drive scientific excellence to 
enhance and modernise the development, manufacture and 
testing of our products and to protect our data. We are actively 
contributing to industry advocacy and to influence thinking on 
the regulatory frameworks for these advancing technologies to 
support patient safety benefit and access. 

285

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Product quality continued

We are collaboratively working with other pharma companies 
and industry trade associations to respond to questions from 
the EMA and completing the safety evaluation of the use of 
Titanium Dioxide in medicines, as well as identifying potential 
substitutes. We are working with industry to monitor emerging 
risk factors and regulatory intelligence and guidance on 
Nitrosamines. 

We continue to adapt our procedures to the evolving 
expectations on this topic and work on our mitigation plans 
alongside regular engagement with regulators, at all times 
ensuring our inspection readiness for all the markets we serve.

Financial controls and reporting

Risk definition
The risk that GSK fails to comply with current tax laws; fails to 
report accurate financial information in compliance with 
accounting standards and applicable legislation; or incurs 
significant losses due to treasury activities. 

Risk impact
Non-compliance with existing or new financial or new ESG 
reporting and disclosure requirements, or changes to the 
recognition of income and expenses, could expose GSK to 
litigation and regulatory action and could materially and 
adversely affect our financial results. Failure to comply with 
changes in the substance or application of the laws governing 
transfer pricing, dividends, tax credits and intellectual property 
could also materially and adversely affect our financial results. 
Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could 
result in GSK being investigated by relevant government 
agencies and authorities and/or in legal proceedings against 
us. Government investigations and litigation, can be 
unpredictable and regardless of their outcome, may be costly, 
require significant management attention, and damage our 
reputation. Inconsistent application of treasury policies, 
transactional or settlement errors, or counterparty defaults 
could lead to significant losses.

Context
We are required by the laws of various jurisdictions to publicly 
disclose our financial results and any events that could 
materially affect the Group’s financial results. Regulators 
routinely review the financial statements of listed companies for 
compliance with new, revised, or existing accounting and 
regulatory requirements. We believe that we comply with the 
appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our financial 
statements and the disclosure of material information, including 
any transactions relating to business restructuring such as 
acquisitions and divestitures. However, should we be subject to 
an investigation into potential non-compliance with accounting 
and disclosure requirements, this could lead to restatements of 
previously reported results and significant penalties. Our 
Treasury group deals daily in high value transactions, mostly 
foreign exchange, and cash management transactions. These 
transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk. The 
Group’s effective tax rate reflects the locations of our activities 
and the value they generate, which determine the jurisdictions 
in which profits arise and the applicable tax rates.

These may be higher or lower than the UK statutory rate and 
may reflect regimes that encourage innovation and investment 
in R&D by providing tax incentives which, if changed, could 
affect GSK’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide nature of our 
operations means that our cross-border supply routes, 
necessary to ensure supplies of medicines and vaccines, can 
result in conflicting claims from tax authorities as to the profits 
to be taxed in individual countries. 

This can lead to double taxation, with profits taxed in more than 
one country. The complexity of tax regulations also means that 
we may occasionally disagree with tax authorities on the 
technical interpretation of a particular area of tax law. The tax 
charge included in our financial statements is our best estimate 
of tax liability pending any audits by tax authorities. We expect 
there to be a continued focus on tax reform, driven by initiatives 
by the OECD and the EC to address the tax challenges arising 
from digitalisation of the economy. 

Together with domestic initiatives around the world, these may 
result in significant changes to established tax principles and an 
increase in tax authority disputes. Regardless of their merit or 
outcomes, these may be costly, divert management attention 
and adversely impact our reputation and relationship with key 
stakeholders. Laws, regulations, orders and other measures 
restrict dealings with certain countries, governments, 
government officials, entities, individuals, and the use of 
financial institutions and movement of funds. 

Mitigating actions
We keep up to date with the latest developments in financial 
reporting requirements by reviewing updates from regulators, 
working with our external auditor and legal advisors and 
performing and responding to emerging risks. Financial results 
are reviewed and approved by regional management, before 
being reviewed by GSK’s Group Financial Controller and Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller and 
CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to 
evaluate its performance to plan. Significant judgements are 
reviewed and confirmed by senior management. We integrate 
technical or organisational transformation, newly acquired 
activities and external risks into our risk assessments and apply 
appropriate controls and reviews. 

We maintain a control environment designed to identify 
material errors in financial reporting and disclosure. We have a 
standardised global financial reporting operating model. The 
design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting 
controls are regularly reviewed by management and tested by 
external third parties. The few locations which are not on the 
standard model apply a minimum standard set of controls 
which are reviewed by management and monitored 
independently. This gives us assurance that controls over key 
financial reporting and disclosure processes are operating 
effectively. Our Global Finance Risk Management and Controls 
(FRMC) group provides extra support during significant 
transformations, such as system deployment or management/
structural reorganisations. We add operational resources and 
adapt programme timelines to ensure processes and controls 
are maintained during significant changes. The Disclosure 
Committee, reporting to the Board, reviews GSK’s quarterly 
results and annual report. 

286

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Financial controls and reporting continued

Throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, the 
Disclosure Committee also determines whether it is necessary to 
disclose publicly information about the Group through stock 
exchange announcements. The Treasury Management Group 
meets regularly to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, 
counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign currency 
translation risks are all managed in line with the prudent 
approach detailed in the risk strategies and policies adopted by 
our Board. Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits 
approved by the Board for both credit rating and individual 
counterparties. 

The Middle Office within Treasury monitor the management of 
counterparty risk in line with agreed policy with oversight from a 
corporate compliance officer, operating independently of 
Treasury. Further details on mitigation of Treasury risks can be 
found on pages 243 to 245. We manage tax risk through robust 
internal policies, processes, training, and compliance 
programmes. We maintain open and constructive relationships 
with tax authorities worldwide. We monitor government debate 
on tax policy in our key jurisdictions, so that we can understand 
any potential future changes in tax law and share an informed 
point of view. 

Legal matters

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to comply 
with certain legal requirements for the development, supply and 
commercialisation of our products and operation of business, 
and specifically in relation to requirements for competition law, 
anti-bribery and corruption, and sanctions. Any failure to meet 
compliance and legal standards for these particular areas 
could lead to increasing scrutiny and enforcement from 
government agencies.

Risk impact
Failure to mitigate legal risk could expose GSK and associated 
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action, and 
civil and criminal liability. It may compromise GSK’s ability to 
supply its products under certain government contracts. In 
addition, failure to manage legal risk could have substantial 
implications for GSK’s reputation and the credibility of senior 
leaders. It might erode investor confidence in our governance, 
risk management and future performance, and have a 
consequential negative impact on share performance. It could 
also lead to the imposition of significant financial penalties and 
the imposition of additional reporting obligations.

Context
The overall environment for anti-bribery and corruption, 
competition law and sanctions and export controls remains 
challenging. There continues to be a strong enforcement 
appetite for bribery investigations and prosecutions, with a 
particular focus on the conduct of multinational companies 
wherever they operate. The focus on sanctions, export controls 
and competition law enforcements has increased. From a 
sanctions perspective, we have seen penalties for violations 
levied on companies from a number of different industries. 
Merger control has seen increasing intervention with greater 
divergence in decisions and policy by enforcement agencies. 
Financial penalties handed down in these types of case are 
often very significant.

Where relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive 
business input to tax policy makers, either directly or through 
industry trade bodies. This includes advocating reform to 
support economic growth and job creation, as well as the needs 
of our patients and other key stakeholders. Our tax affairs are 
managed on a global basis by a team of tax professionals, led 
by the Global Head of Tax, who work closely with the business 
on a day-to-day basis. The Global Tax team is suitably qualified 
for the roles they perform, and we support their training needs 
so they can provide up to date technical advice in line with their 
responsibilities. We submit tax returns according to statutory 
time limits and engage proactively with tax authorities to ensure 
our tax affairs are current, entering into continuous audit 
programmes and advance pricing agreements where 
appropriate. These arrangements provide long-term certainty 
for both tax authorities and GSK over the tax treatment of our 
business, based on full disclosure of all relevant facts. We seek 
to resolve any differences of interpretation in tax legislation with 
tax authorities in a cooperative manner. In exceptional cases, 
we may have to resolve disputes through formal proceedings. 

Supportive aspects of the external environment include an 
increase in focus on corporate transparency. Advances in 
technology and the use of data analytics are also providing 
better platforms to streamline processes and detect potential 
issues. 

Mitigation actions
Our Group General Counsel oversees and is accountable for the 
Legal Matters principal risk. We have enterprise anti-bribery 
and corruption, competition law and sanctions control 
frameworks and programmes designed to ensure compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations, building on our Code, 
culture and business standards, and monitor and adapt to 
evolving regulations and our business activities. Our 
programmes include senior leader commitment, setting the 
tone at the top.

These control frameworks are based on globally recognised 
and accepted principles and include global policies, written 
standards and controls to govern business activities that give 
rise to these risks. We mandate enhanced controls, including 
due diligence requirements and sanctions screening, for specific 
high-risk activities such as interactions with government 
officials, during business development transactions and 
engagement with third parties.

We regularly provide anti-bribery and corruption, competition 
law and sanctions training to employees, and relevant 
complementary workers and third parties in accordance with 
their roles, responsibilities and risks they face. We include 
aspects of these key risks in our annual mandatory training and 
reinforce to our workforce clear expectations regarding 
acceptable behaviours.

We leverage data analytics and use information from our 
monitoring and other assurance activities, key risk indicators, 
investigations, and Speak Up channels to identify specific areas 
for intervention, and drive continuous improvements and 
enhancements to our controls. We investigate allegations of 
non-compliance and take disciplinary action as required and 
where permitted locally.

287

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Legal matters continued

Dedicated teams are responsible for the implementation and 
evolution of the risk framework and programmes for anti-
bribery and corruption, competition law, and sanctions. 

Commercial practices

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially engage in 
commercial activities that fail to comply with laws, regulations, 
industry codes, and internal controls and requirements.

Risk impact
Failure to engage in activities that are consistent with the letter 
and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or the Group’s 
requirements relating to sales and promotion of medicines and 
vaccines; with appropriate interactions with healthcare 
professionals (HCPs), organisations and patients; with 
legitimate and transparent transfers of value; and with pricing 
and competition (or antitrust) regulations in commercial 
practices, including trade channel activities and business 
tendering, could materially and adversely affect our ability to 
deliver our strategy and long-term priorities. Additionally, it may 
result in incomplete awareness of the risk/benefit profile of our 
products and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients and 
consumers; governmental investigation, regulatory action and 
legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental 
and private plaintiffs which could result in government 
sanctions, and criminal and/or financial penalties. Any 
practices that are found to be misaligned with our culture could 
also result in reputational harm and dilute the trust established 
with external stakeholders.

Context
We operate in a highly regulated and extremely competitive 
biopharma industry, amongst peers who make significant 
product innovations and technical advances and intensify price 
competition. Additional external factors include access 
limitations to our customers, macroeconomic inflationary 
dynamics, and pricing pressure across markets. To achieve our 
strategic objectives, we must continue to develop commercially 
viable new products, sustain reliable supply, and deliver 
additional uses for existing products that address the needs of 
patients, consumers, HCPs and payers. 

We continuously assess, monitor and understand our risk 
exposure to related risks, including our money laundering risk, 
and actively consider and implement improvements to the risk 
framework and programmes based on internal and external 
learnings, considering the complexity and geographic breadth 
of the risk.

Financially, new products/indications carry with them an 
uncertainty of future success. Product development is costly, 
lengthy, and uncertain, and carries the potential for failure at 
any stage. Even after successful product development, we face 
challenges in how we launch, and our competitors’ products or 
pricing strategies could render our assets less competitive. We 
support product innovation through our continued focus on 
both in-person and virtual engagement, with a constant focus 
on our patient. Once we have an approved medicine or 
vaccine, it is our obligation to provide important information to 
the healthcare community in various ways, always in a 
responsible, legal, and ethical manner. 

Appropriate product promotion ensures HCPs have access to 
the information they need, that patients and consumers have 
the facts about the medicines and vaccines they require, and 
that products are prescribed, recommended, or used in a 
manner that provides healthcare benefit. We are committed to 
the ethical and responsible commercialisation of our products 
in support of our purpose to improve the quality of human life 
and get ahead of disease together.

Mitigating actions
We have evolved policies and standards incrementally to 
ensure that commercial activities that we undertake or are 
conducted on our behalf are executed within our established 
governance. We train employees on relevant information with a 
focus on interactive learning and elements of behavioural 
science. All our commercial activities worldwide must conform 
to high ethical, regulatory, and industry standards. Where local 
standards differ from global ones, we apply those that are most 
stringent. Where the standards of an acquired company or joint 
venture partner differ from our global standards, we remediate 
legacy policies and implement revisions, so they align. Our 
businesses continue to use our internal control framework to 
support the assessment and management of risks. 

288

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Commercial practices continued

Business unit risk management and compliance boards, which 
manage risks across global and in-country business activities, 
oversee commercial activities and their monitoring 
programmes. All promotional materials and activities must be 
reviewed and approved according to our policies and 
standards and conducted in accordance with local laws and 
regulations; these requirements seek to ensure that such 
materials and activities fairly represent the Group’s products or 
services. Where necessary, in the event of misconduct, we have 
disciplined employees, up to and including termination of 
contract, and, applied/enforced GSK's senior leader  
recoupment policy. We have continued to evolve our incentive 
programme for sales representatives to better recognise and 
reward individual effort. In nearly all markets, the capped 
variable pay element of representatives’ compensation is 
evaluated on the basis of individual sales targets. 

We allow fair-market value payments to be made by GSK to 
expert practitioners to speak about our innovative medicines 
and vaccines during a restricted period in a product’s lifecycle, 
or when new and competitive data is published. To support this, 
in 2023 we embedded a global end-to-end expert engagement 
process, rolled out a Healthcare Organisation (HCO) process, 
created a new standard operating procedure for tenders, 
updated our External Expert Engagement operating procedure, 
and further strengthened our interactive digital media channel 
controls through the identification of all channels, and the 
contracting of a third party to monitor these channels across 
GSK, to drive consistent ways of working and efficiencies and 
strengthen controls through automation and use of data. 
Where permitted we report payments to individual HCPs as 
part of our commitment to transparency and responsible 
disclosure.

Scientific and patient engagement

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to engage 
externally to gain insights, educate and communicate on the 
science of our medicines and associated disease areas, and 
provide grants and donations in a legitimate and transparent 
manner compliant with laws, regulations, industry codes and 
internal controls and requirements.

Risk impact
Without controls in place, the risk could result in real, perceived, 
or disguised promotion including off-label and prior 
authorisation promotion, and real or perceived provision of 
medical advice. This could lead to reputational damage, 
competitor complaints, regulatory inspections with subsequent 
corrective actions, or civil litigation.

We must fully and appropriately engage externally to bring 
patient benefit, and to advance science and innovation, while 
delivering our strategy. Otherwise, we risk reducing the trust of 
the public, patients, healthcare professionals, payers, regulators, 
and governments.

Context
Scientific and patient engagements are diverse non-
promotional activities directed at healthcare professionals, 
patients, payers, and external stakeholders. Such engagements 
aim to improve patient care through the exchange or provision 
of knowledge on the use of our products and related diseases. 
Scientific and patient engagement with external stakeholder 
groups is vital to GSK, as a research-based biopharma 
company that is ambitious for patients and to advance science 
and medicine.

We expect our activities to be scientifically sound and accurate, 
conducted ethically and transparently, and compliant with 
applicable codes, laws, and regulations. There are many 
industry and local codes and laws and other regulations that 
apply (such as Privacy or Data integrity). That means measured 
risk-taking, rooted in sound ethical considerations, and 
principles-based decision-making, training, communication, 
and monitoring of such activities are key to managing the risk 
and enabling full and appropriate engagement.

Mitigating actions
Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) oversees all non-promotional 
scientific and patient engagement (SPE) as enterprise risk 
owner. The GSK Code of Practice is the key internal policy for 
non-promotional engagement activities. These activities include 
scientific interactions, support for medical education, advice 
seeking, gathering insights on unmet needs of patients, 
scientific communication of our research, and disease 
awareness, healthcare support services and patient support 
programs.

Process simplification continued into 2023. Global process 
owners accountable for the end-to-end process have been 
assigned for the simplified processes: Seeking Advice, Content 
Approval, Medical Information and Medical Education. This 
accountability includes the comprehensive oversight of the 
process, the creation of an appropriate internal control 
framework and continuous evaluation of process for 
improvement where necessary. 

All SPE materials and activities must be reviewed and approved 
according to our policies and standards. Additional controls for 
the review of SPE content have been implemented to continue 
to ensure content is non-promotional, accurate, fair, objective 
and balanced and will not be perceived as promotion. 

We have further modernised our digital approach to HCPs, 
embedded our framework for interactions with patients and 
patient organisations, and developed our policy for healthcare 
support services and patient support programmes and applied 
our internal principles to these activities. An internal framework 
for Software as Medical Device was established including an 
Expert Panel that provides business owners with multi-
disciplinary advice. The cross-business unit SPE risk council 
oversees SPE activities and reviews monitoring and audit data, 
while the SPE network reviews the maturity of the internal 
control framework of the SPE processes. We continuously 
improve our internal controls, systems and networks to identify 
emerging risks early and to support staff to conduct activities in 
compliance with GSK’s culture and policies and local laws and 
regulations while building effective risk management and 
management monitoring systems.

.

289

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Data ethics and privacy

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ethically 
collect; use; re-use through artificial intelligence, data analytics 
or automation; secure; share and destroy personal information 
in accordance with laws, regulations, and internal controls and 
requirements.

Risk impact
Non-compliance with data privacy laws globally could lead to 
harm to individuals and GSK. It could also damage trust 
between GSK and individuals, communities, business partners 
and government authorities. Many countries have increased the 
enforcement powers of their data protection authorities by 
allowing them to impose significant fines, restrict cross-border 
data flows, or temporarily ban data processing. Many new 
national laws also enable individuals to bring collective legal 
actions against companies such as GSK for failing to follow 
data privacy laws.

Context
Data protection and privacy legislation is diverse, with limited 
global harmonisation or simplification, making it challenging for 
multinationals to standardise their approach to compliance. 
Governments are enforcing compliance with data protection 
and privacy laws more rigorously. 

The approach and focus of data protection and privacy 
regulators also differs between regions and countries, which 
creates further challenges for global organisations seeking to 
implement a single harmonised global privacy programme.

Increases in the volume of data processed and advances in 
technology have resulted in a greater focus on data 
governance and the ethical use of personal information, over 
and above compliance with data privacy laws. Companies 
seeking to foster innovation in artificial intelligence and other 
new technologies are faced with evolving decisions from global 
policymakers on how best to promote trust in these systems and 
avoid unintended outcomes or harmful impacts. 

Additionally, there are a number of emerging laws concerning 
the localisation of data, restrictions on international transfers 
and data security, which are changing existing frameworks that 
GSK has previously relied upon. This increasing trend for data 
sovereignty affects our ability to drive medical innovation and 
to effectively operate internationally.

Global regulators (such as the EU, UK, US and China) are also 
in the process of introducing legislation around the use of 
artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML). There 
continues to be considerable uncertainty around the final 
version of these proposed laws. 

Mitigating actions

Our General Counsel is GSK’s Enterprise Risk Owner (ERO), and 
chairs our Digital and Privacy Governance Board, which 
oversees GSK’s overall data ethics and privacy operating model. 
Each GSK business area has appointed a risk owner 
accountable for overseeing its privacy risks, supported by 
privacy leaders within their business. In countries where local 
data privacy laws require the appointment of a Data Protection 
Officer (DPO), GSK has made such appointments, including an 
EU DPO. As a result of GSK’s focus on technology, data-driven 
science, use of AI/ML and our evolving global data strategy, 
the ERO has appointed a Head of Digital, Privacy and 
Cybersecurity (Head of DPC), who has day-to-day 
accountability for designing and implementing the control 
framework. 

The Head of DPC leads a global, cross-functional core team of 
digital- and privacy-qualified attorneys and compliance 
professionals, supported by a network of privacy leaders within 
business units/functions, privacy contacts locally, and the wider 
Legal & Compliance team. GSK has a global data ethics and 
privacy framework based on the EU General Data Protection 
Regulation, which is deployed in every market based on factors 
including the robustness of local privacy legislation, established 
data protection authorities, and GSK’s footprint. 

Beyond those countries, we have deployed a proportionate 
control framework to set up minimum privacy standards 
irrespective of any applicable legislation. 

Our core team is responsible for:

– operating and improving the centralised global data ethics 

and privacy control framework 

– continuously assessing and providing relevant and 

proportionate controls and aid to non-deployed markets 
– monitoring new, or changing, laws and adapting the privacy 

framework accordingly 

– deploying a comprehensive training programme to drive 

greater awareness and accountability for managing personal 
information across the entire organisation

–  legal and regulatory expertise in emerging technologies, 

including artificial intelligence and machine learning

We ensure key GSK privacy network roles have sufficient 
training and experience to carry out their roles effectively. We 
continuously improve our processes, such as issue identification, 
reporting and handling, through monitoring. Our core team 
works with the business to ensure we build in privacy controls 
into all existing and new business initiatives, as well as ensuring 
we meet our accountability obligations in accordance with 
global data protection and privacy laws. 

290

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Research practices

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to 
adequately conduct ethical and credible pre-clinical and 
clinical research, collaborate in research activities compliant 
with laws, regulations, and internal controls and requirements.

Risk impact
The potential impacts of the risk include harm to human 
subjects, reputational damage, failure to obtain the necessary 
regulatory approvals for our products, governmental 
investigation, legal proceedings brought against GSK by 
governmental and private plaintiffs (product liability suits and 
claims for damages), loss of revenue due to inadequate patent 
protection or inability to supply our products, and regulatory 
action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product authorisation. 
Poor data integrity and governance could compromise GSK’s 
R&D efforts and negatively impact our reputation. Any of these 
could materially and adversely affect our financial results and 
damage the trust of patients and customers.

Context
Research involving animals can raise ethical concerns. In many 
cases, however, research involving animals is the only way to 
investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living 
body other than in humans. Animal research provides critical 
information about the causes and mechanisms of diseases and 
therefore remains a vital part of our research. We continually 
seek ways in which we can minimise our use of animals in 
research, development, and testing, while complying with 
regulatory requirements and reducing the impact on the 
animals used. Human subject research is critical to assessing 
and demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our 
investigational products or further evaluating our products once 
they have been approved. 

This research includes clinical trials in healthy volunteers and 
patients and adheres to regulations and high ethical, medical, 
and scientific standards. We disclose the results of this research 
externally regardless of whether they reflect positively or 
negatively on our products, so that the scientific community can 
learn from the outcomes of our research. We also work with 
human biological samples which are fundamental to the 
discovery, development, and safety monitoring of our products. 

We are committed to managing human biological samples in 
accordance with relevant laws, regulations, and ethical 
principles, and in a manner that respects the interests of sample 
donors. Data is pivotal to our R&D strategy, and we are 
maximising the use of data to serve patients. Governing our 
data in accordance with relevant laws, regulations, contractual 
obligations, expectations, and our culture across data ethics, 
privacy, information and cyber security, and data integrity is 
essential.

We use a wide variety of biological materials in the discovery, 
research, and development of our assets. We are committed to 
ensuring research is compliant with terms and conditions of 
licenses, agreements or authorisations under which we acquire, 
use, or transfer biological materials and technologies. Through 
the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya 
Protocol, the international community has established a global 
framework regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources 
of non-human origin in research and development. We support 
the equitable access and fairness principles of access and 
benefit sharing (ABS) outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya 
Protocol. We also recognise the importance of appropriate, 
effective, and proportionate implementation measures at 
national and regional levels.

Mitigating actions
The Research Practices risk is overseen by an enterprise 
framework that seeks to strengthen governance across R&D. 
Under the leadership of the Research Practices Enterprise Risk 
Owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to 
information sharing, streamlining risk identification and 
escalation while ensuring ownership of risk mitigation stays with 
the business.

We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and 
Strategy and Risk (OAWESR), led by our Chief Veterinary 
Officer, which oversees and ensures the humane and 
responsible care and use of animals, the conduct of ethical 
reviews and independent scientific reviews of animal studies, 
and advocates for the application of non-animal alternatives. 
The OAWESR provides a framework of animal welfare 
governance; defines and provides oversight for animal care and 
use programmes; promotes the replacement, refinement, and 
reduction of animal use in research; conducts quality 
assessments and manages a programme of due diligence of 
external animal research. 

Ensuring we implement and maintain proper data governance 
controls remains an important priority, especially as our 
scientific strategy is evolving to take advantage of the breadth 
of our data (for example: genomics and artificial intelligence 
and machine learning (AI/ML)). We focus on building data 
integrity, privacy and usage controls into our internal control 
framework. Quality assurance teams conduct audits to provide 
independent business monitoring of our internal controls. Our 
R&D organisation maintains and controls pre-publication 
procedures to guard against public disclosure before patent 
applications are filed. In addition, because a lack of data 
integrity in preparing patent application data and information 
can lead to a loss of patent protection, legal experts 
collaborate with R&D to support the review process for new 
patent applications. Our R&D organisation also collaborates 
with legal experts throughout the development of our assets to 
take account of any relevant third-party patent rights.

291

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Environment, health, and safety (EHS)

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure 
appropriate controls and governance of the organisation's 
assets, facilities, infrastructure, and business activities, including 
execution of hazardous activities, handling of hazardous 
materials, or release of substances harmful to the environment 
that disrupts supply or harms employees, third parties or the 
environment.

Risk impact
Failure to manage EHS risks could lead to significant harm to 
people, the environment and the communities in which we 
operate, fines, inability to meet stakeholder expectations and 
regulatory requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and 
damage to the company’s reputation, which could materially 
and adversely affect our financial results.

Context
GSK is subject to the health, safety and environmental laws of 
various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect 
people, the environment and the communities in which we 
operate.

Mitigating actions
The GSK Leadership Team is responsible for EHS governance 
and risk oversight. They ensure there is an effective control 
framework ‘in-place’ and ‘in-use’ to manage the EHS risks, 
impacts, and legal compliance issues in each of our businesses. 
This includes assigning responsibility to senior managers for 
providing and maintaining our controls and for ensuring that 
tiered monitoring and governance processes are in place within 
their business units. 

Information and cyber security

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure 
appropriate controls and governance to identify, protect, 
detect, respond, and recover from cyber incidents through 
unauthorised access, disclosure, theft, unavailability or 
corruption of GSK's information, key systems, or technology 
infrastructure in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, 
industry standards, internal controls and requirements.

Risk impact
Failure to adequately protect our information and systems 
against cyber security threats may cause harm to patients, 
workforce and customers, disruption to our business and/or loss 
of commercial or strategic advantage, regulatory sanction, or 
damage to our reputation.

Function leaders ensure that the EHS control framework is 
implemented effectively in their respective business area, that it 
is compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and that it is 
adequately resourced, maintained, communicated, and 
monitored. Every employee and qualified contractor acting on 
behalf of GSK is personally responsible for ensuring that they 
follow all applicable local standard operating procedures. Our 
risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our global EHS 
policy and detailed in our global EHS standards, against which 
we audit all our operations to ensure compliance. We ensure 
hazards are appropriately controlled through the design of 
facilities, equipment and systems. These rigorous procedures, 
when applied correctly, put effective barriers in place to protect 
employees’ health and safety.

We have refreshed and rebranded the 12 Life Saving Rules 
across GSK, with global initiatives to embed the rules in daily 
operations. Our Safety Leadership Experience training 
continues across GSK, using incident knowledge to enhance 
learnings and build a strong, collaborative safety culture. Our 
Contractor Safety assessment is being deployed with the 
support of an external expert review of current GSK contractor 
management. We are improving driver safety through safer 
cars and enhanced training.

Context
The external environment continues to be extremely 
challenging, making it hard to keep pace with increasingly 
sophisticated cyber security threats. Factors include increased 
geopolitical conflict and digital nationalism, rising frequency 
and severity of data breaches and the growing capability and 
sophistication of cyber threat actors with additional tools like 
generative AI to propagate their attacks. GSK’s business relies 
on operating a highly connected information network of internal 
and external systems which hold confidential research and 
development, manufacturing, commercial, workforce and 
financial data. This means that our systems and information 
have been and will continue to be targeted by cyber security 
threat actors. Acceleration in the use of digital, data and 
analytics, AI/ML and cloud computing capabilities to drive 
GSK’s pipeline, performance and productivity requires us to 
continuously adapt and strengthen our controls and defensive 
capabilities. 

292

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Information and cyber security continued

GSK also relies on third-party contractors, partners and 
suppliers who face similar cyber security threats, which 
emphasises our focus on third party risk management. 
Additionally, hybrid working environments create a larger and 
more complex attack surface for cyber security threat actors to 
exploit. With employees accessing company resources from 
various locations and devices, new threats and vulnerabilities 
could arise.  

Mitigating actions
How we manage cyber security risk 
We use our corporate enterprise risk management and internal 
control framework to manage and oversee our Information and 
Cyber Security principal risk, and we follow our corporate 
governance hierarchy for risk reporting and escalation. Our 
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) heads our Cyber 
Security Office and is responsible for identifying and putting in 
place controls and measures to help GSK mitigate and manage 
cyber security risks. This includes actively monitoring and 
initiating remediation or other actions to respond to cyber 
security intelligence and threats. It also includes ongoing  
investment in people, process and technology to improve our 
ability to prevent, detect, respond to and recover from any 
cyber security incidents. We monitor this risk using key risk 
indicators which include tolerance thresholds reported monthly 
to the business and quarterly through the governance channels. 

We also have a third-party security risk management 
programme to assess cyber security risk when selecting and on-
boarding third parties like external partners and suppliers.  We 
use widely accepted  standards and frameworks to benchmark 
our internal environment and controls and help define our 
security objectives and desired security outcomes. While our 
standards and frameworks can evolve in response to our 
dynamic threat environment, we also rely on external 
frameworks including:

– the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
Cyber Security Framework for measuring the overall cyber 
readiness and maturity

–  the International Organisation for Standardisations (ISO) 
27001/27002 for general information technology controls
– Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) for assessment of internal controls 

We also draw on third-party consultants' expertise in processes 
for assessing, identifying and managing cyber security risks. This 
year, our cyber security maturity programme, designed to 
reduce the risk of our data being compromised, has improved 
our security posture and our ability to detect,  protect against, 
respond to and recover from malicious cyber activity. We also 
created an AI Governance Council, which includes the CISO, to 
assess and manage information security risks around adopting 
and scaling up AI at GSK.

Information and Cyber Security Governance
The Chief Digital and Technology Officer (CDTO) leads the 
Digital and Technology function, which includes the CISO and 
Cyber Security Office. The CDTO is the enterprise risk owner for 
our Information and Cyber Security principal risk, responsible for  
managing and reporting on the risk, and the enterprise risk plan. 
This plan includes a description of the risk, its context, our 
assessment and risk appetite, how we  treat the risk and what 
actions we need to take to manage it in line with our corporate 
internal control framework. The CISO is responsible for risk 
coordination  across the organisation, developing and 
overseeing the  implementation of controls, and monitoring and 
reporting on the enterprise risk plan.  Both the Board and the 
Audit & Risk Committee oversee our cyber security risk. The Risk 
Oversight and Compliance Council helps the Audit & Risk 
Committee to oversee the cyber security risks, and our 
strategies to address them. The CISO  reports on cyber security 
risks throughout the year to the CDTO, Risk Oversight and 
Compliance Council and the Audit & Risk Committee. This 
reporting covers, external insights, key risk indicators, 
management actions, updates on implementing the enterprise 
risk plan, progress on the cyber maturity programme, and 
escalations The Cyber Security Office analyses potential cyber 
security incidents, supported by internal experts, and gives 
updates to the CISO. The CISO escalates any cyber incidents 
with potential for material impact to the Chief Compliance 
Officer and the CDTO, who in turn escalates to the GSK 
Leadership Team and Company Secretary, triggering review by 
the Disclosure Committee to determine materiality. Any 
material cyber security incidents are subsequently escalated to 
the Board and Audit & Risk Committee.

Cyber Security Awareness, Training and Readiness
Our cyber security awareness and training programmes  
include phishing simulations, monthly awareness campaigns 
and mandatory annual refreshers for all employees, new hires 
and high-risk roles. We run quarterly phishing simulation tests 
and related remedial trainings. We also offer optional training 
and an annual global event. These efforts aim to increase cyber 
security awareness and foster a culture that security is 
everyone’s responsibility. Also, we run periodic crisis simulation  
exercises  for targeted functions to test our response to cyber 
security incidents.  

Compliance with various governmental cyber security 
regulations 
Our Cyber Security Office, guided by our General Counsel, 
works to stay abreast of emerging government regulations, 
trends, and compliance expectations regarding cyber security. 
As new regulatory guidance becomes available (including the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's rules on cyber 
security related disclosures), we respond with remedial 
compliance-related actions.   

293

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Supply continuity

Risk definition
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to deliver a 
continuous supply of compliant finished product or respond 
effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover and 
sustain critical supply operations.

Risk impact
.We recognise how important the continuity of supply of our 
products is to the patients who rely on them. Supply disruption 
can lead to:

– Product shortages and product recalls
– Regulatory intervention
– Reputational harm
– Lost sales revenue

Consequently, we need sophisticated end-to-end supply chain 
management with robust crisis management and business 
continuity plans in place to respond.

Context
We operate our supply chains in a continually evolving, highly 
regulated environment. There is no single set of global 
regulations which governs the manufacture and distribution of 
medicines, and we must adhere to the requirements in all those 
markets in which we licence, sell or manufacture our products. 
We rely upon our internal Quality Management System and our 
Internal Control Framework to ensure we maintain our licence 
to operate. Our complex end-to-end supply chains often involve 
third party suppliers, from Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
(API) manufacturers and raw material suppliers through to 
Third Party Logistics Providers and contract engineering firms. 
We have integrated risk management into our sourcing and 
day to day business processes, with emphasis on our Third-
Party oversight. External factors continued to challenge supply 
continuity in 2023. The difficulties with sourcing bioscience 
materials has eased through the year. 

There is a new constraint with third party sterile manufacturing 
capacity which increases global competition for contract 
manufacturing operations. We continue to operate our global 
supply chains in a rapidly changing geopolitical environment. 
Increasing nationalism and friction between the US and China 
creates divergence from global supply strategy. We have 
reacted to this by designing supply routes that de-risk sourcing 
decisions and use business continuity planning to mitigate and 
maintain supply continuity, e.g. dual sourcing for materials and 
adapting supply routes to meet regulatory expectations for 
both the commercial and late stage clinical supply chains. 

Our supply chain imperatives focus on accelerating innovation 
with the use of technology and data to transform the way we 
manufacture and supply our medicines and vaccines. We drive 
our competitive advantage through our long-term strategic 
partnership with R&D. We focus our talent on the skills needed 
for the future, addressing skills in new technologies and 
modalities. We have brought the Vaccines and Medicines 
supply chains together into one Global Supply Chain 
organisation to leverage the benefits of our highly skilled 
workforce. Continual business monitoring is in place to assess 
the sector-wide risk of the spread of industrial relations 
challenges arising from global cost of living pressures. Keeping 
our patients supplied with their medicines is our priority.

Mitigating activities
Risk management
Our Medicines and Vaccine supply chains are set up to ensure 
sustainable global supply. The GSK Internal Control Framework 
drives our approach to risk management, and it has been 
designed to identify emerging new risks and support clear 
decision making. Risk oversight is managed through a hierarchy 
of Risk Management and Compliance Boards to assure risk 
mitigation (including identifying new and emerging threats).

Inventory management
Supply chain governance committees in Medicines and 
Vaccines closely monitor the inventory status and delivery of our 
products. Our core commercial cycle links supply chain 
forecasting with our commercial ambition. It is designed to 
reduce the risk of demand fluctuations and manage temporary 
shortages in supply. We periodically review each node of our 
supply chains to ensure we hold adequate safety stocks, whilst 
balancing working capital. We put particular emphasis on 
mitigating supply risks associated with medically-critical, high-
revenue products and new product launches, for example using 
dual sourcing for key products or APIs. We use the monthly 
Performance Management Process across our supply chains to 
monitor business activity and highlight adverse trends in supply, 
operations, budget and workforce capability.

Business continuity
Crisis management and business continuity plans are in place 
across our supply chains, which include authorised response 
and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear 
communication routes. We regularly use business continuity 
plans to manage potential supply disruptions. Our 
manufacturing sites have crisis management plans in place. 
These plans are tested at least annually to ensure maintenance 
of core skills in crisis management.

294

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Shareholder information

Share capital and control

Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares 
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2023 can be found in Note 
37 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share 
premium account’. 

Our ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange 
(LSE) and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE) in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each 
ADS represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt 
and where it is listed refer to Note 30 to the financial 
statements, ‘Net debt’.

Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive 
dividends (when declared) and a copy of the company’s 
Annual Report (if elected). They are also entitled to attend, 
speak, appoint proxies and exercise voting rights at general 
meetings of the company

There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the 
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to 
obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or 
ADS carry any special rights with regard to control of the 
company and there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major 
shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other 
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which 
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the 
shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share 
transfers or on voting rights.

Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans 
rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special 
rights. The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan 
Trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by 
those Trusts.

Demerger of Haleon and Share Consolidation
As reported previously, on 18 July 2022 the company completed 
the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business from the 
Group. More details can be found on www.gsk.com/en-gb/
haleon-cmd-to-demerger-archive. On 19 July 2022, 
shareholders received four new GSK plc shares of nominal value 
of 31 1/4 pence each for every five GSK plc shares of nominal 
value of 25 pence each.

The  Group reduced its share holding in Haleon plc during the 
course of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 to 7.4%. 
More information can be found in Note 22 Current Equity 
Investments. On 17 January 2024, the Group reduced its 
shareholding by 3.2%, GSK now holds approximately 385 million 
ordinary shares in Haleon plc representing over 4.0% of the 
issued share capital of Haleon. More information can be found 
in Note 48 Post Balance Sheet Events. 

Exchange controls and other limitations 
affecting holders
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force 
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, 
decrees or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or 
export of capital or restricting the remittance of dividends or 
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are 
non-residents of the UK. 

Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be 
in force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only 
to non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s 

Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote 
in respect of, the company’s shares.

Interests in voting rights
Other than as stated below, as far as as the company is aware, 
there are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings 
in the company. Information provided to the company pursuant 
to the FCA's Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR 
5) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the 
company’s website, gsk.com.

The company has received notifications in accordance with 
DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in 
the company’s issued share capital:

31 December 2023                 23 February 2024

No. of
voting 
rights
231,975,400(2)
253,464,108 (3)

Percentage
No. of
of total
voting 
voting 
rights(1)
rights
 5.69 % 231,975,400(2)
 5.04 % 253,464,108(3)

Percentage 
of total 
voting
rights(1)

 5.69 %

 5.04 %

BlackRock, Inc.

Dodge & Cox

(1) Percentage of total voting rights at the date of notification to the 

company.

(2) Comprising an indirect interest in 229,134,683 Ordinary Shares and a 

holding of 2,840,717 Qualifying Financial Instruments (Contracts for 
Difference). 

(3) Comprising an indirect interest in 99,377,874 Ordinary Shares and 

154,086,234 ADS.

The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in 
its own shares during the period under review.

Share buy-back programme
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary 
Shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. 
The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to 
make purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder 
authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the 
company may be cancelled, held as Treasury shares or used for 
satisfying share options and grants under the Group's employee 
share plans.

Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or 
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority 
renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2023, when the 
company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over 
409 million shares. 

In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company 
considers the development of free cash flow during the year. No 
Treasury shares have been purchased since 2014. Details of 
shares purchased, cancelled, held as Treasury shares and 
subsequently transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under 
the Group’s employee share plans are disclosed in Note 37 to 
the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium 
account’. The company confirms that it does not currently 
intend to make any market purchases in 2024. The company 
will continue to review the potential for future share buy-backs 
in line with its usual annual cycle and subject to return and 
ratings criteria.

295

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Share price trend in the three years ended 
31 December 2023

Shareholder information continued

Share capital and control continued

Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding 
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2023 was £62.5 billion. 
At that date, GSK was the 8th largest company by market 
capitalisation in the FTSE index.

Share price
At 1 January

At 31 December

Increase/(decrease)

High during the year

Low during the year

2023
£

14.51

14.50

 (0.06) %

15.36

13.16

2022
£

16.25

14.38

 (12) %

18.31

12.96

2021
£

13.42

16.07

 20 %

16.19

11.91

The table above sets out middle market closing prices. The 
company’s share price decreased by (0.06)% in 2023. This 
compares with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 12% during 
the year. The middle market closing share price on 23 February 
2024 was £16.72 .

Nature of trading market 
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing prices for the company’s Ordinary 
Shares on the LSE and for the ADS on the NYSE.

Ordinary Shares

UK£ per share 

ADS

US$ per share

February 2024*

January 2024

December 2023

November 2023

October 2023

September 2023

Quarter ended 31 December 2023

Quarter ended 30 September 2023

Quarter ended 30 June 2023

Quarter ended 31 March 2023

Quarter ended 31 December 2022

Quarter ended 30 September 2022

Quarter ended 30 June 2022

Quarter ended 31 March 2022

Year ended 31 December 2021

Year ended 31 December 2020

Year ended 31 December 2019

* to 23 February 2024

High

16.78

15.82

14.62

14.26

15.21

13.36

15.21

15.36

15.23

15.03

14.92

18.23

18.31

17.27

16.19

14.68

18.19

Low

15.86

14.80

14.19

13.82

14.33

13.74

13.82

13.16

13.46

13.77

13.20

12.96

16.72

15.01

13.80

12.92

14.36

High

33.31

40.10

37.10

34.17

37.56

38.07

37.56

38.07

38.32

36.43

37.92

44.53

47.70

47.66

44.44

39.17

47.32

Low

31.90

37.51

35.88

35.99

34.56

34.41

34.17

33.81

33.60

33.50

30.00

28.67

41.98

40.17

38.13

33.42

37.83

296

UK£US$UK Share Price (UK£)US Share Price (US$)Jan-21Jan-22Jan-237810111213141617181927323641455054596368Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Shareholder information continued

Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2023

Holding of shares

Up to 1,000

1,001 to 5,000

5,001 to 100,000

100,001 to 1,000,000

Over 1,000,000

Held by

Institutional and corporate holders

Individuals and other corporate bodies

Guaranty Nominees Limited (ADR programme)

Held as Treasury shares by GSK

Number of
accounts

% of total
accounts

% if total 

shares Number of shares

46,607

11,313

2,843

654

328

75.48

18.32

4.60

1.06

0.53

0.32

0.55

1.21

5.31

13,747,981

23,914,101

52,308,743

229,085,155

92.60

3,993,090,003

61,745

100.00

100.00

4,312,145,983

2,153

59,590

1

1

3.49

96.51

0.00

0.00

61.86

2,667,435,551

13.86

597,606,148

19.71

4.57

850,036,115

197,068,169

61,745

100.00

100.00

4,312,145,983

JP Morgan Chase Bank NA is the Depositary for the company’s American Depositary Receipt (ADR) programme. The company’s 
ADS are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary, 
are registered in the name of Guaranty Nominees Limited. At 23 February 2024, Guaranty Nominees Limited held 832,929,801 
Ordinary Shares representing 20.23% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares).

At 23  February 2024, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 842 with holdings of  689,588 Ordinary Shares, and 
the number of registered holders of ADS was 15,511 with holdings of 416,464,900 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS 
were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not 
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.

Dividends

The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return 
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends 
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and 
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. 

(3) Adjusted for the Share Consolidation (2022 only; prior years have not 

been adjusted). 

(4) The Q4 2023 ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be 

calculated based on the exchange rate on 9 April 2024. The cumulative 
dividend receivable by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2023 was £1.06.

On 23 June 2021, at the GSK Investor Update, GSK set out that 
from 2022 a progressive  dividend policy will be implemented 
guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio through the 
investment cycle. The dividend policy, the total expected cash 
distribution, and the respective dividend pay-out ratios for GSK 
remain unchanged.

Dividends per share

The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS 
for the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into 
US dollars at applicable exchange rates.

Year 

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

pence
58(2)
61.25(3)
80

80

80

US$(1)
 -(4)
2.00

2.16

2.12

2.01

(1) An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS (or $0.0075 per ADS per quarter) will be 

charged by the Depositary. The amounts shown are the dividends paid 
per ADS before the annual fee is charged.

(2) Dividends declared and paid in respect of 2023 were 14p per share for Q1 

2023, 14p per share for Q2 2023 and 14p per share for Q3 2023. A 
dividend of 16p per share has been declared for Q4 2023.

The expected dividend for 2024 is 60p per Ordinary Share. 

Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the 
payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, 
‘Dividends’.

2024 Dividend calendar

Quarter

Q4 2023

Q1 2024

Q2 2024

Q3 2024

Q4 2024

Ex-dividend 
date
22 February 
2024

ADS Ex-
dividend date
22 February 
2024

Record date Payment date
11 April
2024

23 February 
2024

16 May
2024

15 August 
2024
14 
November
2024

16 May
2024

16 August 
2024
15 
November
2024

17 May
2024

16 August 
2024
15 
November
2024

20 February
2025

21 February
2025

21 February
2025

11 July
2024

10 October
2024

9 January
2025

10 April
2025

297

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Shareholder information continued

Financial calendar 2024

Event 

Quarter 1 results announcement

Annual General Meeting

Quarter 2 results announcement

Date

1 May 2024

8 May 2024

31 July 2024

Quarter 3 results announcement

30 October 2024

Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement

5 February 2025

Annual Report publication

Annual Report distribution

February/March 2024

March 2024

Information about the company, including the share and ADS 
price, is available on our website at gsk.com. Information made 
available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual 
Report.
Stock Exchange announcement notifications
We provide shareholders with a service to receive automatic 
email notifications when we publish a stock exchange 
announcement. To receive email notifications, please sign up 
for announcements at gsk.com in the Investors section.

Annual General Meeting 2024

Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm (UK 
time) on Wednesday, 8 May 2024 at the Royal Lancaster 
London, Lancaster Terrace, London W2 2TY and will also be 
broadcast live for you to join electronically.

The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication 
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal AGM 
business, there will be a presentation by the CEO on the 
performance of the Group and its future development. There 
will be an opportunity for questions to be asked of the Board 
and Chairs of the Board’s Committees will be available to take 
questions relating to their roles.

Further details on how to access the AGM electronically or 
attend in person, ask questions and vote, can be found in the 
notice of Annual General Meeting 2024 (AGM Notice) which 
will be made available on our website at gsk.com on or around 
25 March 2024.

Investors holding shares through a nominee service should 
arrange with that service for them to be appointed as a proxy in 
respect of their shareholding to attend and vote at the meeting 
electronically. 

Results announcements
Results announcements are issued to the LSE and are available 
on its news service. They are also sent to the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) and the NYSE, issued to the media 
and made available on our website.

Financial reports 
The company publishes an Annual Report which is made 
available on our website from the date of publication. 
Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the 
publication of Annual Reports by registering on 
www.shareview.co.uk, and may also elect to receive a printed 
copy of the Annual Report by contacting our registrar, Equiniti 
Limited. 

Copies of previous Annual Reports are available on our website. 
Printed copies can also be obtained from our registrar (see 
page 301 for the contact details). 

ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting electronically should 
refer to the AGM Notice for details on how to request a proxy 
appointment from the Depositary, JP Morgan Chase Bank NA. 
This will enable them to attend, ask questions and vote 
electronically on the business to be transacted at the meeting. 

ADS holders are reminded that if they do not instruct the 
Depositary as to the way in which the shares represented by 
their ADS should be voted by completing and returning the 
voting card provided by the Depositary, their shares will not be 
voted.

Documents on display
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’ 
service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment 
between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries 
(and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension 
arrangements) are available for inspection at the company’s 
registered office and will be made available for inspection at 
the AGM.

298

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Shareholder information continued

Tax information for shareholders

A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax 
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of 
the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of 
all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or 
sale of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide. 
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the 
tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their 
shares or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax 
laws in the US and the implications of the current UK/US tax 
conventions. 

US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the 
underlying shares for the purposes of the current UK/US double 
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax 
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax 
Convention), and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986, as amended. 

UK shareholders 
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that 
holds shares as capital assets. 

Taxation of dividends 
For the 2023/24 UK tax year, UK resident individuals are 
entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to £1,000, so that the 
first £1,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax. 
Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 8.75% for 
basic rate taxpayers, 33.75% for higher rate taxpayers and 
39.35% for additional rate taxpayers. Note that from 6 April 
2024 the dividend allowance will be reduced to £500.

UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should 
note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally 
entitled to exemption from corporation tax.

Taxation of capital gains 
UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on 
the disposal of shares or ADS. 

For disposals by individuals in the 2023/24 UK tax year, a 
taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS 
will be taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all 
allowable deductions, the individual’s taxable income for the 
year exceeds the basic rate income tax banding. Note this is 
following the use of any exemptions available to the individual 
taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount. 

Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation 
allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent 
that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may 
reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss. 
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in 
the Finance Act 2018 freezes the level of indexation allowance 
that is given in calculating a company’s chargeable gains at 
the value that would apply to the disposal of an asset in 
December 2017. For assets acquired from 1 January 2018 
onwards, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any 
indexation allowance on disposal.

Inheritance tax 
Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be 
liable to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS. 
Exposure to a UK inheritance tax charge typically occurs on the 
death of the asset owner.  However, transfers of shares (other 
than commercial sales) within seven years of death remain 
relevant to any inheritance tax exposure at death. Further, 
transfers to a trust arrangement during lifetime can give rise to 
an immediate inheritance tax charge.

Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the 
shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by 
way of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market 
value. In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged 
on the value of the shares at the date of the shareholder’s 
death. Where an exposure to UK inheritance tax and US estate 
or gift tax exists, careful planning must be undertaken to 
understand the opportunity to utilise the US/UK Estate and Gift 
Double Tax Convention to manage tax credits and avoid 
double taxation. 

The overall exposure will be dependent on the specific 
circumstances of each situation and it is also important to note 
that tax charges may arise in other jurisdictions. Bespoke advice 
tailored to an individual’s personal circumstances should 
therefore be obtained from a tax professional. 

Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, 
subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of 
shares at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the 
case of stamp duty) of the consideration for the transfer. 
Notwithstanding this, provided that an instrument is executed in 
pursuance of the agreement that gave rise to the charge to 
SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six years of the 
agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any SDRT 
charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already 
been paid will be repaid. Where listed shares are transferred to 
a company connected to the transferor the chargeable 
consideration will be deemed to be not less than the market 
value of the shares transferred. This market value override also 
applies where non-listed shares are transferred to a company 
connected to the transferor where the consideration includes an 
issue of shares. 

US shareholders 
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or 
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that 
is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income 
basis in respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS 
as capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession 
or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or 
agency. 

The summary also does not address the tax treatment of 
holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-
exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or 
currencies, persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an 
integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a 
share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that 
own (directly, indirectly or constructively) 10% or more of the 
company’s stock (by vote or value), nor does it address tax 
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international 
income tax treaties.

299

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Shareholder information continued

Tax information for shareholders continued

Taxation of dividends 
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign 
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for 
the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. 
Dividends on ADS are payable in US dollars; dividends on 
Ordinary Shares are payable in sterling. Dividends paid in 
sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount 
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the 
dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain 
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual 
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum 
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in 
respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined 
by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that 
meets the following criteria:

1. It must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation 

incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is 
eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty 
deemed satisfactory, as published by the IRS. 

2. The dividends are not of a type listed by the IRS as dividends 

that do not qualify.

3. The required dividend holding period has been met. The 

shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days 
of the ‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day 
period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or 
the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced 
in. For example, if a stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, the 
shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period 
between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to 
count as a qualified dividend.

Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the 
US federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%. 
Some types of dividends are automatically excluded from being 
qualified dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. 
These include (but are not limited to):

– Capital gains distributions
– Dividends on bank deposits
– Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock 

Ownership Plan (ESOP)

– Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations.

US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified 
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the 
federal tax rates communicated above.

Taxation of capital gains 
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, 
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the 
sale or other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be long-
term capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for 
individual holders) if the shares or ADS were held for more than 
one year, from the date the shares were vested/released. Short-
term capital gains can be subject to taxation of rates of up to 
40.8%, whereas long-term capital gains may be subject to rates 
of up to 23.8%. State and local tax rates on capital gains may 
also apply.

Information reporting and backup withholding 
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or 
ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial 
intermediaries, are subject to information reporting and may be 
subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a 
corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer 
identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption 
has occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to 
information reporting or backup withholding, but may be 
required to provide a certification of their non-US status in 
connection with payments received. Any amounts withheld will 
be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US federal 
income tax liability provided the required information is 
furnished to the IRS. 

Estate and gift taxes 
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is 
not generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US 
holder may be subject to US federal estate and gift tax.

Stamp duty 
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, 
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or 
depositary at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration 
provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for 
no consideration). 

However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the 
transfer of, or agreement to transfer an ADS or on transfers 
within the clearance service.  Notwithstanding the above, where 
the clearance service operator has made an election under 
s97A Finance Act 1986, broadly the 1.5% stamp duty/SDRT 
charge should not arise on the transfer into the clearance 
service, but transfers to, and within, the system (where there is a 
change in beneficial ownership) would attract a 0.5% charge. 

Demerger and share consolidation
A summary of certain UK and US tax consequences in respect 
of the demerger of Haleon plc and the consolidation of the 
company's share capital, relevant to the company’s 
shareholders who are resident (or, in the case of individuals, 
resident and domiciled) in the UK for UK tax purposes or who 
are citizens of or resident in the US for US tax purposes, is set 
out in Part 6 of the circular in relation to the Demerger and the 
Share Consolidation published on 1 June 2022 (Circular) (pages 
83 to 89). The Circular, along with other information regarding 
the demerger and share consolidation can be found at gsk.com 
in the demerger section.  

Further information on the tax base cost allocation to assist UK 
shareholders apportion their base cost between their GSK plc 
shares and Haleon plc shares for UK capital gains tax purposes 
following the demerger, including a worked example, can be 
found in the Tax section at gsk.com in the demerger section. 

300

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures

Shareholder services and contacts

Registrar
The company’s registrar is:

Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: +44 (0)371 384 2991*
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:

Service

What it offers

How to participate

Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
(DRIP)

As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may 
choose to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares.

Dividend payment direct to 
your bank account (bank 
mandate)

All dividends are paid directly into your bank or building 
society account. To receive your cash dividends, you must 
provide Equiniti with your bank or building society account 
details. This is a quick and secure method of payment.

A DRIP election form, Terms and Conditions and 
information on fees can be downloaded from 
www.shareview.co.uk or requested by contacting Equiniti.

A dividend bank mandate form can be downloaded from 
www.shareview.co.uk or requested by contacting Equiniti.

Dividend payment direct to 
bank account for overseas 
shareholders (Overseas 
Payment Service)

Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local currency 
and send it direct to your local bank account. The 
Overseas Payment Service is available in approximately 
100 countries worldwide.

More information on the Overseas Payment Service 
(including information on fees) can be found at 
www.shareview.co.uk or by contacting Equiniti.

Electronic communications

Shareview portfolio service

Deduplication of 
publications or mailings

Share dealing service†
(please note that market 
trading hours are from 
8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, 
Monday to Friday (excluding 
public holidays in England 
and Wales))

Corporate Sponsored 
Nominee Account

Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications 
of company communications including our Annual Report, 
dividend payments, dividend confirmations and the 
availability of online voting for all general meetings. Each 
time GSK publishes shareholder documents you will receive 
an email containing a link to the document or relevant 
website.

This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view 
your share balance and movements, update your address 
and dividend payment instructions and register your votes 
for our general meetings.

If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have 
more than one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will 
arrange for your accounts to be merged into one for your 
convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.

Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated 
form or in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by 
telephone or via postal dealing service provided by 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited.

This is a convenient way to manage your shares without 
requiring a share certificate. The service provides a facility 
for you to hold your shares in a nominee account 
sponsored by the company. You will continue to receive 
dividend payments and can attend and vote at the 
company’s general meetings. Shareholders’ names do not 
appear on the publicly available share register and the 
service is free to join.

Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.

Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.

Please contact Equiniti.

More information on the share dealing service (including 
information on fees) can be found at 
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing

For online transactions, please log on to: 
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.

For telephone transactions, please call: 0345 603 7037 (in 
the UK) or +44 (0)345 603 7037 (outside the UK). 

Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, Monday 
to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).

For postal transactions, please call: 0371 384 2991* to 
request a dealing form.

An application form can be requested from 
www.shareview.co.uk or by contacting Equiniti.

Individual Savings Accounts 
(ISAs)†

Equiniti Financial Services Limited provide the EQi Flexible 
ISA to hold GSK shares.

Details (including information on fees) are available from 
www.eqi.co.uk or can be requested by calling the Equiniti 
Customer Experience Team on 0345 0700 720. Lines are 
open 8:00am to 5:30pm, UK time Monday to Friday 
(excluding UK public holidays).

*

Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, UK time Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales). Please use the country code when 
dialling from outside the UK.

†  The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should 

be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.

301

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Shareholder services and contacts continued

ADS Depositary
The ADR programme is administered by JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, N.A.:

Regular Correspondence:
EQ Shareowner Services
P.O. Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504

Delivery of Stock Certificates and Overnight Mail:
EQ Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100

shareowneronline.com/informational/contact-us/
From the US: +1 877 353 1154
From outside the US: +1 651 453 2128

The Depositary also provides Global Invest Direct, a direct ADS 
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS holders. 
For details on how to enrol, please visit www.adr.com or call the 
above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack. 

Contacts
Investor relations
Investor relations may be contacted as follows:

UK
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000

US
2929 Walnut Street
Philadelphia PA 19104
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the US)­

GSK Response Center
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4600 (outside the US)

Share scam alert
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy 
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a 
highly organised financial scam.

If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial 
Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its 
consumer helpline:

Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*

Tel: +44 207 066 1000 (outside the UK)*

*

Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, 
except UK public holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.

Donating shares to Save the Children
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with 
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the 
aim of finding innovative ways to reduce the number of children 
dying from preventable diseases.

Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which 
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating 
them to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated 
and sold on behalf of Save the Children who will use the funds 
raised to help them reach the above goal.†

To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar, 
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares 
to Save the Children free of charge.

†  The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or 

inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing 
should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.

302

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

US law and regulation

A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the 
company because our shares are quoted on the NYSE in the 
form of ADS.

NYSE rules
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK 
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the 
US, provided that we explain any significant variations. This 
explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be 
accessed from the SEC's EDGAR database or via our website. 
NYSE rules require us to file annual and interim written 
affirmations concerning our Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) and 
our statement on significant differences in corporate 
governance.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in 
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation 
concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate 
governance.

As recommended by the SEC, the company has an established 
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the 
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary 
and its members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, 
corporate communications and investor relations.

Where appropriate, external legal counsel, the external 
auditors, our sponsor bank, and internal experts are invited to 
attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings periodically. The 
Committee has responsibility for considering the materiality of 
information and, on a timely basis, determining the disclosure of 
that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing of 
reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report 
and the Annual Report on Form 20-F. In 2023, the Committee 
met 17 times, including for the purpose of receiving relevant and 
appropriate training.

Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report on Form 20-F 
contains a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is an 
audit committee financial expert, as defined in rules under 
Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant members of 
the ARC (Charles Bancroft) is included in the Board Committee 
information area of the Corporate Governance report on page 
118 and in his biography on page 109. 

Additional disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and 
section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls 
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. 

Section 302: Corporate responsibility for 
financial reports
Sarbanes-Oxley requires the CEO and the CFO to complete 
formal certifications, confirming that: 

– they have each reviewed the Annual Report on Form 20-F;

– based on their knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 20-F 

contains no material misstatements or omissions;

– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other 
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, 
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows 
as of the dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual 
Report on Form 20-F;

– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining 

disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material 
information is made known to them, and have evaluated the 
effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year 
end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the 
Annual Report on Form 20-F;

– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal 

control over financial reporting that provides reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles; 

– they have disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 20-F any 
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during 
the period covered by the Annual Report on Form 20-F that 
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect 
materially, the company’s internal control over financial 
reporting; and

–  they have  disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation 
of internal control over financial reporting, to the external 
auditor and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material 
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls 
over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect 
adversely the company’s ability to record, process, summarise 
and report financial information, and any fraud (regardless of 
materiality) involving persons that have a significant role in 
the company’s internal control over financial reporting.

The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision 
and with the participation of its management, including the 
CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation 
of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 
31 December 2023.

There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system 
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility 
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the 
controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure 
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable 
assurance of achieving their control objectives.

303

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

US law and regulation continued

The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and 
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure 
controls and procedures in March 2024, following which the 
certifications will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s 
Annual Report on Form 20-F.

Section 404: Management’s annual report on 
internal control over financial reporting
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of 
Sarbanes-Oxley, the following report is provided by 
management in respect of the company’s internal control over 
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) 
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the 
Exchange Act)): 

– Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the 
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS. 
– Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness 
of internal control over financial reporting based on the 
framework, Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO).

– There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control 
over financial reporting during 2023 that have materially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the 
Group’s internal control over financial reporting.

– Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal 

control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2023 and 
its conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Annual 
Report on Form 20-F.

– Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 
2023, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control over financial reporting under Auditing 
Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the 
Group’s Form 20-F. 

Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make 
specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of 
dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with 
government-owned or-controlled entities, as well as dealings 
with entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even when those 
activities are not prohibited by US law and do not involve US 
persons. 

The Group exports certain medicines to Iran, via sales by non-
US entities that are not subsidiaries of a US entity to a 
distributor in Iran pursuant to a specific licence issued by the 
Office of Foreign Assets Control.

The Group does not regularly receive information regarding the 
identity of the distributor's downstream customers and 
intermediaries in Iran, and it is possible that these parties 
include entities, such as hospitals and pharmacies, that are 
owned directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or by 
persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism or 
proliferation activities.  

As the Group does not regularly receive information regarding 
the identity of its distributor's downstream customers and 
intermediaries it cannot establish the proportion of gross 
revenue or sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated 
with the Iranian government or parties sanctioned for 
disclosable activities. As a result, the Group is reporting the 
entire gross revenues (£16.89 million) and net profits (£8.42 
million) from the Group's sales to Iran in 2023.

Some hospitals or other medical facilities in Lebanon may be 
affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah or other groups that 
are designated by the United States pursuant to Executive 
Order 13224. Again, the Group does not deal directly with such 
hospitals or facilities and instead sells through distributors. The 
Group is unable to establish the proportion of gross revenue or 
sales potentially attributable to reportable activities. As a result, 
the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues (£6.02 million) 
and net losses (£4.2 million) from the Group's sales to Lebanon 
in 2023. 

In addition to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, US law 
generally restricts dealings by US persons and dealings that 
otherwise are subject to US jurisdiction with certain countries or 
territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions, currently 
Crimea, Cuba, the so-called Donetsk People's Republic, Iran, 
the so-called Luhansk People's Republic, North Korea and Syria, 
as well as with the Government of Venezuela (though not with 
the country of Venezuela as a whole). The Group engages in 
some activity in certain such jurisdictions having assessed 
applicable licences and exemptions

While we believe the Group complies with all applicable US 
sanctions in all material respects, such laws are complex and 
continue to evolve rapidly.

304

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Donations to political organisations and political expenditure

As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business 
activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political 
donations or political expenditure, nor are they designed to 
support any political party or independent election candidate.

Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do not 
intend to make donations to any EU political parties or 
organisations, nor to incur any EU political expenditure, we 
annually seek shareholder authorisation for any inadvertent 
expenditure.

The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the 
company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the 
legislation.

This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000 
each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following 
the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and 
Referendums Act 2000. The authority has since been renewed 
annually.

To ensure a consistent approach to political contributions 
across the Group, in 2009 a global policy was introduced to 
voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions.

In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2023, the 
Group has not made any political donations to EU or non-EU 
organisations. 

Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance 
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue 
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee 
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible 
GSK employees.

The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts 
and recipients of contributions are governed by the PAC Board 
of Directors. Contributions to the PAC are made by 
participating eligible employees exercising their legal right to 
pool their resources and make political contributions, which are 
subject to strict limitations under US law. In 2023, a total of 
US$325,750 (2022: US$360,950) was donated to political 
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.

English law requires prior shareholder approval for political 
contributions to EU political parties and independent election 
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The 
definitions of political donations, political expenditure and 
political organisations used in the legislation are, however, quite 
broad. In particular, the definition of EU political organisations 
may extend to bodies such as those concerned with policy 
review, law reform, the representation of the business 
community and special interest groups such as those 
concerned with the environment, which the company and its 
subsidiaries might wish to support. 

305

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies

In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint 
arrangements, the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2023 are disclosed 
below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by GSK plc. The 
percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated, all subsidiary companies have their 
registered office and are tax resident in their country of incorporation.

Name

Security

Registered address

Wholly owned subsidiaries

14245563 Canada Inc.

14934792 Canada Inc.

1506369 Alberta ULC

Action Potential Venture Capital Limited

Adechsa GmbH (ii)

Affinivax, Inc.

Allen & Hanburys Limited (ii)

Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited

Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H.

Beecham Group p.l.c

Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited

Beecham Portuguesa-
Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, LDA

Beecham S.A.

Bellus Health Corp.

Bellus Health Inc

Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (ii)

Cascan GmbH & Co. KG

Cellzome GmbH

Clarges Pharmaceutical Trustees Limited (ii)

Colleen Corporation

Corixa Corporation

Dealcyber Limited

Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L.

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc.

Common

Etex Farmaceutica Ltda

Social Capital

Glaxo Group Limited

Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (ii)

Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited

Glaxo Operations UK Limited

Glaxo Properties BV

Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited

Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH

Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada

Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd

Glaxo Wellcome Production

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common 

Common 

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

£0.05 Ordinary B;
£0.20 Ordinary A

Ordinary

Quota

Ordinary

Common

Common

Nominative

275 Armand-Frappier Boulevard, Laval ON H7V 4A7, Canada

100 Milverton Drive, Suite 800, Mississauga ON L5R 4H1, Canada

3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, 6341, Baar, 
Switzerland

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

49, Town Planning Way, Ilupeju, Lagos, Nigeria

Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium

The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange 
Street, Wilmington DE 19801, United States

275 Boulevard Armand Frappier, Laval QC H7V 4A7, Canada

Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul, 34394, 
Turkey

Partnership Capital

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munich, Bavaria, Germany

Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117, Heidelberg, Germany

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, 
Madrid, Spain

23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio 
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines

Av. Andrés Bello 2457, Costanera Center, Torre 2, Piso 20, Providencia, 
Santiago, 7510689, Chile

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan

Level 2 E.2, Generator at GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter, 
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands

PO Box 22617, Area No 56 to 73, Warehouse City, First Stage Al Khomrah, 
Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munich, Bavaria, Germany

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore

23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France

306

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Registered address

Wholly owned subsidiaries continued

Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (in liquidation) (ii)

Ordinary

Glaxo Wellcome, S.A.

Glaxo, S.A.

Glaxochem Pte Ltd (iii)

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline - Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada

Ordinary Quota

GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd.

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited

Equity

GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L.

GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii)

GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline AB

GlaxoSmithKline AG

GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada

GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline AS

GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline B.V.

GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft.

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S.

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA

GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada

GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Quota

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary:
Preference

Quotas

Common

GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited

Equity

GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L.

GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii)

GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline AB

GlaxoSmithKline AG

GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada

GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline AS

GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline B.V.

GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft.

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S.

GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Quota

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary:
Preference

12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10
330, Thailand

Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de 
Duero, 09400, Burgos, Spain

Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, 
Madrid, Spain

23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Co, Sangkat 
Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh, Cambodia

Room 901, 902, 903, 905, 908, 909 and 910, Unit 901, Floor 9, No. 56 Mid 4th 
East Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China

F1-3, No.18 Building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 201
210, China

Str. Dr. Nicolae D. Staicovici nr. 2, Opera Center II, etaj 4, sector 5, București, 
Romania, 050556

12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland

25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel

Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe

12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10
330, Thailand

Hemvarnsg. 9, 171 54, Solna, Sweden

Talstrasse 3 , 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland

Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n ° 288, Angola

Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina

Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway

Level 4 , 436 Johnston Street , Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands, 
Netherlands

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary

637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France

Rue de l'Institut 89 B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium

Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil

Wilmington Trust SP Services, Inc., 1100 N. Market Street, 4th Floor, 
Wilmington DE 19890, United States

F1-3, No.18 Building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 201
210, China

Str. Dr. Nicolae D. Staicovici nr. 2, Opera Center II, etaj 4, sector 5, București, 
Romania, 050556

12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland

25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel

Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe

12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10
330, Thailand

Hemvarnsg. 9, 171 54, Solna, Sweden

Talstrasse 3, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland

Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n ° 288, Angola

Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina

Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway

Level 4 , 436 Johnston Street , Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands, 
Netherlands

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary

637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France

Rue de l'Institut 89 B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium

307

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Registered address

Wholly owned subsidiaries continued

GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada

GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.

GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc

GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited

Quotas

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada

Social Capital

Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil

Wilmington Trust SP Services, Inc., 1100 N. Market Street, 4th Floor, 
Wilmington DE 19890, United States

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Av. Andrés Bello 2457, Torre 2, piso 20, Providencia, Santiago, Región 
Metropolitana, Chile

GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (ii)

Ordinary

Ordinary

Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia

Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands

GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd-Novi Beograd (in liquidation) Ordinary

Milutin Milankovic, 1J, Novi Beograd, Belgrade, 11070, Serbia

GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V.

GlaxoSmithKline EOOD

GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V.

GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio Electroectuatoriana, 2
do piso, Quito, Ecuador

Municipio de San Salvador, Departamento de San Salvador, El Salvador

16 Nedelcho Bonchev str., Sofia, Sofiya, 1592, Bulgaria

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama

Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG

Partnership Capital

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS

GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.

GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i)

GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i)

GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.

Nominative

GlaxoSmithKline Inc.

GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd.

Class A Common;
Class C Preference

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited

A Ordinary;
B Ordinary

Deferred;
Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L.

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline K.K.

GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Limited (ii)

GlaxoSmithKline LLC

GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA

GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A.

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

LLC Interests

Ordinary

Ordinary

3ra. Av. 13-78 Zona 10, Torre Citibank, Nivel 8, Guatemala City, Guatemala

Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway

Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1100 North Market Street, 4th Floor, 
Wilmington, Delaware, 19890

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Level 4 , 436 Johnston Street , Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul, 34394, 
Turkey

100 Milverton Drive, Suite 800, Mississauga ON L5R 4H1, Canada

c/o Trinity Corporate Services Ltd., Trinity Hall, 43 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton, 
Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, Madrid 
Spain

Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan

9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92 Hangang-daero, Yongsangu, Seoul, 04386, 
Korea, Republic of

Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama

23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy

42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco

GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Kft

Ordinary

1062 Budapest, Andrassy ut 113, Hungary

GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i)

Ordinary

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

308

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Registered address

Wholly owned subsidiaries continued

GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V.

GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Oy

GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S

GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA

Ordinary A;
Ordinary B

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Av. Real Mayorazgo 130 Piso 20, Colonia Xoco, Alcaldia Benito Juárez, 
Ciudad de Mexico, 03330, Mexico

Level 2 E.2, Generator @GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter, 
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand

Porkkalankatu 20 A, Helsinki, 00180, Finland

Av. Víctor Andrés Belaúnde N°147, Vía Principal N°133, Piso 7, Distrito de San 
Isidro, Lima, Peru

Vallensbæk Company House III , Delta Park 37, DK-2665, Valle, Denmark

Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria

P.O Box 78392-00507, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya

1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria

HZ.01, Horizon Penthouse, 1 Powerhouse, 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar
 Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia

121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka

Autopista Florencia del Castillo, kilómetro siete, Oficentro TerraCampus, 
edificio uno, cuarto piso, San Diego, Cartago, 30302, Costa Rica

Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC

Chartered Capital

Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine

GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc

GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd

GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico, Inc.

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A.

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited

GlaxoSmithKline S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A.

GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o.

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio 
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines

23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY PUERTO RICO INC., 
c/o RVM Professional Services, LLC, A4 Reparto Mendoza, Humacao, 
00791, Puerto Rico

Blue Mall Tower, Floor 23 Ave., Winston Churchill 95, Santo Domingo, 
Dominican Republic

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, 
Madrid, Spain

Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy

Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic

GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG

Partnership Capital

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i)

GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E.

GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC

GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (ii)(viii)

GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (iii)

GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L.

GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A.

GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited

GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A.

Ordinary

Ordinary

LLC Interests

Partnership

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston 2021, 
South Africa

12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland

Immeuble REGUS, Lot B17, Centre Urbain Nord, Tunis, Tunisia

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Registered Provisory Stock

Victor Soliño 349, Montevideo, Montevideo, 11300, Uruguay

Ordinary

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (ii)

Equity Capital

GlycoVaxyn AG (In liquidation) 

Groupe GlaxoSmithKline

GSK Biopharma Argentina S.A.

Common;
Preferred A;
Preferred B;
Preferred C

Ordinary

Nominative Non 
Endorseable Ordinary

GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited Partnership (viii)

Partnership

GSK (No.2) Scottish Limited Partnership (viii)

Partnership

GSK (No.3) Scottish Limited Partnership (viii)

Partnership

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

calle Altagracia, edificio P&G, piso Mezzanina, torre Torre Sur, Urbanizacion 
Sorokaima, La Trinidad, Caracas, 1080, Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam

Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland

23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France

Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina

50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ, 
United Kingdom

50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ, 
United Kingdom

50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ, 
United Kingdom

309

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Registered address

Wholly owned subsidiaries continued

GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd

GSK Capital B.V. (iii)(v)

GSK Capital K.K.

GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o.

GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana

GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd

GSK Equity Investments, Limited

GSK Finance (No.3) PLC

GSK Finance (No 2) Limited

GSK India Global Services Private Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Units

Ordinary

Ordinary

Equity

Level 6, Quill 9, 112 Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Petaling Jaya, 46300 Selangor, 
Malaysia

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS

1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan

ul. Rzymowskiego 53, 02-697, Warsaw, Poland

Ameriška ulica 8, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia

Floor 4, 18 Lane 999 Huanke Road, No. 1358 Zhongke Road, Shanghai, China

Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103, Harrisburg 
PA 17110, United States

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Level 1, 2 & 3 Luxor North Tower, Bagmane Capital Business Park Outer Ring 
Road, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560037, India

GSK International Holding and Finance BV

Ordinary

Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands

GSK Kazakhstan LLP

Participation Interest

GSK Life Sciences FZE

GSK Pharma India Private Limited

Ordinary

Equity

GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited

Chartered Capital

GSK Pharmaceutical Trading S.A. (ii)

Ordinary

Nursultan Nazarbayev Ave 273, Business center USKO, 3rd fl., Almaty, 
050059, Kazakhstan

LB06015, Jebel Ali Freezone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

1, Battery House, Bhulabhai Desai Raod, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400026, 
India

Unit 702/703 7th Floor, The Metropolitan Tower, 235 Dong Khoi Street, 
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam

Bucharest, 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th floor, 
discussions room 01, District 5, Romania

GSK PSC Poland sp. z o.o.

Equal and indivisible shares 

ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznań, 60-322, Pol

GSK Services Sp z o.o.

GSK Vaccines BV

GSK Vaccines GmbH

GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l.

GSK Vaccines S.r.l.

GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH

Human Genome Sciences, Inc.

ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec

Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (ii)

InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH

J&J Technologies, LC (ii)

JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading

Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Quota

Quota

Ordinary

Common

Common

Quota

Quota

LLC Interests

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322, Poznan, Poland

Hullenbergweg 85, 1101 CL, Amsterdam, Netherlands

Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany

Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy

Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy

Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, 83607, Holzkirchen, Germany

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

2323, boul. Du Parc Technologique, Québec Québec G1P 4R8, Canada

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria

Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond VA 
23219, United States

Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 3, Premises XV, Room 1, 125167, 
Moscow, Russian Federation

23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France

Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary

Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria

Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA

Laboratoires Paucourt (ii)

Laboratoires Saint-Germain (ii)

Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V.

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary A;
Ordinary B

Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (ii)

Ordinary

Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA

Ordinary

Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda.

Ordinary

Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (ii)

Quota

Maxinutrition Limited (in liquidation)

PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia

Setfirst Limited

Ordinary

Class A;
Class B

Ordinary

Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria

23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France

23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France

Av. Real Mayorazgo 130 Piso 20, Colonia Xoco, Alcaldia Benito Juárez, 
Ciudad de Mexico, 03330, Mexico

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

Calle Altagracia, edificio P&G, nivel Mezzanina,, piso Mezzanina, local Torre 
Sur, Urbanizacion Sorokaima, La Trinidad, Caracas, 1080, Venezuela, 
Bolivarian Republic of

Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem, no.1077, Bairro de Bonsucesso, 
Municipality of Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, CEP 07243-580, Brazil

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

C/O BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH

JL. Pulobuaran Raya Kav.III/
DD 2,3,4 KWS. Industri, Pulogadung, Jatinegara, Cakung, Jakarta Timur, 
Indonesia

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

310

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Registered address

Wholly owned subsidiaries continued

Sierra Oncology Australia Pty Ltd

Sierra Oncology Canada ULC

Sitari Pharma, Inc.

Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-
Produtos Farmaceuticos, LDA (ii)

SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (ii)

SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited

SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C.

SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A.

SmithKline Beecham Legacy H Limited

SmithKline Beecham Limited

SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited

Ordinary

Common

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Quota

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

c/o Maddocks Lawyers, Angel Place, Level 27, 123 Pitt Street Sydney 2000, 
Australia

Suite 1800 - 510 West Georgia Street, Vancouver BC V6B 0M3, Canada

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

House-2/A, Road-138,Gulshan-1, Dhaka, 1212, Bangladesh

12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland

Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt

Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, 
Madrid, Spain

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG

Partnership Capital

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH

Ordinary

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (ii)

Ordinary

SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co.

Common

SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee 
Limited (ii)

Ordinary

Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston 2021, 
South Africa

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG

Partnership Capital

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited

Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited

Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.

Stiefel Maroc SARL

Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd

Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd

Stiefel West Coast LLC

Strebor Inc.

Tesaro Bio GmbH (in liquidation)

Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V

Tesaro Development, Ltd.

Tesaro, Inc.

The Sydney Ross Co. (ii)

UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (ii)

Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii)

Wellcome Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

LLC Interests

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Unit 2 Building 2500, Avenue 2000 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland

1 Pioneer Sector, 628413, Singapore

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco

Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Poststrasse 6, 6300 Zug, Switzerland

Joop Geesinkweg 901, 1114 AB, Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Netherlands

Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite 160, 
100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing NJ 08628, United States

12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 4
6200 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Name

Security

Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%

Effective % 
Ownership

Registered address

Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E.

Monetary Shares

90.71%

El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt

Biddle Sawyer Limited

Equity

75.00%

252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India

British Pharma Group Limited (i)

Guarantee (50%)

50.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

Galvani Bioelectronics Inc.

Common

Galvani Bioelectronics Limited

A Ordinary;
B Ordinary

Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (ii)

Ordinary

55.00%

55.00%
-

99.99%

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, 
United Kingdom

82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria

Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (ii)

Ordinary

99.00%

41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria

311

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Effective % 
Ownership

Registered address

Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued

GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd

Ordinary

90.00%

No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and 
Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China

GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A.

Ordinary

99.99%

Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria

GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (vi)

Ordinary

GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited

Ordinary

46.42%

82.59%

1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria

The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000, 
Pakistan

GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited

Equity

75.00%

252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India

GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E.

Ordinary

Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L.

Ordinary

Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C.

Quota

PHIVCO-1 LLC

PHIVCO-2 LLC

LLC Interests

LLC Interests

91.20%

78.30%

98.24%

78.30%

78.30%

SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O.

Participation Interest

97.00%

Boomerang Office Building - Land No. 46, Zone (J) -
 1st District, Town Center - 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt

Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, 
Madrid, Spain

Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 42, 1251
67, Moscow, Russian Federation

Stiefel Egypt LLC (ii)

ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) 
Limited

ViiV HealthCare BV

ViiV Healthcare Company

Quota

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

99.00%

Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston 2021, 
South Africa

Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands, 
Netherlands

Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808, 
United States

ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited

Ordinary

78.30%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited

Ordinary;
Redeemable Preference

78.30%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

ViiV Healthcare GmbH

ViiV Healthcare GmbH

ViiV Healthcare K.K.

ViiV Healthcare Limited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

A Ordinary;
B Ordinary;
C Ordinary;
D1 Preference;
D2 Ordinary;
Deferred;
E 5% Cumulative Preference

ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd

ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC

Ordinary

LLC Interests

ViiV Healthcare S.r.l.

ViiV Healthcare SAS

ViiV Healthcare sprl

Quota

Ordinary

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (ii)

Participation Interest

ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare UK (No.7) Limited

Ordinary

ViiV Healthcare UK Limited

ViiV Healthcare ULC

Ordinary

Common

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

78.30%

Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany

Talstrasse 3 , 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland

1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
 United Kingdom

Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY PUERTO RICO INC., 
c/o RVM Professional Services, LLC, A4 Reparto Mendoza, Humacao, 
Puerto Rico, 00791

Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy

23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France

Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium

Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 28, 1251
67, Moscow, Russian Federation

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
 United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
 United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
 United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
 United Kingdom

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
 United Kingdom

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England

3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada

312

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

Name

Security

Effective % 
Ownership

Registered address

Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued

ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda

Quota

Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited

Ordinary

78.30%

46.42%

Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131, 
Alges, Portugal

2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199, 
Nigeria

Name

Associates

Security

Effective % 
Ownership

Registered address

GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc

Common

39.93%

23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio 
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines

Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP

Kurma Biofund II FCPR

Longwood Fund I, LP

Medicxi Ventures I LP

Joint Ventures

Partnership Interest 
(24.94%)

Partnership Interest 
(32.06%)

Partnership Interest 
(35%)

Partnership Interest 
(26.10%)

24.94%

44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands

32.06%

24 rue Royale, 5th Floor,  75008, Paris, France

35.00%

The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199

26.10%

44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands

Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited (in Liquidation) Equity Shares

50.00%

708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India

Other significant holdings

Axon Therapies, Inc

Alpheus Medical, Inc.

Global Farm S.A.

Longwood Fund II, LP

Sanderling Ventures VII, L.P. A63

SR One Capital Fund I-B, LP

SR One Capital Opportunities Fund I, LP

20.03%

2326 Walsh Avenue Santa Clara, CA 95051, United States

21.04%

3510 Hopkins Place, North Oakdale,  Minnesota 55128, USA

Common (2.63%); 
Series A Preference 
(18.40%)

Series A Preference 
(13.77%)
Series A-1 Preference 
(7.27%)

A Shares (0%)
B Shares (0%)
C Shares (100%)

20.00% 
100% of C 
Shares

Mendoza 1259, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina

Partnership Interest 
(20.00%)

Partnership Interest 
(25.31%)

Partnership Interest 
(44%)

Partnership Interest 
(24.46%)

20.00%

The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199

25.31%

400 S. El Camino Real, Suite 1200, San Mateo, CA 94402

44.00%

24.46%

Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington, 
County of New Castle, Delaware 19808

Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington, 
County of New Castle, Delaware 19808

313

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Group companies continued

The following UK registered subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within Section 479A of the Companies 
Act 2006 for the period ended 31 December 2023. Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings listed below are owned, either directly 
or indirectly, by GSK plc.

Name

Security

Effective % 
Ownership

Registered address

Company 
Number

UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit

Burroughs Wellcome International Limited

Domantis Limited

Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (ii)

Eskaylab Limited

Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited

Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary;
Preference;

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary;
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 543757

100.00%

GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, 
Stevenage SG1 2NY, United Kingdom

3907643

100.00%

Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC005534

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 99025

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 480080

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 4299472

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited

Ordinary

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11480952

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited

Ordinary

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11721880

GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.5) Limited

Ordinary

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11959399

GlaxoSmithKline International Limited

GSK GP 1 Limited (iv)

GSK GP 2 Limited (iv)

GSK LP Limited (i)(iv)

Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd.

PHIVCO UK II Limited

PHIVCO UK Limited

Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited

SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited

SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited

SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited

SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services 
Limited

SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited

SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited

SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited

Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd

Tesaro UK Limited

The Wellcome Foundation Limited

ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited

Ordinary

A Shares;
B Shares 

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Non-cumulative 
Non-redeemable;
Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2298366

100.00%

100.00%

50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 
9WJ, United Kingdom

SC721605

50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 
9WJ, United Kingdom

SC721606

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 13879411

100.00%

Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC190635

78.30%

78.30%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 6944229

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 6944223

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 52207

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2860752

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 3296131

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 302065

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 494385

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 503868

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2552828

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 3425311

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 831160

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 7890847

100.00%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 194814

78.30%

980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 7027385

In accordance with Section 479C of the Companies Act 2006, the company will guarantee debts and liabilities of the above UK 
subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 December 2023 the total sum of these debts and liabilities is £317 million (2022 – £1266 million)

Key
(i) Directly owned by GSK plc.
(ii) Dormant entity.
(iii) Tax resident in the UK.
(iv) Exempt under Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the requirement to deliver to the registrar financial statements of the 

qualifying partnership(s) of which the entity is a member in accordance with the Companies Act.
Incorporated in the Netherlands 

(v)
(vi) Consolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with Section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
(vii) Principal business address in Puerto Rico.
(viii) Exempt from the provisions of Regulations 4-6 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulation 2008, in accordance with the exemptions noted in Regulation 7 of 

that Regulation. 

314

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Glossary of terms

Terms used in the Annual Report

US equivalent or brief description

Accelerated capital allowances

Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay 
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.

American Depositary Receipt (ADR)

Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares

American Depositary Shares (ADS)

Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares

Basic earnings per share

Called up share capital

CER growth

The company

Currency swap

Defined benefit plan

Defined contribution plan

Basic income per share

Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.

Growth at constant exchange rates.

GSK plc

An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies, 
at agreed exchange rates and dates

Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.

Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of 
the pension fund.

Derivative financial instrument

A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item

Diluted earnings per share

Diluted income per share.

Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts

Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans

Equity Shareholders’ funds

Finance lease

Freehold

The Group

GSK

Hedging

Intangible fixed assets

Ordinary share

Profit

Profit attributable to shareholders

Share capital

Share option

Shareholders’ equity.

Capital lease.

Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity

GSK plc and its subsidiary undertakings.

GSK plc and its subsidiary undertakings.

The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by 
making off-setting commitments.

Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents, 
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.

A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.

Income

Net income

Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.

Stock option.

Share premium account

Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).

Shares in issue

Subsidiary

Treasury share

Turnover

UK Corporate Governance Code

The number of shares outstanding.

An entity in which GSK exercises control.

Treasury stock.

Revenue.

As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how 
it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.

315

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Other statutory disclosures continued

Index

Access 
Accounting principles and policies 
Acquisitions and disposals 
Adjustments reconciling Total profit after tax to operating 
  cash flows 
Annual General Meeting 2023 
Approach to tax 
Assets held for sale 
Associates and joint ventures 
Audit & Risk Committee Report 
Business model 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash generation and conversion 
CEO’s statement 
Chair’s statement 
Chair’s Governance statement 
Climate-related financial disclosure 
Commitments 
Continuous engagement and key decisions 
Consolidated balance sheet 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
Consolidated income statement 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
Contingent consideration liabilities 
Contingent liabilities 
Corporate governance 
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
  estimation uncertainty 
Critical accounting policies 
Demerger of Consumer Healthcare business 
Directors and senior management
Directors’ interests in shares 
Directors’ report 
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 
Dividends 
Donations to political organisations and political 
  expenditure 
Earnings per share 
Employee costs 
Employee share schemes 
Environment 
Ethical standards 
Exchange rates 
Finance expense 
Finance income 
Financial calendar 2024 
Financial instruments and related disclosures 
Financial performance summary 
Financial position and resources 
General Medicines 
Glossary of terms 
Goodwill 
Group companies 
Group financial review 
GSK Leadership Team 
GSK plc (parent company) accounts - UK GAAP 
Independent Auditor’s report 
Innovation 
Inventories 
Investments in associates and joint ventures 
Investor relations 
Key performance indicators 
Legal proceedings 

47
185
236

240
298
103
215
202
133
08
215
97
06
04
114
62
231
121
181
183
180
182
180
229
230
107
128

191
105
238
158
156
161
164
206

305
206
199
260
49
53
193
201
201
298
243
81
98
40,88
315
209
306
78
112
267
166
09
214
212
302
02
263

Major restructuring costs 
Movements in equity 
Net debt 
New accounting requirements 
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Report 
Non-controlling interests 
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
Non-financial and sustainability information statement 
Notes to the financial statements 
Operating profit 
Other intangible assets 
Other investments 
Other non-current assets 
Other non-current liabilities 
Other operating income/(expense) 
Other provisions 
Our culture and people 
Our external environment  
Our long-term priorities 
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
Performance 
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual
  property 
Pipeline 
Post balance sheet events 
Presentation of the financial statements 
Principal Group companies 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Property, plant and equipment 
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
Registrar 
Related party transactions 
Reliable supply
Remuneration Committee Chair's annual statement 
Remuneration governance 
Remuneration report 
Reporting framework 
Research and development 
Responsible business 
Right of use assets 
Risk management 
Science Committee report 
Section 172 statement 
Share capital and control
Share capital and share premium account 
Share Consolidation 
Shareholder information
Shareholder services and contacts 
Specialty Medicines 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
Taxation 
Tax information for shareholders
The Board 
Three-year selected financial data 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other receivables 
Treasury policies 
Trust 
Turnover and segment information 
US law and regulation 
Using data responsibly 
Vaccines 
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 
Viability statement 

200
232
217
193
131
234
84
155
75
184
198
210
213
213
230
197
228
14
10
09
219
02

281
277
266
268
262
284
207
241
301
235
44
139
153
139
82
17
46
208
57
129
123
295
232
232
295
301
37,87
62
203
299
108
275
216
214
104
09
194
303
54
33,86
283
76

316

About GSK

GSK plc was incorporated as GlaxoSmithKline 
plc, an English public limited company on 
6 December 1999. We were formed by a merger 
between Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline 
Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two English 
companies on 27 December 2000 as part of the 
merger arrangements. Effective 15 May 2022 
GlaxoSmithKline plc changed its name to 
GSK plc. On 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated 
its Consumer Healthcare business from the 
GSK Group to form Haleon, an independent 
listed company.

Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks 
either owned by and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies. All other 
trade marks are the property of their respective owners.

Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral® company with 
FSC® chain of custody and an ISO 14001 certified environmental 
management system recycling over 99% of all dry waste.

Printed on Arena ECO 50 EW Smooth, a wood free uncoated paper, ECF with 
FSC certification and made from 50% recycled fibre. 

Download PDFs:

– Annual Report 2023

– Form 20-F

Our shares are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.

– ESG Performance Report 2023

– Full-year and Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

gsk.com

Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking 
statements
This document and the Group’s other reports published or 
filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC), and any other written information 
released, or oral statements made, to the public in the 
future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-
looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the 
Group’s current expectations or forecasts of future events.

An investor can identify these statements by the fact that 
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. 
They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, 
‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, ‘target’ and other 
words and terms of similar meaning in connection with 
any discussion of future operating or financial 
performance. In particular, these include statements 
relating to future actions, prospective products or product 
approvals, future performance or results of current and 
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome 
of contingencies such as legal proceedings, dividend 
payments and financial results. Other than in accordance 
with its legal or regulatory obligations (including under 
the Market Abuse Regulation, the UK Listing Rules and 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation 
to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a 
result of new information, future events or otherwise. The 
reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures 
that the Group may make in any documents which it 
publishes and/or files with the SEC. All readers, wherever 
located, should take note of these disclosures. 
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any 
particular expectation will be met and investors are 
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-
looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, 
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to 
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise 
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of 
important factors, including those in this document, could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. 
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those 
discussed under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on 
pages 284 to 294 of this Annual Report. Any forward-
looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group 
speak only as of the date they are made and are based 
upon the knowledge and information available to the 
Directors on the date of this report.

A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the 
performance of our business. These measures are defined 
on pages 83 to 84 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results 
to Total results is set out on pages 93 to 95.

The information in this document does not constitute an 
offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GSK plc or an 
invitation or inducement to engage in any other 
investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied 
upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing in this 
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.

Assumptions and basis of preparation related to 2024 
guidance, 2021-26 and 2031 outlooks
All guidance, outlooks and expectations should be read 
together with the guidance and outlooks, assumptions 
and cautionary statements in this annual report and the 
Group's Q4 2023 earnings release.

In outlining the guidance for 2024 and outlooks for the 
period 2021-2026 and for 2031, the Group has made 
certain assumptions about the macro-economic 
environment, the healthcare sector (including regarding 
existing and possible additional governmental legislative 
and regulatory reform), the different markets and 
competitive landscape in which the Group operates and 
the delivery of revenues and financial benefits from its 
current portfolio, its development pipeline and 
restructuring programmes.

2024 Guidance
These planning assumptions as well as operating profit 
and earnings per share guidance and dividend 
expectations assume no material interruptions to supply of 
the Group’s products, no material mergers, acquisitions or 
disposals, no material litigation or investigation costs for 
the Company (save for those that are already recognised 
or for which provisions have been made) and no change 
in the Group’s shareholdings in ViiV Healthcare. The 
assumptions also assume no material changes in the 
healthcare environment or unexpected significant 
changes in pricing as a result of government or competitor 
action. The 2024 guidance factors in all divestments and 
product exits announced to date.

2021-26 and 2031 outlooks
The assumptions for GSK’s updated revenue, operating 
profit, operating margin and cash flow outlooks, 2031 
revenue outlook and margin expectations through 
Dolutegravir loss of exclusivity assume the delivery of 
revenues and financial benefits from its current and 
development pipeline portfolio of drugs and vaccines 
(which have been assessed for this purpose on a risk-
adjusted basis, as described further below); regulatory 
approvals of the pipeline portfolio of drugs and vaccines 
that underlie these expectations (which have also been 
assessed for this purpose on a risk-adjusted basis, as 
described further below); no material interruptions to 
supply of the Group’s products; successful delivery of the 
ongoing and planned integration and restructuring plans; 
no material mergers, acquisitions or disposals or other 
material business development transactions; no material 
litigation or investigation costs for the company (save for 
those that are already recognised or for which provisions 
have been made); no share repurchases by the company; 
and no change in the shareholdings in ViiV Healthcare. 
GSK assumes no premature loss of exclusivity for key 
products over the period.

The assumptions for GSK’s updated revenue, operating 
profit, operating margin and cash flow outlooks, 2031 
revenue outlook and margin expectations through 
Dolutegravir loss of exclusivity also factor in all 
divestments and product exits announced to date as well 
as material costs for investment in new product launches 
and R&D. Risk-adjusted sales includes sales for potential 
planned launches which are risk-adjusted based on the 
latest internal estimate of the probability of technical and 
regulatory success for each asset in development. 
Potential future sales contribution from Blenrep has been 
excluded.

Notwithstanding these guidance, outlooks and 
expectations, there is still uncertainty as to whether our 
assumptions, guidance, outlooks and expectations will be 
achieved, including based on the other assumptions 
outlined above.

All outlook statements are given on a constant currency 
basis and use 2023 average exchange rates as a base 
(£1/ $1.24, £1/€1.15, £1/Yen 175). 2021-2026 outlook refers 
to the 5 years to 2026 with 2021 as the base year.

Notice regarding limitations on Director Liability under 
English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits 
the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and 
omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page 
161), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report. 
Under English law the Directors would be liable to the 
company, but not to any third party, if one or more of 
these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness 
or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a 
material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 97, 
131, 166 to 167, and 285 to 314 inclusive comprise the 
Directors’ Report, pages 1 to 95 inclusive comprise the 
Strategic report and pages 133 to 164 inclusive comprise 
the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn 
up and presented in accordance with and in reliance 
upon English company law and the liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with these reports shall be subject 
to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.

Website
GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information 
on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make in 
this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the 
information made available on the website constitutes 
part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be 
incorporated by reference herein.

317

We unite science, technology 
and talent to get ahead 
of disease together.

Head Office and Registered Office

GSK plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom

Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000

Registered number: 3888792

