Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Corporate governance architecture continued

Leadership
Chair
Jonathan Symonds
– leads and manages the business of the Board
– provides direction and focus
– ensures a clear structure for the Board and its 

committees to operate effectively

– maintains a dialogue with shareholders about the 

governance of the company

– sets the Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is 

allocated to promote effective debate to support sound 
decision-making

– ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear 

information

– meets regularly with each Non-Executive Director to 

discuss individual contributions and performance, and 
training and development needs

Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Senior Independent Director
Charles Bancroft
– acts as a sounding board for the Chair and a trusted 

intermediary for other Directors

– together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the 
annual review of the Chair’s performance, taking into 
account the views of the Executive Directors

– discusses the results of the Chair’s effectiveness review 

with the Chair

– leads the search and appointment process and makes 

the recommendation to the Board for a new Chair

– acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders. 

Maintains an understanding of their issues and concerns 
through meetings with shareholders and briefings from 
the Company Secretary and Investor Relations

+ GSK's Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is 

– shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the 

available at gsk.com

Board evaluation process

– meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors 

independently of the Executive Directors

+ The Chair’s role description is available at gsk.com 

Chief Executive Officer
Emma Walmsley
– manages the Group and its business
– develops the Group’s strategic direction for the Board's 

consideration and approval 
– implements the agreed strategy
– is supported by the GLT
– maintains a continuous dialogue with shareholders in 

respect of the company’s performance

+ The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available at gsk.com 

Non-Executive Directors
– provide a strong independent element to the Board
– constructively support and challenge management and 

scrutinise its performance in achieving agreed 
deliverables

– shape proposals about strategy and offer specialist 

advice to management

– each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms 

and conditions of their directorship

– devote such time as is necessary to the proper 

performance of their duties

– are expected to attend all meetings as required

Independence statement 
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors who 
are identified on pages 108 to 111 – except Dr Hal Barron – 
to be independent after being assessed against Provision 
10 of the Financial Reporting Council's (FRC) UK 
Corporate Governance Code (Code)

+ GSK's Non-Executive Directors' role description is available at gsk.com

     Company Secretary
         Victoria Whyte

– is secretary to the Board and all Board committees
– supports the Board and Committee Chairs to plan future agendas and annual programmes
– ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
– supports the Chair to design and deliver Board inductions
– coordinates continuing business awareness and training for the Non-Executive Directors
– undertakes internal Board and committee evaluations at the Chair's request
– advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters
– chairs the Group's Disclosure Committee
– operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external 

appointment requirements of the Code

– is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters

117

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Corporate governance architecture continued

2023 Board and committee attendance

Board

6

Chairs’

3

Corporate 
Responsibility

4

Science

3

Nominations & 
Corporate
Governance

Audit & Risk

Remuneration

5

6

5

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Attended

Total number of routine meetings

Current members

Sir Jonathan Symonds

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown (from 1 May)

Elizabeth McKee Anderson

Dr Hal Barron

Charles Bancroft

Dr Anne Beal

6

6

4 (4)

6

6

6

6

Wendy Becker (from 1 October)

2 (2)

Dr Harry Dietz

Dr Jesse Goodman

Urs Rohner

Dr Vishal Sikka

Retired members

Iain Mackay (until 1 May)

Number of additional meetings

6

6

6

4*

2 (2)

4

3

3

3

3

1

–

3

3

3

6

4

4

2

1

5

5

5

5

–

6

6

5

5

5

2 (2)

2 (2)

6

3

5

1

For those Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets show the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend. Details of 
committee members’ skills and experience are included in their biographies on pages 108 to 111. There was a high attendance record at scheduled Board and 
committee meetings for all our Directors who served during 2023, as set out above. In January 2024, Urs Rohner has reached nine years of service and will 
step down from the Board at the 2024 AGM as planned. He continues to demonstrate all the characteristics of independence expected by the Board in 
carrying out his role on the Board. 

*Dr Vishal Sikka joined the Board in July 2022. During his first year on the Board he was unable to attend two Board meetings because of pre-existing 
external board commitments. He contributed fully to the Board’s work during 2023. He met regularly with the Chair to provide his input on Board and 
Committee materials. He inputted on technology and AI discussions at the Audit & Risk Committee. He also spent time with our Chief Digital and Technology 
Officer and her team during the year, sharing his expertise and perspectives.

FRC UK Corporate Governance Code
Financial experience
In accordance with the FRC's Code, the Board determined 
that Charles Bancroft has recent and relevant financial 
experience. It has also agreed that he has the appropriate 
qualifications and background to be an audit committee 
financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, and has determined that he is independent within the 
meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Members of the Audit & Risk Committee also have financial 
and industry experience, details of which can be found in their  
biographies on pages 108 to 111. 

Compliance statement
The Board is pleased to report that in 2023 it was in full 
alignment with the provisions of the FRC's Code.

The Board is also pleased to report that it has consistently 
applied the principles of the FRC's Code, as set out on the 
pages of this Corporate Governance report. A copy of the 
Code is available on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk.

Board appointments policy

All our Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the performance of their duties. Each Director 
is required to attend a minimum of 75% of scheduled Board and committee meetings. However, it is recognised that there may be 
rare occasions when this is not possible, as explained above in the attendance table. Special allowance is also given during the first 
year of Board membership while calendars are aligned. 

Our Board Directors’ external appointments are governed by a Board-approved policy. It is considered that external appointments 
can help Board and GLT members widen their expertise and knowledge, and hence perform their roles more effectively. When 
proposing new Non-Executive Director appointments to the Board for approval, the Board considers the other demands on the 
individuals’ time. Before being appointed to the Board, an individual is required to disclose the significant commitments they may 
have with an indication of the time involved. 

Subsequently, all additional prospective external appointments for serving Board Directors are considered and approved by the 
Board, noting the nature of the role and type of organisation, time commitment and any potential conflicts that could arise.

The Company Secretary maintains a register of commitments and potential conflicts. The Board is satisfied that given Directors’ 
other interests, each has sufficient time to carry out their role with GSK. Our Executive and Non-Executive Directors may undertake a 
maximum of one or up to four other listed-company directorships respectively.

118

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Ahead Together – Board oversight

The Board carries out its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings 

The Board seeks to optimise its effectiveness by setting its annual meeting programme to focus on priorities agreed for the year to 
support delivery of the company's short-, medium- and long-term strategy. The Board and its committees' programmes of work are 
set to complement each other and avoid unnecessary duplication. During the year the Board received papers and presentations 
and actively discussed progress with management and our people. These materials and discussions help the Board make effective 
decisions, and contribute to its oversight of business performance and ensure good governance.  

The key areas the Board considered in 2023 are highlighted below:

Areas of focus in 
2023

Building 
momentum as a 
pure biopharma 
company 

Ahead Together 
– further 
strengthening 
the 
fundamentals 
of value 
creation

Enhancing 
ESG leadership

Regular 
corporate 
governance 
oversight

The Board's work in 2023 included:

Overseeing GSK as a pure biopharma business and delivery of performance included:

– setting and approving the Board's 2023-2024 priorities

– discussing and scrutinising strategic plans for GSK and assessing the potential to upgrade our longer-term outlook

– scrutinising updates on R&D strategy, progress and progression of the company's pipeline

– discussing GSK's overall commercial strategy and in particular for China

– discussing end-to-end business opportunities and the impact of AI and other advanced technologies for performance and 

patients

Overseeing the fundamentals of commercial execution, cost-base management, capital allocation, pipeline and culture included:

– receiving regular reports from the CEO, CFO and CSO including the assessment of delivery of performance targets

– receiving updates on R&D strategy, approach and pipeline progress

– assessing the product area strategy reports on Vaccines, Speciality Care (including HIV), Oncology and General Medicines

– reviewing GSK's capital allocation priorities to ensure investment for growth to deliver improved returns for shareholders

– evaluating business development transactions, acquisitions and strategic partnerships with third parties including BELLUS 

Health, Zhifei, Hansoh, Aiolos Bio, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals and Janssen Pharmaceuticals 

– scrutinising the Group's financial performance, shareholder value creation and development of Investor Relations Roadmap

– reviewing Zantac litigation strategy 

– approving the monetisation of the retained shares in Haleon post demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business

Overseeing culture and embedding ESG at our core included:

– assessing ESG performance and reviewed plans for low-carbon Ventolin, including clinical and non-clinical data available to 

support regulatory submissions 

– approving the ESG Performance Report

– oversight of the company's Pricing and Access Policy principles

– reviewing stakeholder perception research

The Board’s programme of governance included:

– reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposals, earnings guidance, investor materials, results announcements and 

2022 Annual Report and Form 20F and receiving related reports from the external auditor

– setting the annual budget and the forward-looking three-year plan and long-range forecast

– conducting an annual review of the enterprise risk responsibility framework and enterprise-wide risks

– undertaking an annual Board evaluation and implementing its agreed outcomes

– receiving reports on Board committee work and reviewing and continuing to evolve the Board’s governance architecture

– evaluating the CEO’s 2023 performance, and setting her 2024 objectives

– reviewing culture, talent and succession plans annually

– engaging with GSK's stakeholders and people to gather and understand their views about the company’s activities,  

operations and culture

– reviewing the employee pulse survey results

– receiving reports on wider corporate governance and regulatory developments, and the Company Secretary’s report

– approving the company's modern slavery statement and gender pay gap positioning

119

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Ahead Together – Board oversight continued

Board performance

The Board evaluates its performance, and that of its 
committees, every year. 

The evaluation is normally carried out externally every third 
year. The most recent external evaluation was facilitated in 
2022 by Jan Hall of No 4, a business advisory company that 
does not have any other connection with GSK. 

The 2023 Board and committee evaluation was conducted 
internally by the Company Secretary who:

– provided a questionnaire to Board members

– drew together responses and themes from the responses to 

discuss outcomes and recommendations with each 
Committee Chair

– following discussion with each committee and the Board as a 

whole, identified areas of focus and improvement for the 
Board and committees, which are set out below

Action points 
After due consideration and discussion, the following action 
points to further improve performance in 2024 were agreed:

– the key priorities for the Board's focus and programme of 

meetings for the year ahead

– given the fundamental importance of culture, the Board 
wished to ensure it too fully embodied GSK's culture and 
would therefore undertake the culture training provided to 
employees

– additional opportunities to increase informal engagement 

between the Board and management 

– the removal of unnecessary duplication in the Board and its 
committees' work would be continued. This programme aims 
to further simplify papers and create time to have deeper 
discussions in meetings

Board committee evaluations
The review of the Board committees focused on potential 
opportunities to further support GSK's momentum as a pure 
biopharma company, to help remove duplication and support 
the delivery of the Board's priorities identified for 2024. In 
addition, each committee reviewed its committee members' 
tenure, expertise and diversity. 

Each committee was considered to have operated effectively 
and the following enhancements were agreed: 

– Corporate Responsibility Committee: has a wide remit and 

was performing well. Consideration would be given to 
additional routes to identify potential emerging issues within 
the Committee's area of responsibility for its review. In 
addition, the Committee would continue to seek external 
perspectives to provide challenge

– Science Committee: was working effectively. Opportunities to 
further enhance effectiveness were considered. In particular 
the Committee's 2024 programme would focus on R&D's 
Tech strategy. The capacity to undertake more deep dives on 
specific areas of R&D activity and to input earlier into new 
projects would be explored

– Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee: was 

working effectively. A successor to Dr Jesse Goodman was 
being sought ahead of his retirement from the Board in 2025.  
The Committee would undertake a review of the Board and 
committee architecture and membership in 2024 to ensure it 
remained aligned to Board priorities

– Audit & Risk Committee: was considered to be effective. The 
work to appropriately streamline material reviewed by the 
Committee has made good progress and will continue as an 
area of opportunity. In the year ahead the Committee will 
also continue to give focus on tech, cyber security and the 
use of AI

– Remuneration Committee: had operated effectively during 
2023 despite a challenging environment. The focus for 2024 
would be to determine the right business imperatives for 
GSK's next remuneration policy to ensure it was globally 
competitive and rewarded delivery of outperformance

Chair's evaluation
The Senior Independent Director (SID) carried out the Chair's 
evaluation. He sought feedback on the Chair's performance 
from the Directors individually and collectively. From this review, 
they concluded that the Chair was leading the Board 
appropriately and effectively. The Chair and SID discussed the 
results of the review. 

120

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions

Prioritising continuous engagement

Our stakeholders rightly have high expectations of us, and the 
company's dynamic operating environment presents many 
challenges and opportunities. As a Board we aim to make sure 
that being commercially successful is balanced and aligned 
with meeting our stakeholders’ expectations, upholding our 
reputation, maintaining our licence to operate and building 
trust. We engage with or are briefed about our stakeholders' 
views to make sure we identify and respond to their 
expectations effectively and appropriately. 

How we engage with our main stakeholder groups – including 
patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and our people – 
across the company is covered in the pages of the Strategic 
report. 

Patients and our people are two stakeholders at the heart of 
our culture, with all our people ambitious for patients, 
accountable for outcomes and committed to doing the right 
thing. Our culture is described on pages 14 and 15 of the 
Strategic report.

The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups 
can vary, depending on the matter being considered. Certain 
stakeholders’ interests can be in conflict, meaning that we, as a 
Board, need to make balanced judgements.

Continuous stakeholder engagement and feedback helps us 
identify emerging issues. It also enables us to make decisions in 
the context of what is relevant and important to each of them.

Our principal Board committees, and the GLT, undertake 
engagement on the Board’s behalf according to their remit. 
This means that they can build a detailed understanding of how 
our actions or plans are affecting or might affect stakeholders. 
These insights are then shared with the Board.

In particular, the Board receives briefings on stakeholders’ 
perspectives from the work of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, which is discussed on pages 128 and 129.

Board members regularly receive:

– the CEO’s Board report
– a specific external stakeholder insights report. This provides 
strategic insights based on an analysis of key developments, 
achievements and risks affecting our reputation and the 
perceptions of all our external stakeholders

– a regular investor relations report which summarises investor 

perceptions

– regular corporate governance, litigation and regulatory 

updates

The Board also learns of stakeholders' views through:

Engagement and feedback events: such as quarterly investor 
results calls, the Annual General Meeting, employee survey 
reports, the Board’s workforce engagement activities, and from 
experts presenting at Board or committee meetings. The Chair 
also holds regular investor check-in meetings, which the SID, 
Charlie Bancroft, sometimes joins, and is available for individual 
meetings with investors.

Other opportunities: Board members also gain wider 
stakeholder views during the annual strategy meeting with the 
GLT, as part of the yearly review of strategy, budget and 
planning processes. This also includes a review of specific 
aspects of the company’s policies or strategy. In addition, Board 
members are encouraged to meet individually with employees, 
shareholders and other key stakeholders during their induction, 

and then on an ongoing basis. They are encouraged to report 
to the Board on such experiences where relevant and material.

Engaging with our people

We have well-established and strong engagement mechanisms 
with our employees, which are described on pages 14 and 15, 
and which the Board monitors regularly. Four key governance 
channels help the Board understand what our people are 
thinking:

– regular Board updates from our Chief People Officer and the 

CEO on culture and talent

– feedback from an annual employee engagement survey, 
including questions on engagement, confidence and 
inclusivity

– a range of pulse surveys of different-sized employee groups 
to help check sentiment on a quicker and more frequent 
basis, and to provide valuable insights on the impact of major 
initiatives, events or communications

– direct engagement by the Board

Workforce engagement: Before the company's demerger, the 
Board reviewed its formal workforce engagement 
arrangements. It was decided to move from a specific 
Workforce Engagement Director model and to apply an 
‘alternative arrangement’ to the three methods set out in the 
FRC’s Code.

Given that the new GSK Board was recently refreshed in terms 
of tenure, with more than half the independent Non-Executive 
Directors having served for less than three years, and given 
GSK's renewed purpose and focus as a global biopharma 
company, it was considered important to adopt a collective 
Board engagement model. This was agreed to be the most 
effective approach to ensure newer Board members meet 
employees and hear their views.

This new model operated in 2023 through:

– direct in-person receptions with local employees during 

Board site visits, including in Wavre, Belgium (as one of our 
two global Vaccines hubs), Boston, US, and our global 
headquarters in Brentford

– the Chair's site visits, including to the Wavre and Singapore 

Vaccine manufacturing sites, and the Philadelphia 
Commercial site

– the Chair's attendance at management meetings, including 

China Commercial employees, the Commercial Core 
Leadership team in the UK, China regional general managers 
and Commercial talent and Saudi Arabia general 
management team

– the Chair and Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 

convene and attend ongoing meetings with leaders of the 
company's employee resource groups to talk about how they 
experience GSK, how they think the DEI agenda and 
ambitions are progressing and sharing their suggestions to 
further enhance our DEI agenda

– utilising a variety of bespoke engagements that have 

enabled a broad and open dialogue and facilitated first-
hand engagement discussions between the NEDs and our 
people individually and as part of small groups, 
encompassing perspectives on our strategy, purpose and 
Ahead Together culture, and DEI

121

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Engaging with our shareholders
As a Board we aim to directly engage with and be directly 
accountable to institutional investors and private retail 
shareholders. We do this in several ways, including regular 
communications, the Annual Governance Meeting, our Annual 
General Meeting, and through the work of our Investor Relations 
team, the Chair, Jonathan Symonds, and our Company 
Secretary, Victoria Whyte. Our SID, Charlie Bancroft, is another 
point of contact for our shareholders.

Each quarter, our CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Julie Brown, 
give results presentations to institutional investors, analysts and 
the media by webcast. They are also regularly joined by the 
CSO, the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), and CEO, ViiV. They 
are able to provide investors with more detailed insights into 
their specific areas of responsibility.

Through regular meetings, they each have an ongoing and 
active dialogue with institutional shareholders about the 
company's performance, plans and objectives. In 2023,

Annual Governance Meeting
This year’s hybrid meeting was held in central London. 
Institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and 
proxy advisory firms were invited. 15 representatives of various 
institutional shareholders and proxy advisers attended the 
event, comprising approximately 25% of the company's share 
register.

The meeting had a new format to make it as interactive as 
possible. It began with Jon sharing with investors the Board's 
priorities and focus for 2023 and beyond, with Charlie then 
providing his reflections on the year. Jon, Charlie and our Non-
Executive Directors then held an informal and open discussion 
of those issues on shareholders' minds, which helped foster a 
richer dialogue.

The key themes covered included the:

– Board changes and succession planning arrangements
– work of and challenges for the Board over the last year
– company's current and future momentum and excellent 

– CEO: 103 engagements, representing 38% of the company's 

execution of our key priorities

share register

– harnessing of digital, technology and talent, driven by our 

– The current and previous CFO: 60 and 51 engagements, 

Ahead Together purpose

comprising  33% and 31% of the register

– CSO: 90 engagements, representing 31% of the register
– CCO: 80 engagements, representing 39% of the register
– CEO, ViiV: 61 engagements with 39% of the register

Our Chair maintains a consistent dialogue with shareholders 
too – including fund and portfolio managers – and regularly 
engages with governance and ESG professionals. During 2023 
and up to the date of publication of this Annual Report, Jon 
held over 30 individual engagements with a range of 
institutional shareholders, which make up approximately 30% of 
the company’s share register. This enables him to gain a current 
understanding of shareholders' views, insights and perspectives 
of the company. He also discusses the continual evolution of 
the many aspects of Board governance, performance oversight 
and succession.

This year our Chair, CEO and the rest of the Board and key GLT 
members focused on communicating the strong ongoing 
performance of GSK as a global biopharma business, the 
successful launch of Arexvy, the world's first RSV vaccine, and 
progressing our pipeline across the core therapy areas of  
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology.and oncology.

– positive signs of the influence of our culture of being 

ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and doing the 
right thing

The meeting and its new format were well received and 
shareholder feedback was shared with the full Board.

Annual General Meeting
We were pleased to hold the company's hybrid AGM at the 
Sofitel Heathrow in May 2023. 72 shareholders joined the 
meeting in person and 49 shareholders joined virtually via the 
Lumi platform to watch or listen to updates from our Chair and 
the CEO, and to vote. Shareholders were able to ask questions 
during the meeting in person and virtually. All our proposed 
resolutions were approved by shareholders, with majorities 
ranging from 89% to 99%.

Our hybrid AGM this year will be held at a new venue, Royal 
Lancaster Hotel in Central London, which is located close to our 
new global headquarters. For more details see page 298.

122

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Section 172 statement

Board members are required by law to promote the success of their company for the benefit of both shareholders and wider 
stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and society. This statement meets the requirement, as set out in Section 172 and 
Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006 (Act). It summarises how, during 2023, our Directors addressed the matters set out in 
Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the Act when performing their duties. 

The Board considers that this statement focuses on those risks and opportunities that are strategically important to GSK, consistent 
with the Group’s size and complexity. This allows it to properly understand the potential effects of the decisions it makes on all 
stakeholders.

The details of our engagement with our main stakeholder groups, including our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and 
employees across the organisation, is summarised generally throughout the pages of our Strategic report. The Board's continuous 
engagement with the company's shareholders and people in particular is set out in this section on pages 121 to 127. Our corporate 
governance architecture and processes are summarised on pages 116 to 118.

The Board seeks to consider all relevant matters when making decisions, most especially when these are to continue to drive 
performance and momentum for GSK into the future.

(a) Long-term results

The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

In a challenging economic and political landscape, the Directors 
recognise the criticality of investing in a pipeline of vaccines and 
medicines to prevent disease as well as meeting the changing 
and unmet healthcare needs in support of GSK’s purpose, our 
Ahead Together strategy and ultimately the long-term success 
and sustainability of GSK. At the same time, GSK works with 
governments, regulators and industry partners to ensure our 
medicines and vaccines can reach patients at scale, bringing 
value to both the patients who need them and to payers 

Our Directors appreciate that assessing the consequences of 
their long-term decisions in this environment can be 
multifaceted, finely balanced and invariably involves a trade-
off between competing stakeholder interests

To support their decision-making, Directors are provided with  
papers/information that, as a minimum, describe the long-term 
proposal under consideration and comment on how it:

– fits with/strengthens or otherwise impacts the business 
strategy, budget and the three-year plan if relevant 

– is aligned with our Ahead Together ambition and outlooks

Our Directors are also apprised of success and risk factors and, 
if appropriate, alternatives considered and the rationale for 

(b) Our workforce

Interests of our people

Our Directors understand that our people are at the core of our 
Ahead Together ambition, helping to power our purpose and 
delivering on our strategy and seek to create and oversee an 
environment at GSK in which outstanding people can thrive.      
A positive employee experience is critical to attract, retain and 
motivate the best people

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
to the Board by the Chief People Officer or Head of Reward for 
input, challenge and decision or awareness by our Directors

the proposed choice, highlighting any relevant stakeholder 
impacts of the proposal under consideration, whether positive 
and/or negative. The Directors then have all the relevant 
factors for consideration during their decision-making process

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO; CFO; Chief Scientific Officer; Chief Commercial 
Officer; President, Corporate Development; President, Global 
Affairs, or other GLT members and/or their direct reports for 
input, challenge and decision or awareness of the Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Pipeline progression reviews

– Budget planning

– Business development deals

– Capital allocation priorities 

– Commercial (Vaccines, General Meds and Specialty) reviews 

– Dividend policy 

– ESG ambitions, including our six areas of ESG focus

For more specific details see our Ahead Together and business 
model disclosures on pages 1, 8 and 9

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Culture progress

– Talent pipeline

– Diversity, equity and inclusion ambitions

– Ethnicity and gender pay gap data, trends and reporting

– Employee engagement practices and feedback 

– Health and safety risks

– Pay fairness and benefits

– Performance with choice and the workplace environment

For more specific details see our culture and people, diversity, 
equity and inclusion and engaging with our people disclosures 
on pages 14 and 15, 52 and 53 and 121

123

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

(c) Our business relationships

The importance of developing the Group’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others

Patients are placed by GSK at the heart of our purpose and 
culture, where we are all ambitious for patients, accountable for 
our impact and do the right thing

Our suppliers and other key stakeholders – including 
governments, NGOs, healthcare authorities, healthcare 
professionals, R&D joint venture partners, affiliate companies 
and others – help us research, develop, manufacture, regulate, 
provide access and distribute the medicines, vaccines and other 
products that patients need 

A key imperative for our Directors, as custodians of a 
responsible business, is to ensure the company develops and 
monitors these relationships and partnerships to ultimately 
serve patients. In line with our Code of Conduct, our suppliers 
are expected to meet our Anti-bribery and corruption and 
labour rights standards and to comply with our standards on 
quality, health and safety, and the environment (which are 
explored in further detail below). In helping to foster good 
relations with suppliers we offer preferential payment terms to 
designated smaller suppliers in the UK and US

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO; CFO; President; Global Supply Chain; Chief 
Commercial Officer; Chief Scientific Officer; President, Global 
Affairs and/or their direct reports for input, challenge and 
decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Access to healthcare

– Ethical standards 

– Global health and health security 

– Human rights

– Modern slavery act statement

– Product governance

– Scientific and patient engagement

– Supplier payment policy

– Third-party risk management programme

– Working with third parties policy

For more specific details see our responsible business 
disclosures on pages 45 to 55

(d) The community and the environment

The impact of the Group’s operations on the community and our environment

The environment is one of our principal ESG focus areas. ESG is 
embedded in our strategy and fundamental to our success. To 
get ahead of disease and to help ensure this long-term success, 
our Directors recognise that as a responsible business we need 
to consider ESG impacts across everything we do. This extends 
from the lab to patients, by taking action on climate and nature 

Our manufacturing sites have a key role in our contribution to a 
net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, and environmental 
sustainability is a fundamental part of our global supply chain 
strategy. Supplier action will in turn help GSK achieve its 
environmental goals on climate and nature. This is embodied in 
GSK’s Sustainable Procurement Programme which, in its first full 
year in operation, has seen our suppliers take action on carbon, 
power, heat, transport, water, waste, and sustainable, 
deforestation-free sourcing of materials in support of our 
environmental sustainability goals

Our Directors believe the company should be reflective of and 
support the diversity in the local communities in which we serve. 
In doing so, we are strengthening early STEM education 
investments to further support a long-term diverse talent pool 
and increase the positive impact of volunteering activities within 
our communities. We are also investing in plans to improve 
natural habitats, protect biodiversity and improve soil and water 
quality near our manufacturing sites

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the President, Global Affairs; President, Global Supply; and 
Chief People Officer and/or their direct reports for input, 
challenge and decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include:

– Community investment and donations policy 

– Clinical trial diversity planning and enrolment

– Diversity, equity and inclusion strategy

– Environment, net zero and nature positive goals

– Environment, health and safety risks

– Emerging climate and environmental legislative/regulatory 

reviews

For more specific details see our responsible business and 
climate and nature-related financial disclosures on pages 45 to 
55 and 62 to 75

124

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

(e) Our reputation

Our desire to maintain our reputation for high standards of business conduct

As a responsible company, GSK seeks to be a force for good, 
with ambitious targets for positive impact on the health of 
people, society and the planet. The company manages risks 
effectively, takes action if things go wrong and seeks to respect 
human rights. Our Directors periodically review the continuing 
appropriateness of the frameworks underpinning our high 
standards of business, such as our Code of Conduct, including a 
range of policies and standards, and the architecture of our 
corporate governance arrangements

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO; CFO; General Counsel; Chief Commercial Officer; 
President, Global Affairs; Chief People Officer; Chief Digital and 
Technology Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; the Company 
Secretary; and Head of Audit & Assurance for input, challenge 
and decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include: 

– Audit & Assurance plan

– Code of Conduct

– Corporate and financial statements 

– Corporate governance and regulatory updates

– Enterprise risk assessments

– ESG ambitions, including our six areas of ESG focus

– Emerging ESG legislative/regulatory reviews

– Internal control and risk effectiveness reviews

– Speak Up and internal investigations 

For more specific details see our responsible business and 
corporate governance architecture disclosures on pages 45 to 
55 and 116 to 118, and our separate ESG Performance Report

(f) Fairness between our shareholders

Our aim to act fairly as between members of the Group

Our Directors seek to act fairly between the interests of all 
shareholders – major and retail shareholders alike. There is 
regular and constructive dialogue with shareholders to 
communicate our strategy and performance to receive investor 
views and perspectives, promote investor confidence, ensure 
our continued access to capital and inform our Directors' 
decision-making on strategic matters. As they do so, our 
Directors navigate and weigh up a range of shareholder 
opinion to arrive at decisions that support the long-term 
success of the company 

Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted 
by the CEO, CFO, President, Global Affairs, Head of Investor 
Relations and the Company Secretary for input, challenge and 
decision or awareness by our Directors

Matters considered by our Directors include: 

– Annual general meeting 

– Annual governance meeting 

– Capital markets days and meet the management events

– Group and individual Director shareholder meetings

– Investor and analysts perception surveys

– Investor relations plan

– Remuneration policy proposals

For more specific details see our shareholder engagement and 
shareholder information disclosures on pages 122 and 295 to 
314

125

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Key decisions 
In its decision-making, the Board focuses on GSK's priorities as a pure biopharma company with strong momentum and big 
ambitions, whilst balancing the interests of our stakeholders. Selected examples of some of the key decisions taken by the Board in 
2023 and January 2024 to drive our purpose, momentum and strategy include:

Decision

How the Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests

Upgraded ambition for 
growth
The Board considered 
upgrades to the new and 
long-term ambitions for GSK, 
through investing for the 
future and delivering 
attractive returns to 
shareholders

Progressive dividend 
policy
The Board and Audit & Risk 
Committee considered the 
application of the progressive 
dividend policy in line with 
capital allocation priorities

Capital allocation 
framework
The Board considered an 
updated capital allocation 
framework to best support 
growth and sustainable 
returns to shareholders

Business development
The Science Committee 
considered the scientific 
merits of business 
development opportunities 
and where relevant for late 
stage assets commercial 
reviews, prior to the Board's 
review and approval

In June 2021, GSK articulated to shareholders an outlook for the period to 2026 and 
2031. Given GSK’s improved performance and strong momentum as a focused 
biopharma company, the Board and Audit & Risk Committee agreed that an 
update to investor expectations was appropriate

In January 2024, following thorough review, GSK published new upgraded outlooks 
to the market for 2021-26 for sales to grow more than 7% and adjusted profit by 
more than 11% on a CAGR basis, and by 2031 to deliver sales of more than £38 
billion. This represents an increase of £5 billion versus the estimate given in 2021 
and a marked sales acceleration. This also provided clear visibility to shareholders, 
our people and other key stakeholders of the building blocks of future growth for 
the company

The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. In December, 
the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board considered how GSK's progressive 
dividend policy should best be applied in line with the agreed capital allocation 
priorities of the Group and its investment strategy for growth alongside the 
sustainability of the dividend

This resulted in an increased dividend of 16p for Q4 2023 (Q4 2022: 13.75p) and  
58p for the full year 2023 (2022: 61.25p). The expected dividend for 2024 is 60p

The Board approved an updated capital allocation framework, with the priority of 
investing in the business, focussed towards development of the pipeline through 
both the organic R&D portfolio, and targeted business development. This will be 
achieved through an increased focus on ROI for these investments 

Ultimately, the Board determined that the updated framework would continue to 
support investing in growth and delivering sustainable returns to shareholders, 
underpinned by a strong balance sheet. It is also consistent with GSK's strategic 
priorities and supports the company's commitment to deliver long-term profitable 
growth

The Board, with support from the Science Committee and commercial reviews for 
late stage assets, reviewed many business development opportunities during the 
year. Those leading to concluded transactions included:

– licence agreements with Hansoh Pharma for two antibody-drug conjugates with 

potential across several solid tumour indications to support our work in 
developing cancer treatments 

– agreement with Chongqing Zhifei Biological Products to co-promote Shingrix in 
China, which will significantly extend the availability of the vaccine and support 
patient access

– acquisitions of BELLUS Health and Aiolos Bio to expand and strengthen GSK's 

respiratory portfolio

These deals were considered in the context of their potential to help GSK deliver 
transformational medicines to patients and drive growth through accelerating the 
pipeline

Stakeholder groups and other 
section 172 duties considered

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce, fairness between 
shareholders and business 
relationships

Stakeholders: 
Investors, patients and our 
workforce
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce and business 
relationships and reputation,  
and fairness between our 
shareholders

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce, fairness between 
shareholders and business 
relationships

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce and business 
relationships

126

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Continuous engagement and key decisions continued

Decision

How the Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests

Artificial intelligence 
and workforce culture
The Board considered the 
approach to and impact of 
adopting AI on an end-to-
end basis across the business

The Board reviewed and provided feedback on the strategy to integrate and 
responsibly scale AI across the business to accelerate the pipeline, amplify 
performance and drive productivity

The Board recognises the significant potential of AI, particularly in the context of 
interpreting datasets to develop medicines with a higher probability of success. 
However, with support from the Audit & Risk Committee, the Board also considered 
the associated risks of AI, as described on pages 133 and 134. The Board approved 
the establishment of the AI Governance Council, co-chaired by the General Counsel 
and CDTO to help manage these risks across the Group

Close attention was also paid to the impact of adopting AI on the workforce, 
including wellbeing gains enabled through increased efficiency and the benefits of 
further upskilling and building AI capabilities

Stakeholder groups and other 
section 172 duties considered

Stakeholders: Patients and  
employees 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce 
and business relationships

Low-carbon Ventolin 
strategy
The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and Board 
reviewed plans for 
progression to the next phase 
of development of the low-
carbon Ventolin programme

During the year, the Corporate Responsibility Committee endorsed and the Board 
reviewed and approved plans to progress the transition from a metered dose 
inhaler to new-generation low-carbon inhalers, to significantly contribute to GSK's 
carbon reduction targets for 2030 and 2045. Phase III trials will begin in 2024 and, if 
successful, the programme has the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
from use of the inhaler by approximately 90%

Stakeholders: Patients, 
employees and 
investors 
Other s172 duties:
Our long-term results, 
workforce and business 
relationships

The Board and Corporate Responsibility Committee carefully considered the needs 
of patients who rely on Ventolin, the complexity of the clinical development process 
as well as the investment required in new manufacturing facilities. If successful, the 
programme could lead to regulatory submissions in 2025, supporting the health of 
asthma and COPD patients and making a significant positive impact on GSK's 
transition to a more environmentally sustainable future

127

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports

Corporate Responsibility Committee report

Dr Anne Beal
Corporate Responsibility Committee

I am pleased to present this report, which is my second as Chair 
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee).

This is the first full year for GSK operating as a global 
biopharma company, with a renewed purpose to unite science, 
technology and talent to get ahead of disease together. To 
deliver this purpose, the company needs to consider ESG 
impacts across everything it does. The Committee oversees the 
six ESG focus areas that address what is most material to the 
business and the issues that matter the most to stakeholders. 

As we worked through our programme of activities this year, my 
Committee’s focus was to ask management fundamental 
questions concerning:

– how well the company is performing against and making an 
impact on the six ESG areas embedded in the company’s 
strategy 

– how this supports our sustainable performance and long-

term growth 

– how further improvements can be identified and 

implemented  

To support this, we undertook a number of ESG performance 
deep-dives.

Access
The Committee reviewed progress towards the company’s aim 
to improve the health of 2.5 billion people by 2030 through 
ensuring access to our vaccines and medicines, including 
reaching 1.3 billion people in lower-middle income countries   
(L/LMICs). In particular, we discussed: 

– the flexible and tailored operating model to driving access in 

L/LMICs, depending on need

– working with partners with the right capabilities and 

geographical footprint to deliver interventions, which may 
include donations, affordable supply and licensing, to make 
sure people have access to the vaccines and medicines they 
need 

– investing £1 billion over 10 years in our Global Health R&D 

pipeline and contributing to building resilient health systems

Global Health & Security
Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR): The Committee reviewed the 
external AMR landscape and trends, which are a major threat 
globally, and considered the company’s holistic and innovative 
investment approach to addressing this AMR threat. We were 
pleased to note that this approach has resulted in the largest 
relevant AMR vaccine R&D pipeline in the industry. 

We discussed with management the steps needed to help 
leverage this leadership position, in conjunction with the support 
and expertise of the Science Committee. This included growing 
our business development strategy and improving pathogen 
surveillance capabilities. Given AMR is an urgent public threat 
and stakeholders are increasingly interested in GSK’s approach 
to it, we agreed that it was appropriate to include AMR as one 
of our ESG Performance Rating metrics for the first time. 

Environment
Carbon reduction plan: There is a very strong case for making 
the transition to low-carbon inhalers. Salbutamol is an essential 
rescue/reliever medicine, and GSK's Ventolin (salbutamol) 
metered dose inhaler (MDI) is used by 35 million patients 
globally. Use of the inhaler, due to the high global warming 
potential (GWP) of the current propellent, accounts for half of 
GSK’s carbon footprint. Management updated the Committee 
about developing proposed plans to transition the inhaler to a 
next-generation low-carbon propellant which, if successful, will 
significantly contribute to GSK's carbon reduction targets for 
2030 and 2045. However, developing this low-carbon inhaler is 
complex and involves clinical and non-clinical programmes, as 
well as establishing new manufacturing facilities. 

Having examined these and other key considerations behind 
investing in a low-carbon transition programme – which could 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the inhaler by 90% – we 
endorsed management’s R&D MDI transition programme 
investment case to the Board, submitted after the read-outs 
from latest early clinical data had been received and 
evaluated. This supported the Board’s decision in November to 
progress to phase III trials in 2024. If these trials are successful, 
they could lead to regulatory submissions in 2025.

Nature plan review: The Committee received an update on 
current performance against the company’s Nature positive 
goal by 2030, which will be achieved by reducing the 
company’s environmental impacts across water, waste and 
materials, and biodiversity and by investing in protecting and 
restoring nature. The Committee was satisfied that these Nature 
goals and targets remain appropriate and industry leading. 

We also noted that standards for assessing and verifying 
companies' nature approach continued to strengthen. We were 
pleased that GSK was actively helping to shape this 
environment as a source of competitive advantage. Science 
Based Targets Network for Nature (SBTN) set the first science-
based targets for a nature framework to validate companies’ 
nature targets, which was similar to the regulatory approach 
previously adopted for climate-based targets. Given the relative 
maturity of our Nature positive programme, the company is 
pleased to be selected in the first group of 17 companies 
globally to go through the target validation process, to accredit 
our nature targets when the SBTN methodology was finalised. 
Additionally, GSK has also committed to disclosing our 
arrangements against the Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures framework in our 2025 Annual Report.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Delivery against People DEI aspiration: The Committee heard 
from the Chief People Officer (CPO) on progress over the 
company’s workstreams to drive increased leadership diversity, 
build a diverse talent pipeline and foster an inclusive culture. 
We were pleased with the excellent progress that had been 
made to date and discussed the challenges and opportunities 
to maintain future progress in these areas. 

128

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Effectiveness and quality of external audit 
process
The Committee is committed to making sure that GSK receives 
a high-quality and effective external audit. In evaluating 
Deloitte’s performance during 2022, prior to making a 
recommendation on its reappointment in early 2023, the 
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of its performance 
against the criteria which it agreed with management at the 
beginning of 2022. 

The detailed criteria used to judge Deloitte's effectiveness as 
external auditor are available at gsk.com. These are based on 
the audit approach and strategy, ensuring a high-quality 
independent audit, effective partnership and value for money. 

The Committee monitors engagements with external 
stakeholders relevant to our areas of oversight, including the 
FRC and Securities and Exchange Commission.

We sought to ensure that Deloitte would deliver a smooth, 
thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2023 and so 
considered: 

– the overall quality of the audit 
– the independence of Deloitte 
– whether Deloitte showed an appropriate level of challenge 

and scepticism in its work 

Deloitte’s length of tenure was not taken into account when 
assessing its independence and objectivity, given it only 
commenced its role as auditor in 2018. However, the Committee 
did consider how effectively it had assumed its role as auditor. 
The Committee also considered feedback on the 2023 external 
audit, through a survey of Committee members and the 
financial management team at corporate and business unit 
level. The survey covered the: 

– effectiveness of the auditor’s challenge 
– integrity of Deloitte 
– transparency of its reporting to management and the 

Committee 

– the auditor's effective use of technology
– clarity of the auditor’s communications and ways of working 
– quality of the audit team’s leadership
– skills and experience of the audit team

As Committee Chair, I regularly meet independently with the 
audit partner. We also meet with the auditor privately at the 
end of each Committee meeting to discuss progress, as 
appropriate. 

Having reviewed the above feedback, and noted any areas of 
improvement to be implemented by the audit team for 2024, 
the Committee was satisfied with the: 

– effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process 
– auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise 

and resources 

We agreed to recommend to the Board Deloitte's 
reappointment at the next AGM, and did so free from the 
influence of any third party.

Auditor’s reappointment
External auditor

External auditor appointment

Last tender

Transition year

First shareholder approval of current 
auditor

May–December 2016

2017

May 2018

First audited Annual Report and 20-F Year ending 31 December 2018

New lead audit engagement partner 2023

Next audit tender required by 
regulations

2025/2026 (to take effect from 
2028)

There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the 
Group’s choice of external auditor. 

Audit partner rotation
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit engagement 
partner for GSK every five years. 

Our previous audit partner stepped down in March 2023 after 
the audit of GSK’s financial statements for 2022 was concluded. 

After a robust review process by the Committee, together with 
the former CFO, the new audit partner was selected. The 
Committee approved the appointment with effect from the 
start of the 2023 financial year.

We were satisfied that Deloitte managed an orderly handover 
to the new audit engagement partner. This resulted in a 
seamless transition and maintenance of high levels of audit 
quality and effectiveness throughout the reporting year.

Audit tender
The Committee considers that, during 2023, the company 
complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit 
committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and 
Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. 

As Deloitte continues to maintain its independence and 
objectivity, and the Committee remains satisfied with its 
performance, GSK does not intend to tender the external 
auditor contract before the end of the current required period 
of 10 years identified above and considers that this is in the best 
interests of shareholders. The Committee was mindful that there 
were appointments of a new CFO for GSK and audit partner for 
Deloitte during the 2023 financial year, which is helpful in  
further mitigating the risks of any over-familiarity between the 
company and the auditor. 

137

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Board committee reports continued

Non-audit services

Audit and other services comparison (£m)

Management operates on the presumption that other 
accountancy firms will ordinarily provide non-audit services to 
GSK. However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience 
make it the only suitable supplier of non-audit support – such 
as for audit-related matters, tax and other services – it may be 
used, in the best interests of the company. 

In line with GSK’s non-audit services policy, the Committee 
ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are 
safeguarded by reviewing and pre-approving the external 
auditor’s provision of such services. The company policy 
complies with the FRC’s 2019 Revised Ethical Standard and the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It observes the following core 
policy features on engaging the external auditor for non-audit 
services:

GSK non-audit services policy, key features: 

Process:

Safeguards:

Fee cap:

All non-audit services over £50,000 are put to 
competitive tender with other financial services providers, 
in line with the Group’s procurement process, unless the 
skills and experience of the external auditor make it the 
only suitable supplier.

Adequate safeguards are established so that the 
objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not 
threatened or compromised.

The total fee payable for non-audit services should not 
exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special 
circumstances where there would be a clear advantage 
in the auditor undertaking the additional work.

Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘whitelist’ of permitted non-audit 
services in line with the relevant regulations. Any service 
not on this list is prohibited.

Pre-approval: All non-audit services require pre-approval as set out in 

the table below to ensure services approved are 
consistent with GSK’s non-audit policy for permissible 
services. This process ensures all services fall within the 
scope of services permitted and pre-approved by the 
Committee and does not represent a delegation of 
authority for pre-approval.

Value 
More than £50,000

Pre-approver
Committee Chair and CFO

Between £25,000 and 
£50,000

Under £25,000

Group Financial Controller

Designate of the Group 
Financial Controller

l Audit services
l Other Assurance services

Further fees payable to Deloitte for non-audit services relating to the 
Consumer Healthcare demerger were £4.4 million in 2022 and 
£2.4 million in 2021, as set out on page 115 of the 2021 Annual Report 
and page 128 of the 2022 Annual Report respectively. A fee of 
£0.2 million was paid to the auditor in respect of GSK pension schemes 
in each of 2021, 2022 and 2023

The fees paid to the company's auditor and its associates are 
set out above. Further details are given in Note 8 to the 
financial statements, ‘Operating profit’ on page 198.

The Committee considered the level of non-audit services 
incurred as part of its annual review of Deloitte’s independence 
set out on the previous page and was satisfied that the auditor 
continued to be independent and exercised objectivity 
throughout 2023.

Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
The need for an annual report to be fair, balanced and 
understandable is one of the key compliance requirements for a 
company’s financial statements. To ensure that GSK’s Annual 
Report meets this requirement, we have a well-established and 
documented process governing the coordination and review of 
Group-wide contributions to the publication. This runs in parallel 
with the process followed by the external auditor. The 
Committee received a summary of management’s approach to 
GSK’s 2023 Annual Report to ensure it met the requirements of 
the FRC’s Code. This enabled the Committee, and the Board, to 
confirm that GSK’s 2023 Annual Report as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy. 

Code of Conduct and reporting lines 
We have a number of well-established policies (including a new 
Code of Conduct), which are available on gsk.com, together 
with details of our confidential Speak Up lines for reporting and 
investigating unlawful conduct.

Charles Bancroft
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
27 February 2024

138

1.66.34.020.420.627.72023202220210102030Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Remuneration report
Committee Chair's annual statement

Dear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to 
present our Remuneration Report for 2023. This includes my 
Annual Statement, explaining the Committee’s work this year 
and our Annual Report on remuneration for 2023. A summary of 
our Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders 
at the 2022 AGM, is available on pages 158 to 162 of the 2022 
Annual Report and at gsk.com.

Context for 2023 remuneration and outcomes
As outlined earlier in this report, GSK delivered very strong 
performance in 2023, with sales, adjusted operating profit and 
adjusted EPS all growing at double-digit levels for the year 
(excluding COVID-19 solutions). There was also strong pipeline 
progress with four major product approvals, including the 
world's first RSV vaccine, Arexvy.

Overall, the company is delivering the step change in 
performance in the commitments it has previously made to 
shareholders.

2023 was the second year of operation of the company's new 
Remuneration policy. This is a fundamental part of the 
architecture of GSK post-separation to ensure we build a 
performance culture and generate sustained delivery of 
shareholder value. 

Our policy better links executive remuneration to delivery of 
outperformance, with the Annual Bonus opportunity 
significantly reduced for below target performance, and 
increased for exceptional outperformance. Under the new 
scheme, the increase in the Bonus opportunity does not 
increase the potential cash reward for executives, as any 
incremental award is delivered in the form of shares, deferred 
for three years. 

2023 Annual Bonus
It is against this delivery that the Committee reviewed the Bonus 
outcomes for the CEO and CFO. 

In terms of the two financial measures, the company delivered 
sales growth of 14% and adjusted operating profit growth of 
16% (excluding COVID-19 solutions). This was significantly 
higher than both the guidance the company provided at the 
start of the year and market expectations, and strongly 
supports delivery of GSK’s growth outlooks for the period 
2021-26. 

This very strong performance led to an overall payout under the 
financial elements of the Bonus of 190% of salary. The 2023 
targets were set after consideration of analyst consensus, and 
the Committee is comfortable that the payout is representative 
of very strong performance.

The Committee also reviewed performance against the non-
financial measures previously disclosed, together with 
executives’ delivery against their specific individual strategic 
and operational measures.

When this performance was combined the overall payout 
against a maximum of 300% was 288% of salary for the CEO 
(of which 188% of salary is delivered in deferred shares) and 
264% of salary for the CFO (197.5% of salary, after proration for 
the period she was employed in 2023; of which 99% of salary is 
delivered in deferred shares).

Long-term incentive (LTI) awards
69.95% of the grant under the 2021 Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) award vested based on performance to the end of 2023. 
The award vested in three out of four measures.

There was full vesting of the Pipeline Progress measure and 
almost full vesting under our Innovation Sales measure (20% 
and 19.95% respectively). The Cash Flow measure also vested in 
full (30%).  

We remain disappointed that we have not yet achieved vesting 
under our Relative TSR measure. In part this reflects the adverse 
share price reaction to Zantac litigation in the period, but we 
also recognise there have been relative concerns on the 
strength of the company’s pipeline. We are confident that the 
progress we are making to develop our portfolio, together with 
our improving longer-term outlooks for growth, will be 
increasingly reflected in GSK’s valuation. 

Summary of incentive outcomes 
Following a review of contextual factors including previous 
payouts, the Committee believes that the outcomes 
appropriately reflect performance in the round having 
considered the experience of all stakeholders including 
shareholders and our employees. 

The incentive awards in relation to 2023 were all made in 
accordance with the 2022 Remuneration policy. I also confirm 
that following careful review the Committee did not deem it 
necessary to exercise discretion. 

Remuneration policy implementation for 2024
Annual Bonus and LTI
The Committee has determined that no changes will be made 
to our Bonus and LTI measures for 2024. The total sales growth 
and adjusted operating profit growth targets exclude the 
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.

Annual Bonus measures will continue to be based on:

– annual total sales growth (30%)

– annual adjusted operating profit growth (30%)

– personal performance against strategic and operational 

measures (30%)

– ESG: diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) (10%)

PSP measures will remain as:

– relative TSR (30%)

– total sales growth over three years (20%)

– adjusted operating profit growth over three years (20%)

– pipeline progress (20%) 

– ESG: environment composite scorecard (10%)

The performance targets were also calibrated to consider a 
number of internal and external reference points, in particular 
analyst consensus. These were used to challenge the metrics 
and with input from our Science and Corporate Responsibility 
committees where relevant. The Committee is therefore 
satisfied that the targets set for 2024 are suitably stretching.

Salary
The Committee noted that a 4% increase has been agreed for 
the wider workforce in the UK. After careful consideration, 
including a review of the market and the CEO and CFO’s 
competitive positioning, it was agreed that they should each 
receive salary increases of 4% for 2024.  

139

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Thank you 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank both my fellow 
Committee members and shareholders for your support and 
engagement during my tenure as Committee Chair. 

I welcome all further feedback and look forward to receiving 
your support for this report at our Annual General Meeting on   
8 May 2024.

Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
27 February 2024

Committee Chair's annual statement continued

Workforce fairness
In setting executive pay it is important that the Committee does 
so with a good understanding of the Group’s wider workforce 
approach to pay, with an emphasis on fairness and equity. To 
that end, on an annual basis, I meet with senior Human 
Resources Leaders from across the company to understand 
their perspectives on pay and GSK’s remuneration 
arrangements for the wider workforce globally. This year was 
the fifth such annual meeting held. Details of this important 
check are given on page 122.

Board changes
As announced in September 2022, Julie Brown joined the Board 
on 1 May 2023 as CFO, at which point Iain Mackay stepped 
down from the Board. Details of the joining and leaving 
arrangements for this transition were described in last year’s 
report.

Remuneration Committee Chair succession
Finally, I will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director of GSK at 
the 2024 AGM and this will therefore be my final report as Chair 
of the Committee.

I was delighted to welcome Wendy Becker, who joined the 
Committee on 1 October 2023. Since then, Wendy and I have 
been working on a smooth transition and handover before she 
succeeds me as Committee Chair in May 2024. She has a 
wealth of experience chairing remuneration committees and is 
looking forward to chairing the Committee and leading our 
2025 Policy review. 

The Committee is planning to undertake a review of the 
effectiveness of our remuneration arrangements in advance of 
the scheduled Policy renewal at the 2025 AGM. Wendy and 
Jonathan Symonds, our Chair, are looking forward to engaging 
with investors to ensure we are clear on your perspectives as we 
work to update our Remuneration policy.

140

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Remuneration at a glance

  2023 Total Remuneration

   Emma Walmsley, CEO

   Julie Brown, CFO (from 1 May 2023)(1) 

2023 Pay for performance

2023 Annual bonus outcome

Financial measures

Total sales growth*

Target

7.0%

Adjusted operating profit growth* 11.0%

Delivered

13.9%

16.4%

Non-Financial measures

Overall Strategic 
and Operational 
measures

ESG
DEI

Emma Walmsley

Exceeded

Met in full

Julie Brown

Exceeded

Met in full

2023 Annual bonus delivery 

CEO
Overall bonus
288% of 
salary

CFO(1)
Overall bonus
197.5% of 
salary

(1)For service from employment 
on 3 April 2023

l Shares deferred for 3 years
l Cash

2021 PSP outcome 

Relative TSR 
0% of 30%

Overall
vesting             
69.95%

(1) See details of CFO joining arrangements on page 142
l Fixed pay – salary, benefits, pensions and other
l Performance pay – annual bonus and vested LTIs

l Vested

l Lapsed

   2024 Remuneration implementation

Base salary

4% increase for UK employees and Executive Directors

Benefits and pensions

No changes

Pay for Performance
Bonus and LTI measures remain as follows

Alignment to strategy

Total sales growth*

In line with sales growth ambitions

Adjusted operating profit growth*

In line with adjusted operating profit growth ambitions

Strategic and operational

Individual accountability for delivery of our strategy and public ambitions

Pipeline

Emphasis on Innovation – rewards acceleration and strengthening of 
pipeline

Relative total shareholder return

Alignment with shareholders

ESG ambitions

Nature and Climate ambitions 
2024 – DEI Priorities

*excluding COVID-19 solutions

Annual 
bonus

30%

30%

30%

–

–

–

10%

LTIs 
(PSP)

20%

20%

–

20%

30%

10%

–

141

20232022£0m£2m£4m£6m£8m£10m£12m£14m2023£0m£2m£4m£6m£8m65%35%50%50%Adjusted freecash flow 30% of 30%Innovation sales 19.95% of 20%Pipeline progress 20% of 20%  
     
    
     
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration

2023 Total remuneration (audited)

Fixed pay

Salary

Pension

Benefits

Read more on

page 143

Pay for performance

+

Annual Bonus

+

LTI awards 
(2021 PSP award vesting)

=

Total 
remuneration

pages 144 and 145

pages 146 and 147

below

The following sections from this page to page 160 provide details of each element of 2023 ‘Total remuneration’ and how the 
Committee implemented the company’s shareholder-approved 2022 Remuneration policy during the year in terms of fixed and 
performance pay.

 2023 Total remuneration (audited)

Emma Walmsley, CEO

Julie Brown, CFO 
(from 1 May 2023)

Iain Mackay, former CFO
(to 1 May 2023)

Fixed pay

Salary

Benefits

Pension
Other(1)

Total fixed pay

Pay for performance
Annual bonus(2) (3)
Vesting of PSP LTI awards(4) (5) (6)
Total pay for performance

2023
£000

1,310 

212 

94 

— 

1,616 

3,774 

7,328 

11,102 

2022
£000

1,260 

131 

253 

— 

1,644 

3,143 

3,662 

6,805 

2023
£000

635 

50 

44 

2,411 

3,140 

1,687 

— 

1,687 

Total remuneration

12,718 

8,449 

4,827 

2022
£000

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2023
£000

305 

82 

22 

— 

409 

728 

5,294 

6,022 

2022
£000

915 

291 

183 

— 

1,389 

2,082 

1,854 

3,936 

6,431 

5,325 

(1) Other: Represents the sum paid to Julie Brown, the CFO, as part of her Buyout arrangements in relation to leaving Burberry, as set out in full on page 149 

of the 2022 Annual Report. In setting the Buyout arrangements, which are staged over a two year period, the Committee sought to ensure she was 
compensated on a like-for-like basis as far as possible. In fulfilment of these arrangements, the CFO purchased 22,500 shares in June 2023

(2) Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP): The mandatory DABP bonus deferrals for 2022 and 2023 are set out on page 156
(3) Annual bonus: The 2023 bonus payment for Iain Mackay represents bonus earned in respect of the period from 1 January to 1 May 2023. Details of the 
bonus paid in respect of the remainder of the year can be found in the Leaving Directors section on page 154. The 2023 bonus payment for Julie Brown 
represents bonus earned in respect of the period from 1 May to 31 December 2023. Bonus for the full period of her employment in 2023 is shown on 
page 144

(4) 2020 PSP vesting in 2023: The Total remuneration figure for the CEO in 2022 included vesting of the top-up award made in May 2020 which did not 

vest until May 2023. The final actual value received has been updated, bringing the total value to £3.662 million (previously reported as £3.666 million)

(5) 2021 PSP vesting in 2024: For the CEO, the figure has been valued based on the vesting prices on 9 February 2024 of £16.60. The share price on 10 

February 2021, the date of grant, was £12.77. Of the vested amounts for the Executive Directors, 23.1% of the value was attributable to share price 
appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price 
changes 

(6) The PSP vesting value for the former CFO is unreduced and is an illustrative amount as the award will not vest until January 2025 in accordance with 
the terms of the Executive and Senior Management Recoupment Policy (Recoupment Policy). His award will then remain subject to the two-year 
holding period which started from the original vesting date of the award in February 2024. The actual value received will be updated in the 2024 
Annual Report. Further details of the former CFO’s leaving arrangements are set out in the Leaving Directors section on page 154

(7) The CEO and CFO each contribute the maximum of £250 and £125 a month into the Share Save plan and to buy shares under the Share Reward plan 

respectively. Further details of these HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved all-employee plans are set out on page 147

(8) Malus and clawback: The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply malus/clawback, as it determines 

appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee, there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or 
vesting levels (malus) applied during 2023 in respect of any of the CEO, CFO or the former CFO

142

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

2023 Total remuneration (audited) continued

Fixed pay (audited)

Salary
The Committee is very aware of the sensitivity amongst stakeholders to levels of pay. Before setting or reviewing salary, it considered 
the average increases awarded to employees below Executive Directors and the multiplier effect of increases in base salaries on 
total remuneration opportunity. The Committee considered the wider economic context, individual performance and market 
positioning of the increases awarded. The table below sets out the base salaries and increases agreed for 2023 and 2024 of the 
Executive Directors compared to increases of the UK workforce.

% change

Salary
£000

2023 effective date

2024

2023

2024

2023

2022

UK employees

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

1 April

1 January

1 May

 4 

 4 

 4 

 5 

 4 

 4 

1,363 

990 

1,310 

952 

1,260 

— 

Julie Brown's salary on the announcement of her appointment in September 2022 was set in line with her predecessor, given her extensive experience as a CFO. 
Her salary upon joining was increased to reflect the increases awarded to UK employees and the CEO in early 2023.

Benefits
This table provides an analysis of total benefits (grossed up 
for tax) received by the Executive Directors in 2023 and 2022.

The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the 
company to add into each Executive Director’s total benefits 
all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable 
benefit for them. These include employee benefits as well as 
business-related services provided to employees to assist or 
enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority has 
deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual. Because 
these are business expenses, the company meets the tax which 
arises on them and therefore the items are shown grossed up 
for tax. 

Emma Walmsley

Benefits available to employees

Business-related services

Total benefits

Julie Brown

Benefits available to employees

Business-related services

Total benefits

Benefits 
£000

2022

66 

65 

131 

— 

— 

— 

2023

118 

94 

212 

25 

25 

50 

Pensions
From 1 January 2023, pension arrangements for Executive Directors were aligned to the wider workforce. They received GSK pension 
contributions or cash supplements of 7% of base salary and matching contributions of up to 3% on the first £26,666 of salary to 31 
March 2023 and on the first £66,666 of salary for the rest of 2023.

The table shows the breakdown of the pension values included in 2023 Total remuneration on page 142. They are calculated as set 
out in the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) 
(Remuneration regulations).

Pension remuneration values

UK defined contribution

Employer cash contributions

Pension

Emma Walmsley 

2022

3 

250 

253 

2023

6 

88 

94 

Julie Brown 
(from May 2023)

2022

— 

— 

— 

2023

— 

44 

44 

143

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited)

Annual Bonus

Total sales 
growth 
30%

+

Adjusted 
operating profit 
growth 
30%

+

Strategic and 
operational 
measures 
30%

+

ESG: 
DEI 
10%

=

Annual Bonus

l Financial Measures: 60%

l Non-Financial Measures: 40%

2023 Annual Bonus performance 
The following table shows the Annual Bonuses earned compared to the bonus opportunity for 2023: 

2023 Bonus 
opportunity

Bonus

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Target
(% of salary)

Maximum
(% of salary)

2023 salary 
£000

100

300

1,310 

952 

% 
of Maximum 
Bonus

 96 

 66 

% of Salary

 288 

 197 

Cash

1,310 

940 

2023 Bonus 
outcome

Paid as
(£000)

Shares 
(DABP 
Award)

2,463 

940 

Details of the mandatory deferral by Executive Directors into the DABP for the 2023 bonus are set out on page 156. See page     
154 for details of Iain Mackay's 2023 bonus arrangements following his retirement from the company. Julie Brown's bonus has 
been pro-rated to reflect the period for which she was employed in 2023. The table on page 142 provides the details of her       
bonus from 1 May when she became an Executive Director.

2023 Financial measures

   Total sales growth                                                                                        Adjusted operating profit growth

These targets were set following consideration of analyst consensus as well as internal budgets. Threshold and maximum 
performance was at 1% below and 5% above target growth respectively. The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit 
growth targets and outcomes for the purposes of the Annual Bonus calculation are based on CER and excluding the 
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.

  Overview of performance against financial performance measures

– GSK delivered strong performance in 2023 with sales, adjusted operating profit and adjusted EPS all growing at double-
digit levels for the year (excluding COVID-19 solutions). This was significantly higher than the guidance provided at the 
start of the year, and strongly supports delivery of GSK’s growth outlooks for the period 2021-26

– Delivered full-year reported Group sales of £30.3 billion (+3% AER, +5% CER, +14% excluding COVID-19 solutions)
– Vaccines growth was 23% AER, 24% CER, with Arexvy sales of £1.2 billion since launch in Q3 2023 and Specialty growth 

was 21% AER, 23% CER (all excluding COVID-19 solutions)

– Adjusted Group Operating profit CER growth of 16% excluding COVID-19 solutions, driven by higher sales supported by 

prioritised increased investment in R&D and new product launches

– Adjusted EPS of 155.1p (+11% AER, +16% CER, +22% excluding COVID-19 solutions) was ahead of updated guidance  

144

 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

2023 Strategic and operational measures
The Committee received and considered a performance assessment report for each Executive Director showing the extent of their 
achievement against the individual personal strategic and operational measures agreed by the Committee for them to support the 
delivery of our strategic commitments during 2023. As with the financial elements of the Annual Bonus, the Committee was satisfied 
that the scale of Executive Directors’ achievements this year was excellent. These achievements focus on the pipeline, commercial 
execution and continued evolution of our culture.

Achievement during 2023

Performance assessment

Emma Walmsley

Innovation

– Delivered pipeline progression above target with four major product approvals in RSV prevention, HIV 

Exceeded

prevention and Oncology 

– Delivered innovation sales through successful launches including Arexvy. New products launched since 

2021 contributed £2.3 billion to sales in 2023

– Upgraded long-term outlooks for sales and profits with 2021-2026 outlooks for sales now more than 7% 
and adjusted operating profit growth now more than 11% CAGR (excluding COVID-19 solutions). 2031 
sales outlook increased to more than £38 billion (CER using 2023 average rates)

Performance

– Delivered the financial plan exceeding guidance set for 2023 – with Sales +14% excluding COVID-19 

Exceeded

solutions and adjusted operating profit up 12% with further positive impact of +4% excluding COVID-19 
solutions, and adjusted EPS grew 16% with further positive impact of +6% excluding COVID-19 solutions 
(All at CER). Group sales were £30.3 billion 

Trust

– Sector leader in S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment 
– Access and Global Health – 89 million people in lower income countries reached through access 

Exceeded

partnerships. Malaria vaccine roll out in up to 12 countries. 11 global health pipeline assets progressing 
– Environmental Sustainability – progress on all KPIs, including progression of low carbon Ventolin inhaler 

programme to phase III development 

– Diversity, Equity & Inclusion – 2025 aspirations for gender diversity and UK and US 2025 ethnicity 

aspirations at VP and above achieved 

Culture

– Annual survey of employee engagement reported increase to 81%

Exceeded

The Committee determined that the CEO clearly exceeded her individual objectives and that 78% out of the 90% maximum should be attributed to 
her overall bonus

Julie Brown

Demonstrate 
financial 
leadership

Cost discipline 
and cash flow 
management

Demonstrate 
strong 
culture and 
leadership

– Deep review of pipeline forecasting to support upgrading of long-term outlooks to 2031 and beyond 
– Design of new investor engagement programme, including development of an Investor Relations 

Exceeded

Roadmap and communication of long-term outlooks

– Deep review of capital allocation and pipeline value ‘unlocks’ to support investment in organic R&D 

Exceeded

and Business Development; and to maximise returns to shareholders 

– Initiated work to drive P&L efficiency with a focus on SG&A and operating margin improvement

– Successfully integrated into GSK and established strong partnership working with CEO and members of 

Met

GLT, with notable output to support R&D and the Commercial organisations

The Committee determined that the CFO clearly met her individual objectives and that 54% out of the 90% maximum should be attributed to her 
overall bonus

2023 ESG: DEI aspirations 

Emma Walmsley

Enterprise targets not met

Julie Brown

Directorate targets not met

Payout level

Nil (0%)

Enterprise targets met, but not all directorate targets

Personal directorate targets met

Target (10%)

Enterprise and all directorate targets met

Maximum (20%)

Outcome achieved

Maximum payout – 20%

Maximum payout – 20%

Overview of performance against DEI aspirations 

Our ESG: DEI measure reinforces delivery of our commitment to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Our broader 
DEI commitments are set out on page 52. As part of our effort to meet our 2025 Aspirational Targets for diversity of senior 
leadership, the Committee agreed interim, annual aspirational targets for 2023 including global gender representation and US and 
UK race and ethnicity representation aspirations at an enterprise level for the CEO and at a directorate level for the CFO. An 
internal governance team audited performance against these aspirations for the Committee.  

Delivery: These interim aspirations were met in 2023. At the year end the GSK Enterprise performance was 45% gender 
representation and 35.7% US ethnicity and 18.4% UK ethnicity in our VP and above employee population. Julie Brown's directorate 
also met its 2023 aspirations.

145

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

Vesting of PSP LTI awards

Pipeline 
Progress
20%

+

Innovation 
Sales 
20%

+

Adjusted Free 
Cash Flow
30%

+

Relative Total  
Shareholder Return 
30%

=

Total Vested LTI

Overview of Performance
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, actual performance against each measure is carefully reviewed and adjustments 
are made, as appropriate. This ensures that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance and has 
been delivered in line with our culture and values. The Committee did not deem it necessary to exercise any discretion in relation 
to the vesting of the awards or due to share price changes. Overall, 69.95% of the 2021 PSP awards vested against the targets 
set out below. During the 2021-23 performance period, significant progress was achieved in accelerating the delivery of our 
pipeline. Near full vesting was achieved under Innovation sales, reflecting increases in the performance of Trelegy, Nucala, 
Dovato and Benlysta during the period. Strong performance was evidenced with full vesting under the Adjusted free cash flow 
and Pipeline progress elements; however, disappointingly there was nil-vesting under Relative TSR. The percentage of award 
values vesting below have been rounded down to whole numbers for presentational purposes.

2021 PSP Outcomes

Performance measures
and relative weighting

Pipeline progress
(20%)

Performance targets

Targets strengthening our pipeline through progression of high quality assets into 
pivotal trials and the achievement of regulatory approvals in major markets. The 
points are allocated on achievement of these two equally weighted elements of 10%

Measure

Threshold
25%

Pivotal Trial starts

Major regulatory 
approval milestones

12

13

50%

14

15

75%

16

17

Maximum
100%

17

19

Innovation sales
(20%)

Recognises the importance of launching new products successfully and that 
driving their performance is key to our commercial success. This measure 
aggregates three-year sales for new innovative products launched in the three-
year performance period and the preceding two years, i.e. 2019-23

Innovation sales (billion)

% vesting

Maximum

Threshold

£18.67

£16.97

£16.12

£15.27

<£15.27

100

75

50

25

0

Outcome and vesting level

Outcome

% of
maximum

% of
award

18 points

20 points

£18.65 billion

100

100

99.8

20

19

Adjusted free
cash flow (AFCF)
(30%)

In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included 
adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, 
exchange rate movements and special pension contributions

£9.81 billion

100

30

Revised target (billion)(1)

% vesting

Maximum

Threshold

£6.54

£6.26

£5.69

£5.52

<£5.52

100

75

50

25

0

(1) The revised target has been further adjusted since the 2022 Annual Report as noted below

Relative TSR 
(30%)

TSR ranking within comparator 
group (10 companies)

Maximum

1st, 2nd, 3rd

Threshold(2)

4th

5th

Median

6th to 10th

% vesting

100

70

40

25

0

Ranked 9th

0

0

(2) The median vesting threshold falls between two companies. The Relative TSR comparator 
group is set out on page 152

Total  vesting in respect of 2021 PSP awards

69

The AFCF measure target, threshold and associated vesting scales for the 2021 PSP awards have been further adjusted since being restated in the 
2022 Annual Report. The net overall impact is an increase in the revised target from £5.64 billion to £5.69 billion for the 2021 PSP awards. The 
adjustment takes into account revised timings of restructuring payments linked to the Future Ready programme.  

146

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

2021 PSP vesting

Emma Walmsley 

Granted

550,757 

Vested(1)

441,309 

Value of vested shares(1)
(£000) 

£7,328 

(1) The number of shares which vested and the value they represented at vesting includes dividend reinvestments during the performance period. These 

are based on the vesting price of £16.60 on 9 February 2024 

(2) The PSP award for Dr Hal Barron vested and was adjusted for time worked during the performance period, including dividend reinvestments. 153,505 

shares vested at a value of $4.492 million. Shares were sold for tax and will be held for two years under the terms of the Recoupment Policy 

(3) The Committee is aware of the guidance from investor bodies regarding the potential executive benefit arising from share award grants around the 
time of the stock market fall at the onset of COVID-19 in March 2020. Our Remuneration policy contains sufficient flexibility to reduce the vesting of 
awards if required. No reduction was required in respect of the awards granted in February 2021. In making this determination, the Committee 
considered the share price at the time of the February 2021 award of £12.77, over the final quarter of 2023 of £14.46 and at the time of the previous 
award in February 2020 of £16.81. Whilst there have been upward and downward movements in GSK's share price over the period, taking these points 
into consideration the Committee was satisfied that there was no risk of windfall gains

2023 LTI grants
The 2023 DABP awards, in respect of the deferral of 2022 bonus, and the 2023 PSP awards are set out below. 

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Iain Mackay

% of total 2022 
bonus deferred

 60 

— 

 56 

2023 DABP awards

Face value 
of award(1)
£000

1,883

— 

1,167

Number of 
shares

125,482

— 

77,751

Award level as % 
of base salary

 575 

 400 

 — 

2023 PSP awards

Face value 
of award(2)(3)
£000

7,534

3,808

— 

Number of 
shares

501,927

264,026

— 

(1) The face value of the DABP awards has been calculated based on a share price of £15.01, being the closing price on 8 February 2023 (the day before 

grant). These are nil-cost options for the Executive Directors. No performance conditions are attached to the DABP awards, as they reflect the 
mandatory three-year deferrals in respect of the Annual Bonus for 2022

(2) The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.01 for Emma Walmsley and £14.422 for Julie Brown, being the 

closing price on 8 February 2023 and 26 April 2023 respectively (the days before the respective grants). The unreduced PSP award for Julie Brown was 
granted in conjunction with her joining arrangements as detailed on page 149 of the 2022 Annual Report. These are conditional shares, based on the 
performance measures above. Iain Mackay did not receive a PSP award due to his retirement from the company

(3) Performance period for the 2023 PSP awards is from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2025. Awards vest at 25% of maximum for threshold performance. 

Please see the 2022 Directors Remuneration Report for details of the measures and targets for the 2023 awards

Historical vesting for LTI plans 
The following table summarises LTI vesting by performance measure for GSK over the last ten years.

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

Relative TSR

Adjusted free cash flow

Innovation sales (previously R&D new product)

Pipeline progress

Business diversification

Total vested %

0 

0 

7 

7 

14 

0 

0 

21 

17 

38 

0 

0 

33 

15 

21 

33 

0 

26 

33 

0 

33 

33 

0 

33 

33 

0 

33 

25 

0 

30 

8 

14 

0 

30 

19 

20 

33 

69 

59 

67 

67 

58 

52 

69 

All-employee share plans
The Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved all-employee share plans, namely the company’s Share Save and 
Share Reward plans, along with the wider UK workforce. Participants of the Share Save plan may save up to £250 a month for three 
years and from which they have the option to buy GSK shares at a discount of up to 20% to the share price at the start of the 
savings contract. Participants of the Share Reward plan contribute up to £125 a month to purchase GSK shares which the company 
then matches on a one-for-one basis.

Malus and clawback policy
Our existing policy on malus and clawback is provided in the 2022 Remuneration policy report on page 147 of the 2021 Annual 
Report, available on gsk.com. The Committee reviews and discloses whether it, or the Recoupment Committee, has exercised malus 
or clawback. Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully 
resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore 
shareholders. In line with these disclosure guidelines, there were no matters to report during 2023. An administrative amendment to 
the malus and clawback section of the 2022 Remuneration policy, as described on page 163 of the 2022 Annual Report, was 
approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. The Committee then adopted an additional clawback policy in accordance with the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission's new clawback rules effective 30 November 2023.  

For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the 2022 
Remuneration policy report on pages 144 to 152 of the 2021 Annual Report, available on gsk.com. 

147

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

Pay for performance in 2024

2024 Annual Bonus – Performance measures
There are no changes to the operation of the Annual Bonus plan. For full details of the policy please refer to pages 145 and 146 of 
the 2021 Annual Report.

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Bonus opportunity % of salary

Maximum(1)

300

Target

100

(1) 50% of the equivalent of the first 200% of salary is deferred, and any portion in excess of 200% is deferred in full

Weighting of performance measures

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

Total sales growth

Adjusted operating profit 
growth

Strategic and operational 
measures

ESG: diversity, equity and 
inclusion

Weighting of performance measures %

30

30

30

10

Inevitably, targets linked directly to our financial and strategic plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not 
consider it appropriate to disclose Annual Bonus targets during the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details 
of the performance targets will, as usual, be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2024 Annual Report.

2024 LTI Awards
The table below provides details of: 

– the mandatory deferral into the DABP of the 2023 Annual Bonus payments and the associated awards granted. The shares
    awarded have no performance conditions, but must be held for three years, regardless of continued employment 

– 2024 awards granted under the PSP

2023 bonus deferred to 
shares (% of salary)

Number of 
shares

Face value of 
award (£000) % base salary

Number of shares

Face value of award 
(£000)

DABP awards

PSP awards

Emma Walmsley

Julie Brown

 188 

 99 

147,271
56,190  

2,463 

940 

 575 

 400 

468,449

236,763

7,835

3,960

148

 
Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Pay for performance (audited) continued

2024 LTI performance measures
The measures and weightings for the 2024 awards remain unchanged from those used for the 2023 awards:

Innovation

Performance

Trust

Measure

Pipeline progress

Relative TSR
Total sales growth
Adjusted operating profit growth

ESG: environment

Weighting

20%

30%
20%
20%

10%

Innovation
The Pipeline progress measure seeks to reward acceleration 
and strengthening of the pipeline. This is based on two equally 
weighted elements of our key assets or indications measured 
over a three-year performance period. 

Points are allocated for successful assets in each sub-measure 
based upon their forecast commercial value (peak year sales) 
at the end of the performance period. The sub-measures for 
the 2024 award will vest as follows: 

   Pivotal trial starts

Focuses mainly on phase III registrational trial starts, but may 
also include phase II starts. 

Performance level

Below Threshold

Threshold

Maximum

  Major regulatory approvals  

Performance level

Below Threshold

Threshold

Maximum

Points

<15

15

18

22

26

Points

<17

17

20

22

24

Payout

Nil

25%

50%

75%

100%

Payout

Nil

25%

50%

75%

100%

The Pipeline progress measure is commercially sensitive at the 
time of grant. At the end of the performance period we will 
provide disclosure of what has been achieved.

Performance
Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s 
Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 152). 
The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth 
measures recognise the importance of our commercial 
ambitions. The targets for total sales growth and adjusted 
operating profit growth are commercially sensitive at the 
time of grant.

Trust
The ESG: environment measure is based on our Climate and 
Nature goals (see page 49). The targets for the 2024 award 
focus on Nature goals relating to Water, Waste & Materials 
reduction and Biodiversity impact. Climate goals  
incorporate Scope 1 & 2 emission reduction targets, carbon 
offsetting and our industrialisation and availability of green 
Ventolin. 

To achieve:
– 25% vesting, targets for two measures achieved at the end 

of 2026, with one in Climate and one in Nature 

– 50% vesting, targets for four measures achieved at the 

end 
of 2026 

– 75% vesting, all six measures must have met their 2026 

targets 

– 100% vesting, two of the six measures, at least one in 
Climate and one in Nature, must have exceeded their 
2026 targets

149

Strategic report

| Governance and remuneration | Financial statements

|

Investor information

GSK Annual Report 2023

Annual report on remuneration continued

Directors’ pay in a wider setting

Internal context

  Comparison of remuneration structure for employees and Executive Directors during 2023 

Element

Salary

Wider workforce and Executive Director pay 

The market competitiveness of base salaries across the company is assessed at a local market level. The 
competitiveness of roles is kept under regular review

Increases may also be made to reflect a change in scope of an individual’s role, responsibilities or experience

For our Executive Directors following a performance review, increases in base salaries are considered in line with 
market practice, the average increase for the wider employee population and other comparator tools

In agreeing increases for Executive Directors, the Committee is mindful of the multiplier effect on the individual’s 
total remuneration

Benefits and 
pensions

The company seeks to provide an appropriate benefits and pensions package that is aligned to competitive            
market practices in those countries in which the company operates and where our employees and Executive 
Directors are based

Annual 
Bonus

With the exception of our sales force, who participate in separate arrangements, our wider workforce 
participates in a plan based on performance against four business and financial measures. These are structured 
to reflect the priorities of each specific business area 

This plan is designed to reward our employees’ collective contribution to business achievement 

Separate mechanisms are in place to recognise outstanding individual performance or to address under-
performance

Our Executive Directors participate in the plan as follows. Any bonus up to 200% of salary is paid 50% in cash 
and 50% in shares deferred for three years. Bonus earned in excess of this (up to a maximum of 300% of salary) 
would be delivered fully in shares deferred for three years. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply

LTI plans

Senior Vice President (SVP) and Vice President (VP) employees participate in the same Performance Share Plan 
as our Executive Directors. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply

Our SVP and VP employees, together with directors and managers below the GLT, receive annual Share Value 
Plan awards of restricted shares 

Share 
ownership

All UK-based employees can participate in HMRC approved Share Save and Share Reward employee share 
plans.

Dilution limits
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment 
Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive 
share plans (granted to senior executives). Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last ten years up to 
31 December 2023 is as follows:

   All GSK employee share plans                               

    Executive share plans

150

 
  
