RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED

Efficient resource use

We are reliant on a range of natural resources to deliver our 
products and new processes and technologies have enabled us 
to become highly efficient at maximising the value that we can 
derive from them.

Waste and circularity
As a first step, our businesses aim to avoid waste generation 
as far as possible, and reuse and recycle waste where they can. 
Some of our businesses also explore energy recovery solutions 
for any remaining waste. Landfill and other final disposal 
techniques are always the last resort.

We are focused on making finite resources go further, believing 
that waste materials are often a resource that we can find a use 
for. With that in mind, our businesses are implementing 
practices to reuse, recycle or reduce food, plastic and/or textile 
waste. For example, we do not just make sugar. Our sugar 
facilities are highly efficient biorefineries that play a key role in 
other sectors’ value chains. We turn sugar beet and sugar cane 
co-products and by-products into animal feed and chemical 
products, as well as using it to generate renewable energy. 
We also use on-site anaerobic digesters to generate biogas 
from our waste streams.

In Retail, Primark has made a commitment to giving its clothes 
a longer life. Its ambition is to drive forward innovation and 
collaboration within its industry to make its clothes last longer 
and reduce clothing waste.

Our food businesses avoid products going to waste by donating 
surpluses to food banks, community groups and charities.

Across the Group, we generated 520,608 tonnes of waste ∆ 
in 2023 which is an 11% decrease compared with the 584,845 
tonnes generated in 2022. Of the total generated, 83% was 
sent for recycling or other beneficial use. Our businesses 
continue to focus on reusing waste materials where possible. 

This year, 11% of all our production sites achieved zero waste 
to landfill and 37% recycled or reused 95% or more of their total 
generated waste.

For more information please see our 2023 Responsibility Report.

Plastic and packaging
As a leading provider of food, ingredients and clothing, 
packaging contributes significantly to our environmental 
footprint. Paper is the main packaging material used across the 
Group, followed by plastic and glass. We also use wood, steel, 
aluminium and a number of other materials.

Though we fully recognise the harmful effects of plastic waste 
on ecosystems, plastic currently plays a vital role in both food 
safety and reducing food waste, by extending the shelf life of 
food. Our challenge is to use plastic materials responsibly and 
find solutions which balance the needs of our customers and 
our desire to minimise our impact.

Our businesses aim to achieve this by removing unnecessary 
and problematic plastic packaging, switching to more easily 
recyclable types of plastic and increasing the use of recycled 
content in the plastics we use.

Our businesses demonstrate their commitment to tackling 
plastic and packaging challenges by involvement with and 
support for a number of pacts and programmes, including the 
WRAP UK Plastics Pact, REDcycle in Australia and the Soft 
Plastic Recycling Scheme in New Zealand.

In 2023, our businesses used 246,683 tonnes ∆ of packaging 
compared with 267,638 tonnes used in 2022. This is an 8% 
annual decrease even though tonnes of production from Group 
operations increased by 3%. There has been a decrease in the 
use of all the packaging materials, including plastic, steel, glass 
and paper, which remains the main packaging material used. 
Tonnes of plastic used as a packaging material has decreased 
by 9% this year and demonstrates the commitment of our 
businesses to reduce the use of plastic where appropriate. 

Proportion of total waste sent for recycling or other 
beneficial use

(% of total waste)
100

Quantity of packaging used

(000 tonnes)
300

8
0
%

8
4
%

7
9
%

8
4
%

8
3
%

2
5
9

2
4
5

2
5
8

2
6
8

2
4
7
∆

0

‘19

‘20

‘21

‘22

‘23

0

‘19

‘20

‘21

‘22

‘23

Total waste generated

(000 tonnes)
700

6
3
2

5
8
5

5
7
1

5
8
5

5
2
1
∆

0

‘19

‘20

‘21

‘22

‘23

Water use
Our businesses aim to reduce the amount of water they abstract, 
to reuse process water as much as possible and to return treated 
wastewater to nature, having ensured it meets or exceeds local 
and national water standards, and protect aquatic ecosystems.

We have carried out annual water risk assessments for our 
operations using internationally recognised methodologies to 
identify the sites operating in water-stressed areas.

We use a range of technologies in our operations to manage our 
water use in fields and factories, and constantly work to further 
reduce our water footprint per tonne of product we produce.

This year, the Group collectively abstracted 860 million m3 ∆ 
of water for use in operations and irrigation, an 8% increase 
compared with last year. This rise is driven by three of Illovo’s 
estates which account for a significant proportion of the Group’s 
total water abstraction. Their increase in water abstraction, which 
is primarily used for cane irrigation, is aligned with their increase 
in tonnes of production from their operations for this year.

ABF Sugar accounts for a significant proportion of the water 
used in our own operations across the Group, at 97% of the 
total water abstracted. Water is used carefully and extensively 
throughout the sugar manufacturing operations compared with 
our other businesses; from the processing stage to extract and 
refine the sugar, to generating steam in the boilers, through to 
cleaning the equipment. A significant amount of ABF Sugar’s 
abstracted water is also used for crop irrigation within Illovo and 
where possible the sites reuse abstracted water for this 
irrigation, for dust control, landspreading and cleaning machinery.

This year, across the Group, 25% of the water abstracted was 
reused before being returned to watercourses. This is a cost- 
and resource-efficient way of managing water.

Notable improvements in water management this year were 
made by ABF Sugar and include the approval of a large-scale 
irrigation project and continued conversions from furrow to 
more efficient drop irrigation systems.

AB Mauri continues to invest in effluent treatment plants 
at many of its sites to deliver on its commitment to maintain 
appropriate standards of water quality, this investment being 
significant in recent years. More broadly, its water strategy 
focuses on reducing its water-intensity ratio defined as the 
quantity of water consumed per tonne of product produced, 
excluding by-products. AB Mauri has reduced its overall water 
intensity-ratio by 25% since 2017/18.

Total water abstracted

(million m3)
900

8
8
0

8
4
7

8
6
4

7
9
6

8
6
0
∆

0

‘19

‘20

‘21

‘22

‘23

Food and nutrition

Providing safe food and enabling customers to make healthier 
choices have both been central to our approach for a long time. 

Relevant businesses take nutritional factors into account across 
their product portfolio. Many of our food products already 
support healthier choices – from high-fibre breakfast cereals, 
wholemeal bread and crispbreads to specialist sports nutrition 
products. Product reformulation can also help to gradually shift 
consumer tastes towards foods that support better long-term 
nutrition, and our food businesses actively review their 
portfolios with this in mind.

As part of ABF Sugar’s commitment to thriving and healthy 
communities, the business has its Making Sense of Sugar 
website which provides factual information based on robust 
science to help inform and educate people about sugar and the 
role it can play as part of a healthy balanced diet.

As part of UK Grocery’s commitment to responsibly produce 
and market safe, nutritious and affordable food, our UK Grocery 
businesses provide details of the revenue generated by their UK 
branded portfolio in terms of the 2004/5 Nutrient Profiling Model 
and the Food (Promotion and Placement) (England) Regulations 
2021. The Nutrient Profiling Model uses a formula to assess the 
nutritional content of foods, designating them as either HFSS 
(high in fat, salt, or sugar), or non-HFSS.

Overall, more than 94% of the revenue generated from our 
UK Grocery’s branded portfolio in 2022/23 was derived from 
products that are designated as being non-HFSS, or that are 
classified as HFSS but are not subject to restrictions under the 
Food (Promotion and Placement) (England) Regulations 2021. 
For context, foods designated HFSS within our UK Grocery’s 
branded portfolio that are not within the scope of public 
health-related sales restrictions include bagged sugars and 
cooking oils, as well as some cooking sauces and condiments.

Examples of products becoming healthier include Jordans 
Dorset Ryvita launching several new non-HFSS recipes and AB 
World Foods reducing sugar, fat and salt from Patak’s sauces.

AB Mauri has successfully developed solutions for its sweet 
bakery portfolio that enables up to 100% sugar reduction while 
preserving the delightful taste experience. AB Mauri is also 
improving the nutritional profile of its sweet bakery goods by 
increasing the amount of fibre. 

A number of ABF brands, including Ryvita and Kingsmill, are 
among 24 signatories to the UK Food and Drink Federation’s 
Action on Fibre pledge, to increase fibre consumption in the UK. 
Our UK Grocery division is also a long-term sustaining member 
of the British Nutrition Foundation.

For more information please see our Responsibility Report 2023.

54

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

55

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD)

Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)

Climate change continues to represent a 
material risk throughout our supply chains 
and presents ongoing risks and opportunities 
to some of our businesses, some of which 
we have been working on for many years. 
We remain committed to taking action and 
supporting policies aligned with the goals 
of the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement to limit 
the rise in global temperatures to well below 
2° C above pre-industrial levels, and to pursue 
efforts to limit the temperature increase 
even further to 1.5° C.

We recognise our role in working towards a low-carbon 
economy. We have developed last year’s disclosure to highlight 
actions we have taken in the current year and describe transition 
plans for two of our largest businesses.

In our diversified Group, climate-related targets are set by our 
businesses based on their material risks and what is relevant 
and achievable for them. ABF Sugar, Primark and Twinings 
remain our most material businesses, comprising 76% of  
Group adjusted operating profit (2022 – 81%) and 72% of 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions (2022 – 70%), 
mainly from ABF Sugar and Twinings. Primark’s GHG emissions 
arise predominantly in Scope 3, which accounts for 98% of 
Primark’s total GHG emissions. See pages 52 and 53 for the 
detailed disclosure.

Our most material businesses each have their own emission 
reduction targets. These are:

•  ABF Sugar – a 30% absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 

emissions by 2030 (baseline: 2018)

•  Primark – a 50% absolute reduction in emissions across 

the value chain by 2030 (baseline: 2018)

Other Group businesses have identified their own emission 
reduction targets or are in the process of doing so. Further 
information can be found on our website.

We are committed to the aim of reaching net zero by 2050, but 
this cannot be achieved by us in isolation. There is a need for 
systemic change throughout the value chain, including a 
redesign of national energy strategies and policies.

Twinings’ previously set target is under review to develop a 
new, more specific carbon reduction target. For further details 
please read page 33 of the Responsibility Report 2023.

Background

We published our approach to TCFD in the 2021 Annual Report 
before our first TCFD report in the 2022 Annual Report.

Last year we met the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.6R  
with TCFD disclosures in line with the 2017 TCFD framework. 
This year we have applied the same framework, now including 
the 2021 implementation guidance which requires details of 
transition plans. For the first time, we have included transition 
plans for ABF Sugar and Primark as they contribute most 
significantly to adjusted operating profit and total GHG emissions. 
Twinings’ transition plan will be included next year. These 
disclosures also meet the Companies Act 2006 requirement 
to make UK Mandatory Climate Disclosures.

Last year we considered a variety of climate scenarios including 
<2° C and 4° C scenarios to assess the resilience of the Group 
to climate change. On the basis of that analysis, we determined 
that in the period to 2030, the risks to the Group were not 
material, but are material in the longer term. This year we have 
identified no significant changes in our businesses or where 
they operate that would require an update to last year’s 
scenario analyses.

Governance
Our governance processes in relation to overseeing, assessing 
and managing climate-related issues evolve every year. This year 
we enhanced our processes to address the evolving requirements 
of climate change and other ESG matters. The Board continues 
to have oversight over, and responsibility for, climate-related 
risks and opportunities.

Oversight by the Board and Audit Committee
The Board receives specific updates each year on climate and 
other ESG matters from the Group Corporate Responsibility 
Director, the Director of Legal Services and Company Secretary 
and the Chief People and Performance Officer. This year, 
this included:

•  an update on TCFD requirements and the additional areas 

we are required to report against

•  our approach to transition plans and why the focus is on ABF 

Sugar and Primark

•  an update on UK Mandatory Climate Disclosures and which 

entities are in scope

•  update on strategic decisions taken by businesses 
in addressing climate change and wider ESG issues

The Board receives relevant updates, such as updates 
on transition plans throughout the year outside of this annual 
presentation. All operating businesses present periodically 
to the Board, including on significant climate matters.

The Board is proactive and has taken prior assessments of 
climate risks and opportunities and information from the above 
meetings and used these to influence strategic decisions. 
In 2023 this has primarily crystallised through approval and drive 
of transition plans.

Primark’s targets for GHG emission reductions have been 
validated against the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). By 
the end of the calendar year, reduction targets for 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions at ABF Sugar should be validated 
against the SBTi. 

The Board possesses sufficient competencies to lead the  
Group in responding to climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Please refer to pages 80 and 81 for details of the Board.

The Audit Committee was briefed on updated TCFD 
requirements, including transition plans for Primark and ABF 
Sugar, as well as on UK Mandatory Climate Disclosures, which 
apply to our largest UK subsidiaries for the first time this year.

Management’s role
Assessing and managing the impact of climate change on the 
Group is the responsibility of the Chief Executive, reporting to 
the Board. Divisional chief executives are responsible for 
assessing, managing and mitigating the impact of climate 
change on their businesses. Every business presents quarterly 
updates to the Chief Executive and Finance Director, which 
include discussion of significant climate-related matters.

The Chief Executive and the Board are supported in these 
activities by the Director of Legal Services and Company 
Secretary, the Chief People and Performance Officer and the 
Group Corporate Responsibility Director.

Further details of their activities are set out in the ’Our Group 
ESG Governance’ section on page 47.

15% of short-term incentive targets for the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director, equivalent to 30% of base salary, is linked 
to strategic, primarily ESG, measures. See pages 104, 105, 107 
and 108 for further details.

Risk management
The Board is accountable for risk management including on 
climate change issues. The process for identifying, assessing 
and managing climate-related risks is the same as for other 
business risks and sits with the business where the risk resides. 
Risks are collated and reviewed at a business and divisional 
level and are then reported to the Director of Financial Control, 
who reviews the key risks with the Board.

More information on our risk management process is available 
in the ‘Our approach to risk management’ section on page 68.

We have integrated climate-related considerations into 
processes affecting our financial statements, including 
considerations of capital expenditure within the ABF Sugar 
business as well as for impairment assessments.

Identifying, assessing and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities
Last year, we described our groupwide materiality-based risk 
assessment, focussed on financially material climate risks and 
opportunities at a divisional level and our decentralised 
structure. This assessment identified risks and opportunities in 
the most material divisions contributing to Group adjusted 
operating profit and GHG emissions – ABF Sugar, Primark 
and Twinings.

Our cross-functional divisional teams worked with third-party 
experts to understand climate-related physical and transition 
risks and opportunities. These were included in our 
scenario analysis.

Following this we worked with the third-party experts and 
performed high-level assessments across the remainder of our 
businesses to understand whether the risks and opportunities 
in individual businesses, but also in aggregate, could be material 
to the Group. The most significant risks were incorporated 
into relevant risk registers, in line with our existing risk 
management process. We have considered, in aggregate, 
other risks and opportunities that might have a material impact. 
None were identified.

This year, ABF Sugar and Primark formalised their transition 
plans, which confirmed that the risks and opportunities 
identified last year were still appropriate. No new risks 
or opportunities were identified.

An Illovo sugar cane field in Malawi

56

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

57

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED

Strategy and action, metrics and targets
We operate a decentralised business model because we believe in giving our leaders the scope and accountability to create and run 
the best businesses they can.

Enabling decision-making by the people closest to these issues, with the relationships with affected stakeholders, provides resilience, 
agility and flexibility in planning, allowing for quick action on impacts and opportunities. 

Climate risks and opportunities

Output from the risks 
and opportunities 
assessment process

Climate impact 
on the Group’s key 
agricultural crops

Impact of flooding 
on the Group’s 
end-to-end supply 
chain including 
operations

Resilience of 
workers to mitigate 
or adapt to climate 
change

Transition risks as 
the world reduces its 
reliance on carbon

Carbon enablement: 
providing solutions 
to reduce carbon

Efficiency

P
h
y
s
i
c
a

l

r
i
s
k
s

r
i
s
k
s

T
r
a
n
s
i
t
i
o
n

O
p
p
o
r
t
u
n
i
t
i
e
s

Primark

Sugar

Twinings

Cross-divisional

Sugar yields (UK, 
Eswatini, Malawi, 
Mozambique, 
South Africa, 
Tanzania, Zambia)

Mozambique and 
Malawi

Tea yields (Argentina, 
China, India, 
Indonesia, Kenya, 
Sri Lanka)

Wheat yields 
(Australia, UK)

Corn yields (US)

Coastal and river flood 
risks: Key Group 
manufacturing sites

Cotton yields*

Coastal and river flood 
risks: third-party 
manufacturers 
(Bangladesh, China) 
and Primark stores 
and warehouses

Heat impact on 
farmers (Bangladesh, 
India, Pakistan)

Carbon pricing 
mechanisms

Carbon pricing 
mechanisms

Biofuels, renewable 
energy

Fuel substitution, 
energy efficiency, 
process optimisation 
and increased 
contribution from 
by-products

Enzymes, animal 
feeds, ingredients,  
on-farm carbon 
measurement

*  The focus of the cotton yield analysis was on Primark's Sustainable Cotton Programme (PSCP) locations in India and Pakistan.

Scenario analysis
As described in last year's Annual Report, we engaged third-party 
experts to help us perform scenario analysis to assess  
the potential impact of these risks. This year, we considered 
whether that analysis should be updated for any new material 
factors. We concluded that the analysis remains appropriate, 
except in respect of flooding risk in Bangladesh, where revised 
information is given on page 62.

Knowledge in this area is growing and we expect models and 
pathways to evolve with time. Models have limitations, and some 
areas are challenging to model, for example the frequency and 
severity of extreme weather events. However, our businesses can 
still consider how they would mitigate or adapt to such events. 
Additionally, in certain situations different models can project 
contrasting results. In these situations, we have used our 
experience of current risks that may be exacerbated by climate 
change and then considered how different outcomes would impact 
our businesses.

We have used the following scenarios:

Warming  
trajectory by 2100

< 2˚ C

2-3˚ C

~4˚ C

Transition scenarios1

Net Zero Emissions by 2050 
Scenario (‘NZE’) (1.5˚ C)

Sustainable Development 
Scenario (‘SDS’)

Stated Policies Scenario 
(‘STEPS’)

Physical 
scenarios2

RCP2.6

RCP4.5

RCP8.5

1.  The International Energy Agency’s scenarios have been used to assess 

transition impacts with each scenario built on a set of assumptions on how 
the energy system might evolve. Each scenario has a different temperature 
outcome. We used scenarios covering 1.5˚ C, <2˚ C and <3˚ C.

2.  We used the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Representative 
Concentration Pathways (RCP) to assess physical climate risk. RCPs are 
commonly used by climate scientists to assess physical climate risk, with each 
pathway representing a different greenhouse gas concentration trajectory 
which can then be translated into global warming impacts. We used climate 
data from the World Climate Research Programmes Coupled Model 
Intercomparison Project – Phase 5 (CMIP 5 adjusted for spatial resolution and bias 
corrected) to do this translation. RCPs feed into climate, crop and flood models. 
There are four RCP pathways with RCP8.5 representing the worst case scenario.

The impact of compounding means that even small changes 
in assumptions can lead to a significant range of outcomes 
from climate models and scenarios. We have therefore placed more 
emphasis on projections to 2030, using them for action planning, 
and used projections to 2050, where there is more uncertainty, to 
check our sense of direction and consider the resilience of our 
businesses should certain hypothetical scenarios take place.

Risks and opportunities have been considered over the following 
time horizons:

Years Rationale

Short-term

2025 Mid-decade 

Medium-term 2030 Our most financially material businesses, 

ABF Sugar, Primark and Twinings have 
set 2030 emission targets, which are 
supported by emission reduction plans

Long-term

2050 2050 is consistent with many national and 

industry targets. Primark is aligned with 
the UNFCCC Fashion Industry Charter 
goal of net zero emissions across all three 
Scopes by 2050

TCFD physical risk: concepts and frameworks
In all physical risk analysis, we have used the RCP8.5 scenario, 
which is widely considered to represent one of the worst-case 
climate scenarios with temperatures reaching some 4˚ C above 
pre-industrial levels by 2100. This scenario projects an extreme 
view of physical climate change impacts.

In addition to RCP8.5, the evaluation of physical risks has been 
supplemented with analysis using either RCP2.6 or RCP4.5 
scenarios, depending on which climate scenario is most 
applicable to the risk. We have focused on the results of 
RCP8.5 as it is the most challenging scenario from a physical 
risk perspective.

In line with best practice, we used a multi-modal approach to 
capture and assess the uncertainty of future climate change 
projections. The numbers quoted represent the median 
projected result. Where appropriate we have also disclosed 
ranges in potential outcomes to reflect the uncertainties and 
variables inherent when using models to assess future climate 
outcomes. These outcome ranges represent the 25th and 75th 
percentiles. Detailed data for the analysis was supplied by our 
businesses, including individual locations of our own operations, 
suppliers’ factories and the location of the farming communities 
in Primark’s Sustainable Cotton Programme in India, Pakistan 
and Bangladesh.

Our third-party experts advised us which crop models to use to 
assess climate change impacts on crop yields. In some cases 
(e.g. for cotton and tea), only one available crop model was 
deemed sufficiently robust for evaluating future climate impacts 
on yields, the analysis was based on the input of five climate 
models providing sensitivity to the analysis. For other crops (e.g. 
sugar cane, wheat and corn), multiple crop models were used.

Global average surface temperature change

°C
6

4

2

0

-2

2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060 2070 2080 2090

RCP8.5

RCP2.6

Climate model projections of average global temperature under the RCP2.6 
and RCP8.5 scenarios (IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, 2013).
Use of scenario results to support strategy  
and financial planning
Scenario analysis has helped our businesses confirm the actions 
they need to take and strategies they need to adopt on an 
ongoing basis to mitigate and adapt to risks and take advantage 
of opportunities. Mitigating actions are managed by the relevant 
businesses as the actions are specific to them. We consider 
that the scenario analysis performed in conjunction with the 
mitigating actions undertaken by our businesses demonstrate 
that our business models and strategy are resilient to climate 
change in each of the transition and physical scenarios 
outlined above.

58

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

59

 
 
 
 
 
CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED

Impact assessment

Determining the potential impact of climate risks and the size of 
climate opportunities is challenging. Climate models include 
several fixed assumptions and there is significant uncertainty 
around the impacts of climate change and how governments 
will respond to its threats.

We have taken several factors into consideration when 
assessing our confidence in mitigating actions:

1. Greater reliance is placed on actions already underway and 
where we have seen evidence of the success of those 
actions, for example the benefits seen by farmers in Primark’s 
sustainable cotton programme and pest control in British 
Sugar.

2. Physical risks from a changing climate are already present, 
growing and being managed by our businesses. In many 
cases, risks may worsen but there is time to find innovative 
solutions to adapt to their impacts.

This year we experienced significant flooding, damaging the 
sugar crop in our sugar business in Mozambique, which 
required an asset write-off, but the financial impact on the group 
was not material.

Impact 
assessment

Description

Low

Medium

High

Projected impacts from scenario analysis 
are positive or not significant

Impacts judged not to be significant once 
mitigating actions are considered

Impacts judged to be significant even after 
mitigating actions have been considered

Significance assessed by considering the impact of climate risks 
and opportunities on the Group’s financial performance and position.

Results of the climate-related risks and opportunities assessment

Having evaluated, using scenario analysis, all physical and transition risks in the table on page 58, we disclose below the risks we 
believe have the potential to be the most financially significant and/or of the most interest to stakeholders:

Climate impact on cotton yields

2022 assessment

Low

2030

Medium

2050

Scenarios assessed: RCP2.6 and RCP8.5 
Assessment: based on RCP8.5
The outcomes to 2030 show that effects of climate risks such 
as extreme temperatures, heavy rainfall and timing/duration of 
monsoon season range from virtually no impact to a reduction 
of approximately 4% under RCP8.5.

The outcomes to 2050 project a negative impact on yield 
of 14% under RCP8.5 and 4% under RCP2.6 before 
mitigating actions.

Mitigation
•  By 2022, 40% of Primark’s cotton clothing sales (units) 

contain cotton that is organic, recycled or is sourced from 
Primark’s Sustainable Cotton Programme (‘PSCP’).
•  Cotton sourced through PSCP is grown using farming 
methods with a lower environmental impact, including 
reducing water, chemical pesticide and fertiliser use and 
training farmers in these methods. Our 2013-2019 study 
concluded that switching to these farming methods led to 
increased yields which help mitigate negative yield impacts 
caused by climate change.

•  By 2022, some 250,000 farmers have received training 

in our PSCP.

2023 update

Metrics and targets
•  Proportion of cotton clothing sales (units) that contain cotton that is organic, recycled or sourced from Primark’s Sustainable 
Cotton Programme: 100% by 2027. 46% of cotton clothing units sold against this metric in 2023. This is up from 27% at the 
launch of the programme and 40% from 2022. 

•  Number of farmers trained in Primark’s Sustainable Cotton Programme: 275,000 by end of 2023. As of July 2023, 299,388 

(∆assured) farmers had received training through the programme.

Please refer to https://corporate.primark/en-gb/primark-cares/resources/reports for Primark’s basis of reporting for each metric. 

Projects addressing physical risks

Primark Sustainable Cotton Programme
Cotton sourced through PSCP is grown using farming methods with lower environmental impact, including reducing 
water, chemical pesticide and fertiliser use. This has led to increased yields, lower input costs and an overall increase 
in income for the farmers trained in these methods.

Project impact
As at July 2023, 299,388 (∆assured) farmers had received training through the programme compared to a target 
of 275,00 farmers. In 2023, the programme was expanded to Turkey.

Impact of climate on sugar yields in Africa (Malawi, Mozambique,  
South Africa, Tanzania and Zambia)

2022 assessment

Low

2030

Medium

2050

Scenarios assessed: RCP2.6 and RCP8.5 
Assessment: based on RCP8.5
Climate impact on sugar yields varies country by country. 
The outcomes to 2030 under the USDA’s EPIC crop model 
indicate a range from no change to a decline of 10%. The 
outcomes to 2050 indicate a 5% gain to a 29% decline.

Mitigation
•  Our African sugar businesses already experience and 

manage significant climate variability, so their responses to 
weather events are well developed.

•  Improving irrigation efficiency to mitigate the risk of drought, 
including investing in drip irrigation and river defences to 
reduce storm damage.

2023 update

Metrics and targets
•  Sugar production (tonnes): ABF Sugar has produced 2.8m tonnes of sugar
•  Volume of water abstracted (million m3): ABF Sugar has abstracted 830 million m3 of water.
•  ABF Sugar has a target to reduce its end-to-end supply chain water usage by 30% by 2030. ABF Sugar has reduced water usage 

by 4% between 2017/18 and 2022/23.

Projects addressing physical risks

Irrigation and drainage investment
ABF Sugar is implementing a variety of irrigation and drainage projects across its African businesses to reduce the 
impact climate has on sugar yields. These include drip irrigation conversion, a bulk water supply efficiency programme 
and sub-surface drainage in Malawi.

Project impact
These are a few of the ongoing projects to improve irrigation and drainage and therefore reduce water usage. 
This is measured primarily through solutions implemented and volume of water saved.

Mitigation
•  Twinings’ sourcing capability coupled with its blending 
capability enables the business to manage localised 
yield issues.

Climate impact on tea yields

2022 assessment

Low

2030

Low

2050

Scenarios assessed: RCP8.5
Assessment: based on RCP8.5
The outcomes through 2030 and 2050 show a positive impact 
on tea yields. However, the crop model has limited 
representation of acute weather events such as extreme 
temperatures, heavy rainfall and droughts. We have a 
well-grounded experience in understanding volatility in regional 
tea yields as a result of weather events and by extension the 
world’s tea-growing regions. With this, we can respond to 
extreme weather events by sourcing tea products to continue 
to produce tea to our set standards. Where this is not an 
option for single origin blends, the impact would not be 
material to the business.

2023 update

Metrics and targets
•  Since the impact of climate change on tea yields is assessed as low, no metrics are disclosed. We will continue to monitor 

this risk and will develop a metric at such a time where the risk could be material.

60

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

61

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED

Impact on flooding risk on Primark’s third-party manufacturers

Impact of carbon pricing mechanisms on ABF Sugar

2022 assessment

Low

2030

Medium

2050

Scenarios assessed: Bangladesh RCP4.5 and RCP8.5; 
China RCP8.5
Assessment: Bangladesh (based on RCP4.5 and RCP8.5)
Bangladesh is exposed to both coastal and river flooding. The 
flood risk outcomes through to 2030 are minimal, but by 2050 
there is a distinct increase. 

China (based on RCP8.5)
The flood risk in China only changes minimally through to 2030 
and 2050. Coastal flooding is projected at 1% in 2030 and less 
than 2% in 2050. River flooding is projected at less than 5% 
for 2030 and 2050. Primark has a large geographical spread of 
supplier factories which would require a large number of rivers 
and coastlines to flood simultaneously for there to be a 
material problem.

Mitigation
•  The analysis shows that the majority of Primark’s suppliers 
in Bangladesh are located in areas of Dhaka which are less 
susceptible to flooding. 

•  The local Dhaka community regularly deals with flooding 

and has adapted processes to mitigate its impacts. 
•  Ensuring a geographical spread of supplier factories 

across China. 

•  Primark’s Sourcing Strategy has been in place for two years 
with a focus on geographical diversification, creating a more 
balanced global footprint and developing risk mitigation 
strategies to increase flexibility and agility when unexpected 
events occur.

2023 update

Metrics and targets
•  Number of Primark supplier factories (China and Bangladesh) subject to high flood risk.

China
•  10.9% of factories face high ravine flood risk at baseline (2023)
•  2.9% of factories face high coastal flood risk at baseline (2023)

Bangladesh
•  10.2% of factories face high ravine flood risk at baseline (2023)
•  5.1% of factories face high coastal flood risk at baseline (2023)

Projects addressing physical risks

Structural Integrity Programme – Mott MacDonald flood pilot – Bangladesh
Primark has mobilised an engineering team under its Structural Integrity Programme to pilot an approach in Bangladesh 
to support supplier factories to mitigate flood risk. Primark has appointed Mott MacDonald to investigate flood risk 
associated with factories within Primark’s supply chain that are deemed high risk. The programme seeks to understand 
the detailed risk to each site and how those supplier factories have taken appropriate measures to minimise the potential 
impact of flooding such as damage to property, plant and equipment and finished goods as well as protecting the 
wellbeing of factory workers.

Project impact
Primark will use the pilot to determine how to deploy wider activity within the existing Structural Integrity Programme. 
Progress in this area will be provided in next year’s report. However, the overarching goal is to ensure factories have 
the right flood mitigation measures in place.

2022 assessment

Medium

2030

Scenarios assessed: International Energy Agency’s Net 
Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario, Sustainable 
Development Scenario and Stated Policies Scenario
Assessment
Incremental impact ranges from £0m to £48m in 2030. ABF 
Sugar has developed a plan to reduce Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 30% by 2030 (from a 2018 baseline), achieved 
through a series of fuel substitution and energy-efficiency 
programmes that generally have a return on investment above 
15%. Beyond 2030, while some technologies exist, they are 
not yet commercially viable.

Mitigation
•  ABF Sugar has a detailed plan to achieve its 30% absolute 
GHG reduction by 2030. Some 12% reduction has already 
been delivered versus its 2018 baseline. 

2023 update

Metrics and targets
•  A 30% absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 

2030 (from a 2018 baseline).

See also the transition plan on pages 64 and 65.

Projects addressing physical risks

Technology adoption
ABF Sugar is using SAI platform FSA to support assessing, improving and validating on-farm sustainability. This focuses 
on soil health, pest management and climate change.

Project impact
ABF Sugar is in the process of defining metrics to monitor the progress of this programme. It will align these metrics to 
the SAI regenerative agriculture framework.

Impact of carbon pricing mechanisms on Primark

2022 assessment

Medium

2030

Scenarios assessed: International Energy Agency’s Net 
Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario, Sustainable 
Development Scenario and Stated Policies Scenario
Assessment
Incremental impact ranges from £55m to £155m in 2030, 
driven by hypothetical carbon taxes on Scope 3 upstream 
emissions. Scope 1 and 2 make up less than 2% of Primark’s 
total emissions. Primark’s decarbonisation programme is 
managed as an integral part of the Primark Cares strategy with 
a road map to reduce absolute emissions by 50% by 2030 
and mitigate potential exposure to increased carbon taxation. 
The plan focuses on Primark’s top five sourcing markets and 
support to suppliers with implementing energy-efficient 
measures and making a switch to renewable sources. 
The plan does not assume the purchase of offsets.

Mitigation
•  Primark has a worked-up plan to achieve a significant 

reduction in supplier emissions by the end of the decade 
and is aligned with the UNFCCC Fashion Industry Charter 
goal of net zero emissions across all three Scopes by 2050.

2023 update

Metrics and targets
•  A 50% absolute reduction in Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 

2030 from a 2018 baseline.

See also the transition plan on pages 66 and 67.

62

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

63

Strategy, metrics and targets
ABF Sugar has categorised existing and new plans and projects 
into three timeframes:

1. Short term (present to 2025): Focus on improving efficiency 

and reducing operational GHG emissions; investing in energy 
efficiency with the aim of reducing energy consumption and 
eliminating coal.

2. Medium term (2026 to 2030): Targeting key sites and pairing 

them with key technological resources.

3. Long term (beyond 2030): Focusing on employing low-

emission technologies, managing climate-related risks across 
the value-chain, and partnering to innovate at factories across 
the business.

There are assumptions on low-emission technologies for 
hydrocarbons and government regulations surrounding biogas 
that underpin these goals. The above short- and medium-term 
goals have been identified to achieve ABF Sugar’s 2030 
commitments.

These goals have been set in line with the Science Based 
Targets Initiative (‘SBTi’). ABF Sugar’s emissions reduction 
target will be validated by the SBTi throughout 2023, with the 
aim of completion before the end of the calendar year.

In alignment with the best practice, ABF Sugar will need to 
develop a strategy to neutralise residual emissions that will not 
be abated through emissions reductions initiatives in the future.

The progress of each project is monitored by a defined 
governance structure which aligns with the capital and 
performance improvement programme quarterly review. This is 
owned by the Head of Advocacy who monitors each project 
with appropriate metrics. Progress against the transition plan 
is also monitored as part of this process. 

The selection and implementation process for these projects 
are included in ABF Sugar’s financial planning process. 
Each selected project undergoes a formal capital 
expenditure process.

Some of the long-term projects are reliant on external factors. 
For example, development of hydrogen solutions will require 
significant government policy change and support. If this 
does not eventuate, ABF Sugar will have to reassess its 
long-term plans.

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED

Transition plans

In line with the 2021 TCFD implementation 
guidance, this year we are disclosing transition 
plans for ABF Sugar and Primark. We have 
applied a materiality-based methodology as set 
out in the climate risk and opportunity section. 
ABF Sugar and Primark are currently our largest 
contributors to GHG emissions. Twinings will 
be included next year.

Whilst each business prepares and executes 
their own transition plans, the Board has 
overall accountability for the transition plan. 
Transition plans were reviewed by the Board 
in June. The Board reviews these plans to 
ensure they align and further the Group’s 
transition to a low-carbon economy. The Board 
will receive an update annually on the status 
and execution of the transition plans with the 
transition plans being revised every three 
years, or sooner if a material event occurs.

ABF Sugar

ABF Sugar is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 30% from a 2018 baseline by 2030. ABF Sugar is 
undergoing a project to measure Scope 3 emissions. Once this 
is completed, they will be considered. This transition plan explains 
the activities ABF Sugar has planned to ensure that it can meet 
this commitment.

Governance
The ABF Sugar chief executive and local managing directors are 
responsible for overseeing climate-related risks, opportunities, 
overall strategy and transition plans. ABF Sugar holds regular 
meetings with the corporate centre which act as a forum for 
climate-related content, particularly updates on: climate 
commitments, transition plans, GHG reduction roadmaps and 
any additional risks or opportunities identified. The frequency 
of these meetings has increased in this first year of reporting 
on transition plans.

Climate related targets are included in the personal performance 
incentive assessment of senior management.

Risk management
The ABF Sugar chief executive and local managing directors are 
accountable for effective risk management. The process for 
identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks is 
the same as for other risks and sits with the business where 
the risk resides. These individuals are also accountable for 
identifying, assessing and managing risks to delivering the 
transition plan. 

Each business develops action plans to respond to relevant 
climate-related risks and opportunities. All plans and projects are 
subject to a well-established governance process within ABF 
Sugar that examines each performance improvement proposal 
against internal rate of return criteria and ESG factors. These 
plans are then approved by the local managing director and the 
chief executive of ABF Sugar.

GHG improvement road map

Impact from today

Moving towards 2030

Beyond 2030

Plan and execute

Efficiency programmes

Co-generation in Africa

Tactical electrification

Feed drying

Green cane harvesting

Solar electricity

Develop projects and 
commercial relationships

Hydrogen and carbon capture, 
usage and storage (Vivergo)

EU biogas/biomass

Monitor the horizon

Hydrogen, carbon capture, usage 
and storage and negative carbon 

General electrification

New sugar process technology

Projects supporting carbon reduction to date
Since communicating its 2030 commitments, ABF Sugar has delivered a number of projects to support the transition to a low-carbon 
economy. These are a sample of the projects ABF Sugar has delivered, there is a larger number and carbon impact.

Project

Impact

Bury St Edmunds hot gas  
generator dryer (February 2019 – 
September 2021)*

Newark decalcification (February 
2018 – September 2022)*

Modifications made to dryers have allowed them to run on natural gas instead of coal, 
leading to a 1% decrease in carbon emissions (9,833 tCO2e).

Calcium was removed from thin juice to prevent evaporator scaling. This enables 
evaporators to operate more energy efficiently, leading to a 0.3% decrease in carbon 
emissions (3,302 tCO2e).

Newark heater (October 2018 – 
September 2022)*

Several new heaters have facilitated improved heat transfer and improved energy 
performance, leading to a 0.2% decrease in carbon emissions (1,758 tCO2e).

Wissington gas turbine  
performance recovery (July 2017 
– September 2019)*

Cantley process safety – heavy fuel 
oil elimination (September 2016 – 
September 2019)*

Bury cossette quality improvement 
(March 2017 – September 2018)*

Gas turbine performance has been improved, leading to a 1% decrease in carbon 
emissions (10,407 tCO2e).

A switch from heavy fuel oil to natural gas at this site, leading to a 0.1% decrease in carbon 
emissions (1,422 tCO2e).

Slicer machines were replaced with newer models allowing for higher quality cossette and 
lower water usage leading in turn to less process water for sugar extraction and lower 
evaporation demand. This has led to a 2% decrease in carbon emissions (20,242 tCO2e).

*  All emission decreases are against the 2017/18 baseline.

All of the above projects were selected in alignment with ABF Sugar’s short-term focus on energy reduction, energy efficiency and 
smaller fuel switching projects. These have included projects that enable the reduction of steam usage in the factory and fuel 
reduction in our animal feed dryers. By minimising our factories’ energy demand in the near-term, this will enable ABF Sugar to deploy 
technological and larger fuel-switching projects in the medium- to long-term. 

There is a strong pipeline of accretive GHG reduction projects. Each ABF Sugar business has its own environmental plan which has 
been categorised between short- and long-term.

Short term (present to 2025)
•  UK: Projects focus on smaller factory energy efficiency/steam 
reduction, coal elimination and reduction of energy use for 
pulp drying.

Medium and long term (2026 to 2050)
•  UK: Projects focus on technological advancements for factory 
energy efficiency/steam reduction and alternate pulp drying 
technologies.

•  Africa: Projects focus on energy efficiency and coal 
elimination/reduction in South Africa and green cane 
harvesting.

•  Spain: Projects focus on factory energy efficiency and 
automation as well as a specific project in Guadalete.

•  Africa: Projects are aligned to those in the short term, but the 

technology is yet to be developed.

•  Spain: Projects focus on alternative fuel projects, but current 

regulations present a challenge at this point in time.

ABF Sugar has reported an overall 24% reduction in absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2023 against 2018. Please refer to 
page 92 of the 2023 Responsibility Report for further detail. ABF 
Sugar is on track to achieve its carbon reduction goal of 30% 
absolute reduction by 2030.

64

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

65

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED

Primark
Governance
The overall responsibility for the Primark transition plan lies with 
Primark’s Chief Financial Officer. The Director of Primark Cares 
and Head of Environmental Sustainability work with the Chief 
Financial Officer to implement the plan.

Primark has established dedicated forums for the governance of 
its decarbonisation strategy (transition plan), which fall under the 
broader Primark Cares governance structure. In particular, these 
forums engage key stakeholders across the business, including 
board members, and cover related climate commitments, 
GHG emissions reduction roadmaps and any relevant risks 
or opportunities identified. For additional information, please 
refer to the Primark Sustainability and Ethics report, 
‘Governance’ section.

Additional ad-hoc meetings with the corporate centre have been 
held in this first year of reporting on transition plans to ensure 
alignment across the Group.

Climate related targets are included in the personal performance 
incentive assessment of senior management.

Risk management
The Primark Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are 
accountable for effective management of physical and transition 
climate-related risks.

Last year the impact of climate risks and opportunities on 
Primark was assessed by the Group using scenario analysis. 
Primark has incorporated this analysis on transition risks into its 
own risk management process to ensure that no risks are 
omitted. Risks are identified and assessed through various 
means. Workshops with internal stakeholders are held focusing 
on the identification, assessment and management of climate 
and nature-related risks.

Primark’s baseline emissions (2018)

Strategy, metrics and targets
In 2021, Primark set an overarching objective to halve absolute 
carbon emissions across its value chain by 2030, from a base 
year of 2018. In defining a roadmap to realise this ambition, 
Primark has focussed on key priority areas across all emission 
scopes for the short term (up to 2025) and medium term 
(up to 2030).

Short-term goals focus on maintaining current certifications, 
developing strategies for heat decarbonisation and energy 
efficiency. Medium-term goals focus on product-specific 
initiatives. Long-term goals are yet to be defined. Development 
of technology and innovations gaps in the market are constraints 
in defining long-term goals. We will evolve these goals as these 
needs are met and as the business evolves. 

These goals have been set in line with the Science Based 
Targets Initiative (‘SBTi’). Primark’s emissions reduction target 
has been validated by the SBTi in 2023. 

At present, Primark has not included residual emissions 
neutralisation (“carbon offsetting”) in its transition planning. 
However, in alignment with industry standards, for its long-term 
ambition Primark will need to develop an approach to 
neutralising the residual emissions that will not be abated 
through its emissions reduction strategy.

Key priority areas for action were identified on the basis of the 
influence and materiality of emissions categories, assessed 
from the base year of 2018 (see the diagram below). These are 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, where the business has stronger 
influence, and the most significant Scope 3 categories in terms 
of absolute emissions.

End-of-life treatment of sold products

Use of sold products

Business travel

Waste generated in operations

Upstream transportation

Fuel and energy-related activities

Capital goods

Purchased goods and services

Scope 1 and 2: 3.5% 

Scope 3: 96.5%

0.6%

12.1%

0.2%

0.1%

8.1%

0.6%

2.0%

76.3%

Scope 1 and 2 emissions
Short term (present – 2025)
•  Maintain ISO50001 certification for all stores, offices, and 

distribution centres.

•  Develop appropriate regional pathways for heat 

decarbonisation in Primark properties.

Medium term (2026 – 2030)
•  Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 

2030, from a 2018/2019 baseline year.

Scope 3 emissions
Short term (present – 2025)
•  Launch an energy efficiency programme, engaging and 
supporting suppliers’ manufacturing facilities on energy 
demand reduction.

•  Launch a renewable energy programme, engaging and 

supporting suppliers’ manufacturing facilities on sourcing low 
carbon and renewable energy.

•  Optimise inbound transport modes to balance emissions, 

cost, and time.

•  Strengthen the durability of Primark’s clothes by 2025.

Medium term (2026 – 2030)
•  Develop all clothes to be recyclable by design by 2027.
•  Develop all clothes from recycled or sustainably sourced 

materials by 2030.

•  Further regenerative agricultural practices will be used in the 

Primark Sustainable Cotton Programme.

•  Eliminate single-use plastics and all non-clothing 

waste by 2027.

The selection and implementation process for these projects are 
included in Primark’s financial planning process. Each selected 
project undergoes a formal capital expenditure process where 
capital spend is involved.

Projects supporting carbon reduction to date
Since communicating its 2030 commitments in 2021, Primark has started several key projects focussed on the priority areas 
identified in the road map and using a pilot-learning-scale approach. Once at scale, these projects are expected to drive the bulk 
of Primark’s decarbonisation as they tackle the most material value chain emissions categories.

Project

Impact

Renewable energy 
procurement 
(Late 2022 
to present)

Own operations: Primark has signed renewable power contracts in seven countries, covering the UK and continental 
Europe. At the time of publishing this report, approximately 70% of stores were covered by a renewable or low-carbon 
electricity contract. However, as these contracts have come into operation at different times over the course of the 
year, their full benefit isn’t seen in the Scope 2 emissions reporting. Continuing its progress in the renewable power 
market is a key priority for Primark in the next year, alongside addressing Scope 1 emissions from onsite heating.

Supply chain: Primark has partnered with Ren Energy to help suppliers source and switch to energy from 
renewable sources.

Influencing customers on how to use Primark’s products is important to support the decarbonisation of its downstream 
value chain. Key behavioural drivers to emissions reductions include reducing the number of washes, avoiding tumble 
drying and keeping clothes in active use for longer. Primark’s plan is to collaborate with customers and industry 
partners to advance our understanding and extend our sphere of influence. Over the last year, Primark has scaled 
its repair workshops further in the UK and Ireland, and introduced them in the Netherlands, Germany and France. 
To date, Primark has held 120 workshop sessions, offering more than 1,700 free places to customers and colleagues. 
To further maximise the reach of the repair workshops, Primark has created an online customer hub featuring 
easy-to-follow repair videos. 

Own operations: Primark is scaling the roll-out of an energy bureau to enable remote management of energy and 
greater visibility of energy use to manage demand more effectively. At year end, this covered more than 179 locations 
across the UK at year end. It allows the business to maintain sustainable store condition in an energy efficient manner.

Primark also launched a significant initiative to fit all stores with energy-efficient light fittings. Approximately 70% 
of Primark stores across eight markets are now powered by renewable or low-carbon electricity and 141 stores have 
switched to energy-efficient LED lighting.

Supply chain: Building on the learning of small-scale energy and water efficiency pilot projects conducted over years 
in China using the Apparel Impact Institutes (Aii) Clean by Design (CBD), Primark has now scaled its energy efficiency 
programmes to engage 57 factories in Bangladesh, China and Cambodia. Suppliers involved learn about more energy 
efficient practices and receive support on data collected and analyse to create their own emissions reduction action 
plan, while improving manufacturing processes. These programmes create improvements in factory operations by 
delivering training, guidance and workshops.

Primark has set a target to remove all single-use plastic by 2027 and estimates it has already removed and/or avoided 
more than 1 billion units of single-use plastic from its business in 2019.

Customer 
education 
(Late 2021 
to present)

Energy efficiency 
improvements 
(early 2021 
to present)

Packaging Centre 
of Excellence 
(2019 to present)

This year, there has been an overall increase of 11% in carbon 
emissions across the value chain against Primark’s baseline year 
2018/19. This is the result of an increased volume of material 
used to produce the products sold over that period. In the short 
term, this trend is likely to continue, but there will be a decline 

as Primark increases the use of more sustainably sourced 
materials across its product range and once the energy 
programmes being rolled out across the supply chain begin 
to deliver at scale.

66

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

67

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Managing our risks

Our approach to risk management
The delivery of our strategic objectives and the sustainable 
growth and long-term shareholder value of our business is 
dependent on effective risk management. We regularly face 
business uncertainties and it is through a structured approach to 
risk management that we are able to mitigate and manage 
these risks and embrace opportunities when they arise. 
These disciplines remain effective as the global environment 
continues to be uncertain in the face of increasingly complex 
global economic, geopolitical and environmental challenges. 
As a result of these, together with ongoing inflationary pressures, 
cost-of-living remains a real issue for consumers across a 
number of the markets in which we operate.

The diversified nature of our operations, geographical reach, 
assets and currencies are important factors in mitigating the 
risk of a material threat to the Group’s sustainable growth 
and long-term shareholder value. However, as with any 
business, risks and uncertainties are inherent in our business 
activities. These risks may have a financial, operational and 
reputational impact.

The Board is accountable for effective risk management, 
for agreeing the principal, including emerging risks facing the 
Group and ensuring these are successfully managed. The Board 
undertakes a robust annual assessment of the principal risks 
that would threaten the business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity. The Board also monitors the Group’s 
exposure to risks as part of the business performance 
reviews at each Board meeting, providing the Board with 
an opportunity to discuss risk mitigation actions with divisional 
senior management.

Our decentralised business model empowers the management 
of our businesses to identify, evaluate and manage the risks 
they face, on a timely basis, to ensure each business’s 
compliance with relevant legislation, our business principles 
and Group policies.

Our businesses perform risk assessments which consider 
materiality, risk controls and specific local risks that are relevant 
to the markets in which they operate. The collated risks from 
each business are shared with the respective divisional 
chief executives who present their divisional risks to the 
Group Executive.

Emerging risks are identified and considered at both a Group 
and business unit level, with key management being close to 
their markets and geographies. These risks are identified as 
part of the overall risk management process through a variety 
of horizon-scanning methods including: geopolitical insights; 
ongoing assessments of competitor activity and market factors; 
workshops and management meetings focused on risk 
identification; analysis of existing risks using industry knowledge 
and experience to understand how these risks may affect us 
in the future; and representation and participation in key 
industry associations.

The Group’s Director of Financial Control receives the risk 
assessments on an annual basis and, with the Finance Director, 
reviews and challenges them with the divisional chief 
executives on an individual basis.

These discussions are wide-ranging and consider operational, 
environmental and other external risks. These risks and their 
impact on business performance are reported during the 
year and are considered as part of the monthly management 
review process.

Group functional heads including Legal, Treasury, Tax, IT, 
Pensions, HR, Procurement and Insurance also provide input to 
this process, sharing with the Director of Financial Control their 
view of key risks and what activities are in place or planned to 
mitigate them. A combination of these perspectives together 
with the business risk assessments creates a consolidated view 
of the Group’s risk profile. A summary of these risk assessments 
is then shared and discussed with the Finance Director and 
Chief Executive at least annually.

The Director of Financial Control holds meetings with each 
of the non-executive directors seeking their feedback on the 
reviews performed and discussing the key risks, which include 
emerging risks, and mitigating activities identified through the 
risk assessment exercise. Once all non-executive directors have 
been consulted, a Board report is prepared summarising the 
full process and providing an assessment of the status of risk 
management across the Group. The key risks, mitigating 
controls and relevant policies are summarised and the Board 
confirms the Group’s principal risks.

These are the risks which could prevent ABF from delivering 
our strategic objectives. This report also details when formal 
updates relating to the key risks will be provided to the Board 
throughout the year.

Key areas of focus this year
Effective risk management processes and 
internal controls
We continued to seek improvements in our risk management 
processes to ensure the quality and integrity of information 
and the ability to respond swiftly to direct risks. During the year, 
the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board conducted reviews 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management processes 
and internal controls in accordance with the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Our approach to risk management and 
systems of internal control is in line with the recommendations 
in the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) revised guidance 
‘Risk management, internal control and related financial and 
business reporting’.

The Board is satisfied that internal controls were properly 
maintained and that principal and emerging risks are being 
appropriately identified and managed.

Geopolitical uncertainty, Russia’s ongoing war 
in Ukraine and the potential for escalation of the conflict 
in Gaza
The ongoing Russian war in Ukraine continues to drive economic 
uncertainty in almost all of the markets in which we operate.

Whilst during the year, we have seen a reduction in energy 
prices and sea freight costs, which are significant costs for ABF, 
the ongoing situation remains volatile and could result in supply 
chain disruption.

We remain cognisant of the significant impacts that would 
result from an escalation in the war in Ukraine, particularly 
if western governments’ support for Ukraine were to waver. 

Russia’s suspension of the Ukraine grain export agreement 
in July 2023 could result in tensions and further inflation in the 
medium-term. Our management teams continue to work closely 
with suppliers to secure raw materials, maintain production and 
provide a reliable supply to our customers.

Escalation of recent events in Gaza could have further 
inflationary pressures, particularly on energy. In addition, there 
could potentially be wider implications for global logistics and 
supply chains. 

Cost of living
Recent global financial data shows that several European 
economies in which we operate tipped into recession in 
recent months and a prolonged period of stagnation is a real 
possibility. This would increase consumer debt problems, 
resulting in increasing costs of living and putting additional 
strain on household budgets. 

Whilst consumer spending has proven to be more resilient than 
anticipated at the start of the financial year, household budgets 
continue to face real pressures as a result of high inflation and 
interest rates and general economic uncertainty. This means that 
some consumers are having to make challenging and difficult 
choices in respect of what they spend and where they spend it.

We continue to offer safe, nutritious and affordable food and 
affordable, quality clothes to our customers. Primark’s cost 
leadership position continues to be attractive to the customer. 
In the food businesses, there is an increasing demand for 
private label products.

All of our businesses have developed strategies considering 
the potential changes in both end consumer and our customer 
behaviours and demands, the implications for the business 
and where investment or changes to business models may 
be appropriate.

The medium-term impact on our businesses will depend on 
the extent of government intervention and the duration of any 
economic downturns.

Regulatory changes
Our businesses continue to face a large number of regulatory 
changes with ever increasing complexity and variations in 
requirements across the markets in which we operate. 
For example, the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive (CSRD) requiring EU-incorporated companies and 
certain other companies with operations in the EU to publicly 
disclose and report on environmental, social affairs 
and governance issues, the new German Supply Chain Due 
Diligence Act (LkSG), and changes to data privacy laws.

The extent of change will have an impact on the capacity of 
management at a time when they are dealing with the ongoing 
challenges resulting from economic uncertainty, alongside the 
day-to-day growth of our businesses.

Environmental, Social and Governance
ABF has an ambition to continue to make food and clothes 
available and affordable and to achieve net zero by 2050 or sooner.

Environmental factors, including the potential implications of 
climate change within our businesses and their supply chains, 
are considered as part of the risk management framework and 
they also frame opportunities for our businesses. Our culture 
and values, and particularly our devolved decision-making 
model, empowers our teams to make the right judgements 
in assessing and mitigating risks related to climate change.

Where relevant, third-party experts have been engaged to 
perform scenario analyses and in-depth risk assessments which 
form the basis of strategies to mitigate the material risks.

Our local management teams have demonstrated their ability 
to respond quickly and make decisions that make sense to 
their businesses when extreme climate-related events occur. 
For example, in response to adverse weather conditions which 
resulted in significantly lower beet yields from the 2022/23 crop, 
British Sugar moved swiftly to secure alternative sources of 
supply. Similarly, our Africa sugar business, Illovo, has been 
significantly impacted by floods in Mozambique and Malawi, 
and is investing in a variety of irrigation and drainage projects 
to reduce the impact climate has on sugar yields.

Leaders across ABF are also empowered to implement 
responsible business practices to further reduce our negative 
impact on the environment, such as the sustainable use of 
natural resources, sourcing responsible packaging and our use 
of plastic, as well as reducing carbon emissions. Each of our 
businesses has prioritised resources to those environmental 
factors which are of greatest relevance and will make the 
greatest long-term difference.

The Board has overall responsibility for overseeing ESG factors 
across ABF. On a regular basis, the Board conducts a review of 
each of our business segments, including a review of significant 
ESG issues.

Divisional chief executives have responsibility and are 
accountable for their ESG programmes, as well as for risks, 
opportunities and impacts in their divisions. They can draw on 
support from the Corporate Responsibility Hub and the Director 
of Legal Services and Company Secretary, the CPPO as well as 
specialist legal advice from the team led by the Associate 
General Counsel for ESG. The leaders of our businesses are 
also challenged by the centre through detailed reviews of the 
Group’s environmental performance, health and safety 
performance, and its diversity, equity and inclusion and 
workforce engagement programmes.

Our principal risks and uncertainties
The directors have carried out an assessment of the principal 
risks facing ABF, including emerging risks, that would threaten 
our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.

Outlined below are the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties 
and the key mitigating activities in place to address them. These 
are the principal risks of the Group as a whole and are not in any 
order of priority.

ABF is exposed to a variety of other risks related to a range of 
issues such as human resources and the attraction, development 
and retention of people, community relations, the regulatory 
environment and competition. These are managed as part of the 
risk process and a number of these are referred to in our 2023 
Responsibility Report. Here, we report the principal risks which 
we believe are likely to have the greatest current or near-term 
impact on our strategic and operational plans and reputation.

They are grouped into external risks, which may occur in the 
markets or environment in which we operate, and operational 
risks, which are related to internal activity linked to our own 
operations and internal controls.

The ‘Changes since 2022’ describe our experience and activity 
over the last year.

68

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

69

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED

External risks

Operating in global markets 

Context and potential impact
Associated British Foods operates in 55 countries with sales 
and supply chains in many more. For example, Primark has a 
complex supply chain, which is dependent on supplies from 
countries including China, Bangladesh, India and Turkey. We are 
therefore exposed to global market forces; fluctuations in 
national economies; societal unrest and geopolitical uncertainty; 
a range of consumer trends; evolving legislation; and changes 
made by our competitors.

The ongoing Russian war in Ukraine continues to drive 
economic uncertainty in almost all of the markets in which 
we operate.

Failure to recognise and respond to any of these factors could 
directly impact the profitability of our operations.

Entering new markets is a risk to any business.

Mitigation
Our approach to risk management incorporates potential 
short-term market volatility and evaluates longer-term socio-
economic and political scenarios. The Group’s financial control 
framework and Board-adopted tax and treasury policies require 
all businesses to comply fully with relevant local laws.

Provision is made for known issues based on management’s 
interpretation of country-specific tax law, EU cases and 
investigations on tax rulings and their likely outcomes.

By their nature socio-political events are largely unpredictable. 
Nonetheless our businesses have detailed contingency plans 
which include site-level emergency responses and improved 
security for employees.

In the event of a major geo-political event that disrupts 
Primark’s supply chain, in the short-term the risk would be 
partially mitigated as we have several weeks of stock in 
warehouses and relatively long lead times, whilst alternative 
sourcing strategies are implemented. 

We engage with governments, local regulators and community 
organisations to contribute to, and anticipate, important changes 

Fluctuations in commodity and energy prices 

in public policy. We conduct rigorous checks when entering 
or commencing business activities in new markets.

Our management teams continue to both monitor where 
products and raw materials are sourced from and work closely 
with suppliers to secure raw materials, maintain production and 
provide a reliable supply to our customers.

Changes since 2022
Whilst during the second half of the year, we have seen 
a reduction in energy prices and sea freight costs, which are 
significant costs for ABF, the ongoing war in Ukraine means 
that there is still a level of volatility in energy prices and a risk 
of further supply chain disruption. Russia’s suspension of the 
Ukraine grain export agreement in July 2023 could result in 
further inflation in the medium term. An escalation of the recent 
hostilities in Gaza and the potential wider implications for the 
global economy are being closely monitored.

Recent global financial data shows that several European 
economies in which we operate tipped into recession in recent 
months and a prolonged period of stagnation is a real possibility. 
This would increase consumers’ debt problems and put 
additional strain on household budgets.

Geopolitical tensions continue to arise in a number of countries 
in which we operate and this is having an impact on sourcing 
and supplier management. For example, Primark are working 
through a responsible exit plan in consultation with partners 
and stakeholders in Myanmar and globally, in line with the 
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the 
ACT (Action, Collaboration and Transformation Responsible 
Exit Guidelines). Since the announcement to stop sourcing from 
Myanmar, Primark has doubled the size of its ethical team in 
its remaining sourcing locations enabling an increased number 
of supplier factory audits.

High inflation continues to be a challenge for our yeast and 
bakery ingredients businesses based in Argentina and Turkey.

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our businesses has 
been negligible in the past year, now that restrictions have 
largely been removed, particularly in China.

Context and potential impact
Changes in commodity and energy prices can have a material 
impact on the Group’s operating results, asset values 
and cash flows.

Changes since 2022
A number of our food and agriculture businesses have 
experienced increased input costs driven by the appreciation 
of energy and agricultural commodity prices in the financial year.

Mitigation
The Group purchases a wide range of commodities in the 
ordinary course of business. We constantly monitor the markets 
in which we operate and manage certain exposures with 
exchange traded contracts and hedging instruments.

The commercial implications of commodity price movements 
are continuously assessed and, where appropriate, are reflected 
in the pricing of our products.

Energy prices, particularly in the first half of the year in UK and 
Europe, increased materially as a result of significant market 
uncertainty and supply concerns. Whilst wholesale energy 
prices have reduced from the peak, the market continues 
to experience levels of volatility. Businesses continue 
to manage commodity price risk under their existing risk 
management frameworks and, where appropriate, reflect 
this in pricing of products.

 Increased

 Unchanged

 Decreased 

Movement in exchange rates

Context and potential impact
Associated British Foods is a multinational Group with 
operations and transactions in many currencies.

Changes in exchange rates give rise to transactional exposures 
within the businesses and to translation exposures when the 
assets, liabilities and results of overseas entities are translated 
into sterling upon consolidation.

Mitigation
Our businesses constantly review their currency exposures and 
their hedging instruments and, where necessary, ensure 
appropriate actions are taken to manage the impact of currency 
movements.

Board-approved policies require businesses to hedge all 
transactional currency exposures and committed long-term 
supply or purchase contracts which are denominated in a 
foreign currency, using foreign exchange forward contracts. 
Cash balances and borrowings are largely maintained in the 
functional currency of the local operations.

Health and nutrition

Context and potential impact
Failure to adapt to changing consumer health choices or to 
address nutrition concerns in the formulation of our products, 
related to consumer preferences or government public health 
policies, could result in a loss of consumer base and impact 
business performance. We have provided a detailed breakdown 
of our UK Grocery product portfolio in the context of nutrition 
within the ABF Responsibility Report.

Mitigation
All of our food businesses are individually responsible for 
managing their product portfolio. Consumer preferences, 
regulation and market trends are monitored continually. 
Recipes are regularly reviewed and, where technically feasible, 
are considered for reformulation to improve their overall 
nutritional value.

All of our grocery products are labelled with nutritional 
information, including in many cases front of pack nutrition 
labelling on our branded grocery products.

We actively consider consumer health in the context of brand 
development and merger and acquisition activity.

Changes since 2022
On average, sterling has weakened against most of our trading 
currencies this year, resulting in an operating profit gain on 
translation of £17m.

Primark covers its currency exposure on purchases of 
merchandise denominated in foreign currencies at the time of 
placing orders, with an average tenor of Primark’s hedging 
activity of between three and four months. There was a 
negative transactional effect from the appreciation of the US 
dollar exchange rate against both sterling and euro on Primark’s 
largely dollar-denominated purchases for the year.

There has been a high level of volatility in sterling exchange rates 
against our major trading currencies during the financial year. 
This has been driven by the impacts and varying global responses 
to high inflation and increasing interest rates impacting 
economic growth output.

We invest in research with experts to improve our 
understanding of the science and societal trends. Both ABF UK 
Grocery and British Sugar support the charitable work of the 
British Nutrition Foundation to promote understanding of 
nutrition science in the context of healthy and sustainable diets.

Changes since 2022
Our Sugar and Grocery businesses have continued to focus on 
nutrition and health during the year to help consumers improve 
their diet.

Notable examples include AB World Foods, who have continued 
to roll out recipes with a reduction in fat, sugar and salt, and 
Jordans Dorset Ryvita who reduced the salt level in the Ryvita 
Thins range.

In addition to reformulating existing products, our businesses 
have launched a range of products with nutritional benefits 
including Dorset Cereals range of high in fibre, non-HFSS (high 
in fat, salt or sugar) porridges, Jordan’s non-HFSS No Added 
Sugar Granola and Westmill’s Elephant Rice Basmati Boost, the 
UK’s first fortified basmati with thiamin and iron. 

70

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

71

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED

Operational risks

Workplace health and safety 

Context and potential impact
Our operations have the potential for loss of life or workplace 
injuries to employees and contractors, both on-site and off-site, 
if the hazards and associated risks are not fully controlled.

Mitigation
Safety continues to be one of our main priorities. The chief 
executives of each business, who lead by example, are 
accountable for the safety performance of their business.

Our Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy makes it very clear that 
we require the businesses to make improvements to safety 
year on year, and to make sure that we understand the hazards 
and risks of our activities and have in place appropriate controls.

We have an external independent safety audit programme 
to verify implementation of safety management and support 
a culture of continuous improvement.

Best practice safety guidance is shared across the businesses, 
coordinated from the corporate centre, to supplement the 
delivery of their own programmes.

Product safety and quality 

Context and potential impact
As a leading food manufacturer and retailer, it is vital that we 
manage the safety and quality of our products throughout the 
supply chain.

Mitigation
Product safety is put before economic considerations.

We operate strict food safety and traceability policies within an 
organisational culture of hygiene and product safety to ensure 
consistently high standards in our operations and in the sourcing 
and handling of raw materials and garments.

Food quality and safety audits are conducted across all our 
manufacturing sites, by independent third parties and 
customers, and a due diligence programme is in place to ensure 
the safety of our retail products.

Our sites comply with international food safety and quality 
management standards and our businesses conduct regular 
mock product incident exercises.

This guidance addresses our critical risks of moving vehicle 
interactions, falls of people and materials from height, 
machinery safety, confined spaces, electrical safety and 
management of contractors, as well as addressing the more 
common, but less severe, injuries from manual handling and 
from slips and trips.

Changes since 2022
The safety performance of the Group is reported in the 2023 
Responsibility Report at www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.

We are deeply saddened to report that in the year there were 
three work-related fatalities: two to employees, both on-site, 
and one to a contractor off-site. They occurred in Australia, 
Spain and Africa. Our businesses have conducted thorough 
root cause analyses, have implemented safety changes and 
communicated the findings to the other businesses.

This year just under £42m was invested in reducing the safety 
and health risks across a wide range of operational hazards. 

All businesses set clear expectations of suppliers, with relevant 
third-party certification or other assessment a condition of 
doing business. Product testing and trials are undertaken as 
required and where bespoke raw materials are purchased, the 
businesses will work closely with the supplier to ensure quality 
parameters are suitably specified and understood.

All Primark’s products are tested to, and must meet, stringent 
product safety specifications in line with and, in some instances 
above, legal requirements.

Primark continues to drive and improve product performance 
for quality and compliance purposes through its product 
approval processes, in-country inspection centres and 
management of its supply base.

Changes since 2022
We had no major product recalls during the year. 
There have been a very small number of product recalls that 
have been managed and monitored as part of our normal 
course of business.

Businesses have continued to define and refine KPIs 
in this area.

Breaches of IT and information security 

Context and potential impact
To meet employee, customer, consumer and supplier needs, 
our IT infrastructure needs to be flexible, reliable and secure to 
allow us to interact through technology.

Our delivery of efficient and effective operations is enhanced 
using relevant technologies and the sharing of information. 
We are therefore subject to potential cyber-threats such as 
social engineering attacks, computer viruses and the loss 
or theft of data.

There is the potential for disruption to operations from data 
centre failures, IT malfunctions or external cyber-attacks.

Mitigation
There is an ongoing programme of investment in both 
technology and people to enhance the longevity of our IT 
environments for both on-site and remote working. This ongoing 
investment includes the control and protection of the IT and 
manufacturing environments being provided.

To support our employees in our campaign against phishing and 
social engineering attacks we have invested in cyber security 
solutions that prevent the majority of attacks from reaching our 
employees. We continue to educate through user awareness 
training programmes to help further reduce the likelihood of our 
employees falling victim to such attacks. We measure and 
report on these campaigns and training programmes regularly.

We have established Group IT security policies, technologies 
and processes, all of which are subject to regular internal audit.

Our supply chain and ethical business practices

Access to sensitive data is restricted and closely monitored.

Robust disaster recovery plans are in place for business-critical 
applications and are adequately tested.

Cyber incident response testing is done at all levels of the 
business to ensure we have adequate and effective processes 
to respond to a cyber incident.

Technical security controls are in place over key IT platforms 
with the Chief Information Security Officer tasked with 
identifying and responding to potential security risks.

Changes since 2022
As cybersecurity risks evolve, we continue to invest in our 
security capabilities at a Group level and across the businesses 
allowing us to more effectively detect, respond to and recover 
from disruptive cyber-threats.

We have improved and developed the existing disciplines to 
ensure that user devices and applications are regularly patched 
and upgraded to reflect emerging IT security threats.

During the year we have reviewed, tested and refined our cyber 
security ransomware response plan at the Group level.

We have developed an operational technology security strategy 
and policy to further protect our manufacturing and supply 
chain functions.

Due to the fast-paced growth of AI and its potential uses in our 
organisation, we created an AI policy and guidelines to support 
the adoption of this technology in a safe and secure manner. 

Context and potential impact
We have a global diverse business with complex supply chains 
most of which depend on agriculture and manufacturing.

Our UK Grocery businesses monitor their supply chains and 
engage suppliers through the use of the Sedex (Supplier Ethical 
Data Exchange) online database.

The most critical risks in our supply chain are:

•  transparency of the source of raw materials and 
manufacturing locations in our supply chains;

•  the vulnerability of workers; and
•  ensuring we have the leverage and consistency in our 
approach to due diligence to prevent, avoid or mitigate 
negative social and environmental impacts that may arise.

Mitigation
ABF’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which all businesses are 
required to implement, is based on the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) standards as well as the Ethical Trading 
Initiative’s Base Code. We have developed online training 
modules to facilitate both internal awareness across the Group 
and to support knowledge of our approach and expectations 
amongst our suppliers.

Primark is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and is also 
recognised for its Ethical Trade and Environmental Sustainability 
programme. Its approach to due diligence is explained in its 
Supply Chain Human Rights Policy.

Many of our businesses monitor their risks through social audits 
carried out by internal teams or third parties. For example, 
Primark’s Ethical Trade auditing and monitoring programme 
is one of the most important resources for identifying risks. 

Our businesses work to understand the issues specific to the 
workers within their respective supply chains and where 
appropriate the communities in which they reside. For example, 
Twinings uses a comprehensive Community Needs 
Assessment Framework, developed in consultation with expert 
external stakeholders. In addition to labour rights, this 
framework covers housing, water and sanitation, health and 
nutrition, land, gender and children’s rights, farming practices 
and more.

Some of our businesses – including Primark, Twinings and ABF 
Sugar – publish global sourcing maps and provide information 
about their processes, progress and challenges through 
corporate reports, websites, stakeholder engagement activities 
and submissions to benchmarks. This helps our understanding 
of human rights risks and, where necessary, supports 
collaboration both locally and across our sectors.

 Increased

 Unchanged

 Decreased 

72

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

73

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED

Our supply chain and ethical business practices continued

The impact of climate change and natural disasters on our operations 

Context and potential impact
Our businesses and their supply chains rely on a secure supply 
of finite natural resources, some of which are vulnerable to 
external factors such as natural disasters and climate change. 
Climate change continues to represent a material risk 
throughout our supply chains and poses challenges to some of 
our businesses. Many of our businesses rely on agricultural 
crops with complex supply chains. Long-term climate change 
will impact agricultural crops and workers while extreme 
weather events have the potential to cause disruption to supply 
chains and operations.

For example, extreme adverse weather conditions in the UK 
resulted in significantly lower beet yields from the 2022/23 crop; 
British Sugar therefore moved swiftly to secure alternative 
sources of supply. 

Also, our Mozambique operation was seriously impacted by 
severe flooding which resulted in the destruction of over 98% 
of the sugar cane crop.

In our assessment of climate-related business risks we 
recognise that the cumulative impacts of changes in weather 
and water availability could affect our operations at a Group 
level. However, the diversified and devolved nature of the 
Group means that mitigation or adaptation strategies are 
considered and implemented by the individual businesses.

Some of our businesses have continued to work with third-party 
experts to understand climate-related risks and opportunities. 
The most significant and material risks are incorporated into 
the business risk registers.

Mitigation
Determining the potential medium- to long-term impact 
of climate risks and opportunities is challenging as the impacts 
of climate change and governments’ responses to its threats 
are uncertain.

Our climate-related scenario analysis has identified business-
specific actions which are being overseen by the relevant 
businesses. Further information on our material climate-related 
risk mitigation activities is provided in the TCFD report on pages 
56 to 67.

Changes since 2022
Last year we met the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.6R 
with TCFD disclosures in line with the 2017 TCFD framework. 
This year this has been expanded to include the 2021 
implementation guidance by including the transition plans for 
ABF Sugar and Primark as they contribute most significantly 
to adjusted operating profit and total reported GHG emissions.

Over the past year, our businesses have continued to 
implement specific projects which aim to reduce the impact of 
climate change and natural disasters on our businesses including:

•  Illovo Sugar is implementing a variety of irrigation and 
drainage projects across its African businesses; and

•  Primark is mobilising a specialist engineering team to support 
the development of a pilot approach in Bangladesh to support 
supplier factories to assess and mitigate flood risk.

For details on the scenario analysis, transition plans, and our risk 
management and materiality assessment approach, refer to the 
2023 TCFD report and 2023 Responsibility Report.

In line with our Group Code of Conduct, our businesses prohibit 
all forms of modern slavery, including forced labour and human 
trafficking. For more information, see our Group Modern Slavery 
Statement 2023.

Changes since 2022
Our Modern Slavery Statement 2023, together with the 
businesses’ due diligence activities across our supply chains, 
are reported on our website and in the 2023 Responsibility 
Report at www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.

In November 2022, the EU formally adopted the Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) requiring companies 
operating in the EU to publicly disclose and report on 
environmental, social affairs and governance issues. Through 
the established ESG Steering Committee, the Group has a 
number of activities to prepare for the inception of the CSRD 
reporting requirements, including the European Sustainability 
Reporting Standards (ESRSs) and the EU Taxonomy.

As result of the Directive certain EU companies within the 
Group will be required to publish mandatory sustainability 
information from 2025/26 onwards. From 2028/29 reporting 
under the CSRD will also need to cover the rest of the Group. 
The exact format and scope of reporting will depend upon 
transposition of EU law into the national laws of EU member 
states (which is due by July 2024) and on any equivalence 
arrangements put in place with the UK

Our UK Grocery division has established a central capability 
for monitoring and reporting upon supplier Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire (SAQ) completion, as well as the status of 
non-conformances identified within supplier audit reports. 
In addition, we have appointed an India-based corporate 
responsibility specialist to support Westmill Foods and AB 
World Foods to engage and support third-party businesses 
in their supply chains.

Our use of natural resources and managing our environmental impact 

Context and potential impact
We are reliant on a range of natural resources to deliver our 
products, and new processes and technologies have enabled us 
to become highly efficient at maximising the value that we can 
derive from them. Overall, our material environmental impacts 
come from: fuel and energy use; agricultural operations giving 
rise to GHG emissions; use of land related to agricultural 
operations; the abstraction and management of water and 
wastewater especially in water-stressed areas; and waste 
which is not yet eliminated at source, reused or recycled, 
including single-use plastics.

In addition to GHG emissions, our operations generate a range 
of other environmental impacts related to wastewater and 
waste which, if not controlled, could pose a risk to the 
environment and local communities, potentially creating risk to 
our licence to operate and resulting in additional costs.

Across countries where ABF businesses operate, there is 
increased regulatory scrutiny and ESG reporting requirements 
that we must meet. Remaining compliant with these 
requirements and being able to report accurate and robust data 
on our environmental impact, is a priority for the Group and to 
our businesses.

Mitigation
We recognise our role in transitioning to a low-carbon economy. 
We are targeting reductions in our GHG emissions through 
carbon reduction plans, energy efficiency and growing our use 
of renewable energy.

We continuously seek ways to improve the efficiency of our 
operations, using technologies and techniques to reduce our 
use of natural resources and minimise waste and the 
subsequent impact on the environment. We are also increasing 
our focus on capturing this data and being able to report in line 
with regulatory requirements.

We support the adoption of integrated farm management 
techniques and the responsible use of precision science and 
technology to maximise efficiency, reduce GHG emissions and 
limit biodiversity losses while maintaining commercially 
productive agricultural outputs.

Water is an essential input for clothing and food production. 
We remain aware that it is a valuable resource and our 
businesses aim to reduce the amount of water they abstract, to 
reuse process water as much as possible and to return treated 
wastewater to nature, having ensured it meets or exceeds local 
and national water standards, and protect aquatic ecosystems. 

Changes since 2022
The environmental performance of the Group is reported 
in the 2023 Responsibility Report and in our CDP 
submissions which can be found on the ABF website at 
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.

 Increased

 Unchanged

 Decreased 

74

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

75

VIABILITY STATEMENT AND GOING CONCERN

Viability statement and going concern

The Group has a track record of delivering strong cash flows, 
with in excess of £1bn of operating cash being generated in 
each of the last ten years. This has been more than sufficient to 
meet not only our ongoing financing obligations but also to fund 
the Group’s expansionary capital investment.

Even in a worst-case scenario, with risks modelled to 
materialise simultaneously and for a sustained period, the 
possibility of the Group having insufficient resources to meet 
its financial obligations is considered remote. Based on this 
assessment, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
three-year period to 12 September 2026.

Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements. 

The forecast for the going concern assessment period to 
1 March 2025 has been updated for the business’s latest 
trading in October and is the best estimate of cashflow in the 
period. Having reviewed this forecast and having applied a 
downside sensitivity analysis and performed a reverse stress 
test, the directors consider it a remote possibility that the 
financial headroom could be exhausted.

The Board’s treasury policies are in place to maintain a strong 
capital base and manage the Group’s balance sheet and liquidity 
to ensure long-term financial stability. These policies are the 
basis for investor, creditor and market confidence and enable 
the successful development of the business. The financial 
leverage policy requires that, in the ordinary course of business, 
the Board prefers to see the Group’s ratio of net debt including 
lease liabilities to adjusted EBITDA to be well under 1.5x. At the 
end of this financial year, the financial leverage ratio was 1.0x 
and the Group had total cash of £1.5bn and an undrawn 
committed Revolving Credit Facility of £1.5bn.

In March 2023, S&P Global Ratings reaffirmed their assignment 
to the Group of an ‘A’ grade long-term issuer credit rating. The 
Group’s funding basis is supported by the existing £400m public 
bond due in 2034. Furthermore the Group’s committed 
Revolving Credit Facility is free of performance covenants and 
matures in 2028, with one 1-year extension option remaining 
(after the first was utilised during the year). The $100m of 
outstanding private placement notes are due in March 2024 
after which point Group funding will not be subject to financial 
performance covenants.

Viability statement
The directors have determined that the most appropriate period 
over which to assess the Company’s viability, in accordance 
with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, is three years. 
This is consistent with the Group’s business model which 
devolves operational decision making to the businesses. 
Each business sets a strategic planning time horizon appropriate 
to its activities which are typically of a three to five year duration. 
The directors also considered the diverse nature of the Group’s 
activities and the degree to which the businesses change and 
evolve in the relatively short term.

The directors considered the Group’s profitability, cash flows 
and key financial ratios over this period and the potential impact 
that the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 68 to 
75 could have on future performance, solvency or liquidity of the 
Group and its resilience to threats to its viability posed by severe 
but plausible scenarios. Building on the analysis performed as 
part of the going concern review, sensitivity analysis was 
applied to these metrics and the projected cash flows were 
stress tested against a range of scenarios.

The directors considered the level of performance that would 
cause the Group to exhaust its available liquidity, the financial 
implications of making any strategic acquisitions and a variety of 
additional potentially adverse factors including long-term 
reputational damage, macroeconomic influences such as 
fluctuations in commodity markets and climate-related business 
risks. Specific consideration has been given to the potential 
ongoing risks associated with the outlook for a potential global 
recession, reducing demand for goods in both the food 
businesses and Primark, and continuing inflationary cost 
pressures. The impact of potential mitigating actions under the 
Group’s control were also considered in this analysis. 

The Board’s treasury policies are in place to maintain a strong 
capital base and manage the Group’s balance sheet and liquidity 
to ensure long-term financial stability. These policies are the 
basis for investor, creditor and market confidence and enable 
the successful development of the business. The financial 
leverage policy requires that, in the ordinary course of business, 
the Board prefers to see the Group’s ratio of net debt including 
lease liabilities to adjusted EBITDA to be well under 1.5x. 
At the end of this financial year, the financial leverage ratio was 
1.0x and the Group had total cash of £1.5bn and an undrawn 
committed Revolving Credit Facility of £1.5bn.

In March 2023, S&P Global Ratings reaffirmed their assignment 
to the Group of an ‘A’ grade long-term issuer credit rating. 
The Group’s funding basis is supported by the existing £400m 
public bond due in 2034. Furthermore the Group’s committed 
Revolving Credit Facility is free of performance covenants and 
matures in 2028, with one 1-year extension option remaining 
(after the first was utilised during the year). 

The Group is highly diversified operating in 55 countries 
in different markets, sectors, customer groups, geographies 
and products. While the principal risks considered all have 
the potential to affect future performance, none of them are 
considered individually or collectively to threaten the viability 
of the Company for the period of the assessment. 

In reviewing the cash flow forecast for the period, the directors 
reviewed the trading for both Primark and the food businesses 
in light of the experience gained from events of the last three 
years of trading and emerging trading patterns. The directors 
have a thorough understanding of the risks, sensitivities and 
judgements included in these elements of the cash flow forecast 
and have a high degree of confidence in these cash flows.

As a downside scenario the directors considered the adverse 
scenario in which inflationary costs are not fully recovered, 
there are adverse foreign exchange impacts and there is a 
global recession, reducing demand for goods further than the 
base levels forecast. This downside scenario was modelled 
without taking any mitigating actions within their control. 
Under this downside scenario the Group forecasts liquidity 
throughout the period.

In addition, the directors also considered the circumstances 
which would be needed to exhaust the Group’s total liquidity 
over the assessment period – a reverse stress test. This 
indicates that, on top of the downside scenario outlined above, 
cost inflation would need to exceed £1.9bn without any price 
increases or other mitigating actions being taken before total 
liquidity is exhausted. The likelihood of these circumstances 
is considered remote for two reasons. Firstly, over such a 
period, management could take substantial mitigating actions, 
such as reviewing pricing, taking cost cutting measures and 
reducing capital investment. Secondly, the Group has significant 
business and asset diversification and would be able to, if it 
were necessary, dispose of assets and/or businesses to raise 
considerable levels of funds.

The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf

Michael McLintock
Chairman

George Weston
Chief Executive

Eoin Tonge 
Finance Director

76

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

77

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Chairman’s introduction

the executive directors and through annual updates by senior 
management of the businesses. This gives the Board the 
opportunity to provide effective guidance and 
constructive challenge.

On succession planning at Board level, earlier this year we 
announced that Ruth Cairnie would be relinquishing her roles as 
Senior Independent Director and as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and would not be standing for re-election at the next 
annual general meeting, having served on the Board since May 
2014. Dame Heather Rabbatts became Senior Independent 
Director and Graham Allan became Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, both with effect from 1 May 2023. Ruth stepped 
down from the Board with effect from 31 August 2023. Ruth 
made a terrific contribution to our Board deliberations and she 
leaves with our grateful thanks. 

In February 2023, the Board was also pleased to welcome 
Eoin Tonge as a director, taking up the role of Finance Director 
with effect from 29 April 2023 after John Bason retired from the 
Board on 28 April 2023. In addition, Annie Murphy was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees with effect from 6 September 2023. 
As announced in August 2023, Kumsal Bayazit will be appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the same 
Committees with effect from 1 December 2023. All directors 
will be standing for election or re-election at the annual general 
meeting. We look forward to working with our newest Board 
members and benefiting from the additional skills, insights and 
experience that they will undoubtedly bring.

We published our Board Diversity Policy in November 2022. I am 
pleased to report that, by the time of our annual general meeting, 
we will have met the commitments and aspirations around 
Board composition as set out in that policy, which reflect the 
new targets on gender and ethnic diversity in the Listing Rules. 
Further details are set out in the Nomination Committee Report.

Richard Reid continues in his role as our Non-Executive Director 
designated for engagement with the workforce and an update 
is provided in Richard’s letter on pages 84 and 85. Richard’s 
activities are a key way that we continue to assess and monitor 
culture, alongside directors’ visits to sites, business divisions’ 
updates to the Board on workforce engagement, input from our 
Speak Up programme and the annual talent review and update 
to the Board from the Chief People and Performance Officer.

Our four values, namely respecting everyone’s dignity, acting 
with integrity, progressing through collaboration and delivering 
with rigour, are illustrated through the various case studies 
in this Annual Report, through our Section 172 Statement 
on pages 40 to 45 and through the Responsibility section on 
pages 46 to 55. Further examples can be found in our 2023 
Responsibility Report, which is available on the Company’s 
website at: www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.

We will again hold a physical AGM in December 2023. As was 
the case last year, we will also stream the event online for those 
shareholders who are not able to attend in person. Please note, 
however, that you will not be able to vote or ask questions 
on the day if you do not attend in person, so please vote in 
advance by proxy and submit any questions in advance if you 
cannot attend. Details on how to do so are provided in the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023. We look forward to 
seeing as many of you as possible on the day.

Michael McLintock
Chairman

Michael McLintock
Chairman

Our devolved decision-making model 
is a distinctive characteristic of ABF. 
This empowers management of our 
businesses to take decisions at the level we 
consider to be the most effective – in other 
words, closest to the markets, customers 
and stakeholders relevant to each business.

Dear fellow shareholders
I am pleased to present the Associated British Foods plc 
Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 
16 September 2023.

Your Company’s clear sense of purpose – to provide safe, 
nutritious and affordable food, and clothing that is great value 
for money – continues to stand us in good stead. Our conviction 
that businesses do well when they act well is ingrained 
throughout the Group and management continue to be 
encouraged to take a long-term view and to invest in the future. 
We give various examples throughout the Strategic Report 
of how we have invested in our food businesses and in the 
Primark retail estate.

We continue to operate a devolved decision-making model. 
This is a distinctive characteristic of ABF, and one which we 
believe empowers management of our businesses to take 
decisions at the level we consider to be the most effective. 
The senior management of the businesses are supported with 
resources and expertise from throughout the Group.

The Board continues to be kept informed about, and engages 
with, the individual businesses through regular updates by 

Compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code

As a premium listed company on the London Stock 
Exchange, the Company is reporting in accordance with 
the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (‘2018 Code’). 
The 2018 Code sets out standards of good practice in 
relation to: (i) board leadership and company purpose; 
(ii) division of responsibilities; (iii) board composition, 
succession and evaluation; (iv) audit, risk and internal 
control; and (v) remuneration. The 2018 Code is published 
by the UK Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) and a copy 
is available from the FRC website: www.frc.org.uk.

The Board takes its compliance with the 2018 Code 
seriously. The Board considers that the Company has, 
throughout the year ended 16 September 2023, applied 
the principles and complied with the provisions set out in 
the 2018 Code except provision 38 in relation to alignment 
of executive director pension contributions with the 
workforce. In this regard, please see the explanation on 
page 106 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which 
explains our plans to bring the Company into line with the 
2018 Code by December 2023.

The Company’s disclosures on its application of the principles of the 2018 Code can be found on the following pages:

Board leadership and company purpose
See pages 82 to 86

Composition, succession and evaluation
See pages 87; 89 to 92

Chairman’s introduction
See page 78

Leadership, values, culture and purpose
See pages 9 to 13; 46 to 55; 82 to 86

Strategy
See pages 9 to 13; 82 to 83

Stakeholder and shareholder engagement
See pages 40 to 45; 46 to 55; 82; 84 to 86

Division of responsibilities
See pages 87 to 88

Commitment, development and information flow
See pages 84 to 85 and 87 to 88

Board evaluation
See page 89

Nomination Committee Report
See pages 90 to 92

Audit, risk and internal control
See pages 93 to 99

Risks, viability and going concern
See pages 68 to 77; 94 to 99

Audit Committee Report
See pages 93 to 99

Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
See pages 100 to 115

78

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

79

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Board of Directors

Michael McLintock
Chairman

N R

Michael was appointed a 
director in November 2017 
and Chairman in April 2018. 
He was formerly Chief 
Executive of M&G, retiring 
in 2016, having joined the 
company in 1992 and been 
appointed Chief Executive 

in 1997. In 1999 he oversaw the sale of M&G to Prudential plc 
where he served as an Executive Director from 2000 until 2016. 
Previously he held roles in investment management at Morgan 
Grenfell and in corporate ﬁnance at Morgan Grenfell and Barings.

Other appointments:

•  Trustee of the Grosvenor Estate
•  Non-Executive Chairman of Grosvenor Group Limited
•  Chairman of The Investor Forum CIC
•  Member of the Advisory Board of Bestport Private Equity 

Limited

•  Member of the Takeover Appeal Board
•  Member of the MCC Committee

George Weston
Chief Executive

George was appointed to 
the Board in 1999 and took up 
his current appointment as 
Chief Executive in April 2005. 
In his former roles at 
Associated British Foods, 
he was Managing Director 
of Westmill Foods, Allied 
Bakeries and George Weston 
Foods Limited (Australia).

Other appointments:

•  Non-Executive Director of Wittington Investments Limited
•  Trustee of the Garfield Weston Foundation
•  Trustee of the British Museum

Eoin Tonge
Finance Director

Eoin was appointed a director 
in February 2023 and as 
Finance Director in April 2023. 
He previously held positions 
as the Chief Financial Officer 
and Chief Strategy Officer 
at Marks and Spencer Group 
Plc, Chief Financial Officer of 
Greencore Group plc and 
Managing Director of 
Greencore’s grocery division and Chief Strategy Officer.

Other appointments:

•  None

Dame Heather Rabbatts
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

AN

R

Dame Heather Rabbatts 
was appointed a director 
on 1 March 2021 and has 
been Senior Independent 
Director since 1 May 2023. 
Heather has held a number 
of executive and non-executive 

roles including in local government, infrastructure, media and 
sports. She has previously been a Non-Executive Director 
of Grosvenor Britain & Ireland, a Non-Executive Director of 
Kier Group plc and was the first woman on the Board of the 
Football Association in over 150 years. She continues to work 
in film and sports.

Other appointments:

•  Chair of Soho Theatre

Graham Allan
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

AN

R

Graham was appointed a 
director in September 2018 
and became chair of the 
Remuneration Committee 
in May 2023. Graham was 
formerly the Group Chief 
Executive of Dairy Farm 
International Holdings Limited, a pan-Asian retailer. Prior to 
joining Dairy Farm, he was President and Chief Executive Officer 
at Yum! Restaurants International. Graham has previously held 
various senior positions in multinational food and beverage 
companies with operations across the globe and has lived 
and worked in Australia, Asia, the US and Europe. 

Other appointments:

•  Senior Independent Director of Intertek Group plc
•  Senior Independent Director of InterContinental Hotels 

Group PLC

•  Non-Executive Director of Americana Restaurants 

International PLC

•  Non-Executive Chairman of Bata International
•  Director of IKANO Pte Ltd
•  Strategic Advisor to Nando’s Group Holdings Limited

Wolfhart Hauser
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

AN

R

Wolfhart was appointed 
a director in January 2015. 
Starting his career with 
various research activities, he 
went on to establish and lead 
a broad range of successful 
international service industry 

Annie Murphy
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

A R

Annie was appointed a 
director in September 2023. 
Annie has held senior roles at 
fast moving consumer goods 
and retail companies including 
PepsiCo and Procter & Gamble 
and, most recently, as SVP, 

Global Chief Commercial Officer – Brands and International 
at Walgreens Boots Alliance until January 2023. 

Other appointments:

•  Deputy Chair and Board Member of the British Beauty Council

Richard Reid
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

AN

R

Richard was appointed a 
director in April 2016. He was 
formerly a partner at KPMG 
LLP (‘KPMG’), having joined 
the firm in 1980. From 2008, 
Richard served as London 
Chairman at KPMG until he 

retired from that role and KPMG in September 2015. Previously, 
Richard was KPMG’s UK Chairman of the High Growth Markets 
group and Chairman of the firm’s Consumer and Industrial 
Markets group.

Other appointments:

•  Chairman of National Heart and Lung Foundation
•  Deputy Chairman of Berry Bros & Rudd
•  Senior Advisor to Bank of China UK
•  Warden and Member of the Court of the Goldsmiths’ Company

Emma Adamo
Non-Executive Director

Emma was appointed a 
director in December 2011. 
She was educated at Stanford 
University and has an MBA 
from INSEAD. She has served 
as a director/trustee on a 
number of non-profit and 
Foundation boards in the 
UK and Canada.

businesses. He was Chief Executive of Intertek Group plc for 
10 years until he retired from that role and the board in May 
2015. He was previously Chief Executive Officer and President 
of TÜV Süddeutschland AG for four years and Chief Executive 
Officer of TÜV Product Services for 10 years. He has also held 
other directorship roles, including as a Non-Executive Director 
of Logica plc from 2007 to 2012, as a Non-Executive Director 
of RELX plc from 2013 to 2023 and Chair of FirstGroup plc for 
four years from 2015 to July 2019.

Other appointments:

•  Board member in the Trescal Group

At the date of this report, Kumsal Bayazit is not yet a director 
but the Board approved her appointment as a Non-Executive 
Director with effect from 1 December 2023.

Key to Board Committees
N  Nomination Committee

R  Remuneration Committee

A  Audit Committee

 Committee Chair

Other appointments:

•  Director of Wittington Investments Limited

80

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

81

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Board leadership and company purpose

The work of the Board during the year

The Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s 
shareholders for the direction and oversight of the Company 
to ensure its long-term success. This includes setting the 
Company’s purpose, which is described in the Strategic Report. 
The Board met regularly throughout the year, sometimes with 
individual members attending virtually, to approve the Group’s 
strategic objectives, to lead the Group within a framework 
of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and 
managed, and to ensure that sufficient resources are available 
to meet the objectives set.

There are a number of matters which are specifically reserved 
for the Board’s approval. These are set out in a clearly defined 
schedule which is available to view on the corporate governance 
section of the Company’s website: www.abf.co.uk.

Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board 
Committees, being the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of 
reference and report regularly to the Board. Membership of 
these Committees is reviewed annually. Minutes of Committee 
meetings are made available to all directors on a timely basis. 
For further details, please see the Reports of each of these 
Committees below.

Purpose, business model and strategy
The purpose of the Company is to provide safe, nutritious 
and affordable food, and clothing that is great value for money. 
A description of the Company’s business model for sustainable 
growth in support of this purpose is set out in the Group business 
model and strategy section on pages 9 to 13. This section 
provides an explanation of the basis on which the Group 
generates value and preserves it over the long term and its 
strategy for delivering its objectives. Our ‘Managing our risks’ 
section starting on page 68 provides details on how opportunities 
and risks to the future of the business have been considered.

Culture and values
At its simplest, our culture and our values (respecting 
everyone’s dignity, acting with integrity, progressing through 
collaboration, and delivering with rigour) centre around doing 
the right thing. Our devolved decision-making model empowers 
the people closest to the risks to make the right judgements 
to mitigate those risks and to find opportunities, but importantly 
with encouragement, engagement and support from the centre. 
That support can take the form of resources and expertise or 
it can be provided through challenge. We believe the route to 
enduring value creation lies in our focus on building objectives 
from the bottom up rather than from the top down.

Culture is monitored by the Board through a number of different 
approaches. Richard Reid’s work on workforce engagement, 
with the support of the Chief People and Performance Officer, 
is a key approach (and Richard’s letter on pages 84 and 85 sets 
out further detail on how Richard has engaged with the 
businesses during this financial year and the overarching 
themes of such engagement). This is supported by business 
presentations from senior management of each business 
division to the Board (which include information on safety 
performance and health and wellbeing initiatives, as well as 
the individual businesses’ workforce engagement initiatives, 
including results and outcomes). 

It is essential that the businesses not only engage with and 
assess culture within their workforce, but that they also respond 
and take action. Some of the initiatives that our businesses 
have taken arising from people surveys and other listening and 
engagement interactions, including examples of how we reward 
and invest in our workforce, are set out in Richard Reid’s letter 
on pages 84 and 85. 

In addition, directors have carried out other site visits and other 
engagement events, further details of which can be found 
on page 88. 

Whistleblowing
The Group’s Speak Up Policy contains arrangements for an 
independent external service provider to receive, in confidence 
(where legally permitted), reports of any inappropriate, improper, 
dishonest, illegal or dangerous behaviour for reporting to the 
Audit Committee as appropriate. The Audit Committee reviews 
reports and the actions arising from internal audit and reports 
on these to the Board.

The Audit Committee reports to the full Board on (or all Board 
members attend the relevant parts of the Audit Committee 
meeting to obtain details of) the analysis of reported allegations 
which is compiled by the Director of Financial Control. 
Arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent 
investigations of allegations and for follow-up action. 
Further details of the Speak Up Policy and processes in place, 
as well as information on the status of notifications received 
in the year to 31 May 2023 are provided on page 52.

Conflicts of interest procedure
The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation 
where a director has a conflict of interest. As part of this 
process, the Board:

•  considers each conflict situation separately on its 

particular facts;

•  considers the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of 
the conflicted director’s duties under the Companies Act 2006;
•  keeps records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted 

by directors and the scope of any approvals given; and

•  regularly reviews conflict authorisation.

Engagement with stakeholders
Our scale, employing approximately 133,000 people and 
with operations in 55 countries across the world, means that 
our activities matter to, or have an impact on, many people. 
As a result, the Company engages regularly with its stakeholders 
at Group and/or business level, depending on the particular issue.

At a Group level we engage with a variety of stakeholder groups 
including shareholders, governments, media and investors 
through a range of methods. As part of daily business activities 
and through structured processes, our businesses routinely 
engage with customers, suppliers, regulators and industry bodies.

More detail about our approach to stakeholder engagement 
and specific activities this year can be found on pages 40 to 45 
(which contain our Section 172 Statement on engaging with 
our stakeholders), pages 46 to 55 (on responsibility) and in the 
letter on pages 84 and 85 from Richard Reid, our Non-Executive 
Director for engagement with the workforce.

During the financial year, key activities of the Board included:

Strategy

Acquisitions/disposals/
projects

•  conducting regular strategy update sessions with the divisions in Board meetings; and
•  receiving a strategy update from the Director of Business Development.

•  considering/approving various acquisitions including the acquisitions of: Vital Solutions, 

active in polyphenol-based botanical ingredients for human dietary supplements, 
Kite Consulting, active in dairy consulting and performance products, and National Milk 
Records plc, which provides an integrated service provider working for both farmers 
and milk buyers as well as an independent source of data from advisers such as vets, 
farm consultants and breed societies; 

•  considering and approving capital investment including in relation to the opening of 

new Primark stores and upgrades to existing stores, the expansion of yeast production 
and introduction of spray drying capability for Ohly in Germany, the establishment 
of a manufacturing facility for Ovaltine in Nigeria, expansion and upgrades in our African 
sugar businesses and various ERP projects across the Group; and
•  receiving regular updates on proposed acquisitions and disposals.

Financial and operational 
performance

•  receiving regular reports to the Board from the Chief Executive;
•  receiving, on a rolling basis, senior management presentations from Group business 

Governance and risk

Corporate responsibility

Investor relations and other 
stakeholder engagement

People

segments;

•  considering the Group budget for the 2023/24 financial year;
•  approving the Company’s full year and interim results;
•  deciding to recommend payment of a 2022 final dividend (paid in January 2023) and 

deciding to pay an interim dividend (paid in July 2023); and

•  approving banking mandate updates and various other treasury-related matters.

•  reviewing the material financial and non-financial risks facing the Group’s businesses;
•  receiving regular updates on corporate governance and regulatory matters;
•  participation in, as well as review and discussion of recommendations from, 

the internal Board evaluation;

•  receiving reports from the Board Committee Chairs as appropriate;
•  confirming directors’ independence and conflicts of interest;
•  reviewing and approving gender pay reporting and the Modern Slavery and Human 

Trafficking Statement; and

•  undertaking appropriate preparations for the holding of the AGM including considering 
and approving an ‘outlook’ statement and, subsequently, discussing any issues arising 
from the AGM.

•  continuing to support the enhanced activity on ESG matters;
•  receiving regular management reports as well as annual presentations on health 

and safety and on environmental issues; and

•  receiving an update on ESG matters including priorities, commitments, risks and 

opportunities, and the requirements in relation to climate-related financial disclosures.

•  one or more of the Chairman, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Chief Executive 

and Finance Director attending meetings with institutional investors to hear their views; 
and

•  receiving reports on investor relations activities and regular feedback on directors’ 

meetings held with institutional investors.

•  approving the appointment of Annie Murphy and Kumsal Bayazit as Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company with effect from 6 September 2023 and 1 December 
2023 respectively;

•  Richard Reid, Non-Executive Director for engagement with the workforce, continuing 
to work with the businesses to ensure that the voice of the workforce is heard and 
acted upon – see further details on pages 84 and 85;

•  receiving updates from senior management of the businesses on how they have 

engaged with their workforces and the outcomes of such engagement; and
•  receiving and considering presentations on succession planning and talent 

management from the Chief People and Performance Officer.

82

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

83

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Board leadership and company purpose continued

Non-Executive Director for engagement with the workforce

•  operations, commercial and management teams from 

Twinings Ovaltine in Andover and New Jersey;

•  employees from the Argo factory and the Chicago Head 

Office in ACH;

•  retail assistants, store supervisors, managers, and regional 

HR business partners at Primark’s Chicago store and at two 
different Primark stores in New Jersey;

•  employees across a range of teams and departments at SPI 

Pharma in Grand Haven, Michigan;

•  participants of the Thrive development programme at George 

Weston Foods businesses in Australia;

•  employees from operations and product merchandising from 

Tip Top in New South Wales, Australia;

•  a wide variety of employees from our Don business 

in regional Victoria, Australia; and

•  the team in our Yumi’s business based in Port Melbourne, 

Australia.

My visits also enable me to connect with our people through 
unions or other local collective arrangements, for example with 
the union representative for our Don business.

I am also grateful for the input from fellow Board members 
who have visited our businesses including Acetum, Illovo and 
Primark during the year.

I am struck by the openness and honesty I experience in all 
these discussions and the willingness of our people to actively 
participate in sharing views on what is going well and where 
there could be improvement. This is a testament to the cultures 
that our leaders have developed across the Group. Overarching 
themes from these discussions include that:

•  people enjoy their work, feel respected and deeply appreciate 

the accountability and empowerment that they have, 
consistent with the ABF devolved operating model;
•  people care about the work they do and feel cared for 

by our businesses;

•  people appreciate the culture and values, which are seen 
as being different from other organisations they have 
worked with;

•  people are appreciative of clear and consistent 

communications and that there is no such thing as too 
much communication;

•  the leaders of our businesses have increased the breadth 

and depth of communications in recent years, as our people 
value being kept informed on business progress and the 
opportunity for discussion; and

•  people value career development and progression, and there 

is real interest in understanding and pursuing career and 
development opportunities across the broader Group.

Further areas are beginning to emerge in discussions, for 
example, our people seeing the opportunity for greater use 
of technology to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the 
work environment.

In my visits and discussions, I specifically take the opportunity 
to understand if our people are aware of Speak Up, our policy to 
ensure there is a route beyond local management and leadership 
to raise concerns and issues. Speak Up is an important 
mechanism to ensure employees will always feel comfortable 
to raise concerns even in the most sensitive of situations. 
For more information on Speak Up, see page 52.

Richard Reid
Non-Executive Director

The success of our Group has people at its 
heart. The culture and processes across all our 
businesses ensure that employee voices, at all 
levels of the organisation, are encouraged and 
welcomed in their local teams through to Board 
discussions, and that their views and opinions 
are heard and acted upon.

The breadth and complexity of our Group, with our devolved 
operating model, requires all our leaders to connect with their 
people and teams, actively and attentively listening and 
responding to views or suggestions considering the local 
culture, workplace and style of operation. The Chief Executive 
sets the tone and expectations for this ongoing engagement 
with all our divisional chief executives and business leaders. 
My role as Non-Executive Director for engagement with the 
workforce is primarily to ensure processes are in place giving 
employees the opportunity to raise views, opinions, and 
concerns, and that the workforce understand how to access 
these channels and they are listened to when they do. It is also 
to interact with our leaders and businesses to test culture and 
engagement and bring back perspectives to the boardroom. 
While local cultures clearly vary across the world and we need 
to be sensitive to those, divisional chief executive officers also 
have responsibility to embed group-wide cultures across our 
businesses and this is an area of focus for the Board.

Since my last report I have spent face-to-face time with our 
people in their offices, factories, stores, and out in the field. 
In these discussions I have been able to understand how 
they view our Group and their specific business and location. 
I have spoken with:

The visits are only one part of the ABF approach to workforce 
engagement. In addition:

•  workforce engagement across the Group is discussed in 

depth at two of the Board meetings, with the Chief People 
and Performance Officer presenting a groupwide view of 
progress, including metrics, process enhancements, and 
highlighting the ‘we asked, you said, we listened, we did’ 
feedback loop case studies from across the Group. During 
these discussions we identify areas of ongoing enhancement 
which are taken back to the businesses. This year for example, 
we identified a further focus on colleagues who work in 
factories and stores, including relationships with unions;
•  every Board meeting also includes divisional chief executive 

presentations covering workforce engagement within 
their businesses; this ensures all areas of the Group are 
reviewed in depth during the year. I continue to be in regular 
discussion with our divisional chief executives and people and 
performance/HR directors across all segments for the Group. 
I speak with them after their formal presentations to discuss 
areas of interest or concern and to share insights for my 
discussions with their people;

•  we have an annual Board session focused on talent, 

succession and progress on inclusion;

•  twice a year the Chief Executive and Chief People and 
Performance Officer have in-depth discussions on 
organisation and talent that include workforce engagement 
with each divisional chief executive and people and 
performance/HR director; and

•  the divisional people and performance/HR directors, facilitated 

by the Chief People and Performance Officer, also come 
together regularly to learn and share with each other across 
a variety of topics, including workforce engagement.

A vast number of our businesses use engagement surveys to 
gather feedback from their people, through a variety of global 
partners such as Willis Towers Watson, Workday Peakon and 
Gallup. Close to 90% of our businesses use engagement 
surveys regularly, often annually or more frequently. In the 
businesses that have run their surveys this year, 85% of our 
people were invited to participate with response rates at almost 
70%. The insights and actions that flow from these surveys are 
part of the data presented to the Board on a regular basis. I was 
pleased to see that, of the businesses running their engagement 
surveys this year, almost 90% showed favourable engagement 
scores at or above 70%.

In line with our focus areas shared in last year’s report, we have 
widened our understanding of workforce engagement, through 
introducing engagement surveys to new parts of the Group 
or through expanding the reach of existing surveys to more 
employees. Local technological, legal and cultural norms do still 
present challenges for a full rollout of engagement surveys in all 
countries, but we expect our leaders to find appropriate ways to 
understand workforce engagement and take action to enhance 
it further for all our employees in the year ahead.

I am pleased to see the feedback loop in action, with 
businesses acting on the voice of their employees through 
their employee engagement surveys, listening groups or 
through the insights I can share from my visits and discussions. 
Examples include:

•  the ABF Centre leadership held a ‘Strength through 

Difference’ workshop to explore ways to ensure even greater 
inclusion among the corporate centre teams;

•  the Managing Director of our ABF Sugar business in Eswatini 

invited colleagues from operations teams to day visits in 
the head office to learn more about the wider business. 
This followed on from discussions I had with them when 
I visited them at the end of the last financial year;

•  in response to employee feedback, that was shared in 

discussion sessions with me, Twinings Ovaltine held global 
town hall sessions, to provide its employees with greater 
understanding and clarity of areas of the business beyond 
their own;

•  our grocery business Acetum has enhanced its benefits for 
shift workers and provided a communal lunchroom and 
subsidised meals for all their employees based on feedback 
and requests from their employees and union discussions;
•  to promote an open workplace, AB Mauri’s Global Baking 

Ingredients business has introduced a number of 
mechanisms to support communication and connections 
across their teams, including suggestion boxes, town halls, 
team-building games, appreciation workshops, family days, 
newsletters and lunch with leaders;

•  AB Agri has further developed its wellbeing offering including 
using Nudge to support financial education and wellbeing, 
creating spaces for social wellbeing, plus raising awareness 
through recognising World WellBeing Week; and

•  Primark has developed a new approach to ensure it is 

responding promptly to employee feedback. Themes from 
its regular engagement surveys are fed into the centres 
of excellence or its global teams, where local managers and 
people and culture business partners develop and implement 
local action plans at a store or team level. 

In summary, from my work over the last 12 months, I have seen 
significant evidence that the necessary policies and practices 
within the businesses are in place and that our people are of 
aware how to raise views, ideas and concerns. This perspective 
comes from my direct interactions with the Chief Executive, 
Chief People and Performance Officer, division chief executives, 
business leaders and managers, the observations and insights 
shared with me by our people on my visits, information shared 
in Board presentations and papers, and the results of the 
engagement surveys across the Group. 

Culture and tone are set from the top of an organisation, 
echoed through leaders and managers to every level of a 
business; across ABF I see an open culture that enables issues 
and ideas to be raised and acted on constructively. It is clear 
that our chief executives and business leaders take seriously 
the voices of all our people.

I and the Board remain steadfast to holding divisional chief 
executives and business leaders to account, and in turn 
ensuring that all our employees have the opportunity for their 
voice to be heard in every part of ABF, so they can be part 
of creating a successful business where people thrive.

Richard Reid
Non-Executive Director

84

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

85

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Board leadership and company purpose continued

of the meeting on all resolutions put forward as shareholders 
will not be able to vote on the day if they are not attending in 
person. Shareholders will also have the opportunity to put their 
questions to the Board either at the meeting (if attending in 
person) or in advance of the meeting. Further details are included 
in the Notice of AGM and documentation accompanying the 
proxy form. All votes are taken by a poll. In 2022, voting levels 
at the AGM were over 85% of the Company’s issued share 
capital.

Annual Report
We publish a full Annual Report and Accounts each year which 
contains a Strategic Report, responsibility section, corporate 
governance section and financial statements. The Annual Report 
is available in paper format for those who request it and on our 
website: www.abf.co.uk.

Responsibility/ESG 
We publish a Responsibility Report on the issues most 
material to the businesses within our Group. The Director 
of Legal Services and Company Secretary acts as a focal point 
for communications on matters of corporate responsibility. 
During the year, the Company responded to requests for 
meetings, telephone meetings or written information from 
both existing and potential shareholders and research bodies 
on a broad range of environmental, social and governance risk 
matters, including matters related to climate change, water and 
greenhouse gas risk management, supply chain management, 
sustainable agriculture, human rights, employee welfare, gender 
balance and human capital development. The Director of Legal 
Services and Company Secretary and the Group Corporate 
Responsibility Director regularly meet with investors, potential 
investors and other stakeholders to discuss corporate 
responsibility matters.

Website (www.abf.co.uk)
Our website is regularly updated and contains a comprehensive 
range of information on our Company. There is a section 
dedicated to investors which includes our investor calendar, 
financial results, presentations, press releases and contact 
details. The area dedicated to individual shareholders is an 
essential communication method. It includes information 
on shareholder news, administrative services and 
contact information.

Engagement with shareholders

We have a dedicated in-house team to manage communications 
with our shareholders, making sure we respond directly, 
as appropriate, to any matters regarding their shareholdings. 
We also have a dedicated team at Equiniti Limited (our share 
registrar) which looks after their needs. To improve security 
and efficiency of communications and to reduce the amount 
of paper we use, we seek to use e-communications to 
communicate with shareholders wherever possible and 
encourage shareholders to switch to e-communications in order 
to reduce our paper usage further. We also encourage the direct 
payment of dividends into bank or building society accounts.

We also engage with shareholders, both institutional investors 
and individual shareholders, in a number of other ways: 

Meetings
The Chairman meets with the Company’s largest institutional 
shareholders to hear their views and discuss any issues or 
concerns. During the year, the Chairman held meetings with a 
number of institutional shareholders (either in person or virtually) 
and discussed a range of topics including the Company’s 
strategy and approach to corporate governance, ESG and 
remuneration-related matters. The Remuneration Committee 
Chair also meets with investors and analysts to answer queries 
and respond to feedback around remuneration issues.

On the day of the announcement of the interim and final results, 
the Company’s largest shareholders, together with financial 
analysts, are invited to a presentation with a question and answer 
session by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, with 
webcast presentations of the results available for all shareholders 
through the Company’s website. Following the results, the 
Executive team holds one-to-one and group meetings (virtually 
where necessary) with institutional shareholders and potential 
investors. These views are then reported back to the Board 
as a whole at the following Board meeting to ensure that it is 
aware of any issues that the Company’s largest shareholders 
are concerned with.

During the year, the Board has maintained an active programme 
of engagement with institutional investors, including engagement 
by the Chief Executive and/or Finance Director, the purpose 
of which is both to develop shareholders’ understanding of 
the Company’s strategy, operations and performance and to 
provide the Board with an awareness of the views of significant 
shareholders. At each Board meeting, the directors are briefed 
on shareholder meetings that have taken place and on feedback 
received, including any significant concerns raised.

AGM
All shareholders are invited to attend the AGM in person, have 
access to our website and the choice to receive electronic 
communications. 

The AGM provides an opportunity for the directors to engage 
with shareholders, answer their questions and to meet them 
informally. The AGM will be held on Friday 8 December 2023 
at 11.00 am at the Congress Centre, 28 Great Russell Street, 
London WC1B 3LS. It is planned that shareholders will be able 
to attend in person. There will also be the possibility for 
registered shareholders to follow proceedings through a 
livestream on the AGM website. We encourage all shareholders 
not attending in person on the day to vote by proxy in advance 

Division of responsibilities

Board composition
At the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprises 
the following directors:

Chairman
Michael McLintock

Executive Directors
George Weston (Chief Executive) 
Eoin Tonge (Finance Director) – appointed 6 February 2023

Non-Executive Directors
Dame Heather Rabbatts (Senior Independent Director) 
Emma Adamo 
Graham Allan 
Wolfhart Hauser 
Annie Murphy – appointed 6 September 2023 
Richard Reid

The Board has approved the appointment of Kumsal Bayazit 
as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2023. 
John Bason retired from the Board with effect from 28 April 
2023 and Ruth Cairnie retired from the Board with effect from 
31 August 2023.

Biographical and related information about the directors as at the 
date of this Annual Report is set out on pages 80 and 81.

We consider the size of the Board to be large enough to ensure 
diversity and an appropriate variety of skills whilst still being 
small enough to ensure a good quality of debate. This view was 
supported by the external Board evaluation in 2021, as well as 
the internal Board evaluations carried out in 2022 and 2023, 
further details of which are set out on page 89.

Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are 
separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly 
established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board to 
ensure that no one has unfettered powers of decision. Copies 
are available on request.

The Chairman is responsible for the operation and leadership 
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. 
The Chairman works with the Company Secretary to set the 
agenda for Board meetings. The Chairman promotes a culture 
of openness and debate, which has been a key factor behind 
seeking to keep the size of the Board relatively small, and 
facilitates constructive Board relations and contributions from all 
non-executive directors, as well as ensuring that directors 
receive accurate, timely and clear information. The Chairman 
was independent on appointment.

The Chief Executive is responsible for leading and managing the 
Group’s business within a set of authorities delegated by the 
Board and for the implementation of Board strategy and policy. 
Authority for the operational management of the Group’s 
business has been delegated to the Chief Executive for 
execution or further delegation by him for the effective 
day-to-day running and management of the Group. The chief 
executive of each business within the Group has authority for 
that business and reports directly to the Chief Executive.

Senior Independent Director
The purpose of this role is to act as a sounding board for the 
Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for other directors 
where necessary. The Senior Independent Director is also 
available to shareholders should a need arise to convey 
concerns to the Board which they have been unable to convey 
through the Chairman or through the executive directors. 
The role of the Senior Independent Director is set out in writing 
and a copy is available on request.

In addition to meeting with non-executive directors without 
the Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s performance 
(for which, see further details on page 89), the Senior 
Independent Director meets with the non-executive directors 
on other occasions as necessary.

The non-executive directors
The non-executive directors, in addition to their responsibilities 
for strategy and business results, play a key role in providing a 
solid foundation for good corporate governance and ensure that 
no individual or group dominates the Board’s decision-making. 
They each occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in industry 
which, taken together, cover a broad range of jurisdictions, 
bringing valuable external perspectives to the Board’s 
deliberations through their experience and insight from different 
sectors and geographies. This enables them to contribute 
significantly to Board decision-making by providing constructive 
challenge and holding to account both management and 
individual executive directors against agreed performance 
objectives. The Board is of a sufficiently small size to be 
conducive to open and candid discussions. The formal letters 
of appointment of non-executive directors are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office.

Board Committees
The written terms of reference for the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees are available on the Company’s 
website, www.abf.co.uk, and hard copies are available on 
request. Further details on the work of each of the Committees 
are included later in this Corporate Governance Report.

Board independence
Emma Adamo is not considered by the Board to be independent 
in view of her relationship with Wittington Investments Limited, 
the Company’s majority shareholder. Emma was appointed in 
December 2011 to represent this shareholding on the Board. 
The Board considers that the other non-executive directors are 
independent in character and judgement and that they are each 
free from any business or other relationships which would 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. Further details of their independence are included 
in the Notice of AGM. At least half the Board, excluding the 
Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.

Commitment
The letters of appointment for the Chairman and the 
non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment 
required of them and are available for inspection by any person 
during normal business hours at the Company’s registered 
office and at the AGM. Other significant commitments of 
the Chairman and non-executive directors are disclosed prior 
to appointment and subsequent appointments require 
prior approval.

86

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

87

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Division of responsibilities continued

Dame Heather Rabbatts stepped down from the board of Kier 
Group plc with effect from 30 March 2023. Wolfhart Hauser 
stepped down from the board of RELX plc in April 2023 and 
subsequently took up a position as a board member in the 
(non-listed) Trescal group. Graham Allan was already a director 
on an Americana Restaurants entity which subsequently listed 
its shares for trading on the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange and 
the Saudi Stock Exchange in December 2022 as Americana 
Restaurants International PLC. The Board considered that these 
appointments did not impact the relevant directors’ ability to 
discharge their responsibilities to the Company.

Board meetings
The Board held eight meetings during the financial year. 
Periodically, Board meetings are held away from the corporate 
centre in London.

The attendance of the directors at Board and Committee 
meetings during the year is shown in the table below. If a 
director is unable to participate in a meeting either in person 
or remotely, the Chairman will solicit their views on key items 
of business in advance of the relevant meeting and share 
these with the meeting so that they are able to contribute to 
the debate.

All of the directors attended those meetings that they were 
eligible to attend.

Senior executives below Board level are invited, when 
appropriate, to attend Board meetings and to make 
presentations on the results and strategies of their business 
units. Papers for Board and Committee meetings are generally 
provided to directors a week in advance of the meetings.

Information flow
The Company Secretary manages the provision of information 
to the Board at appropriate times in consultation with the 
Chairman and Chief Executive and ensures that the Board has 
the policies, processes, time and resources it needs in order to 
function effectively and efficiently. This includes the provision 
of corporate governance updates to all Board members in the 
Board pack for each meeting. In addition to formal meetings, 
the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with 
all directors. The Chairman holds informal meetings or calls with 
non-executive directors, without any of the executives being 
present, to discuss issues affecting the Group, as appropriate. 
All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is 
responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.

Board induction
The Company provides all non-executive directors with a tailored 
and thorough programme of induction, which is facilitated by 
the Chairman and the Company Secretary and which takes 
account of prior experience and business perspectives and the 
Committees on which he or she serves. This typically includes 
training, as well as site visits and meetings with management 
to get to know the businesses better.

Eoin Tonge, the newest executive director appointed to the 
Board, has visited many businesses since his appointment in 
February 2023. These visits have included: Illovo in South Africa, 
Zambia and Malawi; AB World Foods and Twinings Ovaltine in 
Poland; Primark in Ireland, the USA and Germany; Azucarera and 
AB Agri in Spain; George Weston Foods in Australia and New 
Zealand; and various grocery businesses in the UK. 

Annie Murphy joined the Board with effect from 6 September 
2023. Since the end of the financial year to which this Annual 
Report relates, in addition to meeting with executives at the 
corporate centre in late September 2023, Annie has also visited 
India with Dame Heather Rabbatts and the Group Corporate 
Responsibility Director as part of Annie’s induction. This has 
enabled them to understand more about Primark’s activities in 
India following meetings with Primark’s Ethical Trade and 
Environmental Sustainability team and visits to a community 
centre, farmer village and a supplier factory. 

Kumsal Bayazit will join the Board with effect from 1 December 
2023 and an induction will be arranged, including visits to 
businesses. 

Training, development and engagement
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
directors receive suitable training to enable them to carry out 
their duties and is supported in this by the Company Secretary. 
Directors are also encouraged personally to identify any additional 
training requirements that would assist them in carrying out 
their role. Training is provided in briefing papers, such as the 
regular update from the Company Secretary as part of the Board 
pack ahead of each meeting covering developments in legal, 
regulatory and governance matters, and by way of presentations 
and meetings with senior executives or other external sources. 

The Chief Executive encourages other Board members to visit 
operations either with him, with other directors, or on their 
own. The Board meeting in May 2023 was held at Primark’s 
headquarters at Arthur Ryan House in Dublin and also included 
a visit to the Mary Street store.

Dame Heather Rabbatts had also separately visited Primark’s 
head office and its first store in Mary Street in Dublin in January 
2023 and met with Paul Marchant, Primark CEO, together with 
members of the Primark leadership team. 

In addition to the visits by Eoin as part of his induction, as 
mentioned above, the senior executives of several businesses 
also met with Eoin to provide ‘deep dives’ into their businesses.

For details of visits by Richard Reid to a variety of businesses 
across the Group, please see pages 84 and 85.

Attendance of directors at Board and Committee 
meetings

Board

Audit
Committee

Nomination
Committee

Remuneration
Committee

Michael 
McLintock
George Weston
Eoin Tonge
Dame Heather 
Rabbatts
Emma Adamo
Graham Allan
Wolfhart Hauser
Annie Murphy
Richard Reid
John Bason
Ruth Cairnie

8/8
8/8
5/5

8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
1/1
8/8
5/5
7/7

4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4
4/4

4/4

4/4

3/3

4/4
4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4 

4/4 
4/4 
1/1 
4/4 

3/3

Composition, succession and evaluation

Board composition and succession
Details of the composition of the Board are on page 87. There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new 
directors to the Board. Details are available in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 90 to 92 which also provides details of the 
Committee’s activities, including the approval of the appointment of Annie Murphy and Kumsal Bayazit as Independent Non-Executive 
Directors as well as details of Board and senior management succession plans and diversity.

Election and re-election of directors
In accordance with the provisions of the 2018 Code, at the 2023 AGM to be held in December, all directors currently in office 
will be proposed for election/re-election. Kumsal Bayazit is to be appointed with effect from 1 December 2023 and will also be 
proposed for election at the AGM.

Board evaluation
2022 internal Board evaluation
As reported in our last Annual Report, an internal Board evaluation was carried out in May to August 2022. A summary of the actions 
arising from the 2022 Board evaluation and their outcomes are set out below.

Actions from 2022 internal evaluation 

Outcome 

Chief Executive to discuss with the Director of Business Performance 
and the Chief People and Performance Officer and agree approach with 
regard to increasing the provision of feedback to executives on their 
presentations to the Board and to encourage business divisions to focus 
on a few specific issues in their presentations such that the Board can 
provide input of most value to the business divisions. 

Businesses have improved in giving further specific 
insight into their business during Board presentations. 
Feedback provided to executives following their 
presentations to the Board has increased.

Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director to consider the most 
appropriate model to meet requirements, including looking beyond usual 
corporate governance structures in order to consider the interface 
between the Primark Strategic Advisory Board and the main Board.

The Chair of the Primark Strategic Advisory Board 
(‘PSAB’) meets regularly with the Chairman and 
Chief Executive to update them on the PSAB’s work. 
This input then informs main Board discussions.

Chairman to consider in conjunction with the Chief People and 
Performance Officer how the Nomination Committee/Board can most 
effectively carry out their roles in respect of the diversity pipeline and 
succession planning.

During the financial year, two new non-executive 
directors were approved to join the Board, strengthening 
the Board’s expertise, particularly in respect of retail/
brand and technology/analytics experience. 

2023 internal Board evaluation
An internal Board evaluation was carried out in July and August 
2023. The objective of the review was to assess all aspects of 
the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman 
and the individual directors, also measuring progress against 
recommendations from the previous Board evaluation.

The Board evaluation was carried out at the request of the 
Chairman by the Director of Corporate Governance.

How the Board evaluation was conducted
The main strands of work were as follows:

•  each Board member, the Company Secretary and the Group 
Statutory Auditor was requested to complete a questionnaire 
and provide comments in response to a range of questions 
and observations relating to the Board. Each respondent was 
also given the opportunity to have a follow-up meeting with 
the Chairman to discuss any particular issues; and

•  a report was prepared including overall observations and 
highlighting key recommendations for consideration.

The report was then included in the Board pack for the Board 
meeting in September 2023 and discussed by the Board at 
that meeting. The headline outcomes of the review were that 
the Board felt that it had the right mix of skills and expertise 
in the context of developing and delivering the strategy and 
assessing the challenges and opportunities facing the Group 
(particularly in light of the skillset that the newest directors will 
bring) and that the Board and its Committees continue to be 
well-functioning and effective in providing oversight of the 
Company and its governance.

Key recommendations and actions from the 2023 internal Board 
evaluation are to:

•  increase the businesses’ discussion with the Board on the 

competitive environment and growth areas so as to improve 
the Board’s understanding of their strategies and ability to 
continue to provide valued input;

•  consider how to facilitate more business visits by non-

executive directors, in recognition of the importance of such 
visits in monitoring culture; 

•  continue to consider how ESG risks and opportunities are 

addressed most effectively; and 

•  consider aligning the Board’s ‘deep dives’ on businesses with 

the Audit Committee’s ‘deep dives’ on the audit.

The outcome of the evaluation will not have any impact on 
Board composition, taking into account that the composition of 
the Board has only recently changed with the appointment of 
Annie Murphy as a director in September 2023 and with Kumsal 
Bayazit joining the Board in December 2023.

The Board (apart from the Chairman) also reviewed the 
performance of the Chairman during the year. This concluded 
that the Chairman is highly effective, ensuring that the Board 
considers the individual strategies of the businesses within the 
Group, whilst also maintaining a focus on priorities. It was 
further noted that the Chairman successfully enables open and 
purposeful discussions and is very inclusive, working well with 
all the non-executive directors and ensuring that the Board 
retains appropriate independence whilst forging strong 
relationships with the key executives.

88

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

89

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Nomination Committee Report

•  ensuring effective succession plans are in place for the Board 
and senior management and overseeing the development 
of a diverse pipeline for orderly succession based on merit 
and objective criteria, with due regard to diversity of age, 
gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, educational, 
professional and socio-economic background, cognitive and 
personal strengths; and

•  making recommendations to the Board on the Board’s policy 

on boardroom diversity and inclusion, its objectives and 
linkage to strategy, how it has been implemented and 
progress on achieving its objectives.

Governance
Members of the Nomination Committee are appointed by 
the Board from amongst the directors of the Company, in 
consultation with the Committee Chair. The Nomination 
Committee comprises a minimum of three members at any 
time, a majority of whom are independent non-executive 
directors. A quorum consists of two members, being either 
two independent non-executive directors or one independent 
non-executive director and the Chairman.

Only members of the Nomination Committee have the right to 
attend Nomination Committee meetings. Other individuals such 
as the Chief Executive, Finance Director, members of senior 
management, the Chief People and Performance Officer and 
external advisers may be invited to attend meetings as and 
when appropriate.

The Nomination Committee may take outside legal or other 
professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of 
reference at the Company’s expense but within any budgetary 
constraints imposed by the Board.

The Nomination Committee Chair reports the outcome of 
meetings to the Board to the extent that any Board members 
are not in attendance at the relevant meeting.

The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are 
available on the Corporate Governance section of the 
Company’s website: www.abf.co.uk.

Committee activities during the year
Succession planning
The Board continues to emphasise generalist skills in Board 
recruitment as well as continuing to factor in all forms 
of diversity, including gender and ethnic diversity.

A detailed review of succession planning in respect of senior 
management was presented to the Board by the Chief People 
and Performance Officer at the Board meeting in July 2023. This 
included a focus on: overall principles for succession (including 
an aim to have an increasingly diverse potential internal 
successor pool for all our leadership roles); potential succession 
candidates for the corporate centre roles; potential succession 
candidates for divisional CEO and CFO roles; diverse succession 
talent planning, including specifically identifying, developing and 
sponsoring emerging talent; group-wide learning and 
development initiatives to support diverse talent (e.g. the 
Executive Leadership Programme; the Senior Executive 
Induction Programme; the Finance Excellence Programme; and 
the Business Acumen Programme); and inclusion and diversity 
networks throughout the Group (e.g. Women in ABF; Early 
Careers Network; and the DEI Network).

Board appointments process
The process for making new appointments is led by the 
Chairman. Where appropriate, external, independent consultants 
are engaged to conduct a search for potential candidates, 
who are considered on the basis of their skills, experience and 
fit with the existing members of the Board. The Nomination 
Committee has procedures for appointing directors and these 
are set out in its terms of reference.

During the year, the Chairman led the process for conducting 
a search for new non-executive directors. Lygon Group, an 
external executive search consulting firm, was engaged to help 
identify potential candidates. In line with our Board Diversity 
Policy, the firm is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct 
for Executive Search Firms for best practice on gender and 
ethnic diversity. The firm is also a signatory to the Change the 
Race Ratio. Lygon has no other connection to the Company or 
the directors.

Potential candidates were considered on the basis of their 
skills and experience as well as their fit with the Group’s 
strategy. Following a rigorous process including interviews with 
members of the Nomination Committee and the Chief 
Executive and following recommendations of the Nomination 
Committee, in May 2023 the Board approved the appointment 
of Annie Murphy as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 
6 September 2023. Following a similar process, in August 2023 
the Board approved the appointment of Kumsal Bayazit as a 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2023.

Re-election of directors
The Nomination Committee members considered the 
composition of the Board and the time needed to fulfil the roles 
of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Director. They also considered the election/re-election of 
directors prior to their recommended approval by shareholders 
at the AGM.

Performance evaluation
The performance of the Nomination Committee was considered 
as part of the internal Board evaluation. The overall view was 
that it appeared to be working well and it was noted that the 
work of the Nomination Committee had led to securing good 
new non-executive director appointments.

Diversity and inclusion
We operate under the principle that we should be a Group 
where anyone with ambition and talent can have a great career, 
regardless of their age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, 
disability, educational and socio-economic background, cognitive 
and personal strengths or any of the other qualities that make 
people unique. This applies as much to the Board and to its 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees as it does 
to the Group as a whole. 

In furtherance of this principle, we aim to ensure that there 
are no obstacles or barriers to people joining the Group and 
progressing their careers with us. Across all of our operations, 
our objective is that everyone should feel respected, valued 
and included.

In November 2022, the Board approved a Board Diversity Policy 
which is available online at: www.abf.co.uk. This was taken 
into account in the appointments approved during the course 
of the financial year. 

The objectives under our Board Diversity Policy include:

•  continuing to engage executive search firms who have signed 
up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search 
Firms for best practice on gender and ethnic diversity;
•  committing to maintain at least 33% female directors on 

the Board and at least one person from an ethnic minority 
background on the Board;

•  aspiring to have at least 40% female directors on the Board 
by the end of 2025 and to maintain at least one woman 
in the Chair, Chief Executive, Finance Director or Senior 
Independent Director role;

•  with a view to attracting non-executive directors from 

more diverse socio-economic backgrounds, reducing the 
shareholding expectation for non-executive directors to 
‘a meaningful level of shareholding’; and

•  overseeing the development of a diverse pipeline for orderly 
succession of appointments to both the Board and to senior 
management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of 
skills and experience, taking into account the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Group. This includes continuing 
to receive detailed annual updates on succession planning 
and talent management from the Chief People and 
Performance Officer in recognition of its importance in 
supporting the Group’s strategy.

By way of update, with the appointment of Annie Murphy on 
6 September 2023 and with the forthcoming appointment of 
Kumsal Bayazit on 1 December 2023 (including the appointment 
of both to the Audit and Remuneration Committees), the Board 
will have met its aspiration as set out in the Board Diversity 
Policy to increase female representation to at least 40%, 
as recommended by the FTSE Women Leaders Review. 
We continue to meet our commitment to have at least one 
person from an ethnic minority background as a director, in line 
with the recommendations of the Parker Review. The Board 
has also maintained at least one woman in the Chair, Chief 
Executive, Finance Director or Senior Independent Director role, 
with Dame Heather Rabbatts taking up the position of Senior 
Independent Director from Ruth Cairnie in May 2023.

The Board also reviews progress on diversity and inclusion 
with the divisions as part of their business updates and with 
the Chief People and Performance Officer as an element of the 
talent and succession planning reviews. Details of other initiatives 
across the Group to promote diversity are provided on page 51, 
as is information on the gender balance of senior managers 
and direct reports.

On the next page we also publish a director skill sets matrix 
which seeks to provide a snapshot of the diversity of skills 
of the Board, as well as gender and ethnicity representation 
at Board and executive management levels. 

Michael McLintock
Nomination Committee Chair

Michael McLintock
Nomination Committee Chair

Members
At the date of this report, the following are members 
of the Nomination Committee:

•  Michael McLintock (Chair)
•  Graham Allan
•  Wolfhart Hauser
•  Dame Heather Rabbatts
•  Richard Reid

All members served on the Committee throughout the year, 
with the exception of Dame Heather Rabbatts who was 
appointed on 2 November 2022. Ruth Cairnie served on the 
Committee until she stepped down from the Board on 
31 August 2023.

Meetings
The Committee met four times during the year under review.

Primary responsibilities
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination 
Committee’s primary responsibilities included:

•  leading the process for Board appointments (both executive 

and non-executive) and making recommendations to 
the Board;

•  reviewing regularly the Board structure, size and composition 
(including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) and 
recommending any necessary or desirable changes;

90

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

91

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Audit Committee Report

Food/
Retail

Financial/
Audit/
Risk

Legal/
Public 
Policy 

Senior 
Executive

Cybersecurity/
IT

Comms/
Marketing/
Customer 
Service

Environmental/
Social

International 
Markets

Technical/
Engineering 

Health 
and 
Safety

Manufacturing/
Supply Chain

Director skill sets

Director

Michael McLintock

George Weston

Eoin Tonge

Dame Heather Rabbatts

Emma Adamo

Graham Allan

Wolfhart Hauser

Annie Murphy

Richard Reid

Board and executive management gender and ethnicity metrics
New Listing Rules targets for gender and ethnic diversity apply to the Company for the first time this financial year. As at 
16 September 2023, the Company had met the new Listing Rules targets for gender and ethnic Board diversity with the exception 
of the target for 40% female representation on the Board. This remains the case as at the date of this Annual Report. However, 
following the appointment of Kumsal Bayazit as a director with effect from 1 December 2023 (subject to Kumsal’s election by 
shareholders at the upcoming AGM), the Company will then meet all of the Listing Rules Board diversity targets as it will increase 
female representation on the Board to 40%.

The following metrics set out the range of gender and ethnicity as they relate to our Board and executive management as at 
16 September 2023. In the absence of an Executive Committee, by ‘executive management’ we refer to the most senior level 
of managers reporting to the Chief Executive, including the Company Secretary but excluding administrative and support staff, 
in accordance with the definition in the Listing Rules. The process by which diversity data was collected was, where permitted 
by relevant laws, to contact relevant individuals and ask them how they identified using the categorisations set out in the Listing 
Rules. Where we already held gender or ethnicity data for executives, with consents in place to use it for reporting on an anonymous 
basis, we used that data.

Gender representation at Board and executive management level

Men
Women
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of 

Board members % of the Board
66.7%
33.3%
–

6
3
–

Ethnicity representation at Board and executive management level

White British or other White (incl. minority white groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group, including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say*

Number of 

Board members % of the Board
88.9%
11.1%
–
–
–
–

8
1
–
–
–
–

Number of 
senior Board 
positions (CEO, 
CFO, SID, Chair)
3
1
–

Number of 
senior Board 
positions (CEO, 
CFO, SID, Chair)
3
1
–
–
–
–

Number in 
executive 
management
10
3
1

% of executive 
management
71.4%
21.4%
7.2%

Number in 
executive 
management
10
–
–
–
1
3

% of executive 
management
71.4%
–
–
–
7.2%
21.4%

*  This includes, as permitted by Listing Rule 9.8.6G, those people in respect of whom data protection laws in the relevant jurisdiction (e.g. France) prevent the 

collection or publication of some or all of the personal data required to be disclosed.

•  reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the consistency 
of, and changes to, accounting and treasury policies; whether 
the Group has followed appropriate accounting policies and 
made appropriate estimates and judgements; the clarity and 
completeness of disclosure; significant adjustments resulting 
from the audit; and compliance with accounting standards;

Narrative reporting
•  at the Board’s request, reviewing the content of the Annual 

Report and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, 
it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy;

•  where requested by the Board, assisting in relation to the 
Board’s robust assessment of the principal and emerging 
risks facing the Company and the prospects of the Company 
for the purposes of disclosures required in the Annual Report;

•  reviewing and approving statements to be included in the 

Annual Report concerning the going concern statement and 
viability statement;

Internal financial controls
•  reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial 
controls and internal control and risk management systems 
(including the systems to identify, manage and monitor 
financial risks), including the policies and overall process 
for assessing established systems and the timeliness and 
effectiveness of corrective action taken by management;

Whistleblowing and fraud
•  reviewing and reporting to the Board on the Group’s 

arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise 
concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties in 
financial reporting, financial and management accounting, 
or any other matters. The objective is to ensure that 
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and 
independent investigation of such matters and appropriate 
follow-up action;

•  reviewing the Group’s policies, procedures and controls for 

preventing and detecting fraud, preventing bribery, identifying 
money laundering, and ensuring compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements;

Internal audit
•  monitoring, reviewing and assessing the effectiveness and 
independence of the Group’s internal audit function in the 
context of the Group’s overall risk management system;
•  considering and approving the remit of the internal audit 

function, ensuring it has adequate resources and appropriate 
access to information to enable it to perform its function 
effectively; and

External audit
•  overseeing the relationship with the Group’s external auditor, 
including considering when the external audit contract should 
be put out to tender (adhering to any legal requirements for 
tendering or rotation), reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity, agreeing the scope 
of their work and fees paid to them for audit, assessing the 
effectiveness of the audit process, and agreeing the policy 
in relation to the provision of non-audit services.

Richard Reid
Audit Committee Chair

Members
At the date of this report, the members and Chair of the Audit 
Committee are as follows:

Richard Reid (Chair) 
Graham Allan 
Wolfhart Hauser 
Annie Murphy (appointed 6 September 2023) 
Dame Heather Rabbatts

All members served on the Committee throughout the year 
with the exception of Annie Murphy, who was appointed 
on 6 September 2023. Ruth Cairnie served on the Committee 
throughout the year until stepping down from the Board 
on 31 August 2023.

Meetings
The Committee met four times in the year under review. 
The Committee’s agenda is linked to events in the Group’s 
financial calendar.

Primary responsibilities
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit 
Committee’s primary responsibilities include:

Financial reporting
•  monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements 
and any formal announcements relating to the Company’s 
performance, reviewing significant financial reporting 
judgements contained in them before their submission to 
the Board;

•  informing the Board of the outcome of the Group’s external 

audit and explaining how it contributed to the integrity 
of financial reporting;

92

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

93

 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Governance
The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three members, 
all of whom are independent non-executive directors of the 
Company. Two members constitute a quorum.

The Committee Chair fulfilled the requirement that there must 
be at least one member with recent and relevant financial 
experience and competence in accounting or auditing (or both) 
during the year. In addition, the Committee as a whole has 
competence in the sectors in which the Company operates. 
All Committee members are expected to be financially literate 
and to have an understanding of the following areas:

•  the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting 

including the applicable accounting standards and statements 
of recommended practice;

•  key aspects of the Company’s operations including corporate 

policies and the Group’s internal control environment;

•  matters which may influence the presentation of accounts 

and key figures;

•  the principles of, and developments in, company law and 

other relevant corporate legislation;

•  the role of internal and external auditing and risk 

management; and

•  the regulatory framework for the Group’s businesses.

The Committee invites the other non-executive directors, Chief 
Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director 
of Financial Control and senior representatives of the external 
auditor to attend its meetings in full, although it reserves 
the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw. 
Other senior managers are invited to present such reports 
as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.

During the year, the Committee held four meetings with the 
external auditor without any executive members of the Board 
being present.

The Committee has unrestricted access to Company 
documents and information, as well as to employees of the 
Company and the external auditor.

The Committee may take independent professional advice 
on any matters covered by its terms of reference at the 
Company’s expense.

The Committee Chair reports the outcome of meetings to the 
Board (to the extent that any Board members were not in 
attendance at the relevant meeting).

The performance of the Audit Committee was considered 
in the external Board evaluation in 2021, which found that the 
Committee was universally well-regarded as being strong and 
effective. It was noted that members came to the meetings 
well prepared and offered robust challenge and that the agenda 
of meetings was broad-ranging, well-structured and covered 
all the matters in the Audit Committee’s remit. This view was 
reiterated in both the 2022 and 2023 internal Board evaluation.

The terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be viewed 
on the Investors section of the Company’s website: 
www.abf.co.uk.

The Committee advises the Board to enable it to meet its 
responsibilities under audit, risk and internal control.

Board responsibilities on audit, risk and 
internal control
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim 
and other price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators, 
and information required to be presented by statutory requests.

The directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report 
and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy. The Company produced a paper in 
this respect, prepared by the Group Financial Controller, 
containing an assessment of the Annual Report and financial 
statements, including a summary by division of performance 
issues in the year and one-off items which benefited 
performance. This paper was presented to the Audit 
Committee.

Risk management and internal control
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for monitoring 
the Group’s risk management and internal control systems to 
facilitate the identification, assessment and management of 
risk and the protection of shareholders’ investments and the 
Group’s assets. The directors recognise that they are responsible 
for providing a return to shareholders, which is consistent with 
the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.

The directors confirm that there is a process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group and the 
operational effectiveness of the related controls, which has 
been in place for the year under review and is up to the date of 
approval of the Annual Report. They also confirm that they have 
regularly monitored the effectiveness of the risk management 
and internal control systems (which cover all material controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls) utilising 
the review process set out below.

Standards
There are guidelines on the minimum groupwide requirements 
for health and safety and environmental standards. There are 
also guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that 
each of the divisions should exercise over specified processes. 
Each business has developed and documented policies and 
procedures to comply with the minimum control standards 
established, including procedures for monitoring compliance and 
taking corrective action. The board of each business is required 
to confirm twice yearly that it has complied with these policies 
and procedures.

High-level controls
All businesses prepare annual operating plans and budgets 
which are updated regularly. Performance against budget is 
monitored at business unit level and centrally, with variances 
being reported promptly. The cash position at Group and 
business level is monitored constantly and variances from 
expected levels are investigated thoroughly. Clearly defined 
guidelines have been established for capital expenditure and 
investment decisions. These include the preparation of budgets, 
appraisal and review procedures and delegated authority levels.

Financial reporting
Detailed management accounts are prepared every four 
weeks, consolidated in a single system and reviewed by senior 
management and the Board.

They include a comprehensive set of financial reports and 
key performance indicators covering commercial, operational, 
environmental and people issues. Performance against budgets 
and forecasts is discussed regularly at Board meetings and 
at meetings between operational and Group management. 
The adequacy and suitability of key performance indicators are 
reviewed regularly. All chief executives and finance directors of 
the Group’s operations are asked to sign an annual confirmation 
that their business has complied with the Group Accounting 
Manual in the preparation of consolidated financial statements 
and specifically to confirm the adequacy and accuracy of 
accounting provisions.

Internal audit
The Group’s internal audit activities are co-ordinated centrally 
by the Director of Financial Control, who is accountable to the 
Audit Committee.

Our internal audit team adopts a risk-based approach to develop 
and deliver a balanced internal audit plan that provides assurance 
that our businesses are effectively managing their key control 
risks and agreed action plans with business leaders where 
controls require improvement.

All Group businesses are required to comply with the Group’s 
Financial Control Framework which sets out minimum control 
standards. Our internal audit plans are designed to include 
coverage of financial controls to provide assurance over how 
our businesses meet the requirements of the Financial 
Control Framework.

Assessment of principal risks
The directors confirm that, during the year, the Board has 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging 
risks facing the Group, including those that could threaten its 
business model, future performance, and solvency or liquidity. 
A description of these principal and emerging risks and how 
they are being managed and mitigated is set out on pages 
68 to 75.

Annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk 
management and internal control
During the year, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of risk management and internal control 
processes embracing all material systems, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls, to ensure that they remain 
robust. The review covered the financial year to 16 September 
2023 and the period to the date of approval of this Annual 
Report. The review included:

•  the annual risk management review, a comprehensive 

process identifying the key external and operational risks 
facing the Group and the controls and activities in place to 
mitigate them, the findings of which are discussed with 
each member of the Board individually (refer to the risk 
management section on pages 94 to 95 for details of the 
process undertaken); and

•  the annual assessment of internal control, which, following 

consideration by the Audit Committee, provided assurance to 
the Board around the control environment and processes in 
place around the Group, specifically those relating to internal 
financial control.

The Board evaluated the effectiveness of management’s 
processes for monitoring and reviewing risk management and 
internal control. No significant failings or weaknesses were 
identified by the review and the Board is satisfied that, where 
areas of improvement were identified, processes are in place to 
ensure that remedial action is taken and progress monitored.

The Board confirmed that it was satisfied with the outcome of 
the review of the effectiveness of the systems and processes 
and that they complied with the requirements of the 2018 Code.

Going concern and viability
The 2018 Code requires the directors to assess and report on 
the prospects of the Group over a longer period. This longer-
term viability statement and statement of going concern is set 
out on pages 76 and 77.

Audit Committee activities during the year
In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit Committee 
receives and reviews presentations and reports from the 
Group’s senior management, consulting as necessary with 
the external auditor.

Monitoring the integrity of reported financial information
Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and 
associated announcements is a fundamental responsibility 
of the Audit Committee.

During the year it formally reviewed the Group’s interim and 
annual reports.

These reviews considered:

•  the description of performance in the Annual Report to ensure 

it was fair, balanced and understandable;

•  the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted 

in the Group’s financial statements, any proposed changes 
to them, and the adequacy of their disclosure;

•  important accounting issues or areas of complexity, the 

actions, estimates and judgements of management in relation 
to financial reporting and in particular the assumptions 
underlying the going concern and viability statements;

•  any significant adjustments to financial reporting arising from 

the audit;

•  tax contingencies, compliance with statutory tax obligations 

and the Group’s tax policy;

•  ongoing consideration of the potential implications of the 
Government White Paper: Restoring Trust in Audit and 
Corporate Governance, including the preparatory work for 
additional control reviews, the Group’s Assessment 
of Controls Effectiveness (ACE) programme;

•  reporting in line with the recommendations and recommended 

disclosures of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and the new Companies Act 2006 
climate-related disclosure requirements; and

•  treasury policies.

94

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

95

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit 
Committee in relation to the Group’s financial statements
A key responsibility of the Committee is to consider the 
significant areas of complexity, management judgement and 
estimation that have been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements. The Committee has, with support from 
Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’) as external auditor, reviewed the 
suitability of the accounting policies which have been adopted 
and whether management has made appropriate estimates 
and judgements.

Set out below are the significant areas of accounting judgement 
or management estimation and a description of how the 
Committee concluded that such judgements and estimates 
were appropriate. These are divided between those that could 
have a material impact on the financial statements and those 
that are less likely to have a material impact but nevertheless, 
by their nature, required a degree of estimation.

Areas of significant accounting judgement and 
estimation material to the Group financial 
statements

Impairment of goodwill, intangibles, property, 
plant and equipment and right-of-use assets
Assessment for impairment involves comparing the 
book value of an asset with its recoverable amount, 
being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less 
costs to sell. Value-in-use is determined with 
reference to projected future cash flows discounted 
at an appropriate rate. Both the cash flows and the 
discount rate involve a significant degree of 
estimation uncertainty.

Impact of inflationary pressures on the viability 
statement and going concern
The Group has continued to experience inflationary 
pressures in raw material, supply chains and energy. 
These inflationary pressures have been exacerbated 
by the war in Ukraine. 

The Board considered future performance and cash 
flows in its going concern assessment, through to 
February 2025, and its viability statement over the 
next three years.

Management has undertaken a detailed financial 
modelling exercise that has considered the impact on 
profit, cash and working capital of a number of 
potential scenarios.

Audit Committee assurance

The Committee considered the reasonableness of cash flow projections 
which were based on the most recent budget approved by the Board and 
reflected management’s expectations of sales growth, operating costs and 
margins based on past experience and external sources of information. 
The Committee focused on China Sugar, Don, Illovo Mozambique, Jordans 
Dorset Ryvita and Vivergo.

Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the annual budget were 
challenged to ensure that they were appropriate for the products, industries 
and countries in which the relevant cash-generating units operate. 
The Committee reviewed and challenged the key assumptions made in 
deriving these projections: discount rates, growth rates, and expected 
changes in production and sales volumes, selling prices and direct costs. 
The Committee also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect 
of the key assumptions and sensitivities. Refer to notes 8, 9 and 10 to the 
financial statements for more details of these assumptions.

The Committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions 
appropriately reflected current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks associated with the particular assets. The other key 
assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.

On the basis of the key assumptions and associated sensitivities, it is 
considered that the charge of £109m, comprising £41m in the Don 
business, £15m in north China Sugar, £35m in Illovo Mozambique and £18m 
in Primark was appropriately recognised and included within exceptional 
items as detailed in notes 8, 9 and 10.

The external auditor undertook an independent audit of the estimates of 
value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell, including a challenge of 
management’s underlying cash flow projections, long-term growth 
assumptions and discount rates. On the basis of its work, and its challenge 
of the key assumptions and sensitivities, it considered that the impairment 
charges as detailed in notes 8, 9 and 10 were appropriately recognised.

The Committee has reviewed and challenged the scenarios considered 
by management and concluded that these, and the stress-testing scenarios 
and assumptions, were appropriate and adequate.

The Committee has reviewed the detailed cash flow forecasts, which 
incorporate the mitigating actions proposed by management. 
The Committee also reviewed and challenged the reverse stress 
assumptions to confirm the viability of the Group.

The Committee has been kept informed of the impacts of inflationary 
pressures on the Group, including accounting matters, going concern and 
viability considerations. The Committee has satisfied itself that management 
has adequately identified and considered all potentially significant accounting 
and disclosure matters.

Areas of significant accounting judgement and 
estimation material to the Group financial 
statements

Post-retirement benefits
Valuation of the Group’s pension schemes and 
post-retirement medical benefit schemes require 
various subjective judgements to be made including 
mortality assumptions, discount rates, general and 
salary inflation, and the rate of increase for pensions 
in payment and those in deferment.

Audit Committee assurance

Actuarial valuations of the Group’s pension scheme obligations are 
undertaken every three years in the UK by an independent qualified actuary 
who also provides advice to management on the assumptions to be used 
in preparing the accounting valuations each year. Actuarial valuations in 
other jurisdictions are performed as required. Details of the assumptions 
made in the current and previous year are disclosed in note 12 of the 
financial statements together with the bases on which those assumptions 
have been made.

The Committee reviewed the assumptions by comparison with externally 
derived data and also considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect 
of the sensitivity of the surplus to changes in these key assumptions.

Other accounting areas requiring management 
judgement or estimation

Audit Committee assurance

Taxation
Current and deferred tax recognised in the financial 
statements is dependent on subjective judgements 
as to the outcome of decisions by tax authorities in 
various jurisdictions around the world and the ability 
of the Group to use tax losses within the time limits 
imposed by various tax authorities.

The Committee reviews the Group’s tax policy and principles for managing 
tax risks annually.

The Committee reviewed and challenged the provisions recorded and the 
contingent liabilities disclosed at the balance sheet date and management 
confirmed that they represent their best estimate of the financial exposure 
faced by the Group.

The external auditor explained to the Committee the work that they had 
conducted during the year, including how their audit procedures were 
focused on those provisions requiring the highest degree of judgement. 

The Committee discussed with both management and the external auditor 
the key judgements which had been made. The Committee was satisfied 
that the judgements were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision 
amounts recorded were appropriate.

Misstatements
Management reported to the Committee that they were not 
aware of any material or immaterial misstatements made 
intentionally to achieve a particular presentation. The external 
auditor reported to the Committee the misstatements that they 
had found in the course of their work. After due consideration 
the Committee concurred with management that these 
misstatements were not material and that no adjustments 
were required.

Internal financial control and risk management
The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its 
responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of 
the control environment, controls over financial reporting and 
the Group’s compliance with the 2018 Code. To fulfil these 
duties, the Committee (or the Board as a whole) reviewed:

•  the external auditors’ summary of management letters 

and their Audit Committee reports;

•  internal audit reports on key audit areas and any significant 

deficiencies in the financial control environment;

•  reports on the systems of internal financial control and risk 
management, including the preparatory work for additional 
control reviews under the Group’s ACE programme;

•  an assessment of business continuity plans in place in the 

Group’s businesses;

•  reports on fraud perpetrated against the Group;

•  the Group’s approach to anti-bribery and corruption, and 

whistleblowing;

•  the Group’s approach to IT and cybersecurity;
•  reports on significant systems implementations; and
•  inflationary pressure challenges and response assurance plan.

Internal audit
The Group’s businesses employ internal auditors (both 
employees and resources provided by major accounting firms 
other than the firm involved in the audit of the Group (except 
where expressly permitted by the Audit Committee)) with skills 
and experience relevant to the operation of each business. 
All of the internal audit activities are co-ordinated centrally by 
the Director of Financial Control, who is accountable to the 
Audit Committee.

The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board in fulfilling 
its responsibilities for ensuring the capability of the internal audit 
function and the adequacy of its resourcing and plans.

The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the results 
of internal audit’s work and monitors the status of 
recommendations arising. The Committee reviews annually 
the adequacy, qualifications and experience of the Group’s 
internal audit resources and the nature and scope of internal 
audit activity in the overall context of the Group’s risk 
management system.

96

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

97

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED

To fulfil its duties, the Committee reviewed:

•  internal audit’s reporting lines and access to the Committee 

and all members of the Board;

•  internal audit’s plans and its achievement of the planned 

activity;

•  the results of key audits and other significant findings, 

the adequacy of management’s response and the timeliness 
of their resolution; and

•  changes in internal audit personnel to ensure appropriate 

resourcing, skills and experience are put in place.

The Group’s Director of Financial Control meets with the Chair 
of the Audit Committee as appropriate but at least quarterly, 
without the presence of executive management, and has direct 
access to the Chairman of the Board.

Whistleblowing and fraud
The Whistleblowing Policy ‘Speak Up’ is designed to protect 
ABF’s culture of fairness, trust, accountability and respect, 
encouraging effective and honest communication at all levels. 
In addition, an independent external service provider receives, 
in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal 
controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the 
Audit Committee as appropriate. Further details on the Policy 
can be found on page 52. The Committee reviewed reports 
from internal audit and the actions arising therefrom and reported 
this to the Board (to the extent any Board member was not 
in attendance at the relevant meeting).

The Group’s Anti-fraud Policy has been communicated to all 
employees and states that all employees have a responsibility 
for fraud prevention and detection. Any suspicion of fraud should 
be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously. 
The Audit Committee reviewed all instances of fraud perpetrated 
against the Group and the action taken by management both 
to pursue the perpetrators and to prevent reoccurrences.

External audit
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures 
on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, 
in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements. 
These policies are kept under review to meet the objective 
of ensuring that the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner 
from the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor, 
whilst also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary 
degree of independence and objectivity. The Committee’s policy 
on the use of the external auditor to provide non-audit services 
is in accordance with applicable laws and takes into account the 
relevant ethical guidance for auditors. Any non-audit work to be 
undertaken by the auditor requires authorisation by the Finance 
Director, and above a certain threshold, the Audit Committee, 
prior to its commencement.

The Committee also ensures that fees incurred, or to be 
incurred, for non-audit services, both individually and in 
aggregate, do not exceed any limits in applicable law and take 
into account the relevant ethical guidance for auditors.

The Committee is required to approve the use of the external 
auditor to provide: accounting advice and training; corporate 
responsibility and other assurance services; financial due 
diligence in respect of acquisitions and disposals; and will 
consider other services when it is in the best interests of the 
Company to do so, provided they can be undertaken without 
jeopardising auditor independence. Tax services including tax 
compliance, tax planning and related implementation advice 
may not be undertaken by the external auditor except in very 
exceptional circumstances where specialist knowledge is 
required. The aggregate expenditure with the Group auditor 
is reviewed by the Audit Committee. No individually significant 
non-audit assignments that would require disclosure were 
undertaken in the financial year.

The Company has a policy that any partners, directors or senior 
managers hired directly from the external auditor must be 
pre-approved by the Chief People and Performance Officer, 
and the Finance Director or Group Financial Controller, with the 
Chair of the Audit Committee being consulted as appropriate.

The Audit Committee has formally reviewed the independence 
of the external auditor. EY has reported to the Committee 
confirming that it believes it remained independent throughout 
the year, within the meaning of the regulations on this matter 
and in accordance with its professional standards.

To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the independence of the 
external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:

•  a report from the external auditor describing arrangements 
to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and 
policies and procedures for maintaining independence and 
monitoring compliance with relevant requirements; and

•  the extent of non-audit services provided by the 

external auditor.

The total fees paid to EY for the 52 weeks ended 16 September 
2023 were £11.2m, of which £1.0m related to non-audit work. 
Further details are provided in note 2 to the financial statements.

Auditor effectiveness
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, 
the Committee reviewed:

•  the external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed audit plan 

and variations from it (including changes in perceived audit 
risks and the work undertaken by the external auditors to 
address those risks);

•  reports highlighting the major issues that arose during 

the course of the audit;

•  feedback from the businesses via questionnaires evaluating 
the conduct and performance of each assigned audit team 
(including in respect of their planning, challenge and 
interaction with the business); and

•  a report on EY, as a firm, from the Audit Quality Review Team 
(‘AQRT’) of the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) and the 
discussions with EY on the contents of such report.

Minimum Standard
The FRC’s ‘Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum 
Standard’ (the ‘Minimum Standard’) was published in May 2023, 
eight months into the financial year. Between its publication 
and the end of the financial year on 16 September 2023, 
one Audit Committee meeting has taken place, at which the 
Minimum Standard was considered. The Audit Committee’s 
initial assessment is that there is nothing of note in the 
Minimum Standard that differs from how the ABF Audit 
Committee currently operates. However, this is being reviewed 
further, including to the extent that there may be useful points 
to consider in relation to the assessment of the effectiveness 
of the audit process and to the audit tender process.

Richard Reid 
Audit Committee Chair

There is regular open communication between EY and the Audit 
Committee as well as between EY and the businesses’ senior 
management. The Audit Committee holds private meetings with 
the external auditor after each Committee meeting to review 
key issues within their sphere of interest and responsibility and 
to satisfy itself that the audit is of a sufficiently high standard.

To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit 
process, the Audit Committee reviewed:

•  the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and 
scope of the audit as set out in the external auditor’s 
engagement letter;

•  the overall work plan and fee proposal;
•  the major issues that arose during the course of the audit 

and their resolution;

•  key accounting and audit judgements;
•  the level of errors identified during the audit; and
•  the content of, and any recommendations made by the 
external auditor in, their management letters and the 
adequacy of management’s response.

Auditor appointment
The Audit Committee reviews annually the appointment of 
the auditor, taking into account the auditor’s effectiveness and 
independence, and makes a recommendation to the Board 
accordingly. Any decision to open the external audit to tender 
is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.

The Company’s current external auditor, EY, was first appointed 
at the annual general meeting in December 2015, with effect 
from 2016, following the conclusion of a competitive tender 
process. The Audit Committee is satisfied with the auditor’s 
effectiveness and independence and has recommended to the 
Board that EY be reappointed as the Company’s external auditor 
for 2023/24. The Board accepted such recommendation. In 
accordance with applicable law and regulation, the Company is 
required to conduct a competitive audit tender during 2025.

The Audit Committee has discussed the most appropriate time 
to carry out the external audit tender process, taking into account 
the independence, objectivity and quality of EY’s external audit 
and has concluded that, based on current performance, it is 
anticipated that a competitive tender process will commence in 
2024. The Audit Committee considers that a competitive tender 
is in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders as it will 
allow the Company to appoint the audit firm that will provide 
the highest quality, most effective and efficient audit.

Compliance with the Competition and Markets 
Authority Order
The Company confirms that, during the period under review, 
it has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit 
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014.

98

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

Associated British Foods plc Annual Report 2023

99

