Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

120
120

SASB index

The majority of the information required by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework is included in the 2023 IAR and the 2023 GRI Content Index. Part of the information refers to our 
public website https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/

Coca-Cola HBC AG 2023 IAR has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI Universal Standards 2021). It has been independently assured by PwC. The independent 
assurance statement is on pages 302 to 309 of the 2023 IAR.

All the numbers refer to total CCHBC markets including Egypt unless otherwise stated. Currently, we do not track all metrics included in the Non-Alcoholic Beverages Standards and will work towards including 
more data in the future.

Table 1. Sustainability disclosure topics and accounting metrics

Topic

Accounting metric

Category

Unit of measure Code

Fleet fuel 
management

Fleet fuel consumed

Percentage renewable

Operational energy consumed

Quantitative

Gigajoules (GJ)

Percentage (%)

Gigajoules (GJ)

FB-NB-110a.1

Energy management

Percentage grid electricity

Quantitative

Percentage (%)

FB-NB-130a.1

Percentage renewable

Total water withdrawn

Total water consumed

Quantitative

Water management

and percentage of each in regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress

Percentage (%)

Thousand cubic 
metres (m³)

Thousand cubic 
metres (m³)

Percentage (%)

Response

1,171,751

0%

6,262,163

38%

36%

29,764

FB-NB-140a.1

17,941

31% (excluding Egypt)

Description of water management risks and 
discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 
those risks

Discussion
and analysis

n/a

FB-NB-140a.2

Revenue from: zero- and low-calorie beverages

Health and nutrition

Quantitative

No added sugar beverages

Artificially sweetened beverages

EUR

EUR

EUR

FB-NB-260a.1

2023 IAR, Water section, Managing Risk, and TCFD sections.
2023 GRI Content Index (GRI 303: Water and Effluents).
Our water management practices don’t result in tradeoffs in land 
use, energy production, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

CCHBC website – Water stewarship ( https://www.coca-
colahellenic.com/en/a-more-sustainable-future/mission-2025/
water-reduction-and-stewardship)

€1,507.7 million only from SSD portfolio,
21.3% of total SSD revenue

Not reported; we report towards our Mission 2025 commitment 
for calorie reduction per 100ml SSD by 25% (2025 vs 2015): in 2023 
we reduced the calories in our SSD by 19% vs 2015.

CCHBC website – Sustainability section – Nutrition (https://
www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/a-more-sustainable-future/
mission-2025/nutrition)

Not reported

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

121
121

SASB index continued

Table 1. Sustainability disclosure topics and accounting metrics continued

Topic

Accounting metric

Category

Unit of measure Code

Response

Percentage of advertising impressions (1) made 
on children and (2) made on children promoting 
products that meet dietary guidelines

Quantitative

Percentage (%)

FB-NB-270a.1

Product labelling 
and marketing

Revenue from products labelled as (1) containing 
genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and 
(2) non-GMO

Quantitative

Reporting 
currency

FB-NB-270a.2

Number of incidents of non-compliance with industry 
or regulatory labelling and/or marketing codes

Quantitative

Number

FB-NB-270a.3

Not reported. As a member of both the Coca-Cola System and 
UNESDA, we abide by the respective responsible marketing 
guidelines. In addition, we have a responsible marketing policy 
for alcoholic beverages, while our strategic approach towards 
marketing to children is covered by our health and wellness policy.

•  https://www.unesda.eu/advertising-marketing-practices/
•  Health and Wellness Policy (https://www.coca-colahellenic.
com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/policies/health-
wellness-policy)

•  Responsible Marketing Policy for Alcoholic Beverages (https://

www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/about-us/corporate-
governance/policies/responsible-marketing-policy-for-
alcoholic-beverages)

(1) None – we don’t produce/sell GMO products.
(2) Non-GMO: €10,184 million (100% of the portfolio).

CCHBC website – GMO Policy (https://www.coca-colahellenic.
com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/policies/genetically-
modified-organism-position-statement)

12 incidents of non-compliance with regulatory labelling and 
6 isolated incidents in 2 out of 17 business units with industry 
marketing codes in 2023, with mitigation plans in place for all of 
the above incidents. 4 out of 6 mitigation actions (67%) were 
already completed by February 2024.

Refer to the 2023 GRI Content Index (417-2 and 417-3).

Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal
proceedings associated with marketing and/or 
labelling practices

Total weight of packaging

(2) Percentage made from recycled and/or 
renewable materials

Packaging lifecycle
management

(3) Percentage that is recyclable, reusable,
and/or compostable

Quantitative

Reporting 
currency

FB-NB-270a.4

Total amount of monetary losses: €1,733.58 in 2023.

Refer to the 2023 GRI Content Index (417-2 and 417-3).

Metric tonnes (t)

964,319

Quantitative

Percentage (%)

Percentage (%)

FB-NB-410a.1

16% rPET (placed on the market); 31% recycled glass; 47% 
recycled aluminium

100% of primary packaging (recyclable by design)

Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental 
impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle

Discussion
and analysis

n/a

FB-NB-410a.2

CCHBC website – Sustainability section – World without waste 
(https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/a-more-sustainable-
future/mission-2025/world-without-waste)

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

122
122

SASB index continued

Table 1. Sustainability disclosure topics and accounting metrics continued

Topic

Accounting metric

Category

Unit of measure Code

Response

Environmental 
and social impacts 
of ingredient 
supply chain

Suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility 
audit: non-conformance rate and associated 
corrective action rate for (a) major and (b) minor 
non-conformances

Quantitative

Rate

FB-NB-430a.1

Percentage of beverage ingredients sourced 
from regions with High or Extremely High Baseline 
Water Stress

Quantitative

Percentage (%) 
by cost

FB-NB-440a.1

Ingredient sourcing

List of priority beverage ingredients and 
description of sourcing risks due to environmental 
and social considerations

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

FB-NB-440a.2

2023 GRI Content Index (2-6, 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 
414-1, 414-2).

CCHBC website – Sustainable sourcing and Our suppliers 
sections (https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/about-us/
what-we-do/supply-chain)

CCHBC website – Sustainability section – Sourcing 
(https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/a-more-sustainable-
future/mission-2025/sourcing)

CCHBC website – Supplier Guiding Principles (https://www.coca-
colahellenic.com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/policies/
supplier-guiding-principles)

1.3% of ingredients of suppliers spend (on total spend) is in high/
very high water risk areas, as per our assessment by using WWF 
Water Risk Filter.

3.4% of ingredients of suppliers spend (on total ingredients spend) 
is in high/very high water risk areas, as per our assessment by using 
WWF Water Risk Filter.

CCHBC website – Sustainability section – Sourcing  
(https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/a-more-sustainable-
future/mission-2025/sourcing)

2023 GRI Content Index (2-6, 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1,  
414-1, 414-2).

CCHBC website – Sustainable sourcing and Our suppliers 
sections (https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/about-us/
what-we-do/supply-chain)

Table 2. Activity Metrics

Topic

Accounting metric

Category

Unit of measure Code

Response

Volume of 
products sold

Number of 
production facilities

Total fleet road 
miles travelled

Quantitative

Millions of 
hectolitres (Mhl)

FB-NB-000.A

16,012.33

Quantitative

Number

FB-NB-000.B

60 production facilities for non-alcoholic beverages

Quantitative

Kilometres

FB-NB-000.C

387,262,652

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

123

Corporate 
Governance 
Report

Governance at a glance
Corporate Governance Compliance statement 
As a Swiss corporation listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) with a secondary listing on the Athens Exchange, 
we aim to ensure that our corporate governance systems remain in line with international best practices. Our 
corporate governance standards and procedures are continuously reviewed in light of current developments and 
rulemaking processes in the UK, Switzerland and also the EU. Find out more on pages 127 to 129. 

Board Independence 
(number and %)

Shareholder structure 
(%)

Board gender diversity 
(number and %)

Independent NEDs

  NEDs

Executive directors

6  46%

6  46%
  8%
1 

  TCCC 
  KAR-Tess Holding

Free ﬂoat

  Men 
  Women 

21

23
56

Tenure (years)

1–2

2–3

3–4

5– 6

6–7

7–8

8–9

9–10

17–18

Nationalities
American 

American/Brazilian 

British 

Bulgarian 

Croatian 

Greek 

Nigerian 

Swiss 

1 

1 

5 

1  

1 

2 

1  

1 

2

1

1

1

1

2

2

2

1

15%

8%

8%

8%

8%

15%

15%

15%

8%

8  62%

5  38%

8%

8%

38%

8%

8%

15%

8%

8%

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
BoardLeadershipandCompany Purpose
A 

 Effective and entrepreneurial Board to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company, 
generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society. 

B.  Purpose, values and strategy with alignment to culture.
C.   Resources for the Company to meet its objectives and measure performance. 

Controls framework for management and assessment of risks.

D.  Effective engagement with shareholders and stakeholders.
E.   Consistency of workforce policies and practices to support long-term sustainable success:

•  Letter from the Chair of the Board
•  Board Leadership and Company Purpose
•  Strategic Report
•  Engaging with our key stakeholders
•  Culture in action
•  Overseeing strategic delivery
•  Audit and Risk Committee
•  Conflicts of interest

Division of Responsibilities
F.  Leadership of Board by Chair
G. Board composition and responsibilities
H. Role of NEDs.
I.  Company’s policies, processes, information, time and resources:

•  Board composition
•  Key roles and responsibilities
•  Division of responsibilities for the Board
•  Support and training for the Board
•  Board appointments and succession planning
Composition,successionandevaluation
J.   Board appointments and succession plans for Board and senior management and promotion of diversity.
K.   Skills, experience and knowledge of Board and length of service of Board as a whole.
L.   Annual evaluation of Board, Committees and Directors and demonstration of whether each Director 

continues to contribute effectively:
•  Board composition
•  Application of the Company’s corporate governance practices
•  Diversity, tenure and experience
•  Performance evaluation of the Board
•  Nomination Committee

Audit,riskandinternalcontrols
M.  Independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions and integrity of financial and 

narrative statements.

N.  Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects.
O.  Risk management and internal control framework and principal risks the Company is willing to take 

to achieve its long-term objectives:
•  Audit and Risk Committee 
•  Strategic Report 
•  Fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report 
•  Going concern basis of accounting 
•  Viability statement 

Remuneration
P.   Remuneration policies and practices to support strategy and promote long-term sustainable 

success with executive remuneration aligned to Company purpose and values.

Q. Procedure for Executive Director and senior management remuneration.
R.  Authorisation of remuneration outcomes:

•  Remuneration Committee report

124
5,124
133
2
134-135
138
136
157
129

128
139
139
148
148

128
127
123, 149
150
146

157
86-107
154, 155, 185
185
113

159

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

124
124

Letter from the Chair of the Board

DearStakeholder,
It is my pleasure to share this Corporate 
Governance Report, which details robust 
governance arrangements throughout the Group, 
alongside key updates and decisions undertaken 
by the Board during 2023. 

2023	was	a	successful	year	for	Coca-Cola	HBC,	
despite	the	ongoing	challenges	of	high	inflation	
and	the	conflict	in	Ukraine.	The	Company	
continued the momentum of 2022 into 2023, 
focusing on the health and safety of our people 
across the business and reacting to cost 
pressures with measured and focused price and 
mix changes. Underpinned by the introduction of 
our clear purpose and the consistent application 
of our 24/7 beverage strategy, Zoran and our 
executive team have delivered another year of 
strong operational and strategic progress and 
record	financial	results.	

Leadingwithpurpose
In March, I had the pleasure of attending, alongside 
other members of the Board, our senior leadership 
conference	in	Cairo.	This	was	a	significant	meeting	
for	the	Company,	our	first	in	four	years	where	
we’d been able to bring together our team to unify 
around some common objectives and celebrate 
the progress we’ve made since 2019. Our people 
have consistently risen to the challenges presented 
over	the	last	few	years.	This	was	passionately	
showcased by all disciplines within the business 
and hosted with grace and professionalism by our 
Egyptian team, the latest country to join our Group. 
At the event we were joined by many members of 
The	Coca-Cola	Company	and	other	key	partners	
who also shared their thoughts on the future of 
our business.

The	leadership	conference	showcased	how	
our talented, passionate people have adapted 
and embraced opportunities, ensuring that our 
company continues to be resilient and enjoy such 
a strong performance.

The	event	also	showcased	our	new	purpose,	
endorsed by the Board – to open up moments that 
refresh	us	all.	This	revision	provides	greater	clarity	
and inspiration, and also supports our alignment 
with	the	Coca-Cola	System.

The	long-term	success	of	our	business	remains	
connected to the success of our customers and 
partners, and our ability to delight consumers with 
the beverages and brands that they love. We are 
able	to	accomplish	this	due	to	our	well-embedded,	
values-based	culture.	The	Board	plays	a	critical	role	
in shaping the culture of the Company by promoting 
growth-focused	and	values-based	conduct	and	
ensuring increased focus on continued learning and 
the	smart	risk	taking	necessary	for	the Company’s	
adaptation.	The	Board	is	overseeing	the	development	
and implementation of a new culture manifesto and 
leadership model, ensuring that the revised purpose 
is	well-embedded	in	the	Company’s	culture.	

We monitor our progress in integrating our values 
through various indicators, including our employee 
engagement index, diversity indicators, and health 
and safety indicators, and our Directors lead by 
example as ambassadors of our values, cascading 
good behaviour throughout the organisation. 

One	all-employee	pulse	survey,	one	culture	and	
engagement survey and two Collaborating for 
Impact surveys were conducted in 2023. While 
Charlotte	Boyle	is	our	designated	non-Executive	
Director responsible for engaging with our people 
to provide feedback to the Board, feedback from 
our people through these surveys was brought 
to the full Board’s attention in 2023 to facilitate 
understanding of the concerns raised and ensure 
a rapid response. 

The	Board	and	I	would	like	to	thank	our	leadership	
and	all	our	colleagues	for	making	Coca-Cola	HBC	
a better business every day, working together as 
a team, delivering our Growth Story and making 
impressive progress on our journey of becoming 
the leading 24/7 beverage partner.

Seizingopportunities
In	2022	we	acquired	the	Coca-Cola	bottler	in	
Egypt	expanding	our	footprint	in	long-term	high-
growth markets. A key priority for the Board during 
2023 has been the successful integration of the 
business	into	the	Coca-Cola	HBC	family	and	I	am	
pleased	to report	that	has	gone	very	well.	Despite	
the challenging macroeconomic conditions in 
the	country	in	2023,	we	remain	confident	for	the	
prospects of our business in Egypt .

In	2023	we	undertook	a	different	type	of	acquisition	
with the purchase of Finlandia, a superb vodka 
business,	from	our	long-term	partner,	Brown-
Forman. Zoran and the team have started 
integration of the business and we expect 
significant	growth	opportunities	to	come	as	we	
build-out	this	excellent	brand	across	our	footprint.

Protectingourpeople
The	Board	is	constantly	vigilant	of	the	ongoing	
conflict	in	Ukraine.	First	and	foremost,	we	are	
focused on protecting our employees and 
ensuring, in so far as possible, their health and 
safety. We believe that the decisions we have 
taken to date achieve the best balance for our 
team on the ground and our wider stakeholders. 
We continue to monitor matters closely and will 
take further actions if needed.

The governance 
imperative in 
timesof change

In 2023, the Board has 
carefully sought to position 
our company for continued 
success, preparing to anticipate 
and seize opportunities, 
endeavouring to overcome 
challenges and continuing to 
focus on good governance: doing 
what is right over what is easy.”

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

125
125

Letter from the Chair of the Board continued

Strategy and performance
Our Growth Story 2025 has remained a 
cornerstone for the business throughout 
2023. We continue to prioritise the actions and 
investments that strengthen our capabilities and 
position the Company for sustained success.

Our performance in 2023 demonstrated the 
benefits	of	our	approach.	Coca-Cola	HBC	
delivered	strong	financial	performance	with	
record	levels	of	revenue	and	comparable	EBIT,	
with a good margin improvement, strong free 
cash flow	reaching	all	time	high	and	improved	ROIC.	

I was pleased to launch proceedings at our investor 
day in May in Rome, where Zoran, Ben, Naya and 
the team outlined the many actions we are taking 
to drive revenue growth, margin improvements and 
sustained	strong	cash	generation.	The	Board	fully	
supports	the	raised	mid-term	guidance	Zoran	and	
the team shared with you at the time. Delivering 
these goals will not be easy, but we have laid strong 
foundations with sustained investment over the 
last few years and have developed a culture of 
resilience and adaptability that serves us well.

Presenting at our 
Investor Day in May

We had two new Board members in 2023, 
Evguenia Stoichkova and George Pavlos Leventis, 
both bringing a wealth of experience from the 
beverage sector. 

Dividendgrowthandcapitalreturns
The	Board	has	maintained	our	progressive	
dividend,	and	for	2023	is	proposing	€0.93	per	
share, a 19% increase on the dividend per share 
versus	the	prior	year,	representing	a	45%	pay-out	
ratio, within our targeted range of 40 to 50% of 
comparable EPS.

The	consistent	growth	of	our	dividend	is	
testament	to	our	confidence	in	the	strong	
fundamentals of our business, as well as our 
commitment to shareholders.

Leadership in action
2023 was a year full of opportunity and challenge. 
I am very reassured by the Board’s strong 
contribution to our decision making, representing 
effectively	the	interests	and	viewpoints	of	all	
stakeholders	in	wide	ranging	topics.	This	has	
supported a thorough evaluation of our strategic 
investments, stretching goals for our management 
and	a	continued	strong	focus	on sustainability.

Through	our	Mission	2025	framework	and	
biodiversity policy, we are committed to reducing 
emissions and water use, by preserving and 
re-instating	water	priority	areas,	and	by	sourcing	
agricultural ingredients sustainably. While index 
performance is not a goal in itself, we continue 
to be assured by our ranking as the world’s most 
sustainable beverage company in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index, for another year. Consistent 
progress underpins our aim to leave nature in a 
state better than the one we found it in. 

For more on our Mission 2025 sustainability plan, 

see p72 to 74

This	year,	together	with	The	Coca-Cola	
Company and seven other bottling partners, 
we each	committed	$15	million	to	a	new	venture	
capital	fund,	the	Greycroft	Coca-Cola	System	
Sustainability	Fund.	This	$137.7	million	fund	will	
focus on innovative solutions to drive carbon 
footprint reduction, helping accelerate our 
journey towards our NetZeroby40 goal. And 
in December, we were proud to announce 
the establishment of the CCHBC Foundation 
dedicated to supporting communities in the 
areas	where	we operate,	with an	initial	€10	million	
transfer	to the	foundation.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

126
126

Letter from the Chair of the Board continued

At the same time, in November 2023 we 
announced	the	start	of	a	two-year	share	
buyback programme, aimed at returning up 
to	€400	million	to	shareholders.	We	remain	
committed to a disciplined approach to capital 
allocation that continues to drive shareholder 
value.	The Group’s	capital	allocation	framework	
follows	clear	priorities:	organic	investment	in	the	
business	to	drive	delivery	of	our	medium-term	
financial	targets;	paying	a	progressive	dividend,	
targeting	a	payout	of	40%-50%	of	earnings	per	
share;	strategic	M&A;	and	finally,	additional	capital	
return. With these priorities in mind, the Board 
believed that the 2023 share price undervalued 
the Company’s future growth opportunities, 
and	the approval	of	a	share	buyback	programme	
provided a compelling opportunity to enhance 
value for shareholders while continuing to invest 
in the	business.

The importance of good governance
As a Board, our aim is to always ensure the 
highest standards of corporate governance, 
accountability and risk management. Our 
internal policies and procedures, which have 
been	consistently	effective	since	the	Group	
was formed, are properly documented and 
communicated against the framework applicable 
to companies with a premium listing in the UK. 
The	Board	and	its	committees	have	conducted	
an	annual	review	of	the	effectiveness	of	our	
risk management system and internal controls, 
further details of which are set out in the Audit 
and Risk Committee report on pages 153 to 158. 
The	Board	confirms	that	it	has	concluded	that	our	
risk management	and	internal	control	systems	
are effective.	

We are subject to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018. It sets out the principles of good 
practice	in	relation	to:	Board	leadership	and	
Company	purpose;	division	of	responsibilities;	
composition,	success	and	evaluation;	audit,	risk	
and	internal	controls;	and	remuneration.	Further	
information on how we have applied the principles 
and complied with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2018 for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 can be found in this 
report on pages 123 and 127. 

Board meetings normally take place in Zug, 
Switzerland, but also in selected markets across 
our territories. 

Boardevaluation
In line with our commitment to adhere to best 
corporate	governance	practices,	an	externally-
facilitated	Board	effectiveness	evaluation	was	
conducted in the second half of 2023. Key 
outcomes are included on page 150 of the 
Nomination	Committee	report.	The	evaluation	will	
be conducted again in 2024 to apply learnings. 

Board composition and diversity 
We	believe	that	our	Board	is	well-balanced	
and diverse, with the right mix of international 
skills, experience, background, independence, 
and knowledge in order to discharge its duties 
and	responsibilities	effectively.	However,	the	
composition and size of the Board continue 
to be kept	under review.	

The	Financial	Conduct	Authority’s	(FCA)	Listing	
Rules on targets for gender and ethnic diversity 
apply	for	the	first	time	and	our	disclosures	are	in	
the Nomination Committee report (see pages 148 
to 149). We continue to attach great importance 
to all aspects of diversity in our nomination 
processes at Board and senior management 
levels, while appointing candidates with the 
credentials that are necessary for the continued 
growth and performance of our operations 
within our highly specialised industry. We believe 
that a diverse Board fosters both innovation 
and resilience and are proud of our track record 
of female and ethnic minority representation. 
As of the date of this report, female Directors 
comprised	more	than	38%	of our Board	
(compared with 33% in 2022), while ethnic 
minorities	represented	8%,	same	as	in 2022.	

Lookingahead
A	further	record	year	in	2023	confirms	our	
resilience,	despite	the	impact	of	cost	inflation	and	
the	conflict	in	Ukraine.	This	reflects	the	continued	
investments we have made in the business, 
focused on strengthening the most critical 
drivers of	future	performance.	

We will continue to ensure the management team 
is properly incentivised and stretched to deliver 
exceptional results. I am proud of the fact that 
we’ve been able to reward our teams with healthy 
remuneration in recent years, consistent we 
believe with the outcomes they’ve delivered. We 
ask for dedication, professionalism and a strong 
performance from them and they have achieved 
a great	deal	in	difficult	times.	

We may have seen the worst of the anticipated 
inflation,	but	economic	risks	remain.	As	Zoran	
explains in his statement in the Strategic Report 
(see page 6), we have taken successful actions to 
improve price and mix within our portfolio while also 
being	mindful	of	maintaining	affordability	for	all	our	
consumers. In several countries, consumers are 
being	squeezed	by	the	legacy	of	high-inflation	and	
weaker economic conditions. Providing relevant 
products with the right appeal and pricing, working 
with our customers on appropriate promotions, 
remains at the heart of how we make ourselves 
relevant for all consumers. It is this focus and drive 
that will enable us to deliver on our Growth Story 
2025	and	our	mid-term	targets.

Doing all of this sustainably is critical. Within this, 
climate change remains a top priority. We are well 
equipped to face these challenges thanks to the 
strength of our portfolio, proven capabilities and 
committed partnerships.

This	work	continues,	as	we	embed	our	values-
based culture to deliver on our clear purpose. 

I would like to thank the Board members for 
their continued commitment and counsel 
this year, as well as extending my thanks to all 
CCHBC colleagues, customers, consumers and 
partners. Our people and culture are at the heart 
of everything we do. Opening up moments that 
refresh	us	all was	at	the	heart	of	our	success	
in 2023 and will underpin our progress for 
generations to come.

Anastassis G. David
Chairman of the Board

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

127

Swisscorporaterules
There	is	no	mandatory	Corporate	Governance	
Code under Swiss law applicable to the Company. 
The	main	source	of	law	for	Swiss	governance	
rules is the company law contained in article 
620 et seqq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations. 
Swiss company law includes provisions regarding 
the compensation in listed companies and 
further limits the authority of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Board to determine 
compensation.	The	effective	limitations	include	
requiring that the AGM approve the maximum total 
compensation of each member of the Board and 
the	Executive	Leadership	Team	(ELT),	requiring	
that certain compensation elements be authorised 
in the Articles of Association and prohibiting 
certain forms of compensation, such as severance 
payments	and	financial	or	monetary	incentives	
for	the	acquisition	or	disposal	of	firms.	We	are	
in compliance with the requirements of Swiss 
company	law	and	the	specific	provisions	therein	
regarding the compensation in listed companies.

UK’sCityCodeonTakeovers
and Mergers
The	UK’s	City	Code	on	Takeovers	and	Mergers	
(the ‘City Code’) does not apply to the Company, 
because the Company does not have its 
registered	office	in	the	United	Kingdom,	the	
Channel	Islands	or	the	Isle	of	Man.	The	Articles	of	
Association	include	specific	provisions	designed	
to prevent any person acquiring shares carrying 
30% or more of the voting rights (taken together 
with any interest in shares held or acquired by the 
acquirer or persons acting in concert with the 
acquirer) except if (subject to certain exceptions) 
such acquisition would not have been prohibited 
by the City Code or if such acquisition is made 
through	an	offer	conducted	in	accordance	with	
the City Code. For further details, please refer to 
the Company’s Articles of Association, which are 
available on our website.

Application of the Company’s corporate governance practices

 In accordance with the established policy of 
appointing all Directors for one year at a time, 
the Board continues to keep all positions 
under regular review and subject to annual 
election by shareholders at the Annual 
General	Meeting	(AGM).	The	Board	continues	
to believe that the proven leadership of our 
Chair in combination with his deep knowledge 
of	the	Coca-Cola	System	position	him	as	
unique to steer the Group at the current time.

(2)  Provision 38 requires alignment of Executive 
Director pension contributions with the wider 
workforce.	Our	difficulties	in	compliance	with	
this provision due to existing contractual 
obligations were outlined in the Annual 
Report published in 2021 and are explained 
on page 166 of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. On the appointment of any new 
Executive Director, we intend that their 
pension contributions will be aligned with 
the pension scheme for the wider workforce. 
Pursuant to our obligations under the Listing 
Rules, we apply the principles and comply 
with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code or explain any instances 
of	non-compliance	in	our	Annual	Report.	
The	Company	has	applied	the	principles	as	
far as possible and in accordance with and as 
permitted by Swiss law. Further information 
on appointment of Directors and compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
can be	found	on	the page	123.

Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 

As a Swiss corporation listed on the LSE with 
a secondary	listing	on	the	Athens	Exchange,	
we aim	to	ensure	that	our	corporate	governance	
systems remain in line with international 
best practices. Our corporate governance 
standards and procedures are continuously 
reviewed in light of current developments and 
rulemaking processes in the UK, Switzerland 
and	also	the	EU. Further	details	are	available	
on	our	website.	In respect	of	the	year	ended	
31 December 2023, the Company was subject 
to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 
(a copy is available at www.frc.org.uk). Our 
Board	confirms that	the	Company	applied	the	
principles and	complied	with the	provisions	of	
the UK	Corporate Governance	Code	throughout	
the	financial	year	ended	December	2023,	except	
for	the	following	provisions:	

(1)		The	Chair	was	not	independent	on	

appointment (provision 9) and has been 
a Board	member	for	more	than	nine	years	
(provision 19). Anastassis David was originally 
appointed	as	non-Executive	Director	(NED)	
in 2006	at	the	request	of	Kar-Tess	Holding	
and was not, at the time of his appointment as 
Chair,	in	2016,	independent	as	defined	by	the	
UK Corporate Governance Code. In view of 
Anastassis	David’s	strong	identification	with	
the Company and its shareholder interests, 
combined with his deep knowledge and 
experience	of	the	Coca-Cola	System,	the	
Board deemed it to be in the best interests 
of the Group and its shareholders for him 
to be appointed as Chair, with unanimous 
support,	to	continue	to	promote	an	effective	
and appropriately balanced leadership of 
the Group.	

 
Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

128
128

Application of the Company’s corporate governance practices continued

Amending the Articles of Association
The	Articles	of	Association	may	only	be	amended	
by a resolution of the shareholders passed by a 
majority	of	at	least	two-thirds	of	the	voting	rights	
represented and an absolute majority of the 
nominal value of the shares represented.

Sharecapitalstructure
The	Company	has	ordinary	shares	in	issue	with	a	
nominal value of CHF 6.70 each. Rights attaching 
to each share are identical and each share carries 
one	vote.	The	Company’s	Articles	of	Association	
also allow, subject to shareholder approval, for the 
conversion of registered shares into bearer shares 
and bearer shares into registered shares. Details 
of the movement in ordinary share capital during 
the	year	can	be	found	on	page	257.	There	are	no	
persons holding shares that carry special rights 
with regard to the control of the Company.

PowersofDirectorstoissueandbuy
backshares
Subject to the provisions of the relevant laws 
and the Articles of Association, the Board acting 
collectively has the ultimate responsibility for 
running the Company and the supervision 
and control	of	its	executive	management.	The	
Directors may take decisions on all matters that 
are not expressly reserved to the shareholders 
by the Articles of Association. Pursuant to the 
provisions of the Articles of Association, the 
Directors require shareholder authority to issue 
shares. In accordance with the FCA’s Listing Rules, 
the Directors require shareholder authority to 
repurchase shares. At the AGM on 17 May 2023, 
the shareholders authorised the Directors to 
repurchase ordinary shares of CHF 6.70 each in 
the capital of the Company up to a maximum 
aggregate number of 10,000,000 representing less 
than 10% of the Company’s issued share capital 
as	of	4	April	2023.	The	authority	will	expire	at	the	
conclusion of the 2024 AGM on 21 May 2024 or 
at midnight on 30 June 2024, whichever is earlier. 
The	Company	commenced	a	share	buyback	
programme	on	21 November	2023	and	is expected	
to run for a period of around two years. As at 
31 December	2023,	the	Company	reported	that	
1,638,298 ordinary shares had been purchased at 
an average price of 2,239.8482 pence per ordinary 
share	and	are	held	in	treasury.	The	buyback	
programme	continues	and	as	at	11	March 2024	(the	
latest practicable date for inclusion in this report), 
since 31 December 2023, the Company purchased 
a further 1,154,432 shares at an average price of 
2,475.6449 pence per share and these shares 
are also held in treasury. Shares held in treasury 
as	at	11 March	2024	total	7,215,615	out	of	which	
3,785,480	are	held	by	CCHBC AG	(including	the	
purchased shares) and 3,430,135 shares are held 
by	its subsidiary,	CCHBC	Services	MEPE.

Board composition
On 31 December 2023, our Board comprised 
13 Directors:	the	Chair,	one	Senior	Independent	
Director,	ten	NEDs	and	one	Executive Director.	

The	NEDs	are	experienced	individuals	from	a	
range of backgrounds, countries and industries, as 
shown by their biographies on pages 130 to 132. 
Evguenia Stoichkova and George Pavlos Leventis 
were appointed to the Board at the 2023 AGM and 
at the conclusion of the AGM, Bruno Pietracci and 
Ryan Rudolph retired from the Board. Evguenia 
Stoichkova was also elected as a member of the 
Social	Responsibility	Committee.	This	is	our	first	
year of reporting on gender and ethnicity metrics 
in accordance with the FCA Listing Rules. Further 
details are disclosed on pages 148 to 149 of the 
Nomination Committee Report. 

External appointments
The	Articles	of	Association	of	the	Company	(article	
36) set limits on the maximum number of external 
appointments that members of our Board and 
executive management may hold. In addition, if 
a Board member wishes to take up an external 
appointment, he or she must obtain prior Board 
approval.	The	Board	will	assess	all	requests	on	a	case-
by-case	basis,	including	whether	the	appointment	
in question could negatively impact the Company 
or the performance of the Director’s duties to the 
Group.	The	nature	of	the	appointment	and	the	
expected time commitment are also assessed 
to	ensure	that	the	effectiveness	of	the	Board	
would not be compromised. Details of the external 
appointments of our Directors are contained in 
their respective biographies on pages 130 to 132.

Our Chair is active in the international community. 
With regard to his external appointments, the Board 
considers that fewer than four of the positions held 
by	the	Chair	are	considered	to	be	significant.	A	
number of our other Directors also have other 
external	roles.	With	effect	from	1	January	2023	
Swiss	law	has	amended	the	definition	of	‘external	
appointments’ and requires disclosure of external 
appointments in other undertakings (public or 
private) with a commercial purpose (opposed to 
the requirement under the old law to disclose 
external appointments in legal entities registered 
in a	commercial	register	or	similar	register).	
The	Board	is	satisfied	that	any	additionally	
disclosed	positions	are	not	considered	significant.	
Having considered the scope of the external 
appointments of all Directors, including the Chair, 
our	Board	is	satisfied	that	they	do	not	compromise	
the	effectiveness	of	the	Board.	Each	Director	has	
sufficient	time	to	devote	to	as necessary	for	the	
performance of their duties and, according to the 
terms	of	appointment	to	the	Board.	This	will	include	
attendance annually at approximately ten Board 
meetings, AGMs and other meetings. As can be 
seen in the table of attendance of Board and Board 
Committee meetings on page 140, the Directors 
were able to devote the time required to discharge 
their duties and the Board has determined that 
each	member	commits	sufficient	time	and	
energy	to	the	role,	continuing	to make	a	valuable	
contribution	to	the	Board	and	its committees.	

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

129
129

Application of the Company’s corporate governance practices continued 

Independence
Our Board has concluded that Charlotte J. Boyle, 
Olusola	(Sola)	David-Borha,	Anna	Diamantopoulou,	
William W. (Bill) Douglas III, Reto Francioni and 
Alexandra Papalexopoulou are deemed to be 
independent, representing half of the Board, 
excluding the Chair, in accordance with the 
criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, with such individuals being independent 
in	both	character	and	judgement.	The	other	
non-Executive	Directors	were	appointed	following	
nomination by the two major shareholders 
(see details below) and they are therefore not 
considered by the Board, to be independent as 
defined	by	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code.

Anastassis David was appointed as Chair on 27 
January	2016.	The	Board	believes	that	Anastassis	
David embodies the Company’s core values, 
heritage and culture and that these attributes, 
together	with	his	strong	identification	with	the	
Company and its shareholders’ interests and his 
deep	knowledge	and	experience	of	the	Coca-Cola	
System,	ensure	an	effective	and	appropriately	
balanced leadership of the Board and the Company. 
Anastassis	David	was	first	appointed	as	a	member	
of the Board in 2006 before being appointed Chair 
in 2016. Prior to his appointment as Chair, major 
shareholders were consulted, and an external search 
consultancy	engaged	to	find	suitable	candidates.	
The	consensus	was	that	Anastassis	David	was	the	
appropriate candidate to become Chair and that 
he	continues	to	be	effective	in	his	leadership	of	the	
Board. In accordance with the established policy 

of appointing all Directors for one year at a time, 
the Board continues to keep all positions under 
regular review and subject to annual election by 
shareholders	at	the	AGM.	The	Board	continues	to	
believe that the proven leadership of our Chair in 
combination	with	his	deep	knowledge	of	the	Coca-
Cola System position him as unique to steer the 
Group at the current time. Accordingly, Anastassis 
David has the continuing support of the Board and 
major shareholders to remain as Chair. 

Shareholder nominees
As described on page 309, since the main listing of 
the	Company	on	the	Official	List	of	the	London	Stock	
Exchange	in	2013,	Kar-Tess	Holding,	TCCC	and	their	
respective	affiliates	have	no	special	rights	in	relation	
to	the	appointment	or	re-election	of	nominee	
Directors.	Those	Directors	who	were	originally	
nominated	for	appointment	by	TCCC	or	Kar-Tess	
Holding	will	be	required	to	stand	for	re-election	
on an annual basis in the same way as the other 
Directors.	The	Nomination	Committee	is	responsible	
for identifying and recommending candidates for 
subsequent nomination by the Board for election 
as Directors by the shareholders on an annual basis.

As our Board currently comprises 13 Directors, 
neither	Kar-Tess	Holding	nor	TCCC	is	in	a	position	
to control (positively or negatively) decisions of 
the Board that are subject to simple majority 
approval. However, decisions of the Board that 
are subject to the special quorum provisions 
and supermajority requirements contained in 
the Articles of Association, in practice, require the 
support of Directors nominated at the request of 

at	least	one	of	either	TCCC	or	Kar-Tess	Holding	
to	be	approved.	In addition,	based	on	their	current	
shareholdings,	neither	Kar-Tess	Holding	nor	
TCCC	is	in	a	position	to	control	a	decision	of	the	
shareholders (positively or negatively), except to 
block a resolution to wind up or dissolve the Company 
or to amend the supermajority voting requirements. 
The	latter	requires	the	approval	of	80%	of	the	total	
number of shareholders being represented and 
voting. Depending on the attendance levels at AGMs, 
Kar-Tess	Holding	or	TCCC	may	also	be	in	a	position	
to control other matters requiring supermajority 
shareholder approval.

Anastassis G. David, Anastasios I. Leventis, 
Christo Leventis, and George Pavlos Leventis 
were all originally nominated for appointment by 
Kar-Tess	Holding.	Henrique	Braun	and	Evguenia	
Stoichkova were nominated for appointment 
by	TCCC.	The	two	Directors	who	retired	at	the	
2023 AGM had been nominated by the two major 
shareholders:	Bruno	Pietracci	was	nominated	by	
TCCC	and	Ryan	Rudolph	by	Kar-Tess	Holding.

Conflictsofinterest
In accordance with the Company’s Organisational 
Regulations, Directors are required to arrange their 
personal	and	business	affairs	to	avoid	a	conflict	of	
interest with the Group. Each Director must disclose 
to	the	Chair	the	nature	and	extent	of	any	conflict	
of interest arising generally or in relation to any 
matter to be discussed at a Board meeting as soon 
as the Director becomes aware of its existence. 
In the event that the Chair becomes aware of a 
Director’s	conflict	of	interest,	the	Chair	is	required	
to contact that Director promptly and discuss 
the	nature	and	extent	of	such	a	conflict	of	interest.	
Subject to exceptional circumstances in which the 
best interests of the Company dictate otherwise, 
the	Director	affected	by	a	conflict	of	interest	is	
not permitted to participate in discussions and 
decision-making	involving	the	interest	at	stake.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

130
130

Board of Directors

Board committees
A  Committee Chair
A

 Audit and Risk Committee 
 Nomination Committee 
 	Social Responsibility Committee
 Remuneration Committee 

Zoran  
Bogdanovic
ChiefExecutiveOfficer,
ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: June 2018.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Zoran was	previously	the	Company’s	
Regional Director responsible for 
operations in	12	countries	and	has	been	
a member	of	the	Executive	Leadership	
Team	since	2013.	He	joined	the	Company	
in 1996 and has held a number of senior 
leadership positions, including as General 
Manager of the Company’s operations in 
Croatia, Switzerland and Greece. Before 
joining	the Company,	Zoran	was	an	auditor	
with	auditing	and	consulting	firm	Arthur	
Andersen. Zoran has a track record of 
delivering results across our territories 
and demonstrating the values that are 
the foundation	of	our	Company	culture.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: None

Nationality: Croatian

N R

Charlotte J.  
Boyle
Independentnon-Executive
Director
Appointed: June 2017.

Skills,experienceandcontribution:  
After	14	years	with	The	Zygos	Partnership,	
an international executive search and 
Board	advisory	firm,	including	nine	years	as	
a partner, she retired from her position in 
July 2017. Prior to that, Charlotte worked at 
Goldman Sachs International and at Egon 
Zehnder International, an international 
executive search and management 
assessment	firm.	Charlotte	obtained	an	
MBA from the London Business School and 
an MA from Oxford University and was a 
Bahrain British Foundation Scholar.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Charlotte serves 
as Chair of UK for UN High Commission 
for Refugees (UNHCR), an independent 
non-executive	director	and	chair	of	the	
Environment, Sustainability and Community 
Committee of Shaftesbury Capital PLC, an 
independent	director	of	Thatchers	Cider	
Company	Ltd,	a	non-executive	adviser	
to the Group Executive Board of Knight 
Frank	LLP	and	as	a	Trustee	and	Chair	of	the	
Finance Committee of Alfanar, the venture 
philanthropy organisation.

Nationality: British

Anastassis G.  
David
Non-ExecutiveChair
Appointed: January 2016. He joined 
the	Board	of	CCHBC	as	a	non-Executive	
Director in 2006 and was appointed 
Vice Chair	in	2014.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Anastassis brings to his role more than 
20 years’	experience	as	an	investor	
and	NED in	the	beverage	industry.	
Anastassis	is also	a	former	Chair	of	Navios	
Corporation. He	holds	a	BA	in	History	from	
Tufts	University.	

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.
External appointments:  
Anastassis is active in the international 
community. He serves as Vice Chair of 
Aegean Airlines S.A., Vice Chair of the 
Cyprus Union of Shipowners, Chair of the 
board	of	Sea	Trade	Holdings	Inc.,	a	ship-
owning company of dry cargo vessels, 
Chair of	the	board	of	Nephele	Navigation	
Inc., and member of Adcom Advisory Ltd. 

He holds the following positions within 
the	Kar-Tess	group	of	companies:	board	
member	of	Kar-Tess	Holding	and	Executive	
of Boval Ltd. 

Also, he is a member of the board of trustees 
of College Year in Athens, and Director of 
George and Kaity David Foundation.

Nationality:	British-Cypriot

Anastassis David has a shared directorship with 
Alexandra Papalexopoulou, both being a director 
of Aegean	Airlines	S.A..	He	also	has	a	shared	
directorship with Anastasis Leventis, both being 
directors in Nephele Navigation Inc. and has a shared 
directorship with Anastasios I. Leventis, Christo 
Leventis and George Pavlos Levelntis, all being 
directors of Adcom Advisory Ltd.

N

S

R

Henrique 
Braun
Non-ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: June 2021.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Henrique has vast experience in corporate 
functions as well as regional and business 
unit	operations	in	TCCC.	He	joined	TCCC	
in 1996 in Atlanta and progressed with 
increased responsibilities in North America, 
Europe and Latin America. His career 
responsibilities have included supply chain, 
new business development, marketing, 
innovation, general management and 
bottling operations. From 2020 to 2022, 
Henrique served as President of the Latin 
America operating unit, from 2016 to 2020, 
he served as the President of the Brazil 
business unit and from 2013 to 2016, he was 
the President for Greater China and Korea. 
His	other	roles	in	TCCC	in	the	past	include	
Vice President of Innovation and Operations 
in Brazil and Director for Still Beverages 
(non-carbonated	beverages)	in	Europe.	
He	first	joined	TCCC	as	a	trainee	in	Global	
Engineering in the US. Henrique holds a 
bachelor’s degree in agricultural engineering 
from the University Federal of Rio de Janeiro, 
a master’s in industrial engineering from 
Michigan State University and an MBA from 
Georgia State University.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Henrique 
currently serves as Executive Vice President, 
International	Development	for	TCCC,	
overseeing the company’s operating units 
for Latin America, Japan and South Korea, 
ASEAN	and	South	Pacific,	Greater	China	
and Mongolia, Africa, India and Southwest 
Asia and	Eurasia	and	Middle	East.
Nationality: American and Brazilian

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

131
131

Board of Directors continued

A

Olusola(Sola)
David‑Borha
Independentnon-Executive
Director
Appointed: June 2015.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Sola has more than 30 years’ experience 
in financial	services	and	held	several	senior	
roles within the Standard Bank Group. She 
was the CEO of the Africa Regions (excluding 
South Africa) for Standard Bank between 
2017 and 2021. Prior to that role, she served 
as	CEO	of	Stanbic	IBTC	Holdings	Plc,	a	
subsidiary of Standard Bank Group listed 
on the Nigerian Exchange. Her prior Board 
appointments include serving as Chairman 
Stanbic	IBTC	Bank	and	a	Non-Executive	
Director on Stanbic Uganda Holdings and 
Stanbic Bank Uganda.

Sola	holds	a	first	degree	in	Economics	and	
obtained an MBA degree from Manchester 
Business School. Her executive education 
experience includes the Advanced 
Management Programme of the Harvard 
Business School and the Global CEO 
Programme of CEIBS, Wharton and IESE. 

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments:  
Sola serves as NED on the Board of Stanbic 
IBTC	Holdings	Plc,	a	listed	entity	that	is	a	
member of the Standard Bank Group. 

Nationality: Nigerian

N S R

Anna  
Diamantopoulou
Independentnon-Executive
Director
Appointed: June 2020.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: Anna, 
as a former European Commissioner, brings 
to the Group a unique expertise on matters 
of employment and equal opportunity 
together with deep knowledge of the 
European CSR agenda. Anna was an elected 
Member of the Greek Parliament for over 
a decade, during which time she served as 
Deputy Minister for Industries, Minister of 
Education, Lifelong Learning and Religious 
Affairs	and	Minister	of	Development,	
Competitiveness and Shipping of the 
Hellenic Republic. From 1999 to 2004, 
Anna served as a member of the European 
Commission in charge of Employment, 
Social	Affairs	and	Equal	Opportunities.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Founder and 
President	of	DIKTIO-Network	for	Reform	in	
Greece	and	Europe,	a	leading	Athens-based	
independent,	non-partisan	policy	institute.	
A Council Member of the European Council 
on Foreign Relations and an Advisory Board 
Member of Delphi Economic Forum. She is 
also the Chair of the European Commission’s 
High-Level	Group	on	the	future	of	social	
protection and the welfare state in the EU. 
Finally, Anna is a member of the Global 
Advisory	Board	of	KEKST	CNC.

Nationality: Greek

A

WilliamW.(Bill) 
DouglasIII
Independentnon-Executive
Director
Appointed: June 2016.

Skills,experienceandcontribution:  
Bill	is	a	former	Vice	President	of	Coca-Cola	
Enterprises, a position in which he served 
from July 2004 until his retirement in June 
2016. From 2000 until 2004, Bill served as 
Chief	Financial	Officer	(CFO)	of	CCHBC.	
Bill has held various positions within the 
Coca-Cola	System	since	1985,	including	
positions	with	responsibility	for	the	IT	
function, including cyber issues. Before 
joining	TCCC,	Bill	was	associated	with	Ernst	
&	Whinney,	an	international	accounting	firm.	
He received his undergraduate degree from 
the	J.M.	Tull	School	of	Accounting	at	the	
University of Georgia.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Bill is the Lead 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee 
of SiteOne Landscape Supply, Inc. He is 
also a non executive Chair of the Board of 
Directors	of	The	North	Highland	company.	
He also serves on the Board and is a past 
Chair	of	the	University	of Georgia	Trustees.
Nationality: American

Reto  
Francioni
Senior Independent  
non-ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: June 2016.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Reto has been Professor of Applied Capital 
Markets	Theory	at	the	University	of	Basel	
since 2006 and is the author of several 
highly respected books on capital market 
issues. From 2005 until 2015, Reto was CEO 
of Deutsche Börse AG and from 2002 until 
2005, he served as Chair of the Supervisory 
Board and President of the SWX Group, 
which owns the Swiss Stock Exchange and 
has holdings in other exchanges. Between 
2000	and	2002,	Reto	was	Co-CEO	and	
Spokesman for the Board of Directors of 
Consors AG. Between 1993 and 2000, he 
held various management positions at 
Deutsche Börse AG, including that of Deputy 
CEO. He earned his Doctorate of Law at the 
University of Zurich.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Reto serves as 
Chair of the Supervisory Board of UBS 
Europe SE and also as the Chair of the 
Supervisory Board of Swiss International 
Airlines. Reto is also a Vice Chair at the Board 
of Directors of Medtech Innovation Partners 
AG, Basel.

N R

Anastasios I.  
Leventis
Non-ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: June 2014.

S

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Anastasios began his career as a banking 
analyst at Credit Suisse and then American 
Express Bank. He has previously served 
on the Boards of the Cyprus Development 
Bank and Papoutsanis SA. He holds a BA in 
Classics from the University of Exeter and 
an MBA from New York University’s Leonard 
Stern School of Business.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Anastasios is a 
Board member of A.G. Leventis (Nigeria) 
Ltd, Vice Chair of the board of Nephele 
Navigation Inc, a board member of Maxenta 
Invest Corp., of Middle East Finance Sarl 
and of Adcom Advisory Ltd. He is a board 
member	of	Kar-Tess	Holding.	

Furthermore, Anastasios is a member of the 
European Council of the Nature Conservancy, 
a Board Member of WWF Hellas (Greek 
branch of WWF), a member of the board of 
Overseers of the Gennadius Library in Athens, 
a member of the University of Exeter Global 
Advancement Board, co founder of the 
Cyclades Preservation Fund, Member of the 
Board	of	Trustees	of	A.G.	Leventis	Foundation,	
and Director of Leventis Foundation Nigeria.

Nationality: Swiss

Nationality: British

Anastasios Leventis has a shared directorship with 
Anastassis David, Christo Leventis and George Pavlos 
Leventis, all being directors of Adcom Advisory Ltd. 
He also has shared directorship with Anastassis David, 
both being directors of Nephele Navigation Inc, and a 
shared directorship with Christo Leventis, both being 
directors in Middle East Finance Sarl.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

132
132

Board of Directors continued

Christo  
Leventis
Non-ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: June 2014.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Christo worked as an Investment Analyst 
with Credit Suisse Asset Management from 
1994 to 1999. In 2001, he joined J.P. Morgan 
Securities as an Equity Research Analyst 
focusing on European beverage companies. 
From 2003 until March 2014, Christo 
was a member of the board of directors 
of Frigoglass S.A.I.C., a leading global 
manufacturer of commercial refrigeration 
products for the beverage industry. Christo 
holds a BA in Classics from University 
College London and an MBA from the 
Kellogg School of Management in Chicago. 

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments:  
Christo is a board member of Alpheus 
Capital, a single family private equity 
investment	office,	a	board	member	of	
Adcom Advisory Ltd, a board member of 
Middle East Finance Sarl and holds the 
following	positions	within	the	Kar-Tess	group	
of	companies:	a	board	member	of	Kar-Tess	
Holding	and	a	board	member	of	Torval	
Investment Corp. 
Furthermore, he is a Director of the A.G. 
Leventis Foundation.

Nationality: British

Christo Leventis has a shared directorship with 
Anastassis David, Anastasios Leventis and George 
Pavlos Leventis, all being directors of Adcom Advisory 
Ltd. He also has a shared directorship with Anastasios 
Leventis, both being directors in Middle East Finance 
Sarl and with George Pavlos Leventis, both being 
directors	in	Torval	Investment	Corp.

A

Alexandra 
Papalexopoulou
Independentnon-Executive
Director
Appointed: June 2015.

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
Alexandra worked previously for the OECD and 
the	consultancy	firm	Booz,	Allen	&	Hamilton,	
in Paris. From 2003 until February 2015, she 
served as a member of the Board of Directors 
of Frigoglass S.A.I.C. From 2010 to 2015, she 
served as a member of the board of directors 
of National Bank of Greece and from 2007 
to 2009, she served as a member of the 
board of directors of Emporiki Bank. She is 
an experienced executive director having 
been	appointed	in	1995	to	the	board	of	Titan	
Cement Company S.A., where she is employed 
since 1992. Alexandra holds a BA in Economics 
and Mathematics from Swarthmore College 
in the US and an MBA from INSEAD in France.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: Alexandra is an 
Executive Member of the Board of Directors 
of	Titan	Cement	International	and	Chair	of	
the Board Strategy Committee. Alexandra 
is treasurer and a member of the Board 
of Directors of the Paul and Alexandra 
Canellopoulos Foundation, a member of the 
Board	of	Trustees	of	the	INSEAD	business	
school	and	an	independent	non-executive	
Director of Aegean Airlines S.A..

Nationality: Greek

Alexandra Papalexopoulou has a shared directorship 
with Anastassis David, both being a director of Aegean 
Airlines S.A.

Evguenia 
Stoichkova
Non-ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: May 2023.

S

GeorgePavlos 
Leventis
Non-ExecutiveDirector
Appointed: May 2023.

Skills,experienceandcontribution:  
Evguenia is currently the President of Global 
Ventures	for	TCCC,	a	unit	that	focuses	on	
globally scaling acquisitions and brands, 
including	COSTA	Coffee	and	investment	
in Monster Beverage Corp. Prior to her 
current role, Evguenia served as President 
of	the	company’s	Eurasia	&	Middle	East	
operating unit. From 2017 to 2020, Evguenia 
was	president	of	the	Turkey,	Caucasus	and	
Central Asia business unit. From 2013 to 
2017, Evguenia served as Franchise General 
Manager for Italy and Albania. From 2010 to 
2013, she was Franchise Operations director 
for Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and Albania.

Evguenia	joined	Coca-Cola	Bulgaria	in	2004	
as Franchise Country Manager. She became 
Marketing Manager for sparkling soft drinks 
in the Adriatic and Balkans business unit in 
2007. She was named as Area Marketing 
Manager in Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and 
Macedonia in 2008 before becoming Brand 
Director for still beverages for South Eastern 
Europe in 2009. Evguenia started her career 
at Danone Group in 1994 and led Danone 
marketing in Bulgaria from 2000 to 2004.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: 
President of Global Ventures	at	TCCC

Nationality: Bulgarian

Skills,experienceandcontribution: 
George	was	a	non-executive	member	of	the	
board of directors of Frigoglass S.A.I.C. from 
2014 until May 2023 and held the position 
of Vice Chair. George previously worked as 
an analyst in fund management and holds 
an	Investment	Management	Certificate	
from the CFA Society. He graduated with a 
bachelor’s degree in modern history from 
Oxford University and holds a postgraduate 
Law degree from City University in the UK.

For more information on skills and 
experience see page 147.

External appointments: George is a board 
member of Adcom Advisory Ltd, a board 
member of Chalet Alpette Sarl and a board 
member of 8 Kensington Park Road Ltd. He 
is	also	a	Board	member	of	Torval	Investment	
Corp.,	a	company	within	the	Kar-Tess	group	
of companies. 

Furthermore,	he	is	a	director	in	Terra	Cypria	
Foundation,	a	charitable	non-governmental	
organisation, that promotes environmental 
awareness and sustainability.

Nationality: British

George Pavlos Leventis has a shared directorship with 
Anastassis David, Christo Leventis and Anastasios 
Leventis, all being directors of Adcom Advisory Ltd. He 
also has a shared directorship with Christo Leventis, 
both	being	directors	in	Torval	Investment	Corp.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

133
133

Corporate Governance Report
BoardleadershipandCompanypurpose

The	Board	has	ultimate	responsibility	for	our	
long-term	success	and	for	delivering	sustainable	
shareholder value, as well as contributing to wider 
society. It is responsible for setting our purpose, 
values and strategy and ensuring alignment with 
culture.	This	includes	ensuring	that	workforce	
policies and practices are consistent with our 
values	and	long-term	sustainable	vision.	

Key activities of the Board in 2023
The	key	activities	of	the	Board	during	the	year	
are	set	out	opposite.	The	Board	recognises	the	
value of maintaining close relationships with its 
stakeholders, understanding their views and the 
importance of these relationships in delivering our 
strategy.	The	Group’s	key	stakeholders	and	their	
differing	perspectives	are	taken	into	account	as	
part of the Board’s discussions. You can read more 
in our statement of section 172 of the Companies 
Act 2006 on page 19.

Board meeting discussions are structured using a 
carefully tailored agenda that is agreed in advance 
by the Chair in conjunction with the CEO and the 
Company Secretary. A typical Board meeting will 
comprise	the	following	elements:

•  committee reports from the Chairs of our 
Board Committees on the proceedings of 
those meetings,	including	the	key	discussion	
points and particular matters to bring to the 
Board’s	attention;

• 

• 

• 

 performance reports including CEO Overview, 
COO Overview, CFO Review and operational 
performance	reports;

	deep-dive	reports	into	areas	of	strategic	
importance to evaluate progress, provide 
insight and, where necessary, decide on 
appropriate	action;	and

 legal and governance updates including 
regulatory updates, governance and 
compliance updates, proxy agencies 
scoring and	annual	Board,	Committees’	
and Directors’	assessment.

Performance
Performance

Riskmanagementandinternalcontrol

Operational

Principalandemergingrisks
Continued review of principal and emerging risks and 
mitigation programmes, Overshight of the internal 
control	framework,	and	definition	of	the	Group’s	risk	
appetite.

Cost optimisation and investment
Ongoing review of the Group’s cost optimisation and 
investment programmes

Regionsandfunctions
Regionsandfunctions
Deep-dive	reviews	of	regions	and	key	functions
Deep-dive	reviews	of	regions	and	key	functions

Businessandfinancialperformance
Businessandfinancialperformance
Regular reviews of business performance by 
Regular reviews of business performance by 
reporting segments and categories, with focus on 
reporting segments and categories, with focus on 
growth	accelerators	and	new	product	launches;	
growth	accelerators	and	new	product	launches;	
regular	reviews	of	financial	performance,	financial	
regular	reviews	of	financial	performance,	financial	
insights, FX matters and analysts’ updates
insights, FX matters and analysts’ updates.

Finance and IT
Reviewing	the	liquidity,	financing	status	and	
commodity exposure of the Group and reviewing 
information technology plans, including cyber security

Performancemeasurement
Performancemeasurement
Focusing on the performance of the Revenue 
Focusing on the performance of the Revenue 
Growth	Management,	Route-to-Market	and	big	data	
Growth	Management,	Route-to-Market	and	big	data	
and advanced analytics programmes in order to build 
and advanced analytics programmes in order to build 
the necessary insight capabilities
the necessary insight capabilities

Digital strategy
Review of the digital strategy and its key priorities 
around consumer and customer centricity, 
employee experience and operational productivity

Newacquisitions
Approved	the	acquisition	of	Finlandia	Vodka;	
continued oversight of Egypt business integration

Capitalexpenditure
Review of material capital expenditure projects

Geopolitical events
Continued monitoring geopolictical events that may 
have operational impact

Retail and e‑commerce
Cultureandvalues
Reviewing the execution initiatives in retail, 
e-commerce	and	growth	results
Employeeengagementsurveys
Discussing the employee engagement surveys and 
people plans

Cultureandvalues

Employeeengagementsurveys
Organisationaldesign
Discussing the employee engagement surveys and 
Reflecting	on	the	implementation	of	the	Group’s	
people plans
organisational design

Organisationaldesign
Engagement initiatives
Reflecting	on	the	implementation	of	the	Group’s	
Working	with	the	designated	non-Executive	Director	
organisational design
on	issues	that	are	identified	through	the	employee	
engagement process

Engagement initiatives
Working	with	the	designated	non-Executive	Director	
on	workforce	issues	that	are	identified	through	the	
employee	engagement	process;	engaging	with	other	
stakeholders in assessing performance against strategy

Successionplanninganddiversity

Successionplanning
Reviewing succession planning for Board and senior 
management

Net zero initiatives
Review	of	projects,	including	the	in-house	
production	of	PET	from	recycled	PET	flakes	

Talent development
Reviewing the Company’s talent development plans

Stakeholders

Academies
Monitoring the progress of our academies, including 
Coffee,	Digital,	Supply	Cain	and	Sales	Academies	

Our customers

Our consumers

The	Coca-Cola	Company

NGOs

Governments

Our communities

Our investors

Our people

Our suppliers

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

134
134

Corporate Governance Report continued 
EngagingwithourStakeholders

The	Board	regularly	reviews	stakeholder	
engagement activities undertaken, both by it and 
the	Group	as	whole,	and	is	satisfied	that	the	activities	
outlined in the next two pages and on pages 12 
to	18	remain	effective	for	the	mutual	benefit	of	
the Company and its stakeholders. Going forward, 
a focus on our people, customers, consumers, 
communities and partners will remain high 
on the Board’s	agenda.

Shareholders 
In 2023, shareholders were permitted to attend 
the 2023 AGM with the statutory auditors and 
the independent proxy adviser in person, for 
the	first	time	since	2019,	due	to	Covid-19	safety	
restrictions. At the 2023 AGM, more than 20% of 
votes were cast against three resolutions, being 
the advisory votes on the UK remuneration report 
(resolution 7), the Swiss remuneration report 
(resolution	9),	and	the	re-election	of	Charlotte	
J. Boyle, Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
(Resolution 4.1.3). In accordance with Provision 
4 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, on 
15 December 2023 we published an update on 
the key actions that were taken by the Board 
of Directors and Remuneration Committee in 
response to this. In addition to the consultation 
with its largest shareholders prior to the 2023 
AGM the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
has further engaged with shareholders to 
understand their feedback regarding the votes. 
From this engagement, it is understood that 
the	significant	factor	regarding	the	votes	was	
connected	to	the	increased	2023-2025	PSP	
opportunity for the CEO, even though this was 
within the policy limits approved by shareholders. 

More information on the actions taken 
in	response to	this	vote	is included	in	the	
Remuneration	Report	on	page 160.	

Pursuant to Swiss law and the Articles of 
Association, shareholders annually elect an 
independent proxy and have the possibility 
to authorise and instruct the independent 
proxy electronically for our general meetings. 
The	Chair,	Senior	Independent	Director	and	
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee will be 
available at the 2024 AGM to answer questions 
from	shareholders.	The	Board	encourages	
shareholders to attend as it provides an 
opportunity to engage with the Board. 

The	Chairman	meets	and	maintains	a	dialogue	
with the Company’s major shareholders to 
understand their views on the Company’s 
strategy and	performance.

More broadly, our investor relations function 
reports	to	the	CFO.	Through	the	investor	relations	
team, the Company and Board maintain a dialogue 
with	institutional	investors	and	financial	analysts	
on	our	strategy,	financial	and	sustainability	
performance. We engaged with the investment 
community and our shareholders throughout 
the year,	as	outlined	in	the	box	opposite.	
Feedback from	shareholders	was	regularly	
considered by the Board and, where necessary, 
appropriate action to further engage was taken.

OtherStakeholders
We remain constantly vigilant of the ongoing 
conflict	in	Ukraine.	First	and	foremost,	we	are	
focused on protecting our employees and 
ensuring, in so far as possible, their health and 
safety. We believe that the decisions we have 
taken to date achieve the best balance for our 
team on the ground and our wider stakeholders. 
We continue to monitor matters closely and will 
take further actions if needed. 

Stakeholder interests and matters were also 
carefully considered by the Board in the context 
of	the	acquisition	of	Brown-Forman	Finland	
Oy, owner of Finlandia, a leading vodka brand in 
Central	and	Eastern	Europe,	on	1 November	2023	
and	its	subsequent	integration.	The	acquisition	
represents a unique opportunity for the Group 
as it enhances our journey towards becoming the 
leading 24/7 beverage partner and creating value 
for our stakeholders. We have been distributing 
Finlandia and other premium spirits brands for 
more than 17 years and the acquisition, which we 
assessed as an attractive investment is expected 
to further enrich and strengthen our portfolio 
across more of our markets. Ownership of the 
Finlandia vodka business is also expected to 
enhance	our	premium	spirits	credentials;	driving	
mixability	opportunities	with	premium	and	super-
premium	NARTD	products,	helping	capture	
more drinking occasions for our consumers, and 
strengthening partnerships with customers in 
strategically important channels such as hotels, 
restaurants and cafés and creating more value 
for our partners and customers by capturing 
new opportunities	with	our	well-rounded	
beverage portfolio.

Investor relations highlights 

February
• 

 US management roadshow – Miami, 
Boston, New York

•  Europe and UK management roadshow 

(London, Frankfurt)

May
•  AGM in Steinhausen
 Investor Day in Rome
• 

June
• 

 dbAccess, Deutsche Bank, Global 
Consumer Conference 2023 – Paris
 BNP Paribas Exane CEO Conference – Paris

• 
•  3rd Annual Evercore ISI Consumer and 

• 

Retail Conference – Virtual
 US investor relations roadshow (Chicago, 
Denver, California, San Francisco) 

September
• 
• 

	Toronto	investor	relations	roadshow
 Barclays Global Consumer Staples 
Conference 2023 – Boston
 Baader Investment Conference – Munich

• 

November
• 
• 
• 
• 

 UK management roadshow (London)
 US management roadshow (New York)
	Jefferies	Miami	Consumer	Conference
 Bank of America Consumer and Retail 
conference – Miami
 Morgan Stanley and Athens Exchange 
Greek Investment Conference – London
 Milan – Madrid investor relations Roadshow 
 Citi’s Global Consumer Conference – London 

• 

• 
• 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

135
135

Corporate Governance Report continued 
EngagingwithourStakeholderscontinued

Championingworkforce
rightsatBoard level
Charlotte Boyle, our designated NED for 
workforce engagement, attended meetings 
with our European Works Council during 
the year. She heard from elected employee 
representatives from our businesses in 
EU	countries,	hearing	first-hand	their	
experiences during the last couple of years. 
The	insights	gained	contributed	to	the	
Board’s decisions in relation to ensuring 
the appropriate support and resources for 
our people – not only in terms of safety, 
but to aid them	in	their	roles.

Charlotte frequently interacted with our 
Head of Labor Relations Director, who is 
also responsible for monitoring diversity, 
equity and inclusion, to better understand 
the steps we are taking to be more diverse 
and	inclusive	(see	page	49).	To	embed	these	
attributes within the Company’s culture, 
multiple initiatives have been launched to 
increase awareness and understanding and 
improve policies and practices to create a 
more equitable and inclusive workplace for all. 
Again, Charlotte reported back to the Board 
on her observations and matters raised by 
employees, ensuring Board deliberations 
and decision	making	were	fully	informed.

Ourpeople
The	Board	recognises	that	our	people	are	core	to	
our strategy – our success depends on our ability 
to	attract,	retain	and	develop	the	best	talent.	The	
safety of our workforce continued to be a focus 
throughout 2023, ensuring appropriate measures 
were in place so that people could continue in 
their roles and that we were supporting a healthy 
working environment, particularly for colleagues 
and their families based in or around Russia and 
Ukraine.	The	Board	closely	monitors	and	reviews	
the results of the employee engagement surveys. 
It also reviews talent development initiatives 
designed	to	support	long-term	success.	For	
further details on investing in our people please 
see below and the Growth Pillar 4 on pages 45 to 
51. For further details on rewarding our people 
please see the Remuneration Committee Report 
on pages 159 to 184. 

Charlotte	Boyle,	our	designated	non-Executive	
Director has the mandate for engagement with 
our people. Employee engagement survey results 
are shared with and reviewed by the Nomination 
Committee	and	the	Board.	The	CEO	held	
engagement sessions with employees during 
the year,	including	Q&As.

Stakeholdergroup

HowtheBoardengageswithStakeholders

Read more

 Ourpeople

 Ourcustomers

 Ourconsumers

 Governments

 Ourcommunities

 NGOs

  The Coca‑Cola 

Company

 Ourinvestors

 Oursuppliers

To	understand	what	our	people	needed	to	work	in	
continually changing circumstances, the Company 
conducted	in	total	four	all-employee	surveys	in	2023.	There	
is	a	designated	non-Executive	Director	for	engagement	
with our people but the practice, which began during the 
beginning	of	the	COVID-19	pandemic,	of	presenting	survey	
results	to	the	full	Board	continued.	The	CEO	also	held	
engagement sessions with employees during the year, 
including	several	calls	with	Q&A	sessions.

Regular business updates on performance and market 
execution, regular visits, dedicated account teams, joint 
business	planning,	joint	value-creation	initiatives,	customer	
care centres, customer satisfaction surveys.

Regular business updates on performance and market 
execution, and consumer trends and insights, consumer 
hotlines, local websites, plant tours, research, surveys, 
insights, focus groups.

Regulatory updates on issues and developments 
relevant	to	the	Company’s	business,	Trade	Associations,	
recycling and recovery initiatives, EU Code of Conduct 
on Responsible Food Business and Marketing Practices, 
Physical Activity and Health, foreign investment advisory 
councils,	chambers	of commerce.

Plant visits, community meetings, partnerships on 
common issues, sponsorship activities, lectures at 
universities, training opportunities and support to young 
people currently not in education, training or employment.

Dialogue, policy work, partnerships on common issues, 
membership of business and industry associations.

Regular engagement with the Chair on performance 
against	strategy	and	governance	matters,	day-to-day	
interaction as business partners, joint projects, joint 
business planning, functional groups on strategic issues, 
‘top-to-top’	senior	management	meetings.

Annual General Meeting, investor roadshows and 
results briefings,	webcasts,	engagement	of	Chair	with	
major shareholders, engagement of Committee Chairs on 
significant	matters	pertaining	to	their	areas	of	responsibility.	
Regular business updates on performance and market 
execution,	ongoing	dialogue	with	analysts and	investors,

Engagement with our suppliers, consultants and 
counterparts in related industries.

p45.

p33.

p24.

p52.

p52.

p52.

p18.

p18.

p40.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

136
136

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Overseeingstrategicdelivery

Ourgrowthpillars

What did the Board consider? 

WhatdidtheBoarddiscussandapprove?

Whatwerethematerialstakeholderconsiderations?

•  Reviewing the accelerators for the future including 

•  Roll out of Jack and Coke alcoholic ready to drink 

•  Consumer needs and trends, including quality 

1

Leverageour
unique24/7
portfolio 

Sparkling,	Energy	and	Coffee

•  Assessing business development opportunities

in prioritized	markets
•  Roll out of Vitamin Water 
•  Discussed	Coffee	performance	and	acceleration	and	
engaged with brand owner stakeholders, including 
Carolina	Vergnano	of	Caffè	Vergnano	

•  Deep	dive	session	with	TCCC	CFO,	John	Murphy	

and freshness of products, health and nutrition, 
affordability,	innovation,	reducing	waste
•  Creating value for our shareholders and our 
customers and how a strategic approach to 
a segmented	portfolio	can	play	a	critical	role	
to accelerate	revenue	

2

Win in the 
marketplace

•  Market execution excellence and initiatives
•  Digital commerce progress and initiatives, including 

customer portals and digital marketing
•  How to maximise use of digital tools and 

artificial intelligence

3

Fuelgrowth
through
competitiveness 
and investment

•  Financial performance, insights and trends
•  CapEx required and timelines for investments 
for capacity	and	efficiency,	capability	building	
and sustainability	

•  Business development and other 

investment opportunities

on strategy,	priorities,	market	insights	and	
consumer trends

•  2024 business plan review 
•  Acquisition	of	Finlandia	vodka	business	from	long-

term partner Brown Forman and business prospects 

•  Regular	updates	from	the	ELT	on	business	

performance, operational priorities and market 
execution initiatives

•  Development of eMarketplace solutions to address 
a growing need for smaller customers looking for 
effective	purchasing	aggregation.	

•  Partnership with Microsoft to build in house 
generative	Artificial	Intelligence	productivity	
and other	tools

•  Regular	updates	from	the	ELT	on	financial	

performance,	financial	insights,	incl.	FX	matters	
and analysts’	updates;	approval	of	half-year	and	
annual results announcements

•  Quarterly reports by the Audit and Risk Committee 

of the Board 

•  Partnerships create long term value for 

all stakeholders	

•  Marketplace economic conditions

•  Consumer needs and trends
•  Customer engagement and satisfaction
•  Marketplace economic conditions
•  Shareholder value creation

•  Consumers’ and customers’ evolving needs 
and trends	plus	sustainability	considerations	

•  Shareholder value creation

•  Enterprise wide initiative to drive processes’ 
and projects’	efficiency	and	simplification

•  Capital expenditure to fuel business growth
•  Update on Investors’ day held in Rome in May 

by the Group	CFO

•  Share Buy Back programme to run for 2 years to 

return	to	shareholders	up	to	€400	million

•  Approval	of	EMTN	programme	update	to	allow	the	
Company to issue new notes in the market in the 
next 12 months

•  Update on enterprise wide initiative to drive 

processes’	and	projects’	efficiency	and	simplification

•  2024	Business	plan	review	of	financials

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

137
137

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Overseeingstrategicdeliverycontinued

Ourgrowthpillars

What did the Board consider? 

WhatdidtheBoarddiscussandapprove?

Whatwerethematerialstakeholderconsiderations?

•  How to deliver our new purpose and 

•  Regular reviews of people, talent, succession plans 

•  Our people and how to engage, retain and develop 

them and open up opportunities for them in line with 
our new purpose 

• 

 Delivering against our ESG targets, within Mission 
2025, NetZeroby40 roadmap and biodiversity 
goals to meet broad stakeholder expectations 
on sustainability, for employees, consumers, 
customers, shareholders, regulators and NGOs
•  Support our communities in need and at time of 

crisis, prioritising natural disaster relief, packaging 
and waste management, corporate citizenship and 
empowering youth and women

Cultivatethe
potential of 
our people

4

culture manifesto

•  Attracting, maintaining and developing talent 
•  Employee engagement drivers
•  Progress against our gender diversity KPIs

and culture matters

•  Quarterly reports by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees of the Board 

•  Consideration of employee engagement survey 

outputs and actions proposed

•  Update	from	ELT	members	on	the	Company’s	

culture manifesto

•  Review of initiatives to enhance the Company’s 

employer branding and attractiveness 

Earnour 
licence  
to operate 

5

•  How to do the right thing and deliver against 

•  Regular updates and reviews of 

our ambitious	ESG	targets

sustainability projects

•  Corporate governance as a critical enabler 

•  Quarterly reports by the Social Responsibility 

for our license	to	operate
•  Regulatory developments 

Committee of the Board 

•  Review	of	Health	&	Safety	update	and	approval	

of improvement	plan

•  Review of ESG benchmarks
•  Launched	the	Coca-Cola	HBC	Foundation,	with	
an	initial	commitment	of	€10	million,	dedicated	
to supporting the communities in which the 
Company operates

•  Participation	to	the	Greycroft	Coca-Cola	System	
Sustainability	Fund	by	committing	$15	million	for	
sustainability related investments

•  Corporate governance updates and overview, 

including AGM results and consultation process, 
internal controls and risk management processes, 
external auditors review, UK Corporate Governance 
Code	requirements	and	compliance;	approval	
of	2022	integrated	annual	report;	Board	self-
assessment overview and prioritizing focus areas 
for 2024.

•  Regulatory updates, including on UK corporate 
governance	rules	&	upcoming	changes	and	
sweeteners regulations

•  The	Company’s	insurance	renewal	proposal	review	

and approval

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

138
138

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Cultureinaction

The Board is responsible for monitoring 
andassessingourculture.TheChair
ensuresthattheBoardisoperating
appropriately and sets the Board’s 
culture,whichinturnsetsthestandard
forthecultureoftheCompany.

The	CEO,	supported	by	members	of	the	ELT,	is	
responsible for ensuring culture is embedded 
throughout the business and its operations and 
in	all	our	dealings	with	our	stakeholders.	The	
Board measures the culture of the Group using 
internal and external metrics, which also enable 
it to identify further actions to ensure the culture 
remains	appropriate.	The	Board	also	assesses	
the alignment of the Group’s policy, practices 
and behaviours throughout the business with 
the company’s purpose, values and strategy, 
and,	if	not	satisfied,	seeks	assurance	that	the	
management	is	taking	corrective	action.	The	
Board also monitors the Group’s performance 
against its peer group within the same sector. 

What	defines	our	culture	is	who	we	are,	our	
purpose, our vision, our values, how we need to 
evolve and the behaviours we commit to each 
other.	In	2023,	we	further	defined	this	with	our	
Culture	Story’	which	was	rolled-out	during	our	
Leadership	Conference	in	Cairo.	The	Board	
monitored progress through the regular updates 
from the management team, and culture and 
engagement surveys ran during the year – 
see page	47.	

Doing the right thing
•  continued to prioritise the health, safety 

and wellbeing of our people and support our 
local communities in need, including local 
communities and our people in Ukraine, 
which continues to be impacted by the 
conflict	–	see	pages	47	to	48.

•  established	the	Coca-Cola	HBC	Foundation,	
with an initial donation of EUR 10 million, 
dedicated to supporting the communities 
in which we operate, primarily in areas of 
natural disaster relief, packaging and waste 
management, corporate citizenship and 
empowering youth and women – see page 66.
 continued to invest in programmes that 
make our people and partners’ work – and 
lives – easier. For example, Project Oxygen is 
reducing bureaucracy and complexity so they 
can	focus	on	value-adding	activities,	showing	
how our company value of ‘making it simple’ 
really matters – see page 46.

• 

Investinginourpeople
•  ran	bi-annual	culture	and	engagement	
surveys one pulse survey and one 
collaboration for impact survey during 
the year	–	see	page	47.
implemented new international Leadership 
Trainee	programme	of	the	Group	–	see	page	49.

• 

•  emphasised	the	well-being	of	our	people	

with enhancing initiatives as the Employee 
Assistance Programme – see page 48.
•  focused on initiatives to strengthen talent 
attraction and promote our preferred 
employer status – see page 51.

•  continued to strengthen the diversity of our 

workforce through workplace inclusion activities 
and are proud to report that in 2023 we received 
15	diversity-related	awards;	on	gender	diversity	
in particular, 41.8% of management positions 
now held by women – see page 49.

Openingupopportunitiesforour
consumers,customersandpartners
•  strengthened our portfolio and our 24/7 
beverage partner strategy by acquiring 
Finlandia	vodka	business	from	Brown-
Forman, an investment that opens up new 
opportunities for our consumers, partners 
and	customers	to	create	value	and	offer	a	
broader range in consumption occasions – 
see page 27.

•  continued measuring and continuously 
improving customer experience using 
the Net Promoter Score® metric applied 
through CustomerGauge ‘voice of customer’ 
software, which enables instant feedback 
from customers – see page 36.

•  continued investing in technology that 
enables a personalised experience for 
our consumers and customers, including 
connected coolers, digital marketing, 
digital platforms	–	see	page	43.

Sustainability
•  Accelerated our #YouthEmpowered 

employability programme – see page 65.

•  Continued to prioritise a circular 

approach to	packaging,	achieving	almost	
50%	rPET	in	EU	and	Swiss	markets,	a	
year ahead of the 2025 deadline set as 
part of the Union of European Soft Drinks 
Associations circular packaging vision for 
EU markets – see page 58. 
	Joined	TCCC	and	seven	other	leading	
bottling partners to announce a 
sustainability-focused	venture	capital	fund.	
The	$137.7	million	fund	is	initially	focusing	
on packaging, heating and cooling, facility 
decarbonisation, distribution and supply 
chain – see page 53.
 Accelerated progress towards 
NetZeroby40	by	investing	$12	million	
to	open	a	high-speed	returnable	glass	
bottling line in Austria – see page 60. 
	Invested	in	Manna	Aero,	an	Irish	start-up	
leading the way in food and beverage drone 
deliveries, which can be up to eight times 
more	efficient	–	see	page	57.
 Invested in water, hygiene and sanitation 
projects in seven Nigerian states to help 
strengthen community water resilience – 
see page 62.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

139
139

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Division of responsibilities

Board of Directors

The	Board	reviews	and	approves	strategy,	monitors	performance	toward	strategic	objectives,	oversees	implementation	
by	the	ELT	and	approves	matters	reserved	by	the	Articles	of	Association	for	decision	by	the	Board.	The	governance	
process of the Board is set out in our Articles of Association and the Organisational Regulations and can be found at 
https://www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/about-us/corporate-governance.

Chair
•  Leads the Board, sets the agenda 

CEO
•  Leads the business, implements 

Senior Independent Director
•  Acts as a sounding Board 

Non-ExecutiveDirectors
•  Contribute to developing 

and promotes a culture of 
openness and debate.

•  Ensures the highest standards 

of corporate	governance.

•  Is the main point of 

contact between	the	
Board and management.

•  Ensures	effective	communication	
with stakeholders, together with 
the CEO.

Board committees

strategy	and	chairs	the	ELT.

•  Is responsible for overall 

effectiveness	in	leading	the	
Company and setting the culture.

•  Communicates with the Board, 

shareholders, employees, 
government authorities, other 
stakeholders and the public.

for the	Chair	and	appraises	
his performance.

•  Leads the independent NEDs 

on	matters	that	benefit	from	an	
independent review.

•  Is available to shareholders if they 
have concerns that have not been 
resolved through the normal 
channels of communication.

Group strategy.

•  Scrutinise and constructively 
challenge the performance of 
management in the execution 
of the	Group’s	strategy.

•  Oversee succession planning, 
including the appointment of 
Executive Directors.

Biographies of the Chairs of the Board committees and the other members of the 
Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee are set out on pages 130 to 132.

Company Secretary
•  Ensures that correct Board 
procedures are followed 
and ensures the Board has 
full	and timely	access	to	all	
relevant information.

•  Facilitates induction and training 

programmes, and assists 
with	the Board’s	professional	
development requirements.

•  Advises the Board on 
governance matters.

• 

Nomination Committee
•  Identifies	and	nominates	new	Board	
members, including recommending 
Directors to be members of each 
Board committee.
	Ensures	adequate	Board	training;	supports	
the Board and each committee in 
conducting	a	self-assessment.
 Oversees the talent 
development framework.
	Oversees	effective	succession	planning	for	
the CEO, in consultation with the Chair, and 
for	the	ELT,	in	consultation	with	the	CEO.

• 

• 

Social Responsibility Committee
• 

 Supports the Board in its responsibilities 
to safeguard the Group’s reputation for 
responsible and sustainable operations.
 Oversees engagement with stakeholders 
to assess their expectations and 
the possible consequences of these 
expectations for the Group.
 Establishes principles governing ESG and 
oversees development of performance 
management to achieve ESG goals.

• 

• 

AuditandRiskCommittee
• 

	Oversees	accounting	policies,	financial	
reporting	and	disclosure	controls;	
approach to internal controls and risk 
management;	information	/	cyber	
security matters;	and	the	quality,	
adequacy and	scope	of	internal	and	
external audit functions.
 Oversees compliance with legal, regulatory 
and	financial	reporting	requirements	and	
the internal audit function.
 External auditor reports directly to 
the committee.

• 

• 

RemunerationCommittee
•  Establishes	the	remuneration	strategy;	

determines and agrees with the Board the 
remuneration of Group Executives and 
approves remuneration for the Chair and 
the CEO.
 Makes recommendations to the Board 
regarding remuneration matters to be 
approved at the AGM.
	Implements	or	modifies	any	employee	
benefit	plan	resulting	in	an	increased	annual	
cost	of	€5	million	or	more.

• 

• 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

140
140

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Division of responsibilities continued

Separation of roles
There	is	a	clear	separation	of	the	roles	of	the	
Chair and	the	CEO.	The	Chair	is	responsible	for	
the operation of the Board and for ensuring that 
all Directors	are	properly	informed	and	consulted	
on	all	relevant	matters.	The	Chair,	in	the	context	
of the Board meetings and as a matter of practice, 
also	meets	separately	with	the	non-Executive	
Directors	without	the	presence	of	the	CEO.	The	
Chair promotes a culture of openness and debate 
within the Board sessions as well as outside 
the	formal	sessions.	The	Chair	is	also	actively	
involved in the work of the Nomination Committee 
concerning succession planning and the selection 
of	key	people.	The	CEO,	Zoran	Bogdanovic,	is	
responsible	for	the	day-to-day	management	
and performance of the Company and for the 
implementation of the strategy approved by 
the Board	and	leads	the	ELT.

Board  
Director

Monthand 
year appointed

Board meeting  
attended/total

Nomination  
Committee 

Social 
Responsibility 
Committee

Auditand 
RiskCommittee

Remuneration 
Committee

Anastassis G. David
Zoran Bogdanovic
Charlotte J. Boyle
Henrique Braun
Anna Diamantopoulou
Olusola	(Sola)	David-Borha
William W. (Bill) Douglas III1
Reto Francioni
Anastasios I. Leventis2
Christo Leventis
Alexandra Papalexopoulou3
Bruno Pietracci4
Ryan Rudolph5
George Pavlos Leventis6
Evguenia (Jeny) Stoichkova6

January 2016
June 2018
June 2017
June 2021
June 2020
June 2015
June 2016
June 2016
June 2014
June 2014
June 2015
June 2021
June 2016
May 2023
May 2023

8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
8/8
7/8
8/8
7/8
8/8
7/8
2/2
2/2
6/6
6/6

4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4 

3/4

1/1

3/3

	Anastasios	I.	Leventis	was	unable	to	attend	one	Board	meeting	and	one	meeting	of	the	Social	Responsibility	Committee	due	to	a	pre-agreed	long-standing	prior	commitment.

1.  Bill Douglas III was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a personal family issue.
2.	
3.	 Alexandra	Papalexopoulou	was	unable	to	attend	one	Board	meeting	due	to	a	pre-agreed	long-standing	prior	commitment.
4.  Bruno Pietracci retired from the Board and from the Social Responsibility Committee at the AGM on 17 May 2023.
5.  Ryan Rudolph retired from the Board at the AGM on 17 May 2023.
6.  Evguenia Stoichkova and George Pavlos Leventis were appointed to the Board at the AGM on 17 May 2023.

4/4

4/4

4/4

8/8
8/8

8/8

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

141
141

Corporate Governance Report continued 
TheExecutiveLeadershipTeam

Zoran Bogdanovic
(51)CEO,ExecutiveDirector
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
June 2013, appointed Chief Executive 
Officer	December	2017	(11	years)	

PreviousGrouproles:Zoran was previously 
the Company’s Region Director responsible 
for operations in 12 countries. He joined the 
Company in 1996 and has held a number 
of senior leadership positions, including 
as General Manager of the Company’s 
operations in Croatia, Switzerland and 
Greece. 

Previousrelevantexperience:

Prior	to	joining	Coca-Cola	HBC	in	1996,	
Zoran was an auditor with auditing and 
consulting	firm	Arthur	Andersen.

External appointments: None

Nationality: Croatian

NayaKalogeraki
(53)ChiefOperatingOfficer
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
July	2016,	appointed	Chief	Operating	Officer	
September 2020 (7 years)

PreviousGrouproles:Chief Customer and 
Commercial	Officer	from	2016	to	2020.

From 1998, when Naya joined the Company, 
she built her career assuming roles 
of increased	scale	and	scope,	including	
Marketing	Director,	Trade	Marketing	
Director, Sales Director and Country 
Commercial Director, Greece. She has 
been heavily	involved	in	Group	strategic	
projects	and	task	forces	addressing	mission-
critical business imperatives. In September 
2013, Naya was appointed to the role of 
General Manager, Greece and Cyprus.

Previousrelevantexperience:Naya joined 
the	Company	in	1998	from	The	Coca-Cola	
Company where she held a number of 
marketing positions up to Marketing Manager.

External appointments: Naya is a board 
member of Casa del Caffè Vergnano S.p.A., 
in which the Group holds a 30% equity 
shareholding.

Nationality: Greek

Ben Almanzar
(49)CFO
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
April 2021 (2 years)

PreviousGrouproles:None

Previousrelevantexperience:Before 
joining	the	Company,	Ben	held	senior	financial	
positions in Mars Incorporated, where he 
worked for 10 years as Regional CFO, Europe 
&	Southern	Africa	and	subsequently	as	Vice	
President for Financial Planning, Analytics 
and Financial Strategy. Prior to joining Mars, 
Ben spent 10 years with Nestlé in a variety 
of	finance	roles	in	Europe,	including	CFO	of	
Nestlé	Czech-Slovak,	and	CFO	for	Nestlé	
Waters in the UK.
External appointments: None

Nationality: Dominican Republic and British

On 15 January 2024 the Company announced that 
Ben Almanzar will be stepping down as CFO during the 
second quarter of 2024 and will stay with the company 
to ensure a smooth transition until the end of May 
2024.	On	7 February	2024	the	Company	announced	the	
appointment of Ben’s successor, Anastasis Stamoulis, 

who	will	be	taking	over	the	role	of	CFO	as	of	1 May	2024.	

JanGustavsson
(58)GeneralCounsel,Company
Secretary and Chief Corporate 
DevelopmentOfficer
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
August 2001 (22 years)

PreviousGrouproles: Jan served as Deputy 
General	Counsel	for	Coca-Cola	Beverages	
plc from 1999 to 2001.

Previousrelevantexperience: Jan started 
his	career	in	1993	with	the	law	firm	White	
&	Case	in	Stockholm,	Sweden.	In	1995,	he	
joined	The	Coca-Cola	Company	as	Assistant	
Division Counsel in the Nordic and Northern 
Eurasia Division. From 1997 to 1999, Jan was 
Senior	Associate	in	White	&	Case’s	New	York	
office,	practising	securities	law	and	M&A.

External appointments: Jan is a board 
member of Casa del Caffè Vergnano S.p.A., 
in which the Group holds a 30% equity 
shareholding.

Nationality: Swedish

EbruOzgen
(53)ChiefPeople&Culture
Officer
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
September 2023 (less than 1 year)

PreviousGrouproles:None

Previousrelevantexperience: Before 
joining the Company, Ebru worked with 
Coca-Cola	Icecek	(CCI)	from	1997,	where	
she progressed through leadership 
roles	in	finance	until	she	was	appointed	
as	the	CFO	of	the	Turkey	Operation.	In	
2017, she assumed the Chief Human 
Resources	Officer	role	of	CCI	and	became	
an Executive Committee member, where 
she led the People and Culture agenda and 
transformation in business strategy for 
Turkey,	the	Middle	East,	Pakistan	and	Central	
Asia operations, bringing a multidisciplinary 
approach	and a holistic	business	partnering	
mindset	to the	People	&	Culture	function.	
Ebru started her career in 1992 in Arthur 
Andersen	&	Co,	as	an	auditor	before	moving	
to the FMCG sector.

External appointments: None

Nationality: Turkish

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

142
142

Corporate Governance Report continued 
TheExecutiveLeadershipTeamcontinued

Ivo Bjelis
(56)ChiefSupplyChainOfficer
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
January 2022 (2 years)

PreviousGrouproles: Ivo joined the Group 
in 1996 as Plant Manager in Croatia, while in 
2002 he took over the position of Country 
Supply Chain Manager. Since 2006 Ivo built 
his career assuming roles of increased scale 
and scope, including Strategic Initiative 
Leader for Customer Centric Supply 
Chain, Group Supply Chain Processes and 
Capabilities Director, Regional Supply Chain 
Director, Group Supply Chain Services 
Director and Group Supply Chain Operations 
Director, leading the development and the 
transformation of the Supply Chain strategy 
over the years.

External appointments: None

Nationality: Croatian

MarcelMartin
(65)ChiefCorporateAffairsand
SustainabilityOfficer
Seniormanagementtenure: Appointed 
Chief	Supply	Chain	Officer	January	2015,	
appointed	Chief	Corporate	Affairs	&	
Sustainability	Officer	January	2022	(9	years)

PreviousGrouproles: Marcel joined the 
Group in 1993, holding positions with 
increasing responsibility in the supply chain 
and commercial functions. Since 1995, he 
has held general management assignments 
in several of our markets, including as 
General Manager for Eastern Romania, 
Regional Manager Russia, Country General 
Manager Ukraine and General Manager 
Nigeria. He became General Manager of 
our Irish operations in 2010, Supply Chain 
Director in 2015 and is now our Chief 
Corporate	Affairs	and	Sustainability	Officer.

External appointments: None

Nationality: Romanian

MouradAjarti
(47)ChiefDigitaland
TechnologyOfficer
Seniormanagementtenure: Appointed 
October 2019 (4 years)

PreviousGrouproles: None.

Previousrelevantexperience: Mourad 
has	20	years’	experience	with	two	fast-
moving consumer goods industry leaders, 
Procter	&	Gamble	and	L’Oréal.	Mourad	
started	with	Procter	&	Gamble	leading	SAP	
implementation in Morocco, Saudi Arabia 
and	Europe,	and	later	was	CIO	for	different	
lines of business. From 2014 to 2019, Mourad 
was	CIO	for	the	Asia	and	Pacific	region	for	
L’Oréal, leading consumer and customer 
journey transformation and enabling the use 
of big data and advanced analytics. 

External appointments: None

Nationality: British and Moroccan

SpyrosMello
(49)Strategyand
Transformation Director
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
November 2021 (2 years)

PreviousGrouproles:Spyros served 
as Deputy General Counsel and Chief 
Compliance	Officer	from	2010	to	2021.	
He was	Deputy	General	Counsel	from	2007	
to 2009 and Senior Corporate Counsel from 
2005 to 2007.

Previousrelevantexperience: Spyros was 
an	associate	with	the	law	firm	of	Sullivan	&	
Cromwell LLP practising securities law and 
M&A	first	in	New	York	from	1999	to	2001	and	
then in London from 2001 to 2004.
External appointments: None

Nationality: Greek

MinasAgelidis
(54)RegionDirector:Austria,
CzechRepublic,Estonia,
Hungary,islandof Ireland,
Latvia,Lithuania,Poland,
Slovakia,Switzerland
Seniormanagementtenure: Appointed 
April 2019 (4 years)

PreviousGrouproles: Minas joined the 
Group in 1999, holding positions with 
increasing responsibility in the commercial 
function in Greece (National Account 
Manager, Athens Region Sales Manager, 
National Wholesale Manager, Country Sales 
Director). Since 2008, Minas has held general 
management assignments in a number of 
our markets, including those of Country 
General Manager Cyprus, Country General 
Manager Bulgaria and Country General 
Manager Hungary.

Previousrelevantexperience: Prior to 
joining the Group, Minas spent seven years 
at Unilever Greece in managerial positions in 
sales and marketing including those of Brand 
Manager,	Trade	Marketing	Manager	and	
National Account Manager.

External appointments: None

Nationality: Greek

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

143
143

Corporate Governance Report continued 
TheExecutiveLeadershipTeamcontinued

FrankO’Donnell
(56)RegionDirector:Armenia,
Bosnia&Herzegovina,Bulgaria,
Croatia,Cyprus,Greece,
Moldova,Montenegro,North
Macedonia,Romania,Serbia,
Slovenia,Ukraine.
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
June 2023 (less than one year)

PreviousGrouproles:Frank joined the 
Group in 1992 holding positions with 
increasing responsibility in the commercial 
function in Ireland, becoming Sales Director 
in 2003. From 2010, Frank was Commercial 
Director of our Czech/Slovak business 
unit. Since 2014, Frank has held general 
management assignments in a number of 
our markets, including those of Country 
General Manager Ireland, Country General 
Manager Austria and Country General 
Manager Italy. 

External appointments: None

Nationality: Irish

AleksandarRuzevic
(53)RegionDirector:Nigeria,
Egypt,Belarus,andRussia
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
June 2023 (less than one year)

PreviousGrouproles:	Aleksandar joined	
the	Group	in	1998	as	a sales representative.	
He was then appointed Commercial 
Director for Serbia and Montenegro. In 
2010 Aleksandar joined the Ukrainian team 
in the role of Commercial Director, which 
he successfully led for four years. In 2014 
Aleksandar took the position of General 
Manager in North Macedonia. In 2016 he 
became Country General Manager in Serbia 
and Montenegro	and	from	2018	he	led	the	
Russia BU. 

External appointments: None

Nationality: Serbian

Barbara Tönz
(53)ChiefCustomerand
CommercialOfficer
Seniormanagementtenure: Appointed 
May 2021 (2 years)

PreviousGrouproles: Barbara joined the 
Group	in	1998,	building	her	career	first	in	
Switzerland	as	Trade	Marketing	Director,	
Sales Director and Commercial Director, and 
then in Austria from 2012 as Commercial 
Director and Interim General Manager.

Previousrelevantexperience:In 2016 
Barbara enriched her experience within 
the	Cola-Cola	System	as	Country	Director	
Sweden	for	TCCC,	with	responsibility	
expanded to Norway and Iceland in 2019 
before she assumed the role of Commercial 
Execution Director Europe. Prior to joining 
the Group in 1998, she held positions 
in brand and customer development at 
Unilever. 

External appointments: None

Nationality: Swiss 

VitaliyNovikov
(44)DigitalCommerceBusiness
Development Director
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
September 2020 (3 years)

PreviousGrouproles: Vitaliy joined the 
Group in 2011 as General Manager of the 
Baltics business unit and then held General 
Manager roles in Poland and Italy.

Previousrelevantexperience: Prior to 
joining the Group, Vitaliy spent four years at 
Johnson	&	Johnson	as	Managing	Director	of	
the Ukrainian operation and prior to this he 
spent seven years at Henkel in managerial 
positions of growing responsibility in Austria 
and Ukraine.
External appointments: None

Nationality: Ukrainian

JaakMikkel
(49)NewBusinessesDirector
Seniormanagementtenure:Appointed 
February 2023 (1 year)

PreviousGrouproles: Jaak joined the 
Group in 2008 as Sales Director for Baltics 
and then held roles of General Management 
for Pivara Skopje in North Macedonia, 
Romania with the latest being General 
Manager	for	Poland	&	Baltics.	

Previousrelevantexperience: Prior to 
joining the Group, Jaak spent ten years 
with Shell managing Convenience Retail 
businesses in the Baltics, Central Eastern 
Europe and in the Nordics. 

External appointments: None
Nationality: Estonian

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

144
144

Corporate Governance Report continued 
TheExecutiveLeadershipTeamcontinued

Responsibilities of the ELT
• 

	Day-to-day	executive	management	of	the	
Group and its businesses, including all matters 
not reserved for the Board or other bodies.
 Development of Group strategies and 
implementation of the strategies approved 
by the	Board.
	Providing	adequate	head-office	support	for	
each of the Group’s countries.
 Setting annual targets and approval of annual 
business plans which form the basis of the 
Group’s performance management, including 
a comprehensive programme of strategies and 
targets agreed between the Country General 
Managers and the Regional Directors.
 Working closely with the Country General 
Managers, as set out in the Group’s operating 
framework,	in	order	to	capture	benefits	
of scale,	ensuring	appropriate	governance	
and compliance,	and	managing	performance	
of the	Group.
 Leading the Group’s talent and capability 
development programmes.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Executive Leadership gender diversity 
(number and %)

Men

Women

12 

3 

77%

23%

Executive Leadership Team tenure 
(years)

4

3

2

0–1

1–2

2–3

3– 4

4–5

6–7

7–8

8–9

22–23

1

1

1

1

1

1

Key activities and 
decisions in 2023
Frequencyofmeetings:monthly
Long‑term direction setting 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

 Sponsoring the development and launch of the 
new redesign of the Company purpose, values 
and leadership manifesto.
 Assessing, approving and reviewing key 
initiatives related to processes and projects 
optimisation (project Oxygen).
 Evaluating and evolving our 24/7 portfolio 
strategy together with our brand partners. 
	Reviewing	Coffee	expansion	across	the	
Group’s markets.
 Assessing our sustainability priorities and 
progress of initiatives on the way to deliver 
2025 commitments. 
	Setting	long-term	capability	building	priorities	
and programmes. 
	Review	of	company-wide	talent	strategy	and	
of talents	through	talent	review	forums.
 Overseeing the strategic evolution of Supply 
Chain, People and Culture, Commercial, 
Finance.	Digital	&	Technology	Platform	
Services,	Strategy	&	Transformation,	and	
Corporate	Affairs	&	Sustainability	functions.	
•  Approving and reviewing deployment of major 

• 

• 

• 

automation and digitalisation initiatives. 

Businessplanning
•  Aligning key priorities and investment strategy 

• 

• 

• 

• 

with	TCCC.	
 Aligning key priorities with strategic partners 
– Monster	Energy,	Premium	Spirits	and	
Coffee partners.
 Reviewing progress of the aligned priorities, 
investments and spending. 
 Reviewing and approving annual business plans 
for 2024 for all operations and central functions. 
 Approving Group and country talent, 
capabilities development and succession plans. 

Risk,safetyandbusinessresilience
• 

 Evaluating the Group’s business resilience 
strategies. 
 Evaluating and strengthening Group’s Incident 
Management and Crisis Resolution capabilities. 
 Evaluating the Group’s Risk Register of major 
business risks as well as associated risk 
response plans. 
	Reviewing	the	Group’s	health	&	safety	policies	
and material incidents. 
 Reviewing the corporate audit plan. 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Businesscasereviewsandapprovals
• 

 Reviewing and approving progress of selected 
key	initiatives,	data	insight	&	analytics	(DIA),	
revenue growth management (RGM), digital 
commerce,	digital	&	technology	platforms,	
sustainability,	diversity	&	inclusion	(D&I)	
and culture.
 Capital expenditure proposals, review 
and approval.

• 

Priorityprojects
• 
• 

• 

 Oxygen Strategic Projects. 
 Culture – redesign of new Company purpose, 
values and leadership competencies. 
 Customer satisfaction (external and internal 
client satisfaction via NPS). 
	Initiatives	that	deliver	sustainability	benefits.	
 Engagement. 
	Diversity,	Equity	&	Inclusion.
 Cyber security. 
 Business Resilience. 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Digital eCommerce platforms and tools. 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023 
 
 
 
Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

145
145

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Board composition, succession and evaluation
Nomination Committee

Priorities for 2024
•  Consideration of ethnicity and other 

diversity targets 

•  Continued focus on succession planning 

for the Board and the ELT

•  Close monitoring of the Group’s talent 
development framework and pipeline, 
including talent attraction and retention

•  Engagement and culture surveys
•  Externally facilitated Board and 

committee assessments

•  Follow-up actions on outcome 
of 2023 evaluation assessment

Highlights 2023
•  Succession planning and talent review 
•  Appointment of two new NEDs
 Engagement and pulse surveys 
• 
 Internships and management changes
• 
 Roll-out of the Group’s Culture Manifesto
• 
 New International Leadership 
• 
Trainee Programme
 Strengthened our status as 
preferred employer 

• 

the work of the Committee and in setting our key 
priorities for 2024.

A summary of the Group’s Nomination Policy for 
the recruitment of Board members is available 
online and for more details see page 146.

Reto Francioni
Committee Chair

Dear Stakeholder
The work of the Nomination Committee focuses 
on the proper composition and effective operation 
of the Board, Board and senior management 
succession planning, the oversight of the talent 
management framework, as well as employee 
engagement and diversity initiatives.

In 2023, the Committee continued to review 
the balance of skills, experience and diversity 
of the Board, and the overall length of service 
of the Board, both as a whole and as part of its 
succession planning and consideration of the 
need to refresh Board membership. Our Group’s 
Nomination Policy for the Recruitment of Board 
members is our compass for the recruitment 
of new Board members. This year, following the 
retirement of two Board members, two new 
members were appointed to the Board at the 
2023 AGM. As every year, this year the Committee 
continued to coordinate the evaluation of the 
Board and the Board committees’ effectiveness 
through an externally facilitated assessment. 

On the employee side, the oversight of the 
Group’s talent development, employee 
engagement and diversity initiatives, which 
are necessary to ensure that the Group has 
the people and skills to deliver on its strategy, 
remained a key priority for the Committee. 
Regular engagement with senior management 
to review results of employee engagement 
surveys and get updates on the new International 
Leadership Trainee programme, Coke 
Summership programme, the progress of 
embedding the Group’s Culture Manifesto rolled 
out earlier in 2023, talent movements within the 
Group and within the Coca-Cola System, as well 
as activities to enhance the Group’s preferred 
employer status provided excellent insights for 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

146
146

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Nomination Committee continued

Role and responsibilities
The function of the Nomination Committee is 
to establish and maintain a process for appointing 
new Board members, to manage, in consultation 
with the Chair, the succession of the CEO and to 
support the Board in fulfilling its duty to conduct 
a Board self-assessment. The formal role of the 
Nomination Committee is set out in the charter 
for the committees of the Board of Directors 
in Annex C of the Company’s Organisational 
Regulations. This is available online at  
www.coca-colahellenic.com/en/about-us/
corporate-governance. 

Key elements of the Nomination Committee’s 
role are:

•  reviewing the size and composition of 

• 

the Board;
identifying candidates and nominating new 
members to the Board;

•  planning and managing, in consultation with the 
Chair, a Board membership succession plan;
•  ensuring, together with the Chair, the operation 

of a satisfactory induction programme for 
new members of the Board and a satisfactory 
ongoing training and education programme 
for existing members of the Board and its 
committees as necessary to deliver on the 
Group’s strategy;

•  setting the criteria for, and overseeing, the 

annual assessment of the performance and 
effectiveness of each member of the Board 
and each Board committee;

•  conducting an annual assessment of the 
performance and effectiveness of the 
Board, and reporting conclusions and 
recommendations based on the assessment 
to the Board; and

•  overseeing the employee and management 
talent development and succession plans of 
the Group.

The members of the Nomination Committee 
are Reto Francioni, Charlotte Boyle and Anna 
Diamantopoulou. All members of the Nomination 
Committee are independent NEDs. At the AGM 
in May 2023, Reto Francioni, Charlotte Boyle and 
Anna Diamantopoulou were re-elected for a one-
year term by the shareholders. The Chair of the 
Nomination Committee attended our AGM in May 
2023 and regularly interacts with representatives 
of our shareholders.

Members

Membership status

Reto Francioni (Chair)

Member since 2016, 
Chair since 2016 
Charlotte J. Boyle
Member since 2017
Anna Diamantopoulou Member since 2020

Work and activities
The Nomination Committee met four times during 
2023 and discharged the responsibilities defined 
under Annex C of the Company’s Organisational 
Regulations. The CEO and the Chief People and 
Culture Officer regularly attend meetings of the 
Nomination Committee. In addition, the Chair is 
actively involved in the work of the Nomination 
Committee concerning succession planning and 
the selection of key people. In 2023, the General 
Counsel also met with the Nomination Committee 
on several occasions. During 2023, the work of the 
Nomination Committee included consideration of:

• 

• 

• 
• 

• 

 succession planning and development of plans 
for the recruitment of new Board members and 
senior management and certain members of 
the Group’s ELT;
 composition of the Board, including the 
appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity;
 review of the talent management framework;
 review of the newly implemented international 
Leadership Trainee programme of the Group;
 oversight of pulse survey and engagement 
survey results and focus areas;

• 
• 

• 

 monitoring of internship programme;
 activities and progress of embedding the 
Group’s Cultural Manifesto following its launch 
in 2023;
 activities to strengthen our position in 
employer branding and promote our preferred 
employer status;

•  coordination of the performance evaluation 
and annual assessments of the Board and 
its committees;

•  presentation of the Board and committees’ 

assessment and alignment on follow-up actions 
arising from these evaluations; and
 review of the Director induction process and 
training programmes.

• 

During the Committee’s discussions on all 
matters detailed above consideration of the 
Company’s Inclusion and Diversity and Anti-
Harassment Policy, and where appropriate, the 
Board Nomination Policy, as well as the Company’s 
commitment to such policies, is taken into 
account to ensure they are embedded into the 
Group’s activities, programmes and initiatives.

Board Nomination Policy
Our Board Nomination Policy requires that 
each Director is recognised as a person of the 
highest integrity and standing, both personally 
and professionally. Each Director must be ready 
to devote the time necessary to fulfil his or her 
responsibilities to the Company according to 
the terms and conditions of his or her letter 
of appointment. Each Director should have 
demonstrable experience, skills and knowledge 
that enhance Board effectiveness and will 
complement those of the other members of the 
Board to ensure an overall balance of experience, 
skills and knowledge on the Board. In addition, 
each Director must demonstrate familiarity with 
and respect for good corporate governance 
practices, sustainability and responsible 
approaches to social issues.

Committee at work

Succession planning

Board composition

Recruitment

Shortlisting

Interview

Balance of skills assessment

Appointment

Induction

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

147
147

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Nomination Committee continued

Board members’ skills and experience

Director

Corporate governance

Our business involves 
compliance with many 
different regulatory and 
corporate governance 
requirements across a 
number of countries, as 
well as relationships with 
national governments and 
local authorities.

Finance, investments  
& accounting

FMCG  
Knowledge /Experience

Our business is extensive 
and involves complex 
financial transactions in the 
various jurisdictions where 
we operate.

Our business involves the 
preparation, packaging, 
sale and distribution of 
the world’s leading non-
alcoholic beverage brands.

International exposure

Our business is truly 
international with 
operations in 29 
countries, at different 
stages of development, 
on three continents.

Risk oversight  
& management

Sustainability & 
community engagement

Our Board’s responsibilities 
include the understanding 
and oversight of the 
key risks we are facing, 
establishing our risk 
appetite and ensuring that 
appropriate policies and 
procedures are in place to 
effectively manage and 
mitigate risks.

Building community trust 
through the responsible 
and sustainable 
management of our 
business is an indispensable 
part of our culture. ESG is 
prominent in our business, 
in particular workforce 
matters, environmental and 
climate change issues and 
supply chain sustainability.

Anastassis G. David

Zoran Bogdanovic

Charlotte Boyle

Henrique Braun

Sola David-Borha

Anna Diamantopoulou

Bill Douglas III

Reto Francioni 

Anastasios Leventis

Christo Leventis

Alexandra Papalexopoulou

Evguenia Stoichkova

George Pavlos Leventis

Total

10

12

9

13

12

11

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

148
148

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Nomination Committee continued

We are proud of the diverse skills and experiences of 
our Board. 

For example, in relation to ESG matters, 
Anna Diamantopoulou’s familiarity with the 
social protection and welfare state at the EU 
Commission High-Level Group, in addition to the 
expertise of a number of our Board members 
who sit on the Boards of other multi-nationals 
that face similar challenges and have similar 
concerns on the ESG agenda, helped us identify 
the commitments that we want to make in the 
area and set the relevant targets. 

In addition, connected to the ESG, Anastasios 
Leventis, the Chairman of the Social Responsibility 
Committee of the Board, is a member of the 
European Council of The Nature Conservancy 
(TNC), a global environmental non-profit 
organisation working to create a world where 
people and nature can thrive, and he is a board 
member of WWF Hellas (the Greek branch of 
WWF). Those experiences support in driving the 
environmental agenda and in endorsing Coca-
Cola HBC’s bold sustainability commitments 
related to climate, water stewardship, biodiversity 
and packaging.

In relation to risk oversight and management, 
we are proud that the vast majority of our Board 
members possess strong risk management 
expertise, developed over time as a result of their 
extensive experience in senior leadership positions 
in large organizations, as executives and/or as 
board members, where the deep understanding 
of material risks and their potential impact, the 
implementation of mitigation and resolution 
as well as contingency plans and the setting of 
appropriate internal controls, processes and 
policies to effectively address these is paramount 
to successfully perform in such senior roles.

Support and training for the Board
The practices and procedures adopted by our 
Board ensure that the Directors are supplied on 
a timely basis with comprehensive information 
on the business development and financial 
position of the Company, the form and content 
of which is expected to enable the Directors to 
discharge their duties. All Directors have access 
to our General Counsel, as well as independent 
professional advice at the expense of the 
Company. They have full access to the CEO 
and senior management, as well as the external 
auditor and internal audit team.

The Board has in place an induction programme 
for new Directors. It involves meetings with the 
Chair, members of the ELT and other senior 
executives, as well as receiving orientation 
training in relation to the Group and its 
corporate governance practices. It also includes 
meetings with representatives of our sales 
force, customers and major shareholders and 
visits to our production plants. All Directors 
are given the opportunity to attend training to 
ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant 
legal, accounting and corporate governance 
developments. In 2023, our Chief Risk Officer ran 
a risk management workshop for the Board. The 
Directors individually attend seminars, forums, 
conferences and working groups on relevant 
topics. The Nomination Committee reviews 
Director training activities regularly. Finally, as part 
of the continuing development of the Directors, 
the Company Secretary ensures that our Board 
is kept up to date with key corporate governance 
developments. The Board appoints the Company 
Secretary, who acts as secretary to the Board.

Board appointments and 
succession planning
Our Board has in place plans to ensure the 
progressive renewal and appropriate succession 
planning for senior management. These cover the 
short, medium and long term, and are regularly 
reviewed. Appointments and succession plans are 
based on merit and objective criteria to ensure the 
Company is promoting diversity (including gender, 
social and ethnic backgrounds – see page 146 – 
cognitive and personal strengths. Pursuant to our 
Articles of Association, the Board consists of a 
minimum of seven and a maximum of 15 members, 
and the Directors are elected annually for a term 
of one year by the Company’s shareholders, 
which is also in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. In case of resignation or 
death of any member, the Board may elect a 
permanent guest to be proposed for election by 
the shareholders at the next AGM. In accordance 
with the Organisational Regulations, the Board 
proposes for election at the shareholders’ meeting 
new Directors who have been recommended by 
the Nomination Committee after consultation 
with the Chair. In making such recommendations, 
the Nomination Committee and the Board must 
consider objective criteria as above, as well as the 
overall length of service of the Board as a whole 
when refreshing its membership. Through this 
process, the Board is satisfied that the Board and 
its committees have diversity, independence 
and knowledge to enable them to discharge their 
duties, including sufficient time commitment.

Diversity
The Group continues to have a firm commitment to 
policies promoting diversity, equal opportunity and 
talent development at every level throughout the 
organisation, including at Board and management 
level, and is constantly seeking to attract and recruit 
highly qualified candidates for all positions in its 
business. The Group’s D&I Policy applies to all people 

who work for us. Further details on the Group’s D&I 
Policy are set out on page 49 in the Strategic Report.

The Group believes that diversity at the Board 
level acts as a key driver of Board effectiveness, 
helps to ensure that the Group can achieve its 
overall business goals especially considering our 
geographical footprint, and is critical in promoting a 
diverse and inclusive culture across the whole Group. 
The Board has adopted a Board Nomination Policy, 
which guides the Nomination Committee and the 
Board in relation to their approach to diversity in 
respect of succession planning and the selection 
process for the appointment of new Board members. 
It does not include targets for either gender or 
ethnicity. However, the Board is cognisant of the 
recommendations in the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review, as well as the targets for gender, ethnicity and 
persons in senior board positions in the FCA’s Listing 
Rules, and these will be taken into consideration 
for succession planning and appointment of new 
Board members. The Nomination Committee 
is responsible for implementing this policy and 
for monitoring progress towards the achievement 
of its objectives.

The requirements and objectives of the Board 
Nomination Policy include that the Nomination 
Committee is required to take into account all 
aspects of diversity, including age, ethnicity, gender, 
educational and professional background and 
social background when considering succession 
planning and new Board appointments; seek a wide 
pool of candidates, with a broad range of previous 
experience, skills and knowledge; and give preference 
to executive search firms that are accredited under 
the Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search 
Firms. Board appointments are evaluated on merit 
against objective criteria with due regard for diversity 
to ensure that candidates contribute to the balance 
of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity of the 
Board. The Board also considers the overall length 
of service of the Board as a whole when considering 
refreshment of the membership. 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

149
149

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Nomination Committee continued

The Board understands the benefits of diversity of 
gender, ethnicity, knowledge and experience, and 
this is reflected in the Board Nomination Policy. 
The Policy’s objectives include ensuring female 
representation on the Board.

Two Directors retired at the 2023 AGM and, 
following recommendation by the Nomination 
Committee, two Directors, one male and one 
female, were appointed at the 2023 AGM. Female 
representation on the Board increased from 
around 33% to 38% following appointment of 
Evguenia Stoichkova at the 2023 AGM.

Board and ELT gender and 
ethnicity metrics
The FCA’s new Listing Rules on targets for gender 
and ethnic diversity apply to the Company for the 
first time this financial year. As at 31 December 2023, 
the Company had met the target for ethnic Board 
diversity and had just over 38% of female Board 
representation. Although the female proportion 
has increased, the Company is slightly behind 
the required 40% target in the FCA Listing Rules. 
No senior positions on the Board as described in 
the FCA Listing Rules are held by women. Female 
representation in the ELT is 20% and in senior 
management positions reporting to ELT is 36,79%. 
The Board will prioritise improving the Board gender 
balance and the Nomination Committee has, and 
will continue to, consider this in the context of its 
continuous work on succession plans for the Board, 
as well as senior management including the ELT. 

The following metrics set out the range of gender 
and ethnicity as they relate to our Board and ELT as 
at 31 December 2023. The ELT refers to the most 
senior level of managers reporting to the CEO, 
including the General Counsel/Company Secretary 
but excluding administrative and support staff, in 
accordance with the definition in the FCA’s Listing 
Rules. The Board diversity related data is collated 
on an anonymous basis directly from each Director 
and ELT member using a questionnaire and given 
on a self-identifying basis.

Gender representation at Board and ELT level

Men

Women

Number of 
Board members

8

5

% of the
Board

62%

38%

Number of senior
positions on Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)2

3

0

Number 
in ELT

12

3

Ethnicity representation at Board and ELT level

Number of 
Board members

% of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on Board3 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)2

Number 
in ELT

White British or other White (including minority-
white groups)

11

85%

Mixed/multiple ethnic groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say1

1

1

8%

8%

12

2

1

% of 
ELT

80%

20%

% of 
ELT

80%

13%

7%

1 

2 
3 

 This includes, as permitted by Listing Rule 9.8.6G, those persons in respect of whom data protection laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent the collection or publication of some or all of the personal data required 
to be disclosed.
CEO is a senior position on the Board, but CFO is not.
Board diversity data is collated on an anonymous basis directly from each Director using a questionnaire and given on a self-identifying basis and without identifying their position on the Board.

Gender diversity and representation at 
Board and ELT level
The Board is committed to appointing the best 
people with the right skills, using non-discriminatory 
and fair processes during selection, recognising 
the importance of diversity in its business. It 
is the Board’s responsibility to oversee senior 
management succession planning for a diverse 
pipeline of managers and talent identified from 
the management talent development programme. 
A target has been set of 50% female representation 
of managers, to be achieved by 2025. This links to 
our strategy to develop our people and ensure we 
attract and retain a diverse talent pool, and is one 

of the five pillars of our growth strategy. Further 
information on pages 46 to 51. The Nomination 
Committee, in conjunction with the ELT, will continue 
to monitor the proportion of women at all levels of 
the Group and ensure that all appointments are 
made with a view to having a high level of diversity 
within the workplace and in leadership positions.

We are a global company with a diverse geographic 
footprint, including in emerging markets. Our 
ELT is based in Switzerland where the Company 
is incorporated, but the majority of our senior 
management reporting to the ELT is located in 
a number of other countries. We are currently in 
the process of an internal review and mapping of 

our senior management and their ethnicity. Until 
the completion of this review and mapping we are 
not in a place to set meaningful long-term targets 
in respect of ethnic minority representation in 
senior management positions. The Board intends 
to set a target once it is in a position to do so. We 
are committed to increasing the diversity of our 
senior management population and there will be 
a number of initiatives that will be put in place over 
the coming years to support this and to ensure that 
we have the right pipeline of talent. In the future 
we will also look more closely at ethnic minority 
representation across the whole Company, not just 
at the management population, and report on this 
where appropriate. 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

150
150

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Nomination Committee continued

Performance evaluation of the Board 

The Nomination Committee led the annual 
evaluation of Board and committee performance 
with the support of Lintstock, an external 
advisory firm we have worked with for the past 
eight years. Lintstock has no other connection 
to the Company or individual Directors. The 
key areas included in the assessment were: 
Board composition; stakeholder oversight; 
Board dynamics; management of meetings; 
Board support; Board committees; strategic, 
risk and people oversight; and priorities for 
change in 2024. It also took actions to address 
the recommendations from the previous (2022) 
evaluation, as summarised in the box opposite. 
The Chair will lead on the priorities identified to be 
actioned during 2024.

In addition to the annual evaluation, the Chair 
met with Directors throughout the year to receive 
feedback on the functioning of the Board and 
its committees, boardroom dynamics and the 
Group’s strategy. Particular focus is given to areas 
where a Director believes the performance of 
the Board and its committees could be improved. 

The independent Directors met separately 
at every Board meeting to discuss a variety of 
issues, including the effectiveness of the Board. 
An evaluation of each Director (other than the 
Chair) was conducted by the Chair and the Senior 
Independent Director. The Senior Independent 
Director leads the evaluation of the Chair in 
conjunction with the NEDs, considering the views 
of the CEO, and, as a matter of practice, meets 
with the other independent NEDs when each 
Board meeting is held to discuss issues together, 
without the CEO or other NEDs present. The Chair 
also holds meetings with the NEDs without the 
CEO present.

2023 actions based on 2022 Board evaluation findings and previous experience 
•  Regular updates by the CEO, CFO and Chief Risk Officer on macro factors and considering those in 

strategic business decision and risk management oversight.

•  Regular reviews of the Russia and Ukraine conflict issue as part of business and risk management 

discussions and overview.

•  Focus on strategic initiatives in accelerating digital commerce activities, as well as investing in technology 

and solutions driving operational and administrational processes digitalisation and automation.
•  Continued prioritisation on the evaluation of succession plans for Board members and senior 

management roles.

•  Oversight of people and talent-related matters such as talent programmes, employee pulse surveys, 

employer branding initiatives, and health & safety performance reviews.

2023 evaluation findings 
•  Board composition, management of meetings, 
Board support and stakeholder oversight were 
rated very highly.

2024 priorities
•  Prioritising ESG related topics, with particular 

focus on sustainability.

•  Leveraging the learnings from geopolitical, 

•  The atmosphere in the boardroom, the quality of 
discussion and debate, as well as the support and 
challenge to management were rated very highly.

macro and regulatory developments for strategic 
planning and risk management purposes.

•  Enhance further getting external perspectives 

•  The structure and remits of Board committees 

and insights on priority areas.

and the quality of their reports to the Board were 
also very highly rated.

•  Continued focus on Emerging markets.
•  Talent acquisition, development, and retention to 

•  The Board’s strategic oversight was highly rated 
and top priority areas to successfully execute its 
2025 Growth Story strategy were validated.
•  The Board’s oversight on risk was very highly 

ensure a strong pool of future leaders.
•  Risk management and assessment and 

mitigation plans and monitoring geopolitical, 
macroeconomic and currency risks. 

rated, with cyber security and geopolitical risks 
being identified as areas of particular focus on 
our risk management approach.

•  Strategic oversight and support to management 

in achieving the 2025 Growth Story targets.
•  Technology and digital, including cyber security.

•  The succession plans for the executive 

management, the Board’s visibility of potential 
internal successors and the quality of the 
Company’s talent development processes drew 
very high ratings.

•  The performance of the Board was seen to 

have been maintained or improved since the 
last review.

•  The opportunity for the Board to draw 
lessons from geopolitics over the past 
year was highlighted.

A robust, independent 
methodology
The first stage of the review involved 
Lintstock engaging with the Company 
Secretary and the Nomination 
Committee to set the context for 
the evaluation, and to tailor survey 
content to the specific circumstances 
of the Company. The surveys were 
designed to follow up on and further 
explore key themes identified in 
last year’s evaluation, so that year-
on-year progress can be tracked. 
The anonymity of all responses was 
guaranteed throughout the process to 
promote open and honest feedback. 
Lintstock subsequently analysed 
the results and delivered reports on 
the performance of the Board, the 
committees and the Chair, which 
were considered at a subsequent 
Board meeting. The results of the 
review were positive overall, and the 
Board was felt to have performed 
effectively and maintained a strong 
working dynamic. Priority areas 
for 2024 were identified and for 
the Board to focus on: (a) ESG and 
sustainability; (b) closely monitoring 
Emerging markets performance and 
strategy; (c) attracting, developing and 
retaining talent; (d) risk assessment 
and mitigation, and closely monitoring 
macro, geopolitical and currency 
risks; (e) strategic oversight and 
supporting management in achieving 
the 2025 Growth Story targets; and (f) 
technology and digital, including 
cyber security.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023 
Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

151
151

Corporate Governance Report continued 

Social Responsibility Committee

•  Shifting the Company’s commitment of no 
deforestation across the value chain from 
2030 to 2025, aligned with the Forest, Land 
and Agriculture (FLAG) science-based carbon 
reduction targets.

•  Deep review of mid-term scenarios and 

potential initiatives to shape our Packaging Mix 
of the Future – advancing sustainable packaging 
agenda, with focus on overall decarbonisation 
vs ‘business as usual’ and accelerating reuse 
solutions while growing profits and revenues 
faster than volumes. 

•  Deep-dive analysis of Group results in various 

ESG benchmarks.

•  Monitoring innovation projects and 

partnerships that support our ESG agenda.
•  Ongoing updates on plastic packaging levies, 
Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation, 
the new limits set by the EU Commission for 
Bisphenol A, product tax developments, Green 
Claims, Dual Quality Omnibus Directive.
•  Active involvement in Annual Stakeholder 

Forum and in Sustainable event with suppliers.
•  The launch of the System Sustainability Venture 
Fund in partnership with the venture-capital 
firm Greycroft.

Priorities for 2024
•  Endorsement of the next set of the 

Company’s sustainability commitments 
(2030 commitments).

•  Setting the first science-based targets on 
biodiversity based on the outcome of the 
SBTN methodology.

•  Partnerships for innovation in the area of 
ESG, with both customers and suppliers.

•  Implementation of the updated NetZeroby40 
roadmap and 2030 science-based targets 
(including separate FLAG targets, Egypt 
operations integration, revised target of 
scope 3 emissions in line with ‘well below 2 
degrees’ pathway) after receiving an approval 
by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).

•  Progress on sustainable packaging agenda.
•  Overview of the social impact programmes.
•  Progress on calorie reduction and added 

sugar reduction across beverage categories.

•  Stakeholder outreach activities.
•  Reviewing and streamlining Company 

disclosure and reporting standards based 
on EU taxonomy, Corporate Sustainability 
Responsibility Directive (CSRD), European 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) 
and standards issued by the International 
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB).

•  Ongoing activities related to ESG 

benchmarking, plastic packaging levies 
and product tax developments.

Highlights 2023
•  Close oversight of the ‘Earn our licence to 
operate’ pillar as part of our Growth Story 
2025, including progress of public Mission 
2025 commitments.

•  Detailed review of the actions, initiatives, 

and progress versus the roadmap of 
NetZeroby40, the Company’s commitment 
to reaching net zero greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2040, combined with science-
based carbon reduction targets by 2030.

•  Review of the Company’s outcome of the first 
steps of the Science Based Target Network 
for Nature (SBTN) methodology, including 
full value chain mapping, biodiversity risk and 
impact assessment (upstream, downstream, 
direct operations) and prioritisation of the key 
areas for target setting.

Dear Stakeholder
Two decades ago, our Company published its first 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report with the 
ambition of a ‘Journey to World Class’. Since 
then, we have been integrating the aspects of 
sustainability, including the environmental and social 
pillars, in our business strategy, in our decision-
making process and in our long-term goals. Our 
current sustainability commitments, Mission 2025, 
are approaching their target year and we proudly 
report that our progress there is significant. 

In 2023, the Social Responsibility Committee 
continued its focus on the implementation of the 
Mission 2025 sustainability commitments and the 
overall integration of sustainability in the business 
strategy, with a core focus on net zero performance 
and Pack Mix of the Future scenarios and initiatives, 
which not only help our business to decarbonise, 
but also contribute to a litter-free world and support 
sustainability agenda for our customers. The 
Committee reviewed the proposed solutions of 
returnable glass bottles and packageless beverages, 
the pilot testing of Freestyle Compact® machines 
and approach to reusable vessels, the pilot of LitePac 
Top in Austria (from shrink film to cardboard holder 
for family packs multipacks), the results of KeelClip™ 
roll-out (cardboard holder for cans multipacks) 
across 22 countries, scenarios for increasing of 
the rPET content in our markets, and initiatives 
for post-consumer collection, including plans for 
Deposit Return Schemes (DRS). We monitored 
the development of the different ESG regulations 
but also the ESG reporting regulations that will 
be mandated to medium and large companies.

We are very proud of the bold progress in every 
business unit in relation to our NetZeroby40 
roadmap, such as renewable energy initiatives, 
energy-efficient coolers, supplier engagement, 
and to water stewardship projects in water 
risk areas. 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

152
152

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Social Responsibility Committee continued

In 2023, the Company was again named 
by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as a 
leader, with the highest S&P Global Corporate 
Sustainability Assessment score in the Beverage 
industry, which is the seventh time we have 
topped the industry and marks 13 consecutive 
years among the top three. We now have the 
highest scores and rankings in ten of the most-
recognised ESG ratings (DJSI, CDP Climate and 
Water, MSCI ESG, ISS ESG, V.E., Sustainalytics 
among them).
During the year we reviewed the high-level 
activities of the capital investments related 
to sustainability, sustainability communication 
strategy, and the capability programme prepared 
for different levels in our organisation aiming 
to build sustainability knowledge in a tailored, 
engaging and simple way. Going forward in 2024, 
the Committee will ensure that the business 
strategy is fully aligned with the Company’s ESG 
agenda and that the Company continues to 
create value for employees, communities, society 
and the environment. 2024 will be the year when 
we are planning to publish our new set of bold, 
industry leading sustainability targets in the areas 
material for our stakeholders, for our business, 
for society, and for the environment. Biodiversity, 
water community projects, the requirements of 
the CSRD, initiatives to support the Company’s 
Packaging Mix of the Future journey, human rights, 
our social agenda and impact, ESG programmes 
for our suppliers, and customer partnerships 
in sustainability, will be among the focus areas 
in 2024.

Anastasios I. Leventis 
Committee Chair

Role and responsibilities
The Social Responsibility Committee is responsible 
for the development and supervision of procedures 
and systems to ensure the pursuit of the 
Company’s social and environmental goals, as 
set out in the charter for the committees of the 
Board of Directors in Annex C to the Company’s 
Organisational Regulations. Key areas of 
responsibility are: 

•  establishing the principles governing the 

Group’s policies on social responsibility and the 
environment to guide management’s decisions 
and actions

•  overseeing the development and supervision 
of procedures and systems to ensure the 
achievement of the Group’s social responsibility 
and environmental goals

•  establishing and operating a council responsible 
for developing and implementing policies and 
strategies to achieve the Company’s social 
responsibility and environmental goals (in all 
ESG pillars, such as climate change, water 
stewardship, packaging and waste, sustainable 
sourcing, health and nutrition, our people and 
communities, and biodiversity), and ensuring 
Group-wide capabilities to execute such 
policies and strategies

•  ensuring the necessary and appropriate 

transparency and openness in the Group’s 
business conduct in pursuit of its social 
responsibility and environmental goals

•  ensuring and overseeing the Group’s 

interactions with stakeholders in relation to 
its social responsibility and environmental 
policies, goals and achievements, including 
the level of compliance with internationally 
accepted standards

•  reviewing Group policies on environmental 

issues, human rights and other topics as they 
relate to social responsibility

The Social Responsibility Committee comprises 
one independent and two non-independent 
Directors: Anastasios I. Leventis (Chair), Anna 
Diamantopoulou, Bruno Pietracci until May 
2023 and Evguenia Stoichkova from May 2023. 
Anastasios I. Leventis and Anna Diamantopoulou 
were each re-elected and Evguenia Stoichkova 
was elected for the first time, for a one year term, 
by the shareholders at the AGM in May 2023.

Members

Membership status

Anastasios I. Leventis 
(Chair)

Member since 2016 
Chair since 2016

Anna Diamantopoulou Member since June 2020

Bruno Pietracci

Member from June 2021 
until May 2023

of science-based carbon reduction targets 
and NetZeroby40 commitment, including 
the Company’s application for setting FLAG 
science-based emissions targets.

•  Participation of the Company’s CEO in the 

Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders at the World 
Economic Forum (WEF).

•  Investments in different initiatives that deliver 
sustainability benefits, the internal carbon 
pricing and total cost of water.

•  The launch of the System Sustainability Venture 

Fund in partnership with the venture capital 
firm Greycroft.

•  Innovative opportunities related to digital twin 
in manufacturing plants, green hydrogen, rPET 
in-house production, potential enzymatic 
recycling of packaging etc.

•  Review of progress in decreasing calories in 

Evguenia Stoichkova  Member since May 2023

our beverages; 

Work and activities
The Social Responsibility Committee met four times 
during 2023. The Committee invited other members 
of the Board to attend the meetings, namely 
Charlotte J. Boyle, George Leventis and the CEO, as 
well as the Chief Corporate Affairs and Sustainability 
Officer and additional senior leaders subject to 
the discussion topics. During 2023, the Social 
Responsibility Committee reviewed and provided 
guidance and insights to advance the Group’s 
sustainability approach in the following areas: 

•  Progress and the action plans made against the 
17 publicly communicated 2025 sustainability 
commitments and their six focus areas.
•  Biodiversity impact assessment across the 

entire value chain as per the SBTN guidelines.
•  Sustainable packaging cross-functional team 

agenda and progress towards more sustainable 
packaging (rPET, packageless, refillables and 
other), and packaging collection and recovery.
•  Lifecycle analysis (LCA) of different packaging 

scenarios and their impact on the net zero journey.

•  Detailed plans and initiatives for delivery 

•  Health and safety programmes, including Life 
Saving Rules and Behavioural Based Safety.
•  Social impact community programmes such 

as #YouthEmpowered programmes and water 
stewardship projects.

•  Materiality assessment process and results 

of the annual materiality survey.

•  Egyptian operations sustainability plans 

and reporting.

•  Review of stakeholder engagement plan and the 
feedback from the Annual Stakeholder Forum.

•  ESG reporting frameworks and benchmarks 
such as GRI Standards, UN SDGs, Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices, CDP Climate & Water, 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), and the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB).

•  Review of mandated in the near-future ESG 
regulations such as CSRD and the ESRS, EU 
taxonomy, EU Deforestation Regulation, 
Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive 
(CSDDD) etc.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

153
153

Corporate Governance Report continued 

Audit and Risk Committee

The Audit and Risk Committee report describes 
in more detail the work of the Audit and Risk 
Committee during 2023. In performing its work, 
the Committee balances independent oversight 
with support and guidance to management. 
I am confident to report that the Committee, 
supported by senior management and the 
external auditor, consistently carried out its duties 
to a high standard during the reporting year.

William W. (Bill) Douglas III
Committee Chair

Priorities for 2024
•  Monitoring the developments in accounting 
and regulatory matters, including potential 
changes to IFRS accounting standards and 
respective disclosures.

•  Ongoing monitoring of risks, as well 

as impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets.

•  Ongoing monitoring of internal financial 

controls, anti-fraud systems and Code of 
Business Conduct compliance.

•  Ongoing monitoring of the Group’s Business 
Resilience, Risk Management and Quality 
Assurance programmes.

•  Ongoing monitoring of the Group’s Cyber 

Security programme.

•  Discussing developments and actions 

towards CSRD compliance.

•  Initiating preparatory work in view of 2025 

audit tender.

•  Ongoing monitoring of financial markets 

and exploring financing options for the bond 
maturing in 2024.

•  Overseeing the implementation of the 

necessary changes in the Corporate Audit 
Department and the internal audit policies 
and procedures, to comply with new global 
internal audit standards to take effect 
in 2025.

Dear Stakeholder
The Audit and Risk Committee continued to 
focus its work during 2023 on monitoring and 
strengthening the Group’s internal financial 
controls, risk management, quality assurance 
and compliance systems, as well as the existing 
information system security processes, all of 
which are recognised by the Board as essential 
components of effective corporate governance. 
During 2023, the Audit and Risk Committee 
worked closely with corporate audit and finance 
teams in overseeing the implementation of 
the Group’s internal control framework. 

We have monitored and discussed our risk 
management processes, including our risk profile 
and mitigation, but also principal risks and risk 
appetite. The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed 
updates on new auditing standards, accounting 
developments and regulatory developments. 
Emerging risks identified by the Group were 
discussed by the Audit and Risk Committee, 
including the impact of climate change on the cost 
and availability of key ingredients and impact of 
our sustainability performance on our reputation 
related risks. Other areas of focus during 2023 
are included in the sections about the work and 
activities of the Audit and Risk Committee and the 
areas of key significance in the preparation of the 
financial statements in this report.

Highlights 2023
•  Compliance with financial and non-financial 

(including climate-related) disclosures.

•  On-going monitoring of the Russia–Ukraine 
conflict, including sanctions related issues.

• 

 Overview of the Group insurance 
renewal process.

• 

 Preparatory work for CSRD implementation.

•  Monitoring of the macroeconomic volatility 
in several countries of the Group, including 
Egypt and Nigeria.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

154
154

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Audit and Risk Committee continued

Role and responsibilities
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of our financial reporting, internal 
control and risk management systems, and 
processes. The role of the Audit and Risk Committee 
is set out in the charter for the committees of the 
Board of Directors in Annex C to the Company’s 
Organisational Regulations. This is available in the 
Company’s website under coca-colahellenic.com/
en/about-us/corporate-governance. The key 
responsibilities and elements of the Audit and Risk 
Committee’s role are:

•  Providing advice to the Board on whether the 
Annual Report including the consolidated 
financial statements, taken as a whole, is a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Company’s position and prospects 
and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, including whether there is 
consistency throughout the report including 
the financial reporting, whether the report 
will form a good basis of information for the 
shareholders, and that important messages 
are highlighted appropriately throughout the 
report.

•  Monitoring the quality, fairness and integrity of the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group, 
and reviewing significant financial reporting issues 
and judgements contained in them.

•  Reviewing the Group’s internal financial control 
and anti-fraud systems as well as the Group’s 
broader enterprise risk management and legal 
and ethical compliance programmes (including 
computerised information system controls and 
security) with the input of the external auditor 
and the internal audit department.

•  Reviewing and evaluating the Group’s 

major areas of financial risk and the steps 
taken to monitor and control such risk, as 
well as guidelines and policies governing 
risk assessment.

• 

 Quarterly review of the company’s principal risks 
and the actions the company is taking to manage 
those risks.

Further details on their experience are set out in 
their respective biographies on pages 130 to 132 
and in the table set out in page 147.

•  Establishing and updating the Risk Appetite 
statement which establishes the level of risk 
the company is prepared to take in achieving its 
strategic objectives.

•  Monitoring and reviewing the external 

auditor’s independence, quality, adequacy and 
effectiveness, taking into consideration the 
requirements of all applicable laws in Switzerland 
and the UK, the listing requirements of the 
London Stock Exchange and Athens Exchange, 
and applicable professional standards.

The Audit and Risk Committee comprises 
three independent NEDs: Bill Douglas (Chair), 
Olusola (Sola) David-Borha and Alexandra 
Papalexopoulou, who were each re-elected for 
a one-year term by the shareholders at the AGM 
in May 2023. 

Members

Membership status

William W. (Bill)  
Douglas III (Chair)

Member since 2016  
Chair since 2016

Olusola (Sola) David-Borha Member since 2015

Alexandra Papalexopoulou Member since 2020

The Board remains satisfied that Bill Douglas, 
Sola David-Borha and Alexandra Papalexopoulou 
possess recent and relevant financial and sector 
experience in compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Bill Douglas was formerly 
Executive Vice President and CFO of Coca-Cola 
Enterprises, Sola David- Borha has held a number 
of senior financial positions and Alexandra 
Papalexopoulou has served as a treasurer. 
The Board is also satisfied that the members 
of the Committee as a whole have competence 
in the sector in which the Company operates in 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and UK listing regime requirements. 

The Group CFO, as well as the General Counsel, 
external auditor, the Head of Corporate Audit, and 
the Group Financial Controller, attend all meetings 
of the Audit and Risk Committee. Other officers 
and employees are invited to attend meetings 
when appropriate. Two NEDs, Henrique Braun 
and Christo Leventis were invited to attend all 
meetings during 2023. The Head of Corporate 
Audit, and, separately, the external auditor, meet 
regularly with the Audit and Risk Committee 
without the presence of management to discuss 
the adequacy of internal controls over financial 
reporting and any other matters deemed relevant 
to the Audit and Risk Committee. The Chair of 
the Audit and Risk Committee attended our 
AGM in May 2023 and regularly interacts with 
representatives of our shareholders.

Work and activities
The Audit and Risk Committee met eight times, 
four of which were by video conference call, during 
2023 and discharged the responsibilities defined 
under Annex C of the Company’s Organisational 
Regulations. The Committee invited others to 
attend meetings, including other Board members, 
namely Henrique Braun and Christo Leventis, and 
additional senior leaders subject to the discussion 
topics. The work of the Audit and Risk Committee 
during the accounting year included evaluation 
of and review of the respective matters, as well as 
assessment of management’s mitigating actions 
and response plans, in the areas below:

•  the Integrated Annual Report including the 

consolidated financial statements and the full-
year results announcement for the year ended 
31 December 2022 prior to their submission 
to the Board for approval, and compliance with 
Group policies;

• 

 the interim consolidated financial statements 
and interim results announcement for the six-
month period ended 30 June 2023, prior to their 
submission to the Board for approval;

•  the trading updates for the three-month period 
ended 1 April 2023, and the nine-month period 
ended 30 September 2023, as well as a trading 
update issued in July 2023 for upgrading its 
2023 earnings expectations;

•  areas of significance in the preparation of the 

consolidated financial statements;

•  the internal control environment, principal risks 
and risk management systems (including the 
nature and extent of the principal risks resulting 
from the conflict in Russia and Ukraine), and 
the Group’s statement on the effectiveness of 
its internal controls prior to endorsement by 
the Board, concluding that management has 
carried out a robust risk assessment process;

•  review of the Group’s Risk appetite statement 

and the framework for establishing risk 
tolerance levels for all risks as a key part of the 
risk assessment process; which supports the 
application of the risk appetite statement at all 
levels within the company;

•  the viability statement scenarios and underlying 

assumptions and recommendations to the 
Board that the viability statement be approved, 
including discussion of management’s 
conclusions with respect to going concern and 
the viability statement;

•  the external auditor’s report on the Group’s 

IFRS earnings release for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2022; including 
assessment of the auditor’s enhanced audit 
report and key audit matters and conclusion 
that there was nothing that warranted the 
attention of the Board; and review of external 
auditor’s report on the Group’s interim report 
for the six-month period ended 30 June 2023;

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

155
155

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Audit and Risk Committee continued

•  report on tax audits undertaken during 2023 
and relevant developments for on-going tax 
audits in a number of territories;

• 

 approval of changes to 2023 internal audit plan 
and approval of the 2024 internal audit plan;

•  quarterly reports on internal audit matters 

across the Group’s business regions, concluding 
that no material failings were identified;

•  direct procurement matters and initiatives for 
2023, including the Group’s commodities risk 
management initiatives for 2023;

•  cross-regional audits on cyber security, people 
and culture process, anti-bribery compliance, 
data privacy compliance and various other 
ongoing audits on specific projects;

•  regular reports on health and safety, GDPR 
compliance and internal control framework, 
quality assurance, environmental protection, 
asset protection, treasury and financial risks, anti-
bribery and fraud control, anti-money laundering;

•  quarterly reports on business continuity, 
security, cyber security, insurance and 
enterprise risk management processes.

•  review of market updates for Egypt and Russia;

•  review of the Purchase Price Allocation exercise 
within the framework of the acquisition of the 
Finlandia business;

•  review and approval of insurance renewal 

process proposals;

•  update on CSRD;

•  update on the Group’s green bond issued in 

September 2022 progress on internal control 
assessment and integration of CCHBC Egypt;

•  reports on litigation and regulatory investigations;

•  matters arising under the Group’s Code of 
Business Conduct and the actions taken to 
address any identified issues;

•  an assessment of the skills of the internal 

auditors and the sufficiency of the internal audit 
budget, confirming of the Internal Auditor’s 
quality, experience and expertise for the 
business. Reports to ensure that the Audit and 
Risk Committee can be satisfied that internal 
audit has the appropriate resources. The Audit 
& Risk Committee is satisfied that internal audit 
has the appropriate resources;

•  updates on risk management and business 
resilience, including the Group’s response 
to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, 
the activation and development of business 
continuity strategies and the streamlining of the 
Group’s risk management processes; Review 
of the Group’s principal risks and the Group’s 
updated Strategic Risk Summary;

•  reports on the Group’s impairment assessment 
processes in connection with the operations 
affected by the conflict between Russia and 
Ukraine for the interim financial report and Egypt;

•  regular updates from the external auditor on 

accounting and regulatory developments. Also, 
an update on Swiss regulatory developments;

• 

 tax related matters including:

• 

 monitoring progress on both the impact and 
implementation status of key international 
tax initiatives impacting the Group, namely 
the OECD Pillar 2 project and the EU’s Public 
country-by-country reporting,

•  ensuring the Group is sufficiently structured 
and organised to meet its tax obligations (i.e., 
it’s key tax processes and the supporting 
people and systems) in a rapidly changing 
international tax environment,

•  awareness of programmes available to 
provide the Group with certainty in the 
relationship with tax authorities, e.g., co-
operative compliance programmes etc., 
and progress made by the Group to secure 
certainty to the extent possible,

•  oversight of open tax audits involving the 
Group and ensuring tax related risks and 
developments are appropriately managed,

•  tax automation initiatives aimed at 

solidifying governance and availability 
of data to support audits,

•  reviewing and endorsing the Group’s annual 
update of its Tax Transparency Report, and
•  awareness of tax input into M&A activity and 

new business initiatives;

•  approval of changes to chart of authority and 

delegation for operational activities;

•  external audit plan and pre-approval of audit 

fees for 2024;

•  consideration of the external auditor’s 

independence, quality, and adequacy and 
the effectiveness of its audit of the financial 
statements; and

• 

 assessment of the Company’s external reporting 
to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable 
as a result of the Board’s obligation under the 
Corporate Governance Code.

The Audit and Risk Committee was responsible for 
the review of the 2023 Integrated Annual Report 
including the consolidated financial statements and 
associated reports and information. The Committee 
received assurances from management and details 
on the processes underlying the preparation of 
published financial information. 

Following evaluation of all available information, 
the Audit and Risk Committee concluded and 
advised the Board that the 2023 Integrated 
Annual Report including the Consolidated financial 
statements is fair, balanced and understandable. 
Finally, the Board receives and reviews a report 
from the Audit and Risk Committee on its 
activities and discussions at the Board meeting 
following each Audit and Risk Committee meeting.

Areas of key significance in the 
preparation of the financial statements 
The Audit and Risk Committee considered 
a number of areas of key significance in the 
preparation of the financial statements in 2023, 
including the following:

•  appropriateness of critical accounting 

judgements and estimates that affect the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues 
and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial 
statements (detailed in Notes 5,14,16,22 and 
30 to the consolidated financial statements), 
identified by management

•  review of the trading environment and resilience 
of the Group’s business in light of the conflict 
between Russia and Ukraine and strategic 
actions implemented to mitigate risks and 
restructure business operations;

• 

 review of the annual impairment testing of 
goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible 
assets testing performed by management and 
reviewed by the external auditor under IAS 36 
as well as the related sensitivity analysis with 
confirmation that management had undertaken 
a robust impairment testing process, relying 
on both internal information, and other publicly 
available metrics to perform their assessment; 

•  review key assumptions for specific countries, 
challenging management drivers of relevant 
deviations and performance to date, as well as 
countries WACC rates development vs prior year;

•  review of the contingencies, legal proceedings, 
competition law and regulatory procedures, 
including cases involving the national competition 
authorities of Greece and litigation matters 
in Nigeria and Greece, and the impact of these 
on the consolidated financial statements and 
accompanying notes;

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

156
156

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Audit and Risk Committee continued

• 

 review of guidance provided by the UK Financial 
Conduct Authority and Financial Reporting 
Council related to areas of focus for the 
2023/2024 reporting season, including financial 
reporting, sustainability and climate-related 
disclosures, Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) disclosures, 
viability and going concerns, corporate 
governance matters and The European Single 
Electronic Format standard;

•  review of the interim impairment testing of 
goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible 
assets performed by management in relation to 
the Egyptian CGU;

• 

• 

• 

 assess management’s work in conducting 
a robust assessment of the risks that 
impact the viability and going concern 
statements, including review of scenarios 
and underlying assumptions, taking also 
into consideration the renewal of bottler 
agreements with The Coca-Cola Company;

 recommended to the Board to approve the 
viability statement; and

 deeming appropriate that the Group continues 
to apply the going concern basis for the 
preparation of the financial statements.

External auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, 
CH 8050 Zurich, Switzerland (‘PwC AG’) has been 
elected by the shareholders as the statutory 
auditor for the Group’s statutory consolidated 
and standalone financial statements. The signing 
partner, for the first year, for the statutory financial 
statements on behalf of PwC AG is Patrick Balkanyi, 
for the year ended 31 December 2023. The Board, 
at the recommendation of the Audit and Risk 
Committee, has retained PricewaterhouseCoopers 
S.A., 260 Kifissias Avenue – 15232 Halandri, Greece 
(‘PwC S.A.’), an affiliate of PwC AG, to act as the 
Group’s independent registered public accounting 
firm for the purposes of reporting under the UK rules 

for the year ended 31 December 2023. For the third 
year, the signing partner, the financial statements 
(for the year ended 31 December 2023) on behalf 
of PwC S.A. is Fotis Smyrnis.

The appointment of PwC S.A. has also been 
approved by the shareholders until the next AGM 
by way of advisory vote for UK purposes. ‘PwC’ 
refers to PwC AG or PwC S.A., as applicable, in this 
Annual Report.

During the accounting period, the members of 
the Audit and Risk Committee met on a regular 
basis with the appointed PwC signing partners, 
both with and without management being present. 
This provided the Audit and Risk Committee with 
an opportunity for open dialogue, to question 
and be satisfied as to the quality of the audit 
work performed by PwC and challenge PwC’s 
professional scepticism. During the meetings, the 
appointed PwC signing partners demonstrated 
their understanding of the Group’s business risks 
and the consequential impact on the financial 
statement risks, especially around areas of key 
significance in the preparation of the financial 
statements including but not limited to the 
trading environment and resilience of the Group’s 
business in light of the challenging macroeconomic 
conditions, the annual impairment testing, 
contingencies and legal proceedings including 
taxes. The Audit and Risk Committee took an 
active role in reviewing the scope of the audit, the 
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of 
PwC, and the negotiations relating to audit fees. 
The Audit and Risk Committee also met with the 
management team, which led the discussions 
with PwC, including the Head of Corporate Audit, 
to review the performance of PwC without PwC 
being present. Following this review process, the 
Audit and Risk Committee has recommended to 
the Board that (i) a proposal to reappoint PwC AG 
be put to a shareholders’ vote and (ii) a proposal 
to reappoint PwC S.A. be put to a shareholders’ 
advisory vote at the next AGM.

PwC has acted as the Group’s principal external 
auditor since 2003. The Company ran a competitive 
tender for the external auditor services in 2015 which 
was overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Following the evaluation of the proposals, the Audit 
and Risk Committee concluded in 2015 that the 
best interests of the Group and its shareholders 
would be served by reappointing PwC as external 
auditor and made such recommendation to the 
Board. PwC was reappointed by the Board as the 
Group’s external auditor on 11 December 2015 with 
effect from the financial year 2017. Currently, the 
Audit and Risk Committee anticipates that the audit 
contract will be put out to tender again in 2025 for 
audit services with effect from financial year 2027, 
ensuring stability and quality of the audit process. 
The Company as a Swiss company is not subject 
to mandatory auditor rotation rules in the EU or UK 
but understands the requirements. There are no 
contractual or other obligations restricting the 
Group’s choice of external auditor.

Non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the 
independence, in both fact and appearance, of 
the external auditor as critical and has long had an 
auditor independence policy providing definitions 
of the services that the external auditor may 
and may not provide. In line with the relevant 
FRC Guidance, the policy requires the Audit and 
Risk Committee’s pre-approval of all audit and 
permissible non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor, and only for matters that are 
clearly trivial to the Company. Such services include 
audit, work directly related to audit, and certain tax 
and other services as further explained below. In 
practice, the Audit and Risk Committee applies the 
policy restrictively, and approval for work other than 
audit and audit-related services is rarely granted.

Under the policy, pre-approval may be provided 
for work associated with: statutory or other 
financial audit work under IFRS or according to 
local statutory requirements; attestation services 
not required by statute or regulation; accounting 
and financial reporting consultation and research 
work necessary to comply with generally accepted 
accounting and auditing standards; internal control 
reviews and assistance with internal control 
reporting requirements; review of information 
systems security and controls; tax compliance 
and related tax services, excluding any tax services 
prohibited by regulatory or other oversight 
authorities; expatriates’ and other individual 
tax services; and assistance and consultation 
on questions raised by regulatory agencies.

For each proposed service, the external 
auditor is required to provide detailed back-up 
documentation at the time of approval to permit 
the Audit and Risk Committee to decide whether 
the provision of such services would impair the 
external auditor’s independence.

PwC has complied with the policy for the financial 
year ended on 31 December 2023.

Audit fees and all other fees
Audit fees: The fees for audit services to PwC and 
affiliates were approximately €5.3 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 (2022: €5.1 million). 
The audit fees for 2023 include fees associated 
with the annual audit and review of the Group’s 
half year report, prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
as well as local statutory audits. Fees for audit 
services to firms other than PwC and affiliates 
were €0.6 million for the year ended 31 December 
2023 (2022: €0.7 million).

Audit-related fees: Fees for audit-related 
services to PwC and affiliates for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 were €1.0 million 
(2022: €1.1 million).

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

157
157

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Audit and Risk Committee continued

Tax-related fees: There were no fees to PwC and 
affiliates for tax services for the years ended 31 
December 2023 and 2022.

All other fees: Fees to PwC and affiliates for non 
audit services for the year ended 31 December 
2023 were €0.1 million (2022: €nil).

Risk management
During 2023, the Company continued to revise 
and strengthen its approach to risk management 
as described in detail on pages 86 to 112. The 
primary aim of this framework is to minimise 
our exposure and ensure that the nature and 
significance of all risks we are facing are properly 
identified, reviewed, managed and, where 
necessary, escalated. Risk assessments are 
conducted and discussed at monthly Senior 
Leadership Team meetings in all our business 
units. These assessments are reviewed by 
regional management teams and the Chief 
Risk Officer twice a year. In addition, corporate 
functions conduct broader risk assessments 
across the business with the Chief Risk Officer 
bi-annually.

The Company’s Group Risk and Compliance 
Committee reviews the emerging as well as the 
identified risks biannually and the emerging and 
material risks along with mitigating actions are 
presented by the Chief Risk Officer to ELT and 
the Audit and Risk Committee. This process is 
both top-down and bottom-up and is designed to 
ensure that risks arising from business activities 
are appropriately managed.

The Audit and Risk Committee confirms that the 
risk management and internal control systems 
have been in place for the year under review 
and up to the approval of the annual report 
and accounts. Finally, the Company has in place 
third-party insurance to cover residual insurable 
risk exposure such as property damage, business 
interruption, cyber risks and liability protection, 
including Directors’ and officers’ insurance for 
our Directors and officers.

Internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring 
that the Company has adequate systems of 
financial reporting control. Systems of financial 
reporting control can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatements or loss. In certain of the countries 
in which we operate, our businesses are exposed to 
a heightened risk of loss due to fraud and criminal 
activity. We review our systems of financial control 
regularly to minimise such losses.

Internal audit
Our internal audit function reports directly to 
the Audit and Risk Committee, which reviews and 
approves the internal audit plan for each year. The 
internal audit function consists of approximately 
40 full-time professional audit staff mainly based 
in Athens, Sofia, and Lagos, covering a range of 
disciplines and business expertise. One of the 
responsibilities of the internal audit function is 
to provide risk-based and objective assurance to 
the Board as to whether the Group’s framework 
of risk management, including internal control 
framework, is operating effectively. For this 
purpose, the Head of Corporate Audit makes 
quarterly presentations to the Audit and Risk 
Committee and meets regularly with the Audit 
and Risk Committee without the presence of 
our management. In addition, the internal audit 
function reviews the internal financial, operational 
and compliance control systems across all the 
jurisdictions in which we operate and reports its 
findings to management and the Audit and Risk 
Committee on a regular basis. 

The internal audit function focuses its work on 
the areas of greatest risk to us, as determined 
by a risk-based approach to audit planning. 
As part of our commitment to maintaining 
and strengthening best practice in corporate 
governance matters, we also consistently seek to 
enhance our internal control environment and risk 
management capability. The internal audit function 

carries out work across the Group, providing 
independent assurance, advice and insight to 
help the organisation accomplish its objectives 
by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to 
evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk 
management, control and governance processes. 
In December 2023, the Audit and Risk Committee 
agreed the FY24 audit plan to be undertaken by 
the internal audit team. The audit plan coverage is 
based on risk, strategic priorities and consideration 
of the strength of the control environment. The 
internal audit function prepares audit reports 
and recommendations following each audit, and 
appropriate measures are then taken to ensure that 
all recommendations are implemented. Significant 
issues, if any, are raised at once. There were no 
such issues in 2023.

The Board has adopted a chart of authority, 
defining financial and other authorisation limits 
and setting procedures for approving capital and 
investment expenditure. The Board also approves 
detailed annual budgets. It subsequently reviews 
quarterly performance against targets set forth 
in these plans and budgets. A key focus of the 
financial management strategy is the protection 
of our earnings stream and management of 
our cash flow. Our internal audit function has 
conducted an annual review of the effectiveness 
of our risk management system and internal 
control systems in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 

The review included bi-annual reviews with 
the Chief Risk Officer on the operation of the 
enterprise risk management program, regular 
review of our financial operations and compliance 
controls and consideration of the Company’s 
principal risks. Part of this review involves regular 
review of our financial, operational and compliance 
controls, following which we report back to the 
Board on our work and findings as described 
above. This allowed us to provide positive 
assurance to the Board to assist it in making 
the statements that our risk management and 

internal control systems are effective, as required 
by the UK Corporate Governance Code. Further 
information is set out on page 123.

The key features of the Group’s internal control 
systems that ensure the accuracy and reliability of 
financial reporting include: clearly defined lines of 
accountability and delegation of authority; policies 
and procedures that cover financial planning and 
reporting; preparation of monthly management 
accounts; and review of the disclosures within 
the Annual Report from function heads to ensure 
that the disclosures made appropriately reflect 
the developments within the Group in the year 
and meet the requirement of being fair, balanced 
and understandable.

The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the 
results of the internal audit reports during each 
meeting, focusing on the key observations of 
any reports where processes and controls require 
improvement. The Audit and Risk Committee was 
also provided with updates on the remediation 
status of management actions of internal audit 
findings and on the internal audit quality assurance 
and improvement programme at each meeting.

A particular focus during 2023 was the robustness 
of the internal control systems and processes 
around risk management, in light of the conflict 
between Russia and Ukraine. 

The Audit and Risk Committee was kept informed 
of any changes or adaptations to ensure full 
functionality as the Company continued to operate 
under the circumstances and uncertainties of the 
conflict between Russia and Ukraine.

The Group CFO, the Country General Managers and 
Country CFOs have access to the implementation 
status of the recommendations at all times. 
Where internal or external circumstances give 
rise to an increased level of risk, the audit plan is 
modified accordingly. 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

158
158

Corporate Governance Report continued 
Audit and Risk Committee continued

Nevertheless, no significant cases occurred this 
year. Any changes to the agreed audit plan are 
presented to and agreed by the Audit and Risk 
Committee. A compliance audit was conducted in 
our operations in Russia and Belarus at the end 
of 2023.

Cyber security and Anti-money 
laundering
There were no significant cyber security incidents 
in the last five years. For further details as to the 
identification of cyber security as a principal risk 
see page 96. In addition, there were no money 
laundering incidents to report.

Business conduct and anti-bribery
We seek to grow our business by serving 
customers and consumers and conduct all 
business activities with integrity and respect. 
The Board is responsible for ensuring appropriate 
procedures and processes are in place to enable 
our workforce to raise any issues of concern 
and is satisfied that the processes in place are 
appropriate. The Board maintains zero tolerance 
regarding breaches of our Code of Business 
Conduct and anti-bribery policies, as well as any 
attempts to retaliate against our people who 
report potential violations. We have mandatory 
training for all our people, including our ELT, so 
that everyone understands our Code of Business 
Conduct, and we hold additional targeted anti-
bribery training for employees working in areas 
we assess as high risk. 

A Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery 
Policy course is available on-line to all employees 
and includes a knowledge test, acknowledgement, 
and re-commitment to compliance with the Code 
and its related policies. At the end of the last 
training wave in 2021, 26,319 employees passed 
the course, which was 97.7% of the total active 
population. Since then, we continued to train 
every newly hired employee. In 2023 we trained 

5,798 employees, including 994 employees in the 
Egypt BU. As in the past, this training will continue 
to be a regular requirement for all employees, 
with a refresher requirement every three years. 

In 2023, our communication plan on compliance 
included several initiatives to continue raising 
awareness on business ethics among our people, 
like our annual Ethics and Compliance Week was 
rolled out across our business units. We have also 
an established anti-bribery due diligence process 
for third parties who have contact with public 
authorities on behalf of our Company.

For further information please see the Anti-Bribery 
Policy and Code of Business Conduct in the 
Company’s website under coca-colahellenic.com/
en/about-us/corporate-governance/policies. 

Whistleblowing
We have established grievance mechanisms, 
including an independently operated 
whistleblower ‘Speak Up! line’, available 
in all CCHBC countries in local languages to 
ensure any concerns can be raised. In 2023, 
we investigated 640 allegations (2022: 589) 
of which 422 (2022: 324) were received through 
the ‘Speak Up Hotline’. All allegations involving 
potential Code of Business Conduct violations 
were investigated in accordance with the Group 
Code of Business Conduct Handling Guidelines. 
Of those investigated, 164 (2022: 219) matters 
were substantiated as code violations of which 
18 (2022: 20) involved an employee in a managerial 
position or involved a loss greater than €10,000. 
For details concerning the handling of allegations 
received in 2023, see our website. You can find 
more on allegations investigated and violations 
uncovered in our GRI index. 

Through the ‘Speak Up! line’, we receive, retain, 
investigate and act on employee, officer, 
consultant, intern, secondee or agent of the 
Company’s complaints or concerns regarding 

accounting, internal control, suspected 
fraudulent conduct, corrupt conduct, violation 
of any applicable antitrust and competition law 
rules, violation of personal data protection and 
company system security rules, endangerment 
of an individual’s or individuals’ health and safety, 
endangerment of the environment, commission 
of a criminal offence, failure to comply with any 
legal or regulatory obligation, and concealment 
of any information pertaining to any of the above, 
or other ethical matters. 

This includes any matters regarding the 
circumvention or attempted circumvention of 
internal controls, including matters that would 
constitute a violation of our Code of Business 
Conduct and related policies or matters involving 
fraudulent behaviour by officers or employees 
of the Group. Individuals can report all such 
allegations, complaints or concerns in local 
languages, also directly to their Ethics and 
Compliance Officer, General Manager, Function 
Head, the Senior Audit Manager – COBC & 
Compliance, the Head of Corporate Audit, 
or our General Counsel. 

All communications received directly by the 
above Company’s representatives or through 
the Speak Up! line are kept confidential and, where 
requested, anonymous. The Head of Corporate 
Audit liaises regularly with the General Counsel 
and communicates all significant allegations 
to the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
All matters received via the Speak Up! line or 
any other reporting mechanism are thoroughly 
investigated. The Audit and Risk Committee 
receives summary reports of escalated incidents 
and instances of whistleblowing together with the 
status of investigations and, where appropriate, 
management actions to remedy issues identified. 
The Committee reports to the Board on such 
matters, which reviews and considers those 
reports at least bi-annually as appropriate.

Disclosure Committee
A Disclosure Committee has been established, 
and disclosure controls and procedures have 
been adopted to ensure the accuracy and 
completeness of our public disclosures. The 
Disclosure Committee is composed of the Group 
CFO, the General Counsel, the Head of Investor 
Relations and the Group Financial Controller.

Performance reporting
Reports on our annual performance and 
prospects are presented in the Annual Report 
following recommendation by the Audit and 
Risk Committee. In line with UK practice, we 
have adopted half-year and full-year reports, 
and Q1 and Q3 trading updates. Internally, 
our financial results and key performance 
indicators are reviewed by the ELT on a monthly 
basis. This information includes comparisons 
against business plans, forecasts and prior-year 
performance. The Board of Directors receives 
updates on performance at each Board meeting, 
as well as a monthly report on our business and 
financial performance.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

159
159

Directors’ remuneration report
Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Opening up opportunities 
for our people”

Priorities for 2024
•  The Committee will use this year to consider 
our approach to reward for the top 40 senior 
leaders, including Executive Directors, 
to ensure our strategy and remuneration 
policy remains competitive and appropriate, 
incorporating best practice, feedback from 
shareholders and emerging trends

•  Subsequently we will do a similar review 

of reward policies and pay arrangements 
for the wider workforce

•  The Committee will focus on pay equity 

strategy and execution across all workforce 
segments in the Group

•  We will maintain ongoing engagement 

with our shareholders with a commitment 
to consult on any future changes and 
continue to seek their feedback on 
remuneration issues

Dear Shareholder,
As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I 
am pleased to share the Directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 31 December 2023, 
which includes: the Directors’ remuneration policy 
that shareholders will be asked to approve at the 
AGM in May 2024; and the annual remuneration 
report reflecting how the Directors’ remuneration 
policy has been implemented during 2023.

2023 has been a year where our new purpose 
has opened opportunities for our customers, 
partners and employees. Through continued 
focus on our 24/7 beverage strategy, we delivered 
another year of record financial results with margin 
improvements, revenue growth and cash flow 
generation. After the challenges of recent years, 
the business is well positioned to continue driving 
growth in revenue, profit and earnings.

The excellent financial and non-financial results 
in 2023 are testament to the hard work of all our 
people. It is the Committee’s role to ensure that 
our people are rewarded for past performance 
as well as appropriately incentivised to deliver 
future performance, and that their dedication and 
commitment is recognised and considered in the 
context of our broader stakeholder group.

Fundamental to the Committee’s decision 
making during the year is consideration of the 
remuneration of all our employees. We have 
regular updates at Committee meetings from our 
Chief People and Culture Officer and our Head of 
Rewards. These updates reflect the importance 
of our 15,000-strong sales force of business 
developers who are critical employees, directly 
serving our customers.

Net sales revenue

€10,184.0m 

2022: €9,198.4m 

Comparable EBIT

€1,083.8m 

2022: €929.7m 

Free cash flow 

€711.8 m 

2022: €645.1m 

Comparable EPS 

€ 2.078

2022: €1.706 

ROIC 

16.4% 

2022: 14.1% 

Included in MIP

Included in PSP

Highlights 2023
•  Excellent financial results, delivering a third 

year of double-digit growth and record profits

•  Investing and opening up our people’s 
potential through our commitment to 
people development and the unveiling 
of our culture manifesto

•  Continued to strengthen our ongoing 

engagement with shareholders, ensuring that 
their feedback and views were considered in 
the Committee’s decision making

•  Reviewed the pay arrangements of our wider 
workforce, taking into account the impact 
of inflation and the cost of living

•  Considered broader trends related to 

legislative and regulatory development, 
outcomes from the AGM 2023 season 
and future trends in executive reward

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

160
160

Directors’ remuneration report continued
Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee continued

The Group’s remuneration philosophy and policies 
are designed to attract, motivate and retain the 
talented people we need to meet our strategic 
objectives and to give them due recognition.

Coca-Cola HBC AG is domiciled in Switzerland 
and we have a primary listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. We therefore ensure that we adhere 
to UK regulations and best practice, except 
where these conflict with Swiss law, which takes 
precedence. We receive regular updates from our 
remuneration advisers on UK best practice and 
market trends, and we also ensure we are current 
with pay trends in our markets, reflecting our 
geographic footprint and international peers.

This year, there were no significant changes in 
regulation and the format of this year’s Directors’ 
remuneration report is consistent with last 
year. As always, I welcome your feedback and 
suggestions regarding anything we can do to 
improve the report. 

The Remuneration Committee continues to 
focus on ensuring that the remuneration policy 
remains fair, transparent and competitive, and 
that the approach to remuneration contributes 
to driving our growth strategy and long-term 
sustainable performance.

Remuneration in context 
2023 was a third year of double-digit growth and 
record profits. As presented in our full-year results, 
focused execution of our 24/7 strategy delivered 
strong performance, with organic revenue up 
16.9%. We continued to deliver volume growth, 
share gains and record levels of free cash flow. 
The strength of our 24/7 portfolio, our ongoing 
commitment to develop bespoke capabilities, 
and our diversified country footprint, are the 
foundations which support our continuous growth.

Despite the challenging macroeconomic and 
geopolitical environment, we continued with 
integrating our Egypt acquisition and we made 
significant progress towards our Mission 2025 and 
NetZeroby40 goals. In addition, we continue to 
explore new ways to invest in our future with our 
€100k Start-Up Challenge, now in its second year, 
opening up opportunities to discover innovations 
from across the start-up ecosystem, which are 
aligned to the business priorities. Sustainability 
is integrated within every aspect of our business, 
creating and sharing value for all our stakeholders. 
We are proud to make a strong contribution to 
developing the societies in which we operate 
through employment and our wider supply 
chain, as well as through supporting community 
projects. Our progress is recognised by the 
most important ESG benchmarks, such as being 
ranked as the world’s most sustainable beverage 
company for the seventh time by Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices 2023, MSCI ESG rating 
of AAA, and CDP Climate and Water of A rating 
for both categories, amongst others. 

Our key financial highlights include:

•  organic revenue up 16.9% and reported revenue 

up 10.7%; 

•  organic revenue per case up 15.0%, reflecting 
the benefits of revenue growth management 
initiatives throughout the year;

•  comparable EBIT up 16.6% to €1,083.8 million, 
with organic EBIT up 17.7%, principally driven 
by organic growth across our markets, only 
partially offset by negative foreign currency 
movements; 

•  comparable EPS up 21.8%;
•  another year delivering record free cash 

flow, with free cash flow increased by 10.3% 
to €711.8 million, largely reflecting higher 
operating profit; and

•  proposed ordinary dividend of €0.93 per share, 

up 19.2% year on year and representing a 
45% payout.

Stakeholder experience 
Our shareholders 
Shareholder engagement
As detailed in last year’s remuneration report, 
to recognise the performance of the Group and 
the contribution of the Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) since appointment, the Committee took 
the decision to apply a one-off increase in the 
CEO’s Performance Share Plan (PSP) award 
to 450% of salary. 

Whilst the proposed increase was within the 
remuneration policy limits and was designed 
to reward the CEO for the delivery of our 2025 
Growth Story Commitments, the Committee 
recognised that there were significant minority 
votes against Resolutions 7 and 9, the advisory 
votes to approve the UK remuneration report and 
the Swiss statutory remuneration report. Each 
was passed with the support of 68.39% of the 
votes cast. I understand and acknowledge the 
significance of this outcome.

Ahead of the change being proposed, the 
Committee actively engaged with shareholders 
on the challenges it faced in operating the 
current remuneration policy within the current 
macroeconomic environment to ensure it struck 
the right balance in incentivising and rewarding 
management for strong performance, whilst 
adhering to best practice. 

Following the AGM, I consulted with investors to 
understand the level of support received on the 
remuneration report. The key pieces of feedback 
received centred on (i) the one-off increase in 
the PSP opportunity for the CEO, where some 
shareholders felt that, although within the policy 
limits, the circumstances were not extraordinary 
and therefore did not justify the increased 
opportunity; and (ii) windfall gains related 
to the PSP award vesting in the year. 

During 2023, we therefore continued our 
engagement programme, actively engaging with 
38 shareholders as well as proxy advisers. We held 
meetings with ten of our largest shareholders 
who had accepted our invitation to meet. This 
group collectively owned approximately 60% 
of our shares. Typically, these were positive and 
constructive discussions, and we are grateful for 
the ongoing dialogue.

The Committee recognises the feedback from 
shareholders. As a Committee and in consultation 
with the Chair, we actively considered alternative 
approaches to implement the remuneration policy, 
which balanced UK governance expectations whilst 
ensuring that the remuneration policy recognised 
the performance of the executive team and drove 
delivery of our future growth strategy. 

Reflecting on the feedback received from 
investors, the Committee agreed that, for 
2024, the PSP award limit would revert to the 
normal policy level (330% of salary), and no 
material one-off decisions would be made on the 
implementation of the policy. We recognise that, 
over the past few AGMs, remuneration-related 
resolutions have received a significant minority 
of votes against. As detailed further on in my 
letter, the Committee intends to undertake a 
review of the remuneration policy over the course 
of 2024 and consider whether it remains fit for 
purpose or whether more substantive changes 
are required going forward. If any material changes 
are proposed, the Committee is committed 
to actively engage with all stakeholders ahead 
of the 2025 AGM. 

I would like to thank our shareholders for taking 
the time to meet with me in 2023 and provide 
their feedback on the approach to Executive 
Director remuneration as well as the important 
topic of our approach to the wider workforce 
and our stakeholders. 

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

161
161

Directors’ remuneration report continued
Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee continued

Shareholder experience
Regarding the experience of our shareholders, 
a dividend of €0.78 per share was distributed 
in 2023, and a dividend of €0.93 per share is 
proposed for 2024, up 19.2% year on year. 
We remain committed to making progressive 
dividend payments in the future. And in line 
with the Group’s capital allocation framework, 
in November, the Board approved a share 
buyback programme aimed at returning up 
to €400 million to shareholders. 

Our employees
The Committee receives regular updates on our 
active employee engagement activities. During 
this sustained period of uncertainty and high 
inflation, our people have continued to exhibit 
resilience, commitment and passion for what 
they do, which is evident with the continued 
high employee engagement scores at 86%, one 
percentage point higher than 2023. To ensure 
we are remaining market competitive when 
remunerating our workforce, we continued to 
review various data sources on market pay, and 
provided ad hoc increases in addition to the annual 
increase in many of our markets, ensuring that 
our talent and our frontline employees are the 
focus of these additional increases. This emphasis 
on performance and market competitiveness is 
consistent with the reward philosophy we seek 
across all levels of our workforce. 

In addition to reviewing pay practices, benefits 
and wellbeing remain a priority, and in 2023 we 
organised a mental health awareness session 
focusing on resilience and stress management. 
We also conducted a session on financial 
wellbeing, with valuable insights and strategies 
to manage financial pressures. The Committee 
continues to provide strong oversight on our 
rewards practices, ensuring remuneration for 
our wider workforce remains competitive and 
fit for purpose in 2024.

As the Director responsible for Workforce 
Engagement, I attend the work councils’ meetings 
to gather insights from representatives across 
the Company. During 2023, meetings included 
discussion on workforce concern about inflation 
and its impact. The Company’s decision to provide 
one-off bonuses provided at the end of 2023, 
to help alleviate higher cost of living, was well 
received by the workforce. As in previous years, 
I interacted directly with the representatives 
to get their wider insights, which I took back 
to the Committee for discussion and to share 
with the Board. 

As in prior years, we supported humanitarian 
efforts for colleagues and communities impacted 
by war or natural disaster, alongside the Coca-
Cola System partners and the Ukrainian Red 
Cross. In December 2023, we also announced 
the establishment of a charitable foundation 
dedicated to supporting local communities 
where we operate.

We continued our efforts to build an inclusive 
workplace and a diverse workforce to reflect our 
customer base and communities. Our strategy 
starts from retention, complemented by external 
hiring, to create a gender-balanced organisation, 
and we’ve committed to have at least 50% of 
manager positions held by women by 2025. The 
entire Executive Leadership Team volunteered to 
sponsor participants of our Women in Leadership 
programme, acting as sponsors offering 
assistance in navigating common career barriers.

Base salary arrangements
The Committee considered a number of 
factors when reviewing the base salary of the 
CEO in 2023. This included: consideration of 
our wider workforce experience (there was an 
average 7.3% salary increase across the Group) 
market data against the FTSE 100 and broader 
international FMCG peer group; and overall 
business performance. Balancing these factors, 
we approved a 6.3% increase effective 1 May 2023.

Incentive outcomes 
The Committee’s role includes incentivising strong 
business performance and appropriately rewarding 
contributions to the Company’s long-term 
success. The Committee has reviewed the policy-
based outcomes under the annual Management 
Incentive Plan (MIP) and the PSP.

Against recent headwinds of high, albeit tempering 
inflation in Europe, continued war in Ukraine and 
Russia, a bank note crisis and significant currency 
devaluation in Nigeria, and a temporarily weaker 
market in Egypt, the Company outperformed 
against both expectations and the prior year.

MIP
As per the prior year, the Committee agreed it 
was appropriate to remove the impact of Russia 
and Ukraine both in the targets and performance 
of the business, given the ongoing war. The 
outcome reflects record levels of revenue, 
comparable EBIT and free cash flow, which the 
2023 MIP was based on, against a challenging 
backdrop when set.

The formulaic MIP outcome for the CEO 
was 76% of the maximum opportunity, with 
both the performance targets and actual 
performance determined.

When determining performance, the Committee 
took into account the strong results and business 
context highlighted above, including the handling 
of the challenges posed by the Russia-Ukraine 
war, overall exceptional business performance, 
increased engagement of our employees and 
overall progress towards our sustainability 
goals. Taking this performance in the round, the 
Committee determined that this outcome is a 
fair reflection of wider performance, with 50% 
of the MIP payout being deferred into shares 
for three years, ensuring further shareholder 
alignment. Details of the targets, performance 
against them and the plan outcomes are set out 
on pages 177 to 178.

PSP
Reflecting exceptional longer-term performance 
over the three years ending 2023, the Group 
exceeded both the maximum targets for EPS 
and ROIC under the 2021-23 PSP. This was our 
first year where the plan also included reduction 
of CO2 emissions as a third performance metric. 
Following the notification from the third party 
(IFEU, an institute preferred by TCCC as the 
source on material emissions factor change), 
and in line with GHG Protocol guidance a 
recalculation of the base year 2017 onwards was 
triggered in 2023, and again in 2024, to reflect 
the annual release of emissions factors. Given 
the methodology change to the base year 
used for emissions data, which directly impacts 
future years, the Committee considered it 
appropriate for this change to flow through to 
the targets attached to the 2021 PSP award. 
In doing so, the Committee is confident that 
the revised targets were not materially easier 
or harder to achieve than the original targets. 
Further details are set out on pages 178 to 179.

At the time targets were set in September 2021, 
Russia and Ukraine were included while Egypt 
was excluded, and the above results reflect this.

At the end of the period, the Committee 
considered the formulaic outcome was an 
appropriate reflection of the underlying 
performance of the Group, not least factoring in 
the macroeconomic headwinds impacting key 
markets the Group operates, in and approved the 
formulaic outcome of 94% of maximum. The 2021 
PSP award was granted at a higher share price 
than the 2020 PSP award, therefore there are 
no windfall gains associated with this award.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

162
162

Directors’ remuneration report continued
Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee continued

Looking ahead 
Implementation of the policy in 2024
We expect average employee salary increases 
across the Company at 6.2%. It is anticipated that 
the CEO’s increase will be lower than that of the 
wider workforce. The increase will be effective 
from 1 May 2024 and will be communicated in the 
subsequent Directors’ remuneration report.

As in 2023, the 2024 MIP business performance 
will be measured based on performance 
against three KPIs: revenue (40% weighting), 
comparable EBIT (40% weighting) and free cash 
flow (20% weighting). There will be no change 
to the maximum MIP opportunity for 2024 
(140% of salary).

To achieve our growth ambitions, and to deliver 
continued financial performance that creates the 
desired returns, the Committee believes strongly 
that we must continue to retain and incentivise 
the management team in a fair manner.

The Committee intends that 2024 PSP awards 
will be made subject to the same performance 
metrics as the 2023 awards: ROIC (42.5%), 
EPS (42.5%) and reduction of CO2 emissions 
(15%). As in the prior year, the Committee has 
determined to exclude the impact of Russia and 
Ukraine from the targets of the 2024-26 plan 
in light of the continued uncertainty as a result 
of the Russia-Ukraine war. We will proceed with 
providing the individual grants for the 2024 
PSP in March, as per the usual process, with the 
maximum award for the CEO set at 330% of salary 
as in previous years and as noted above. 

The targets for the 2024 PSP award take into 
account of our business plan, market expectations 
and the wider economic and geopolitical 
environment. The change in the ROIC targets 
relative to prior years reflects the level of invested 
capital deployed, which has been impacted by 
strategic acquisitions (including the acquisition 
in Finlandia) and recent share buybacks. The 
Committee has applied the same approach to 
target setting as in previous years and believes 
that the proposed target range for ROIC and the 
other performance metrics are appropriately 
stretching relative to the business plan and 
external forecasts of performance. 

Remuneration policy going forward 
As we further embed our new purpose, the 
Remuneration Committee will continue to keep 
the policy under review, ensuring that plans and 
programmes relating to remuneration support 
the Company’s strategy and objectives, and are 
appropriately linked to shareholders’ interests.

We will continue to review the wider workforce 
remuneration arrangements with a special focus 
on our frontline workers and specifically our 
business developers’ salaries and incentives. 
We will consider the remuneration strategy for 
our workforce, ensuring it is aligned with the 
Company’s new purpose, strategies and culture. 
We will continue our journey in diversity, equity 
and inclusion (DEI) by ensuring balance in our pay 
equity practices and flexible work arrangements.

With regard to Executive Director remuneration, 
the Committee welcomes the wider debate 
that is currently being held regarding the 
overall competitiveness of remuneration 
within UK-listed businesses. 

Whilst the Remuneration Committee believes 
that the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders at the AGM in May 2023 remains 
broadly fit for purpose, the Committee intends to 
undertake a detailed review of the remuneration 
policy that applies to our top 40 senior leaders, 
including Executive Directors, over the course of 
the year. The key objectives will be to ensure that 
the remuneration policy supports the delivery 
of the Group’s strategy and is an appropriate 
motivation and retention tool for the senior 
management team. We welcome feedback and 
we are committed to continuing engagement 
with shareholders on this important topic during 
the year.

Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like 
to thank our shareholders for the time taken 
to engage during the year, and I look forward to 
engaging with you further in the year ahead.

As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support 
the remuneration-related resolutions at the AGM. 

Charlotte J. Boyle
Committee Chair

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

163
163

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration throughout the organisation – a snapshot

Attracting
Finding the people we want 
and need

Recognising
Adopting behaviours 
that produce exceptional 
performance

Retaining
Continuing to attract the 
best talent

Motivating
Achieving business, financial 
and non-financial targets

Reward strategy and objective
The objective of the Group’s remuneration philosophy is to attract, retain and motivate employees who 
are curious, agile and committed to high performance. Our reward strategy seeks to promote a growth 
mindset and reinforce desirable behaviours, ensuring that employees are fairly rewarded and that their 
individual contributions are linked to the success of the Company.

Variable pay is an important element of our reward philosophy. A significant proportion of total 
remuneration for top managers (including the CEO and the members of the Executive Leadership 
Team (ELT) is tied to the achievement of our business objectives. These objectives are defined by key 
business metrics that are consistent with our growth strategy and will deliver long-term shareholder 
value. The variable pay element increases or decreases based on the achieved business performance.

Through equity-related long-term compensation, we seek to ensure that the financial interests 
of the CEO, the members of the ELT and senior managers are aligned with those of shareholders.

All of our remuneration plans, both fixed and variable, are designed to be cost-effective, taking into 
account market practice, business performance, and individual performance and experience where 
relevant. We pay close attention to our shareholders’ views in reviewing our remuneration policy 
and programmes.

In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the following factors, which align well with our 
objectives, were also considered:

Clarity
Remuneration arrangements 
should be transparent and 
promote effective engagement 
with shareholders and workforce.

Simplicity
Remuneration structures should 
avoid complexity and their 
rationale and operation should 
be easy to understand.

Risk
Remuneration arrangements 
should ensure reputational 
and other risks from excessive 
rewards, and behavioural risks 
that can arise from target-based 
incentive plans, are identified 
and mitigated.

Predictability
The range of possible values 
of rewards to individual 
Directors and any other limits or 
discretions should be identified 
and explained at the time of 
approving policy.

We believe that our policy provides transparency for Executives and 
shareholders about what performance we are looking for across 
our portfolio.

The Remuneration Committee has aimed to incorporate 
simplicity and transparency into the design and delivery of our 
remuneration policy. 

We aim for disclosure of the policy and how it is implemented to 
be in a clear and succinct format.

Our remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors are 
purposefully simple, comprising fixed pay (salary, benefits, 
pension), a short-term incentive plan (the MIP) and a long-term 
incentive plan (the PSP).

The remuneration structure is simple to understand for both 
participants and shareholders and is aligned to the strategic 
priorities of the business.

The remuneration policy includes a number of points to mitigate 
potential risks:

•  There are defined limits on the maximum opportunity levels 

under incentive plans.

•  Performance targets are calibrated appropriately, ensuring 

they are adequately stretching but sustainable.

•  The Remuneration Committee considers formulaic incentive 
outcomes and determines whether to make any adjustments, 
including to take into account the experience of wider 
stakeholders such as employees and shareholders.

•  Incentive plans include provisions to allow malus and claw back 
to be applied, where appropriate. The use of deferral, holding 
periods, in-employment and post-employment shareholding 
requirements ensures that there is an alignment of interests 
between the CEO and shareholders and encourages 
sustainable performance.

We aim for our disclosure to be clear to allow shareholders to 
understand the range of potential values which may be earned under 
the remuneration arrangements. Our remuneration policy clearly 
sets out relevant limits and potential for discretion.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

164
164

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Proportionality
The link between individual 
awards, delivery of strategy 
and long-term performance of 
the Company should be clear. 
Outcomes should not reward 
poor performance.

We believe that the link between individual awards, the delivery 
of strategy and the long-term performance of the Company 
is clearly explained in this report and that our approach 
ensures proportionate pay outcomes that do not reward poor 
performance. A significant part of the CEO’s reward is linked 
to performance with a clear line of sight between business 
performance and the delivery of shareholder value. The 
Remuneration Committee may adjust formulaic outcomes of 
incentive arrangements if they do not appropriately align with 
performance achieved or the experience of wider stakeholders 
such as employees and shareholders.

Alignment to culture
Incentive schemes should 
drive behaviours consistent 
with Company purpose, values 
and strategy.

We want our Executives to make decisions that support the 
long-term performance and health of the business. The incentive 
arrangements and the performance measures used are strongly 
aligned to those that the Board considers when determining the 
success of the implementation of the Company’s purpose, values 
and strategy.

How we implement our reward strategy
The chart below illustrates how we put our reward strategy into practice, with the different remuneration arrangements that apply to different employee groups.

We regularly review our reward strategy to ensure it remains relevant and effective in meeting the needs of our employees, especially our frontline workers. During 2023 we provided higher increases 
to our front line workers in comparison to other employees. 

Chief Executive Officer, 
Executive Leadership Team and 
selected senior management

Performance Share Plan
Performance share awards 
vest over three years. PSP 
awards are cascaded down 
to select senior managers, 
promoting a focus on long-term 
performance and aligning them 
to shareholders’ interests,

Selected middle and senior 
management

Long-Term Incentive Plan
Long-term incentive awards vest 
over three years. LTIP awards are 
cascaded down to select middle 
and senior management to 
reinforce long-term performance 
and ensure retention of our talents.

Chief Executive Officer and 
Executive Leadership Team

Shareholding guidelines 
Support the alignment with 
shareholder interests ensuring 
sustainable performance: CEO 
– required to hold shares in the 
Company equal in value to 300% of 
annual base salary within a five-year 
period and a post-employment 
shareholding requirement that 
applies for two years post-leaving.

ELT – required to hold shares in the 
Company equal in value to 100% 
of annual base salary within a five-
year period.

All management

All employees

Management Incentive Plan 
Employees may be eligible 
to receive an award under 
the annual bonus scheme that 
promotes a high-performance 
culture. Performance conditions 
are bespoke to each role and 
business unit.

Employee Share Purchase Plan 
(dependent on country practice) 
The Employee Share Purchase 
Plan (ESPP) encourages share 
ownership and aligns the interests 
of our employees with those 
of shareholders.

Fixed pay and benefits 
(base salary, retirement 
and other benefits - dependent 
on country practice) 
Base salaries may reflect the 
market value of each role as well 
as the individual’s performance 
and potential. Retirement and 
other benefits are subject to local 
market practice.

Note: Participants in the PSP are not eligible to participate in the LTIP.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

165
165

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration arrangements for the CEO – at a glance

Base salary

Retirement 
benefits

Other benefits

ESPP

+

MIP

PSP

=

Total 
compensation

Fixed pay

Variable pay subject to performance

The table below summarises the remuneration arrangements in place for our CEO. See page 177 for total compensation figures.

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

Fixed pay – base salary
The base salary of the CEO is €892,900.

2024 salary increase levels for employees have not been finalized 
at the date of this report. It is anticipated that the Chief Executive 
Officer’s increase will not be higher than the increases provided for 
the wider workforce and will be effective from 1 May 2024.

Fixed pay – retirement benefits
The CEO participates in a defined benefit pension plan under Swiss law. 
Employer contributions are 15% of annual base salary.

Normal retirement age for the Chief Executive Officer’s plan is 65 
years. In case of early retirement, which is possible from the age of 58, 
the Chief Executive Officer is entitled to receive the amount accrued 
under the plan as a lump sum.

Fixed pay – other benefits
Other benefits include (but are not limited to) medical insurance, 
housing allowance, company car/allowance, cost of living adjustment, 
trip allowance, partner allowance, exchange rate protection, tax 
equalization and tax filing support and advice. Benefit levels vary each 
year depending on need.

Fixed pay – ESPP
The CEO may participate in the Company’s ESPP.

As a scheme participant, the CEO has the opportunity to invest 
a portion of his base salary and/or MIP payments in shares. The 
Company matches employee contributions on a one-to-one basis up 
to 3% of base salary and/or MIP payout.

Awards are subject to potential application of malus and 
clawback provisions.

Variable pay – MIP
The MIP consists of a maximum annual bonus opportunity of up to 
140% of base salary.

Payout is based on business performance targets and individual 
performance. The business performance element will result in an 
outcome between 0% and 200% of the target MIP and the individual 
performance element will result in an outcome of up to 100%, with 
the overall payout as a percentage of salary being based on the 
multiplication of these two figures.

For 2024, business performance will be measured based on 
performance against three KPIs: revenue (40% weighting), 
comparable EBIT (40% weighting) and free cash flow (20% weighting). 

50% of any MIP payout will be deferred into shares for a further 
three-year period. Payments are subject to potential application 
of malus and clawback provisions.

Variable pay – PSP
The PSP is an annual share award which vests after three years. For 
2024 the CEO will be granted an award of 330% of salary. For the 
award in 2024, vesting will be based on performance conditions 
measured over a three-year period against:

i. comparable EPS (42.5% weighting); 

ii. ROIC (42.5% weighting); 

iii. reduction of CO2 emissions (15% weighting).

An additional two-year holding period will apply following vesting.

Awards are subject to potential application of malus and 
clawback provisions.

Shareholding guidelines
The shareholding guidelines support the alignment with shareholders. 

The CEO’s minimum shareholding guideline is set at 300% of 
annual base salary within a five-year period and a post-employment 
shareholding requirement that applies for two years post-leaving.

50% cash

50% shares deferred 
for three years

Three year performance period

Two year holding 
period

Minimum shareholding requirements

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

166
166

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration policy
Introduction
The following section (pages 166-169) sets out 
our Directors’ remuneration policy as approved 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
on 17 May 2023. No changes are being proposed 
to the policy this year.

As a Swiss-incorporated company, we are not 
required to put forward our remuneration policy 
for a shareholder vote, but we intend to do so 
voluntarily at least every three years (or when 
there are changes). We continue to endeavour 
to make sure that our disclosure complies 
with UK regulations, except where these 
conflict with Swiss law.

Policy table – Chief Executive Officer
The Company currently has a single Executive 
Director, being the CEO.

In that case, references in this section to 
the CEO should be read as being to each 
Executive Director.

Therefore, for simplicity, this section refers 
only to the CEO. This remuneration policy would, 
however, apply for any new Executive Director 
role, in the event that one was created during 
the term of this remuneration policy. 

Fixed

Base salary

Retirement benefits

Purpose and 
link to strategy

To provide a fixed level of compensation appropriate to the requirements of the role of CEO 
and to support the attraction and retention of the talent able to deliver the Group’s strategy.

To provide competitive, cost-effective post-retirement benefits.

Operation

Salary is reviewed annually, with salary changes normally effective on 1 May each year. The 
following parameters are considered when reviewing the base salary level:

•  the CEO’s performance, skills and responsibilities;
•  economic conditions and performance trends;
•  experience of the CEO;
•  pay increases for other employees; and
•  external comparisons based on factors such as: the industry of the business, revenue, 

market capitalisation, headcount, geographical footprint, stock exchange listing (FTSE) 
and other European companies.

Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to base salary.

The CEO participates in a defined benefit pension plan. However, we have adjusted the 
pension scheme to be co-contributory, in line with the pension scheme for the wider Swiss 
workforce, for new Executive Directors’ appointments from 2020 onwards.

Normal retirement age for the CEO’s plan is 65 years. In case of early retirement, which is 
possible from the age of 58, the CEO is entitled to receive the amount accrued under the 
plan as a lump sum.

Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to retirement benefits.

Maximum 
opportunity

Whilst there is no maximum salary level, any increases awarded to the CEO will normally be 
broadly aligned with the broader employee population.

The salary increase made to the CEO may exceed the average salary increase under certain 
circumstances at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion. These circumstances may 
include: business and individual performance; material changes to the business; internal 
promotions; accrual of experience; changes to the role; or other material factors.

The contributions to the pension plan are calculated as a percentage of annual base salary 
(excluding any incentive payments or other allowance/benefits provided) based on age 
brackets as defined by Federal Swiss legislation.

This percentage is currently 15% of base salary and increases to 18% above age 55.

Performance 
metrics

Individual and business performance are key factors when determining any base salary 
changes. The annual base salary for the Chief Executive Officer is set out on page 165.

None.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

167
167

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Fixed continued

Other benefits

Purpose and 
link to strategy

To provide benefits to the CEO which are consistent with market practice.

Operation

Benefit provisions are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee which has the discretion 
to recommend the introduction of additional benefits where appropriate.

Typical provisions for the CEO include benefits related to relocation such as housing 
allowance, company car/allowance, cost of living adjustment, trip allowance, partner 
allowance, exchange rate protection, tax equalisation and tax filing support and advice. 
For all benefits, the Company will bear any income tax and social security contributions 
arising from such payments.

Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to benefits.

Maximum 
opportunity

There is no defined maximum as the cost to the Company of providing such benefits will 
vary from year to year.

Performance 
metrics

None.

ESPP 

The ESPP is an Employee Share Purchase Plan, encouraging broader share ownership, 
and is intended to align the interests of employees including the CEO with those of 
the shareholders.

This is a voluntary share purchase scheme across many of the Group’s countries. The CEO 
as a scheme participant has the opportunity to invest from 1% to 15% of his base salary 
and/or MIP payout to purchase the Company’s shares by contributing to the plan on a 
monthly basis.

The Company matches the CEO’s contributions on a one-to-one basis up to 3% of the 
employee’s base salary and/or MIP payout. Matching contributions are used to purchase 
shares one year after the purchase of shares by employees. Matching shares are 
immediately vested.

Dividends received in respect of shares held under the ESPP are used to purchase 
additional shares and are immediately vested. The CEO is eligible to participate in the 
ESPP operated by the Company on the same basis as other employees. 

Malus and clawback provisions apply. Further details may be found in the Additional notes 
to the Executive Director’s remuneration policy table section on page 171.

Maximum investment is 15% of gross base salary and MIP payout. The Company matches 
contributions up to 3% of gross base salary and MIP payout. Matching contributions 
are used to purchase shares one year after the matching. Matching shares are 
immediately vested.

The value is directly linked to the share price performance. It is therefore not affected by 
other performance criteria.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

168
168

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Variable pay

MIP 

Purpose and 
link to strategy

To support profitable growth and reward annually for contribution to business 
performance. The plan aims to promote a high-performance culture with stretching 
business and individual targets linked to our key strategies.

Maximum 
opportunity

Operation

Annual cash bonus awarded under the MIP is subject to business and individual 
performance metrics and is non-pensionable.

Performance 
metrics

The CEO’s individual objectives are regularly reviewed to ensure relevance 
to business strategy and are set and approved annually by the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Board of Directors.

Stretching targets for business performance are set annually, based 
on the business plan of the Group as approved by the Board of Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee will determine the business performance 
metrics and weightings on an annual basis.

Performance against these targets and bonus outcomes is assessed by the 
Remuneration Committee, which may recommend an adjustment to the payout 
level where it considers the overall performance of the Company or the individual’s 
contribution warrants a higher or lower outcome.

Malus and clawback provisions apply. Further details may be found in the 
Additional notes to the Executive Director’s remuneration policy table section 
on page 171.

The CEO’s maximum MIP opportunity is set at 140% of annual base salary. The 
business performance element will result in an outcome between 0% and 200% 
of the target MIP and the individual performance element will result in an outcome 
of up to 100%, with the overall payout as a percentage of salary being based on 
the multiplication of these two figures.

Threshold, target and maximum achievement for the business performance 
element will result in an outcome as follows:

•  Threshold: 0% of base salary
•  Target: 70% of base salary
•  Maximum: 140% of base salary
•  The maximum opportunity level will therefore only pay out for both a 

stretch level of business performance and full achievement of the individual 
performance element

The MIP awards are based on business metrics linked to our business strategy. 
These may include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, profit, profit 
margins and operating efficiencies. The weighting of individual performance 
metrics shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee around 
the beginning of the MIP performance period.

Details related to the key performance indicators can be found in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration on page 177.

Deferral of MIP

50% of any MIP award is to be deferred into shares which will be made available after 
a three-year deferral period which commences on the first day of the fiscal year in 
which the deferred share award is made. 

Deferred shares may be subject to malus and clawback (for a period of two 
years following this incentive award) to the extent deemed appropriate by the 
Remuneration Committee, in line with best practice.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

169
169

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Variable pay continued

PSP 

Purpose and 
link to strategy

To align the CEO’s interests with the interests of shareholders, and increase the 
ability of the Group to attract and reward individuals with exceptional skills.

Holding  
period

Operation

The CEO is granted conditional awards of shares which vest after three years, 
subject to the achievement of performance metrics and continued service. 
Grants take place annually, normally every March.

Adjustments

Performance metrics and the associated targets are reviewed and determined 
around the beginning of each performance period to ensure that they support the 
long-term strategy and objectives of the Group and are aligned with shareholders’ 
interests. Dividends may be paid on vested shares where the performance metrics 
are achieved at the end of the three-year period.

Malus and clawback provisions apply. Further details may be found in the Additional 
notes to the Executive Director’s remuneration policy table section on page 171.

Maximum 
opportunity

Awards (normally) have a face value up to 330% of base salary.

In exceptional circumstances only, the Remuneration Committee 
has the discretion to grant awards up to 450% of base salary.

Change of 
control

Performance 
metrics

Vesting of awards is subject to the three-year Group performance metrics. For 
each award, the Remuneration Committee will determine the applicable metrics, 
weightings and target calibration making up the performance condition.

Following the end of the three-year period, the Remuneration Committee will 
determine the extent to which performance metrics have been met and, in turn, 
the level of vesting. Participants may receive vested awards in the form of shares 
or a cash equivalent.

For each performance metric, achieving threshold performance results in vesting 
of 25% of the award and maximum performance results in vesting of 100% of the 
award. There will be a straight-line vesting between these performance levels.

Performance share awards will lapse if the Remuneration Committee determines that 
the performance metrics have not been met. The Remuneration Committee will have 
discretion to reduce or negate PSP award vesting, in the case of significant adverse 
environmental, social or governance impacts regarding the Company’s activities.

Any vested award (net of shares sold to cover tax liability) is subject to a further 
two-year holding period following the end of the three-year performance period. 
During this two-year period, these beneficially owned shares are subject to a 
no-sale commitment. Any shares subject to the holding period count towards 
the shareholding requirement.

In the event of an equity restructuring, the Remuneration Committee may make 
an equitable adjustment to the terms of the performance share award by adjusting 
the number and kind of shares which have been granted or may be granted and/or 
making provision for payment of cash in respect of any outstanding performance 
share award.

Where exceptional circumstances exist such that the original targets no longer 
meet the intent at the time of grant, the Committee will have the discretion to adjust 
targets in a manner that is considered to be no less stretching than the original 
performance condition. Where any such adjustment is made, the details will be fully 
disclosed in the following remuneration report.

In the event of change of control, unvested performance share awards held 
by participants vest immediately on a pro-rated basis if the Remuneration 
Committee determines that the performance metrics have been satisfied or 
would have been likely to be satisfied at the end of the performance period, unless 
the Remuneration Committee determines that substitute performance share 
awards may be used in place of the previous awards. For vested shares subject to 
the additional holding period, the holding period will lapse and the participants are 
no longer subject to the no-sale commitment.

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023Strategic Report
Strategic Report

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance

Financial Statements
Financial Statements

Swiss Statutory Reporting
Swiss Statutory Reporting

Supplementary Information
Supplementary Information

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023

170
170

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Additional notes to the Executive Director’s remuneration policy table 

Other than in the ‘Maximum performance + 50% share price growth’ scenario, no share price growth or 
dividend assumptions have been included in the charts above.

Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration policy illustration
The graph below provides estimates of the potential reward opportunity for the CEO and the split between 
the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, 
‘Target’ and ‘Maximum’. In line with the reporting regulations, a scenario assuming 50% share price 
growth over the three-year PSP performance period is also shown below. The assumptions used for 
these charts are set out in the table below (€ 000s).

Maximum
performance +50%
share price growth

11%

10%

Maximum

16%

12%

2%

2%

3%

17%

21%

Target

19%

15%

13%

50%

4,786

Minimum

51%

41%

1,732

8%

40%

20%

7,440

49%

5,966

Fixed

Component
Base salary1

Pension

Cash and non-cash bene�ts2

Variable MIP

PSP

PSP – 50% share price 
Appreciation

Total

Minimum 
(€ 000s)

Target 
(€ 000s)

Maximum 
(€ 000s)

893

134

 705

–

–

–

1,732

893

134

723

625

2,411

–

4,786

893

134

742

1,250

2,947

–

5,966

Maximum 
performance 
+ 50% share 
price growth 
(€ 000s)

893

134

742

1,250

2,947

1,474

7,440

0

2,000

4,000

6,000

8,000

10,000

Base salary

Cash and non-cash bene�ts

Pension

MIP

PSP

PSP – share price appreciation

1.  Represents the annual base salary as at the last review in May 2023.
2. 

 ESPP employer contributions may vary depending on the MIP payout provided that the CEO decides to contribute a portion of the MIP 
towards the ESPP. The �gures provided have been calculated on the basis of the applicable MIP payout and the CEO deciding to contribute 
3% to the ESPP.

Minimum performance

Fixed remuneration only, i.e. base salary, pension and other bene�ts 
(including ESPP participation)

Target performance

Fixed remuneration

No payout under the MIP or PSP

MIP payout of 70% of base salary

PSP vesting at 198% of base salary

Maximum performance

Fixed remuneration

Maximum performance+ 50% 
share price growth

MIP payout of 140% of base salary

PSP vesting at 330% of base salary

Fixed remuneration

MIP payout of 140% of base salary

PSP vesting at 330% of base salary

50% assumed share price growth over three-year PSP 
performance period

Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2023