Risk management continued

Impact

Mitigation

Change from 2022 Annual Report and Accounts

Impact

Mitigation

Change from 2022 Annual Report and Accounts

Market risk 
Adverse investment market movements or broader economic forces can impact the Group’s ability to meet  
its cash flow targets, along with the potential to negatively impact customer investments or sentiment

Credit risk 
The Group is exposed to the risk of downgrade or failure of a significant counterparty

The Group and its customers are exposed 
to the implications of adverse market 
movements. This can impact the Group’s 
capital, solvency, profitability and liquidity 
position, fees earned on assets held, the 
certainty and timing of future cash flows 
and long-term investment performance 
for shareholders and customers. 
There are a number of drivers for market 
movements including government and 
central bank policies, geopolitical events, 
market sentiment, sector-specific 
sentiment, global pandemics and 
financial risks of climate change, 
including risks from the transition  
to a low carbon economy.

The Group undertakes regular monitoring 
activities in relation to market risk 
exposure, including limits in each asset 
class, cash flow forecasting and stress and 
scenario testing. In particular, the Group’s 
increase in exposure to residential 
property and private investments,  
as a result of its BPA investment strategy,  
is actively monitored.
The Group continues to implement 
de-risking strategies and control 
enhancements to mitigate unwanted 
customer and shareholder outcomes  
from certain market movements,  
such as equities, interest rates,  
inflation and foreign currencies. 
The Group maintains cash buffers in  
its holding companies and has access  
to a credit facility to reduce reliance  
on emerging cash flows.
The Group closely monitors and  
manages its excess capital position  
and it regularly discusses market  
outlook with its asset managers.

Unchanged
This risk was assessed as ‘Heightened’ in the Group’s 2019 Annual 
Report and Accounts, and then again in 2020 due to ongoing 
economic uncertainty, geopolitical tensions, the impacts of COVID-19 
and uncertainty around interest rates. Whilst some of these have 
lessened, they remain the key drivers for the current assessment of 
exposure to this risk.
The global macro-economic environment remains highly uncertain; 
although prices continue to rise, the rate of inflation is lower. The UK 
Consumer Price Index is down to 4.0% in January 2024 from a peak  
of 11.1% in October 2022. There is an increased expectation that the 
Bank of England will achieve its target of 2% by the end of 2025.
The Bank of England base rate has increased from 0.1% in December 
2021 to 5.25% in August 2023, and remains at this level, with the 
outlook for this to remain stable until summer 2024 before reductions 
can be expected. Higher interest rates, coupled with cost-of-living 
rises, have suppressed residential property prices. These are expected 
to bottom out in summer 2024 and see a return to growth after interest 
rates start to come down. UK gilt yields remain high, rivalling the levels 
seen during the 2022 mini-budget market event. The Group continues 
to monitor and manage its market risk exposures, including to interest 
rates and inflation, and to markets affected by the increasing number of 
geopolitical conflicts and concerns. For example, continued attacks on 
shipping in the Red Sea pose a risk of worsening inflationary pressures 
and the downstream effects on interest rates. The Group’s strategy 
continues to involve hedging the major market risks and, in 2023, the 
Group’s Stress and Scenario testing programme continued to demonstrate 
the resilience of its balance sheet to market stresses. Contingency 
actions remain available to help manage the Group’s capital and 
liquidity position in the event of unanticipated market movements.

Insurance risk 
The Group may be exposed to adverse demographic experience which is out of line with expectations

The Group has guaranteed liabilities, 
annuities and other policies that are 
sensitive to future longevity, persistency 
and mortality rates. For example,  
if annuity policyholders live for longer 
than expected, then the Group will  
need to pay their benefits for longer. 
The amount of additional capital required 
to meet additional liabilities could have  
a material adverse impact on the Group’s 
ability to meet its cash flow targets.

The Group undertakes regular reviews  
of demographic experience and monitors 
exposure relative to quantitative risk 
appetite limits. 
Monitoring includes identifying any trends 
or variances in experience, in order to 
appropriately reflect these in assumptions. 
The Group continues to manage its 
longevity risk exposures, which includes  
the use of longevity swaps and 
reinsurance contracts to maintain  
this risk within appetite. 
Where required, the Group continues to 
take capital management actions to mitigate 
adverse demographic experience.

Unchanged
This risk was assessed as ‘Heightened’ in the 2020 Annual Report  
and remains ‘Heightened’. The assessment is driven by continued 
uncertainty around future demographic experience driven primarily by 
the long-term effects of COVID-19 on life expectancy; potential health 
risks from rising NHS waiting times; the rise in long-term sickness rates 
observed across the UK workforce; and health and customer behaviour 
implications from the cost-of-living crisis. 
Demographic experience and the latest assessment of future trends 
continue to be considered in regular assumption reviews, including 
making appropriate allowance for the impacts of COVID-19 on both 
longevity and mortality as part of the 2023 assumption reviews.
The Group continues to monitor customer behaviour as a result of the 
cost-of-living crisis to ensure its impact on demographic assumptions  
is appropriately reflected in regular assumption reviews. Proactive 
action is being taken to ensure support is provided to customers as  
the impacts from the cost-of-living crisis continue to materialise.
The Group completed BPA transactions with a combined premium  
of c. £6bn in 2023. Furthermore, the launch of the new Standard  
Life Pension Annuity (‘SLPA’) product in the second half of 2023  
is a significant milestone for the Group. Consistent with previous 
transactions, the Group continues to reinsure the vast majority of  
the longevity risk using longevity swaps and reinsurance contracts  
that are reviewed regularly.

The Group seeks rewarded credit risk  
in order to drive value for shareholders 
and invests in a wide range of credit risky 
assets in accordance with its strategic 
asset allocation.
The Group is exposed to the risk of 
downgrades and deterioration in the 
creditworthiness or default of investments, 
derivatives or banking counterparties. 
This could cause immediate financial  
loss or a reduction in future profits.
The Group is also exposed to trading 
counterparties, such as reinsurers or 
service providers, failing to meet all or  
part of their obligations. This would 
negatively impact the Group’s operations 
that may in turn have adverse effects on 
customer relationships and may lead to 
financial loss.

The Group seeks to take credit risk by 
maintaining a high quality and diversified 
credit investment portfolio and ensuring 
relationships are with highly rated 
counterparties.
The Credit Risk Policy and Counterparty 
Limit Framework sets out a system of 
controls to manage this risk within appetite 
with early warning indicators to manage the 
most material exposures within acceptable 
tolerances. This includes the management 
of risks linked to climate change, including 
the impact on assets from transitioning to  
a low carbon economy.
The Group regularly monitors its 
counterparty exposures and has specific 
limits in place relating to individual 
counterparties (with sub-limits for each 
credit risk exposure), sector concentration, 
geographies and asset class. Limits also 
restrict exposure to BBB+ and below  
rated assets. 
The Group undertakes regular stress and 
scenario testing of the credit portfolio. 
Where possible, exposures are diversified 
using a range of counterparty providers. 
All material reinsurance and derivative 
positions are appropriately collateralised.
The Group regularly discusses market 
outlook with its asset managers in addition 
to the second line Risk oversight provided. 
For mitigation of risks associated with 
stock-lending, additional protection  
is provided through collateral and 
indemnity insurance.

Unchanged
In the Group’s 2020 Annual Report and Accounts, this risk was assessed 
as ‘Heightened’ as a result of the market volatility and wider economic 
and social impacts arising from COVID-19. While the residual risks  
from COVID-19 have receded, the current assessment of the level of 
exposure to this risk is unchanged from the 2020 position, driven by  
the ongoing geopolitical tensions, economic uncertainty and persistent 
high inflation.
Over 2023 the Group continued to undertake actions to increase  
the overall credit quality of its portfolio and mitigate the impact on  
risk capital of future downgrades. This positive progress is balanced  
by risks arising from geopolitical conflicts such as those in Ukraine  
and the Middle East, and supply chain disruptions arising from the  
risk of deterioration in the relationship between the USA and China. 
Uncertainties over the global economic outlook, persistent high 
inflation and higher for longer interest rates present an increased risk  
of defaults and downgrades. However, a UK sovereign downgrade is 
less probable than at the end of 2022, following both Moody’s and 
S&P’s revision of the UK credit rating’s outlook from ‘negative’ to ‘stable’ 
during 2023. This has a positive impact on UK-related assets including 
Gilts, Housing Associations and Local Authority Loans.
Despite the failure of a number of US regional banks and a regulator-
facilitated merger of Credit Suisse with UBS in early 2023, the Group’s 
view is that a full-blown banking crisis will not follow. In addition,  
the Group has limited exposure to banks with idiosyncratic risks. 
The Group has no direct shareholder credit exposure to Russia  
or Ukraine and no exposure to sanctioned entities.
The Group continues to increase investment in illiquid credit assets  
as a result of BPA transactions. This is within appetite and in line with  
the Group’s strategic asset allocation plans. The growth in illiquid assets 
will be met by growth in the overall Group credit portfolio.

Emerging risks and opportunities
The Group’s Senior Management and Board take emerging risks and opportunities into account when considering potential outcomes.  
This determines if appropriate management actions are in place to manage the risk or take advantage of the opportunity. Two examples  
of key risks and opportunities discussed by Senior Management and the Board during 2023 are:

Description

Quantum computing

Quantum computing has the potential to deliver improved actuarial analysis, portfolio optimisation, risk modelling and 
management, forecasting and enhanced fraud prevention. It has the ability to arrive at feasible solutions for optimisation 
problems, or find better accuracies for machine learning problems, or run simulations exponentially faster. However,  
there are significant risks to consider, such as the potential for quantum computing to be used with malicious intent against 
the Group. The Group will seek to get ‘quantum-safe’ as soon as possible, to minimise the magnitude of emerging threats, 
including the potential of breaking current encryption systems, which would leave personal data of the Group’s customers 
vulnerable to hackers. Switching from one encryption regime to another will take years to implement with the payoff timeline 
for incorporating quantum resources currently perceived as being in excess of three years. It is crucial for the Group to 
develop quantum-resistant encryption algorithms and implement robust security measures to protect sensitive information. 
There is a potential opportunity to maximise capital preservation and commercial differentiation, by leveraging the 
exponential growth in data available to the market.

Pensions innovation

Risk Universe category

Operational

Changing customer expectations around simplicity of products, personalisation and increasing technology-based 
interaction presents greater risk from market disruptions. Customers are increasingly looking for frictionless services,  
which will heighten competition in offering a complete experience and solutions to customer needs. Aside from these  
risks, this does represent a significant opportunity for the Group to meet ever-evolving customer needs to become a  
trusted partner to and through retirement.
The Group continues to partner with innovative start-ups, providing user experience and technical delivery support  
for priority proposition initiatives. Digital and Workplace successfully launched Phoenix Group’s Innovation Forum,  
inviting new partners from TCS COIN and FinTech Scotland networks to apply to work with the Group on defined 
challenges. The Group tracks industry change including on the use of analytics; ensuring compliance with cookies 
regulation; simplifying the process to gather permissions to market; and changes via Consumer Duty. The Group has  
an opportunity around future ways of working and innovation, leading to improved and enhanced customer experiences 
whilst ensuring that regulatory work fully supports good customer outcomes within the next one to three years.

Customer

56

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

57

Strategic reportStrategic reportViability statement

Viability statement 
In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Board is required to conduct an 
assessment of the viability of the Group over a specified 
time horizon.

Assessment Process
In assessing the future viability of the  
Phoenix Group, the Board has defined 
‘viability’ as maintaining the capability 
to satisfy mandatory liabilities and meet 
external targets for cash generation. 

In doing so, the Board considered whether 
the definition of viability should reflect the 
success of the Group in delivering against  
its strategic priority to invest in the growth  
of the business on an organic and inorganic 
basis. It concluded that any such investment 
needs to comply with the Group’s capital 
allocation framework and risk appetite,  
and that the Board retains flexibility to 
manage the level of investment to support 
the Group’s strategic priorities. In the absence 
of new business growth, the Group maintains 
a significant cash generation capacity from 
its in-force business which remains resilient 
under stress, supporting longer-term viability.

The Board has determined that the  
three-year time horizon to December 2026  
is an appropriate period for the assessment 
which aligns to the period covered by the 
Group’s latest Board-approved Annual 
Operating Plan (“AOP”), and to the period  
for which the Group establishes its internal 
and external targets. 

In making its assessment and assessing  
the prospects of the Group over the short, 
medium and longer-term, the Board considered 
a large range of information including:

• The Group’s strategic and operational 

plans as set out in the AOP, approved by 
the Board in February 2024; 

• The latest financial results for the Group;

• Financial projections of the Group’s 

capital, liquidity and funding positions 
over the viability assessment period. 
These projections have considered both 
base assumptions and severe but plausible 
stress scenarios, reflecting the major risks 
to which the Group is exposed;

• The results of wider stress and scenario 
testing activity, including reverse stress 
testing, capturing non-financial risks as 
well as more onerous scenarios with 
a low likelihood of occurrence;

• The operation of the Group’s Risk 

3. Longevity stress –longevity and yield 

Management Framework, including any 
breaches of risk appetite;

• The principal risks and uncertainties 

impacting the Group, together with an 
assessment of emerging risks that may 
impact on the Group’s future performance;

• The Own Risk and Solvency Assessment 

process which provides a forward-looking 
assessment of the Group’s risk and capital 
profile as a result of its business strategy, 
AOP and the overall risk environment; and

• An assessment of the wider operating 
environment for the Group, including 
legal, regulatory, political, climate and 
competitive factors.

Assessment of Viability
The Phoenix Group AOP is reviewed and 
approved by the Board on an at least annual 
basis and results in a set of strategic priorities, 
detailed financial forecasts across multi-year 
periods, risk assessments and associated 
resilience, and available contingent actions. 
Those strategic priorities are outlined in 
the Strategic Report of the Group’s Annual 
Report and Accounts, and progress against 
the AOP is reviewed monthly by the Board. 
The Board reviewed the results of stress 
testing to assess viability under severe but 
plausible scenarios, including three adverse 
stresses as follows, which are deemed to  
be representative of the key financial risks  
to the Group:

1. Market stress – a combined market stress 
broadly equivalent to a 1 in 10-year event, 
calibrated to the Phoenix Internal Model, 
incorporating a fall in equity, property 
values and yields, with a widening of 
credit spreads;

2. Plausible downside stress – a more 
onerous combined market stress 
reflecting tighter credit conditions 
and a deep recession driven by a 
further short-term increase in inflation 
and cost of living crisis, falls in equities, 
properties, increased credit spreads, 
a UK sovereign downgrade and credit 
asset downgrades; and 

stress broadly equivalent to a 1 in 10-year 
event, which implies a 1.27 year increase in 
life expectancy for a 65 year old male and 
1.3 year increase for a 65 year old female, 
alongside a fall in yields.

The calibration and assessment of the 
stresses is informed by the Group’s Solvency 
II Internal Model. The projections take into 
account the impact of any appropriate 
Solvency II recalculation of transitional 
benefits and allow for refinancing of 
certain of the Group’s debt obligations. 
In considering the projections, the 
Board has assessed the availability of 
contingent actions to increase resilience. 

The scenarios were applied to the Solvency 
II capital, liquidity and funding positions 
of the Group, and demonstrated that the 
Group could continue to meet its mandatory 
obligations without any breach to regulatory 
capital requirements, whilst continuing  
to track towards meeting external targets. 

Additional stress testing 
In addition, through the ORSA and wider 
financial resilience processes, the Board  
has reviewed a wide range of stress and 
scenario testing which has provided additional 
insight with regard to the defined viability 
assessment period. The scope of this testing 
covers the Group’s risk universe and includes 
scenarios such as:

• Additional severe downside economic 

scenarios with a low likelihood 
of occurrence;

• Operational disruption or failure 

of key third party service providers; 

• Cyber-attack, and resultant denial of 
service to key systems or applications;

• Failure to execute and deliver key change 

activities within the Group; and 

• Climate related risks, including those 

related to a disorderly climate transition. 

In so doing, the Board has considered the 
results of reverse stress testing that has 
been performed to analyse scenarios that 
have a low probability but where, if they 
occurred, have the potential to render the 
business model unviable. Reverse stress 
testing validates and improves, where 
necessary, mitigating actions in place to 
deal with threats to the Group’s viability by 
starting at the point of business failure and 
working backwards to identify the sequence 
of events that would lead to that outcome. 
It supports the development of actions that 
can be implemented now to avoid the failure. 

During 2023, the Stress and Scenario Testing 
Programme included separate consideration 
of the impact of a severe market stress and a 
severe longevity and yields stress. The market 
stress was designed to replicate a severe 
recession (downgrade across 21% of the  
total shareholder liquid/illiquid credit asset 
portfolio, House Prices falling 15%, Equities 
c.30% and GBP depreciating c.10% vs 
USD), while the longevity stress combined 
a significant longevity risk event emerging 
over 3 years (e.g. medical advancement) 
with a 100bps fall in yields. The analysis 
concluded that the severity of these stresses 
was not sufficient to reduce Phoenix Group’s 
capital coverage to close to SCR. 

A severe scenario testing a combination  
of all risks within the internal model was  
also considered and showed the severity  
of stress required to reduce the Group’s 
capital coverage to the Recovery Zone  
and also the severity of event needed  
to reduce capital coverage to close to  
SCR. This informed the Group Recovery  
Plan which also included an extreme  
liquidity event and a range of contingency 
actions that could be used to recover.  
These scenarios are deemed extreme  
and the Recovery Plan demonstrated  
the ability to restore coverage above  
risk appetites. 

Over 2023, we have continued to embed 
climate scenario analysis within the Group’s 
stress and scenario testing programme  
and carried out a range of quantitative  
and qualitative scenario analysis. The results 
show that although how and when climate 
risk could crystallise continues to be highly 
uncertain, it could have a significant impact 
on the value of our assets, the assets of  
our customers, our reputation and our 
operations. Phoenix is actively managing  
this risk using a range of actions, including 
gradual decarbonisation of the investment 
portfolio and engagement with key emitters 
within the portfolio, key suppliers, customers 
and policymakers. 

Risk Assessment
The Board reviewed the Group’s  
principal risks and uncertainties as set out  
on pages 50 to 57 of the 2023 Annual Report 
and Accounts, and considered the impacts  
of changes in the related impact assessments 
and the mitigating actions implemented.  
This included an assessment of the potential 
impacts of emerging risks on the Group’s 
business during the viability assessment period. 

As noted in the Risk Management section of 
the Annual Report and Accounts, the Group 
identifies, assesses and manages risk through 
the operation of its Risk Management 
Framework (‘RMF’). The Board approves  
the RMF and monitors its operation against 
established risk appetites through regular 
reporting that comes from across the three 
lines of defence. 

Whilst noting continued macroeconomic 
uncertainty and an evolving political 
and regulatory landscape, the Board will 
continue to monitor risk exposures relative 
to risk appetites to ensure the risks are 
proactively managed and do not present 
a material threat to the Group’s viability. 

2023 Financial Results
The latest financial results for the Group  
as included within the 2023 Annual Report  
and Accounts have been considered as part 
of the assessment. Key factors included:
• The Group’s strong capital position 

with a Solvency II surplus of £3.9 billion 
and a Shareholder Capital Coverage 
Ratio of 176%, providing significant 
headroom above regulatory minimum 
capital requirements and the Group’s 
risk appetite;

• The resilience of the Group’s capital 

position and cash generation to movements
in market factors, as indicated in the 
sensitivity analysis included on page 35, 
which is reflective of the Group’s 
hedging approach;

• Holding company cash of £1.012 million 

at the end of 2023, as well as access to the 
Group’s undrawn £1.25 billion unsecured 
revolving credit facility, provides assurance 
over the Group’s ability to meet mandatory 
obligations as they fall due; 

• The impact of losses on an IFRS basis, 

were considered as part of the assessment. 
It was noted that the Group’s hedging 
approach prioritises the protection of the 
Solvency II capital position and therefore 
the dependable delivery of future cash 
generation. It is accepted that this results 
in volatility in the IFRS metrics, but this was 
not considered to represent a material 
threat to the Group’s viability. 

Statement of Viability
Based on the factors outlined above, the 
output of the Group’s financial projections 
and its resilience under severe but plausible 
stressed conditions, and the management 
the Group’s principal risks and associated 
mitigating actions, the Board has a 
reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year period of assessment.

58

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

59

Strategic reportStrategic reportChair of the Group Board’s introduction to governance

Nicholas Lyons
Chair of the Group Board

Board highlights 2023

Board induction
Mark Gregory and Eleanor Bucks share their experience 
of the Phoenix Group Board induction programme.

Read more on pages 90 and 91

Board review
The 2023 Board review was carried out by an 
external Board Reviewer. Following discussion, 
the Board has agreed a few areas of enhancement.

Read more on pages 78 and 79

Board education sessions
These provided both insight and outcomes  
that the Board implemented. 

Read more on pages 80 and 81 

Board engagement with the wider workforce
The Board as a whole was able to meet Phoenix Group 
colleagues in two focused sessions in May and November 
2023. In May, the Board met members of the Phoenix 
Group graduate programme and in November it met with 
female colleagues in their 50s, with a focus on the working 
environment. These groups provided insight into their 
specific roles at Phoenix Group. 

Read more on pages 108 to 110

Our values of passion, 
responsibility, growth, 
courage and difference 
are demonstrated 
daily by our colleagues, 
and importantly 
through the leadership 
of the Board.

I am delighted to return as Chair of the 
Group Board (‘Chair’) on 1 December 2023. 
During my sabbatical as Lord Mayor of the 
City of London, Alastair Barbour fulfilled the 
role of Chair with effect from 1 September 
2022 until 30 November 2023. Following  
ten years on the Board, Alastair stepped 
down from the position as Chair of the Group 
Board and Chair of the Nomination Committee 
with effect from 30 November 2023, and 
remained on the Board until 31 December 
2023 to ensure a comprehensive handover.  
I would like to thank Alastair for his 
commitment as Chair during my sabbatical, 
as well as for his enormous contribution and 
support to Phoenix Group throughout his 
tenure. He will be missed as a colleague and 
trusted adviser. His historical knowledge was 
invaluable to the Group Board and the wider 
organisation during my sabbatical, hence his 
tenure beyond the usual nine-year period.

Board activities during 2023
Our strategy is set to ensure we continually 
progress towards the achievement of our 
purpose and aim to provide customers with 
the best possible outcomes. The Board is 
responsible for establishing the strategy 
for the Group, ensuring that this is aligned 
with not only our purpose but also with the 
values and culture of the business. As a 
result of a strong performance, the Board 
has recommended a Final dividend of 
26.65 pence per share, bringing the total 
2023 dividend to 52.65 pence per share. 

There were a number of focus areas for the 
Board again this year, such as the integration 
and completion of SLF of Canada UK Limited 
(‘Sun Life of Canada UK’) from Sun Life 
Financial Inc. acquired in 2022. The Phoenix 
Life Companies Board has worked hard  
to integrate this new acquisition into its 

Before reviewing and approving  
strategic items, the Board must always 
come back to Phoenix Group’s core 
purpose and values.

2024 priorities

During 2024, the Board intends  
to focus on:

• Risk management items.
• Relationship with the regulators.
• Financial framework.

governance framework and current board 
schedule during the year, which has been 
monitored by the Phoenix Group Board.  
The IFRS 17 accounting change has been  
a key focus for Management and in turn the 
Board, in particular its Audit Committee and  
I must thank both the Audit Committee Chair 
and its members for the robust challenge. 

The relationship with our regulators,  
not just in the UK, but also in Ireland and 
Bermuda, is of importance to the Board 
and we receive regular updates from 
our Regulatory Relationships Director to 
understand their views and the impact this 
can have on strategy, a focus at our Strategy 
Day in June. Our Chief Risk Officer plays 
an important part in the delivery of our 
strategy and the Board receives regular 
updates from him. Both Line 1 and 2 opinions 
are provided on all strategic initiatives. 

In addition, Phoenix Group published its  
Net Zero Transition Plan on 24 May 2023. 
The Board wants the execution of our 
strategy to have a positive impact upon  
our Net Zero Transition Plan and climate 
change as a whole. This is just one way  
we can help to provide our customers  
with the best possible outcomes. You can 
find our Net Zero Transition Plan at 
www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

Phoenix Group Holdings plc’s 
compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 (the ‘2018 
Code’) can be found on page 68.

Purpose, values and culture 
Phoenix Group’s purpose is to help  
people secure a life of possibilities. As the 
pensions landscape and societal needs 
evolve, Phoenix Group has an important  

role to play in society through its long-term 
savings and retirement business. Robust  
and purpose-led decision-making from the  
Board and throughout the Group drives 
responsible and sustainable investment,  
a strong sustainability strategy and enables 
long-lasting impact for our customers.  
The Board monitors that purpose and the 
Company’s values regularly throughout the 
execution of its strategy. A proportion of  
the agenda is always dedicated to strategy 
and before reviewing and approving such 
strategic items, the Board must always come 
back to Phoenix Group’s core purpose  
and values. 

The Board’s role is to set the cultural tone 
from the top and act as the guardian of our 
values and culture, which together supports 
our strategy and drives our purpose. We as  
a Board must reinforce our culture and  
values through our conduct, decision-making 
process and the outcomes upon us as a 
Board and the Group’s strategy, which the 
Executive Committee (‘ExCo’) implements. 
The Sustainability Committee monitors 
culture on behalf of the Board and this is 
discussed further on page 107. 

Board review 
This year, the Board effectiveness review  
was undertaken externally by Bvalco Ltd  
(the ‘Board Reviewer’). It conducted a 
number of independent interviews with 
Board members and key stakeholders.  
This review found the Board to be capable, 
reflective and supportive of Phoenix Group’s 
culture. The culture of the Board was  
found to be constructive, challenging  
and respectful. Further information on  
the outcomes of the review can be found  
on pages 78 and 79. 

60

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

61

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceChair of the Group Board’s introduction to governance continued

Wider workforce
The Board has particularly enjoyed the 
colleague engagement sessions that have 
taken place during 2023. Meeting both 
members of our graduate programme and 
female colleagues in their 50s, with a focus 
on the working environment, has been 
insightful, especially for our new Board 
members. This is discussed further by 
Maggie Semple, our Designated Non-
Executive Director (‘NED’) for Workforce 
Engagement on pages 108 to 110. Choosing 
two diverse groups of colleagues has helped 
us to understand the opportunities and 
challenges the wider workforce faces at 
Phoenix Group. Through Maggie’s work as 
Designated NED for Workforce Engagement, 
the Board has been able to implement some 
outcomes which we hope will enhance the 
working environment for our colleagues and 
reach Phoenix Group’s strategic ambition  
to be the “best place any of us have ever 
worked”. The process of feedback between 
Maggie Semple and the Board following 
sessions with the Phoenix Colleague 
Representation Forum (‘PCRF’) has also  
been enhanced to ensure outcomes are 
discussed at Board level and appropriate 
actions are taken. 

Our colleagues are not our only 
stakeholders and the Board is mindful of 
all our stakeholders when making decisions. 
This is further explained on pages 74 to 77 
by demonstrating any impact on Board 
decisions as a result of engagement 
of our stakeholders. You will see that, 
as a regulated business, our customer 
outcomes and Consumer Duty have 
received greater focus during 2023. 

Board changes
During the year, there were a number of 
changes to the Board. Mark Gregory joined 
the Phoenix Group Board on 1 April 2023.  
He possesses a wealth of experience in  
the insurance, financial services and retail 
sectors, having worked as Group CFO at 
Legal & General Group plc and through 
non-executive roles, including at Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc. He has made a strong 
contribution to date, not only as a member  
of the Risk Committee, but also an attendee 
and now member of the Audit Committee 
with effect from 1 January 2024. David  
Scott was nominated as the shareholder 
representative of abrdn plc (‘abrdn’) on 
11 May 2023 in accordance with the terms  
of the relationship agreement between 
Phoenix Group and abrdn. The previous 
Shareholder Nominated Director 
representing abrdn was Stephanie Bruce 
whose contribution to the Board since  
joining on 1 July 2022 was excellent and also  
helped to enhance diversity on the Board. 
Finally, Eleanor Bucks joined the Phoenix 
Group Board on 1 December 2023. Eleanor 
is an actuary with strong asset management 
and financial services experience and brings 
a fresh skillset and capability to the Board  
as well as broader diversity. You can find  
the Board’s skills matrix on page 89 and 
Directors’ biographies on pages 64 to 67. 

Kory Sorenson reached her nine-year 
tenure on the Phoenix Group Board on 
30 June 2023. She had been Chair of 
the Remuneration Committee for the 
past five years and was succeeded in that 
appointment by Nicholas Shott on 4 May 
2023 following the 2023 Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’). Nicholas has been a 
member of the Remuneration Committee 
since 2016. Kory provided a diligent 
handover to Nicholas and the Board is 
grateful for her robust challenge, knowledge 
and tenacity over the years, in particular 
during challenging times such as COVID-19. 

Diversity and inclusion 
The Phoenix Group Board had 36% female 
Board representation, three ethnic minority 
Board members and a female Senior 
Independent Director at 31 December 2023. 
The Nomination Committee report explains 
further the reason for these results and its 
aim to comply with the Listing Rules. As ever, 
there is always more to do and we are mindful 
of diversity when succession planning 
for those appointments we can control. 
Succession planning remains a focus for 
some of our longer serving Board members, 
but also for our Executive Directors and 
ExCo members. The Talent and Succession 
Plan was reviewed during 2023 for Executive 
Directors and the ExCo members and will 
continue to be a key matter for 2024. 

Board schedule
I work closely with our Group Company 
Secretary to plan the Board schedule well  
in advance of the year. Each meeting is 
balanced with governance, strategy 
including Environmental, Social and 
Governance (‘ESG’), financial performance 
and emerging matters as regular items.  
The Board as a whole places great 
importance on promoting the success  
of the Company. Each member must have 
sufficient time to devote to the Board  
in order to contribute fully to meetings  
and the operation of its Committees as 
discussed further on page 87. During the 
year, additional meeting time may be  
needed and I am pleased that each Director 
endeavours to be available as and when 
required. Alastair Barbour was particularly 
grateful to those Directors who found 
additional meeting time for the 
implementation of the IFRS 17 standard  
and related education sessions. 

Keeping the Board abreast of key areas of 
focus for the Company is important and the 
Board as a whole takes comfort from the 
education sessions Phoenix Group provides. 

Each member must have sufficient  
time to devote to the Board in order 
to contribute fully to meetings.

Education sessions are a significant part of 
our Board calendar and are often facilitated 
by external providers or Management 
outside of the Board meeting schedule to 
ensure the required focus and attention is 
given to the sessions. During 2023, education 
sessions were held on topics such as the 
Annual Operating Plan (‘AOP’) 2023, key 
projects, IFRS 17, the customer view (of 
particular importance for Phoenix Group 
with the implementation of Consumer Duty 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’)) 
and the Net Zero Transition Plan that was 
published in May 2023. The Remuneration 
Committee introduced its first focused 
education session facilitated by its external 
adviser, PwC, and supported by the 
Executive Reward Director which was well 
received by all members. Please see pages 
80 and 81 for education sessions delivered  
in 2023 and any outcomes. 

Annual General Meeting 
In 2023, Phoenix Group was pleased to 
return to an ‘in person’ AGM. This allowed  
the Board to meet and greet our shareholders 
face-to-face and to answer any questions. 
During 2023, the Board and Committee 
Chairs met with our largest shareholders, 
representing approximately 43% of our 
share register. In his capacity as Chair of the 
Group Board, Alastair Barbour met with nine 
shareholders, representing approximately 
41% of our share register in January 2023  
to discuss the 2023 annual institutional 
roadshow. The Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee engaged with a broader group  
of shareholders representing approximately 
70% of our share register to discuss the  
2023 Remuneration policy that was then 
approved with a 98% vote in favour by our 
shareholders at the AGM on 4 May 2023. 

As Chair of the Group Board, I undertook  
the Group’s annual institutional roadshow 
during February 2024, which is intended  
to reinforce the dialogue with our major 
shareholders, particularly concerning 
corporate governance issues. I met with  
12 of Phoenix Group’s largest shareholders 
who in aggregate own approximately  
45% of the Company’s issued share capital.  
The meetings covered a range of topics, 
including the strategic progress and  
outlook of the Company, the Board’s 
effectiveness review and the recent  
share price performance. 

The Board was pleased with the support 
from Phoenix Group’s shareholders 
throughout 2023 and we hope to receive 
similar support in 2024. As ever, the Board is 
here to engage and respond to any questions 
our shareholders or stakeholders may have. 

AGM votes in favour of  
all resolutions May 2023

97%

97% in 2022

Board ethnic minority  
Director representation1

23%

25% as at 10 March 2023

Independent Board Directors¹ 

Board female Director representation1

62%

38%

50% as at 10 March 2023

UK Corporate Governance Code

Fully compliant,  
but areas of 
enhancement

Fully compliant in 2022

Board ethnic minority Director 
representation for those appointments 
controlled by Phoenix Group1

18%

FTSE Women Leaders ranking 
(February 2024) 

12th

12th in 2023

Board female Director representation  
for those appointments controlled  
by Phoenix Group1

45%

 See page 68 for a summary  
of how the Company complied  
with the 2018 Code during 2023

Committee Chairs

Male 
(Two)

Female 
(Two)

 50%

50%

Nicholas Lyons
Chair of the Group Board

1  As at 21 March 2024.

62

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

63

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceBoard leadership and Company purpose
Our Board of Directors

Leading from the top  
to drive robust governance 
and a clear social purpose.

At 21 March 2024, the Board comprises  
the Chair of the Group Board, Group Chief 
Executive Officer, the Group Chief Financial 
Officer, one abrdn plc Nominated Director,  
one MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. 
(‘MS&AD’) Nominated Director and eight 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. 

2023 Board changes
• Mark Gregory was appointed 
to the Board on 1 April 2023
•  Stephanie Bruce retired from 
the Board on 11 May 2023
• David Scott was appointed 

to the Board on 11 May 2023 
•   Kory Sorenson retired from 
the Board on 30 June 2023

• Nicholas Lyons was re-appointed 
to the Board on 1 December 2023

• Eleanor Bucks was appointed 

to the Board on 1 December 2023 

•  Alastair Barbour retired from 

the Board on 31 December 2023

Committee membership key

A   Audit

N   Nomination 

Re   Remuneration

Ri   Risk

S   Sustainability

Andy Briggs, MBE
Group Chief  
Executive Officer (‘CEO’)

Appointed: 10 February 2020

Career and experience 
Andy joined Phoenix Group in 2020 
with over 30 years of experience in  
the insurance industry. He has held 
senior executive roles across multiple 
business areas in the industry including 
CEO of UK Insurance and Global  
Life and Health at Aviva plc; CEO  
of Friends Life Group Limited; 
Managing Director of Scottish Widows; 
CEO of the Retirement Income Division 
at Prudential plc and Chair of the 
Association of British Insurers (‘ABI’). 
Andy is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Actuaries and also acts as the UK 
Government’s Business Champion  
for Older Workers.

Key skills and competencies
• Sound executive leadership and a 
considered approach to strategy, 
demonstrated through continued 
delivery of Phoenix Group’s 
operating model, delivering strategic 
growth through the acquisition of 
SLF of Canada UK Limited. Andy has 
a strong history of high-profile M&A 
work in his previous roles. 

• Broad knowledge of the global 
insurance industry which helps 
inform views on long-term 
strategic direction. 

•  Proactive approach to understanding 
stakeholder priorities, which closely 
aligns to Phoenix Group’s core 
social purpose and strategy, 
including work on developing 
initiatives such as Midlife MOT, 
financial and digital inclusion. 

Current external appointments 
Board member of the ABI and 
the UK Government’s Business 
Champion for Older Workers. 

Nicholas Lyons 
Chair of the Group Board 

Appointed: 1 September 2018  
to 1 September 2022, re-appointed  
on 1 December 2023

Committee:  N
Chair of the Nomination Committee

Career and experience 
Nicholas has wide-ranging experience 
across the financial services industry, 
both in executive and non-executive 
roles. He started his career in banking 
at Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York UK (later JP Morgan LLP), 
where he held various roles including 
Assistant Vice President of Equity 
Capital Markets, he later moved to 
Lehman Brothers International Limited 
where he was Global Co-Head of 
Recruitment, Training and Career 
Development and Managing Director 
of the Financial Institutions Group. 
Nicholas has extensive Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’) experience, including 
Chair of Miller Insurance Services 
LLP, Senior Independent Director of 
Pension Insurance Corporation plc 
and Catlin Group Limited and NED of 
Friends Life Group Limited and Convex 
Group Limited. Nicholas is a member 
of the Chartered Insurance Institute. 

Having taken a sabbatical to complete  
a year long term as Lord Mayor of  
the City of London, Nicholas returned 
to his role as Group Chair of the 
Board on 1 December 2023.

Key skills and competencies
•

  Seasoned business leader with 
experience and understanding 
of insurance and the financial 
services industry, including the 
regulatory environment. 

• Strong communicator, bringing a 
sharp focus to people leadership, 
succession planning and development.

• Experience in the governance of 
large-scale business operations, 
leading mergers and acquisitions 
and managing complex projects 
which are skills key to the fulfilment 
of Phoenix Group’s vision and purpose 
supporting his role as an experienced 
Chair of the Group Board. 

Current external appointments
NED at Miller Insurance Services 
LLP and Convex Group Limited and 
Alderman in the City of London.

Rakesh Thakrar
Group Chief
Financial Officer (‘CFO’)

Karen Green
Senior Independent
Director (‘SID’)

Eleanor Bucks
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’) 

Mark Gregory 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’) 

Appointed: 15 May 2020

Appointed: 1 July 2017

Appointed: 1 December 2023

Appointed: 1 April 2023 

Committee:  N   Re   S
Chair of the Sustainability Committee

Committee:  A   Ri

Career and experience 
Rakesh joined Phoenix Group in  
2001 and has been Group CFO since 
2020. He held several finance and 
strategy-related roles and was Deputy 
Group CFO for six years prior to being 
appointed as Group CFO. Rakesh is  
a Non-Executive Director (‘NED’),  
Chair of the Audit Committee and 
member of the Risk Committee of  
Bupa Insurance Limited. He is an 
Associate of the Chartered Institute  
of Management Accountants and the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.

Key skills and competencies
•

  Detailed knowledge of financial 
markets as leader of Phoenix Group’s 
financial strategy, which supports 
achievement of strong financial 
results in line with the financial 
framework of Cash, Capital 
and Earnings. 

• Experienced in directing and 

delivering significant corporate
projects and major transactions 
which drives delivery of 
Phoenix Group’s strategy. 

• Focused on people development 
to support culture, capabilities for 
future growth and a diverse pipeline 
of talent as sponsor of social mobility 
within the organisation. 

Current external appointments 
NED, Chair of the Audit Committee  
and member of the Risk Committee  
of Bupa Insurance Limited and the 
service company Bupa Insurance 
Services Limited. 

Career and experience 
Mark has 25 years of experience in 
the financial services industry. Most 
recently, Mark was CEO of Merian 
Global Investors Limited (‘Merian’). 
Preceding this, he held roles at Legal  
& General Group plc including:  
Group CFO, CEO of Savings and 
Managing Director of With Profits, 
at Asda Limited as the Divisional 
Director for Finance and the Business 
Development Director and at Kingfisher 
plc as a Senior Financial Analyst. His 
NED experience consists of roles as 
NED and Chair of the Risk Committee 
at Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
and NED at Entain plc and Merian.

Key skills and competencies
•

 A wealth of executive finance 
experience and acumen and a 
deep knowledge of the insurance 
industry, particularly life and general 
insurance, which contribute to 
his effectiveness as a member 
of the Risk and Audit Committees. 
• Highly qualified to appraise strategy 

development and execution, 
having led corporate projects and 
transactions with added appreciation
of the retail sector and customer 
service activity. 

Current external appointments 
NED and Chair of the Risk Committee  
at Direct Line Insurance Group plc, 
NED of Churchill Insurance Company 
Limited, UK Insurance Limited  
and Westdown Park Management 
Company Limited.  

Career and experience 
Karen has significant financial  
services experience. She has held  
a number of senior executive roles 
including Chief Executive Officer of 
Aspen UK (comprising the principal 
insurance and reinsurance companies 
of the Aspen Insurance Holdings), 
Principal of MMC Capital Ltd  
(now Stonepoint Capital LLC) and 
Director of Corporate Development  
of GE Capital Europe Ltd. Karen has 
significant NED experience, including 
as Chair of the Audit Committee at 
Admiral Insurance Group plc, a former 
Council member and Chair of the 
Investment Committee at Lloyd’s of 
London, NED at Great Portland Estates 
plc and Risk and Audit Committee 
Chairs at Miller Insurance Services LLP.

Career and experience 
Since 2021, Eleanor has been  
Chief Investment Officer of Lloyd’s  
of London. Prior to this, she was at  
Legal & General plc holding several 
roles including: Chief Operating 
Officer of Legal & General Capital, 
Managing Director of Direct 
Investments and Real Assets and  
Chief Investment Officer of Legal  
& General Retirement. Eleanor  
serves as Chair on the suite of Lloyd’s 
Investment Platform funds and has  
held executive directorships as  
Chair of Legal & General Investment 
Management Alternative Investment 
Fund Manager and Director of Legal  
& General’s Single-Family Build-to-Rent 
business. Eleanor is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Actuaries. 

Key skills and competencies
• Deep knowledge of the insurance 
industry which supports oversight 
of Phoenix Group’s activity, aligned 
with market expectations and 
stakeholder needs. 

Key skills and competencies
•

 Seasoned investment professional, 
experienced in leading high-
performing investment teams and 
setting investment strategy for 
both insurance and pension funds. 

•  A strong background in strategic 

• Deep understanding of the life 

insurance sector and the investment 
approaches that underpin those 
businesses, which brings an external 
perspective and supports the 
delivery of robust, constructive 
challenge and guidance during 
Board discussions. 

Current external appointment
Chief Investment Officer 
of Lloyd’s of London.

planning and corporate development 
including M&A which complements 
the development of Phoenix Group’s 
growth strategy and facilitates informed 
oversight and constructive challenge. 
• Engagement in ESG which supports 
her role as Chair of the Sustainability 
Committee. 

•  Significant leadership experience 

and understanding of Phoenix Group
allowing the provision of support to 
the Chair of the Group Board and the 
Board as a whole as SID. 

Current external appointments 
NED and Chair of the Audit Committee 
at Admiral Group plc, Supervisory 
Board member and Chair of the 
Audit Committee of TMF Group 
BV, NED and Chair of the Audit and 
Risk Committees at Miller Insurance 
Services LLP, NED and Chair of the 
Risk Committee at Asta Managing 
Agency Limited, NED at Great Portland 
Estates plc, Adviser at Cytora Limited 
and Trustee of Wellbeing of Women.

64

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

65

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceBoard leadership and Company purpose continued
Our Board of Directors

Hiroyuki Iioka 
Non-Executive  
Director (‘NED’) 

Katie Murray 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’)

John Pollock
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’)

Belinda Richards
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’) 

David Scott
Non-Executive Director 
(‘NED’)

Maggie Semple, OBE 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’)

Nicholas Shott
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (‘NED’)

Appointed: 23 July 2020

Appointed: 1 April 2022 

Appointed: 1 September 2016 

Appointed: 1 October 2017 

Appointed: 11 May 2023 

Appointed: 1 June 2022 

Appointed: 1 September 2016 

Shareholder Nominated Director

Committee:  A   N
Chair of the Audit Committee

Committee:  A   N   Ri
Chair of the Risk Committee

Committee:  Re   Ri

Shareholder Nominated Director

Committee:  Re   Ri   S
Designated NED for  
Workforce Engagement

Committee:  A   N   Re   S
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Career and experience 
Hiroyuki is the appointed representative 
of one of Phoenix Group’s major 
shareholders, MS&AD Insurance  
Group Holdings, Inc (‘MS&AD’).  
He has over 35 years of experience  
and is currently Senior General 
Manager for the International Business 
Planning Department at MS&AD.  
His previous roles include General 
Manager for the Asian Life Insurance 
Business Department at Mitsui 
Sumitomo Insurance Company Limited 
(Japan) and Assistant General Manager 
for MSIG Holdings (Europe) Limited. 
Hiroyuki’s NED experience includes 
roles as NED of ReAssure Group plc, 
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (London 
Management) Limited and an Alternate 
NED of Challenger Limited (Australia). 
Hiroyuki is a Chartered Member of  
the Securities Analysts Association  
of Japan and Certified International 
Investment Analysts. 

Key skills and competencies
•

  Commercial business leader, 
providing an international business 
perspective, with strong global 
insurance and financial services 
industry experience. 
• Responsible for general 

management, including managing 
efficient and effective operations 
and business development within 
the financial services industry. 

Current external appointments 
Senior General Manager of 
International Business Planning 
Department for MS&AD Insurance 
Group Holdings, Inc. and Alternate 
NED of Challenger Limited, listed 
on the Australian Stock Exchange.

Career and experience 
Katie has over 30 years of experience 
gained across the financial services 
industry and is currently Group Chief 
Financial Officer (‘CFO’) of NatWest 
Group plc, having also acted as Deputy 
Group CFO. Prior to this, Katie spent  
a number of years at Old Mutual plc, 
where she held various senior executive 
roles including Group Finance Director 
of Old Mutual Emerging Markets, 
Director of Finance – Group Chief 
Accountant and Head of Group 
Planning and Analysis. She was also  
a Senior Audit Manager at KPMG LLP. 
Katie is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in Scotland. 

Key skills and competencies
• Vast financial services experience 
meaning that she is well placed 
to provide valuable and technical 
input in both Board discussions 
and in her capacity as Chair 
of the Audit Committee.

• Current business leader with recent 
and relevant financial experience 
and deep understanding of 
industry complexities. 

• Valuable knowledge and executive 
director experience within global 
financial services organisations. 

• Plays an active role in the 

development and reporting 
of climate reporting across the 
financial services sector. 

Current external appointment 
Group Chief Financial Officer 
of NatWest Group plc.

Career and experience 
Belinda has extensive financial services 
and strategy experience from a 30-year 
career. She was Senior Partner and 
Global Head of Merger Integration 
and Separation Advisory Services at 
Deloitte LLP. Prior to this, Belinda was 
Vice President of Post-Acquisition 
Integration and Separation Services 
at Ernst & Young LLP and Principal 
of Corporate Finance and Strategic 
Advisory Services at KPMG LLP.  
Her NED experience includes roles  
as NED and Chair of the Audit 
Committee of Avast plc and William 
Morrison Supermarkets plc, SID 
of Grainger plc and NED of Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited and 
Friends Life Group Limited. 

Key skills and competencies
• Highly qualified to appraise 

corporate growth opportunities, 
integration processes and the 
post-acquisition environment 
allowing the provision of robust 
challenge and guidance in relation 
to Phoenix Group’s strategy.
• Extensive leadership experience 

and technical perspective 
enabling contribution to Risk 
and Remuneration Committee 
discussions and debate. 

Current external appointments 
NED at The Monks Investment Trust 
plc, NED and Chair of the Audit 
Committee at Schroder Japan Trust 
plc, SID and Chair of the Sustainability 
and Governance Committee 
of Olam Food Ingredients.

Career and experience 
John has vast financial services 
experience from a career of over  
35 years at Legal & General Group plc 
(‘L&G’), most recently as CEO of  
Legal & General Assurance Society. 
John’s previous positions at L&G 
include CEO of Protection & Annuities, 
Group Executive Director of Product  
& Corporate and Director of UK 
Operations. His NED experience 
includes roles as Chair of Cofunds 
Limited and Suffolk Life Limited and 
NED of Cala Group (Holdings) Limited. 
John has also acted as Deputy Chair  
of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’) Practitioner Panel, Life 
Insurance Member of the Financial 
Ombudsmen Service Industry Panel 
and has been a member of the Life 
Insurance Committee of the Association 
of British Insurers. John is a Fellow of 
the Royal Geographical Society.

Key skills and competencies
 Extensive UK and European 
•
insurance and financial services 
experience which enhances Board 
understanding of related issues and 
trends applicable to Phoenix Group’s 
operations and strategy. 

•  Proven track record of establishing
and delivering strategy whilst 
managing risk appetite and 
compliance within a regulated 
marketplace, which contributes 
to his ability to effectively chair 
the Risk Committee. 

• Previous business leader with 

expert understanding of the wider 
organisational responsibilities to 
employees and society allowing 
him to provide robust challenge 
on executive decision-making. 

Current external appointments 
None. 

Career and experience 
David is the appointed representative  
of one of Phoenix Group’s major 
shareholders, abrdn plc (‘abrdn’).  
He has over 35 years of financial 
services experience and is currently 
Chief Enterprise Technology Officer  
at abrdn. His previous roles include 
Chief Security and Resilience Officer 
and Group Digital & IT Strategy  
Director at abrdn, Group Operations  
& IT Director at Bankhall Investment 
Management and Head of IT at Aegon 
Asset Management UK. David’s NED 
experience includes roles as NED  
of Origo Services plc and Chair of  
the University of St Andrews Students 
Association. He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Directors, a Full Professional 
Member of the British Computer 
Society, and a Chartered IT Professional. 

Key skills and competencies
• Expert understanding of the current 
and future role of technology across 
the financial services industry, 
and the impact of disruptive trends 
and resultant transformation. 
• Knowledge of leading and driving 
enterprise technology strategies 
and operating models, innovating 
and digitising for the future, which 
is invaluable to Phoenix Group’s 
aim of organic growth.

• Understanding of operations, 
strategic development and 
implementation and customer 
experience which relates closely 
to Phoenix Group’s objectives. 

Current external appointment 
Chief Enterprise Technology 
Officer of abrdn plc.

Career and experience 
Maggie is currently a business owner 
and co-founder of three businesses; 
The Experience Corps, Maggie 
Semple Limited and I-Cubed Group 
Ltd. Prior to this, Maggie acted as 
Director of Learning Experience at the 
New Millennium Experience Co and 
Director of Education and Training for 
the Arts Council England. She began 
her career in education as a teacher 
and later an education inspector and 
has received an OBE for her services 
to learning. Maggie’s NED experience 
includes roles as NED of PwC Business 
Restructuring Services, JN Bank UK 
Limited, McDonald’s Restaurants 
Limited and as an Ambassador of 
the Black British Voices Project. 

Key skills and competencies
•

 A combination of experience and 
passion for sustainability, ethics and 
inclusivity which brings a breadth 
of knowledge across the broad ESG 
agenda and informs development 
of operations and strategy in this area. 

• Brings a strong sense of social 

purpose and depth of perspective 
to Board considerations and 
distinguished stakeholder 
engagement with a highly 
personable style, as is evident 
in her role as Designated NED 
for Workforce Engagement. 

Current external appointments 
NED of JN Bank UK Limited and 
Crest Nicholson Holdings plc; HR 
Committee Member at the University 
of Cambridge; and Ambassador 
of Black British Voices Project.

Career and experience 
Nicholas brings recent and relevant 
financial services experience having 
retired in 2021 from Lazard & Co 
Limited, where he spent over 30 
years. There he held various positions 
including, European Vice Chairman 
and Head of UK Investment Banking. 
In his early years, Nicholas worked 
in the national newspaper sector in 
various management positions such 
as General Manager of the Evening 
Standard and Sunday Express and 
Group Marketing Director of Express 
Newspapers. Nicholas is a Special 
Adviser to the Chair and Board of the 
Daily Mail and General Trust plc and 
has been a NED for the Home Office.

Key skills and competencies
• Extensive M&A experience in 

multiple sectors through investment 
banking, enabling the provision of 
support and insight to the Board. 
He is also Chair of Phoenix Group’s 
M&A Advisory Group. 

• Knowledge of a broad range 
of investor and stakeholder 
perspectives, providing insight that 
enables him to lead well informed 
and productive discussions at the 
Remuneration Committee. 

Current external appointment 
Special Adviser to the Chair and Board 
of the Daily Mail General Trust. 

Our business, led by the Executive 
Committee (‘ExCo’). 

The Executive Management of the 
Group is led by the Group CEO,  
who is supported by the ExCo. 
During 2023, ExCo played a key role 
in driving Phoenix Group’s year of 
significant progress, striving to help 
people secure a life of possibilities. 
The roles and responsibilities of 
each member of ExCo can be 
found on the Company’s website.

Andy Briggs 
Group Chief Executive Officer

Rakesh Thakrar 
Group Chief Financial Officer

Andy Curran 
Chief Executive, Savings and 
Retirement, UK and Europe

Mike Eakins 
Group Chief Investment Officer

Anna Franekova 
Corporate Development Director

Claire Hawkins 
Corporate Affairs and Investor 
Relations Director

Brid Meaney 
Chief Executive, Heritage Division

Jackie Noakes 
Chief Operating Officer

Jonathan Pears 
Group Chief Risk Officer

Sara Thompson 
Group HR Director

Quentin Zentner 
General Counsel

Kulbinder Dosanjh 
Group Company Secretary 
(Secretary to ExCo)

66

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

67

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceBoard leadership and Company purpose continued
Compliance during 2023 with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 
(the ‘2018 Code’).

The Board continues to robustly assess its compliance with the 2018 Code. The Group Company Secretary has supported a full review  
of compliance since her appointment in 2022 and has identified areas for enhancement against the provisions.

Areas for enhancement

Provision or principle

Action currently undertaken 

Enhancement for 2024

L. Annual evaluation of the Board should consider 
its composition, diversity and how effectively 
members work together to achieve objectives. 
Individual evaluation should demonstrate whether
each director continues to contribute effectively. 

41. There should be a description of the work of 
the Remuneration Committee in the Annual Report, 
including: what engagement with the workforce has 
taken place to explain how executive remuneration 
aligns with wider company pay policy.

Individual formal evaluation was included as part  
of the 2023 effectiveness review, but this was less 
formal in previous years.

Individual evaluation will continue to form part of the  
formal internal effectiveness reviews from 2024 onwards.

The Company provided an intranet announcement  
to the wider workforce on how executive 
remuneration aligns with the wider workforce  
pay policy following the approval of the 2023 
Directors’ Remuneration policy at the AGM on  
4 May 2023. It outlined the changes to the policy 
and how Directors’ remuneration as a whole  
aligned with the wider workforce. 

Following a Board education session on 2 October 2023,  
it was decided that Maggie Semple would become a member 
of the Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2024. This 
would allow her to discuss the alignment of Directors’ pay 
with the wider workforce and when appropriate get input 
from the wider workforce on any changes to the Directors’ 
Remuneration policy or remuneration outcomes in her role 
as Designated NED for Workforce Engagement and her 
work with the PCRF.

Division of responsibilities 
Division of responsibilities on the Board

Clear roles and responsibilities to drive 
forward our purpose and strategy

The Directors understand their role as 
individuals, and as a collective, to ensure 
the long-term success of the Company and 
achievement of Phoenix Group’s purpose.
The Board ensures the appropriate 
division of responsibilities on the Board. 

The Board ensures that there is no existence 
of unfettered power nor over-reliance 
on any one person. The independence 
of Directors not only supports good 
governance, but also facilitates diversity 
of thought and inclusion on the Board. 

The Board considers all NEDs to 
be independent, except for the 
Shareholder Nominated Directors 
and the Chair of the Group Board.

Chair of the Group Board

Group Chief Executive Officer

Senior Independent Director

Nicholas Lyons is the Chair of the Group  
Board (‘Chair’).

Andy Briggs is the Group Chief Executive 
Officer (‘CEO’).

Karen Green is the Senior Independent Director 
(‘SID’) of the Board.

The Chair is responsible for:

The CEO is responsible for:

The SID is responsible for:

The 2018 Code continues to be upheld through the work of the Board and its Committees, which includes application of the 2018 Code’s 
principles. The below table confirms where disclosures to evidence this approach are located:

• the leadership and effective operation 

• overall management and operation of the Group 

of the Board;

within the limits delegated by the Board; and

• chairing, and overseeing the performance 

• operational matters relating to: 

Board leadership and Company purpose

Composition, succession and evaluation

Our Board of Directors 
Principle A 

Our governance framework
Principle C Provision 1 (see also Audit Committee report  
on pages 92 to 99 and Risk Committee report on pages  
100 to 103)

Conflicts of interest
Provision 7

Monitoring our culture
Principle B Provision 2 (see also Directors’ Remuneration 
report on pages 113 to 114)

Stakeholder engagement
Principle D and E
Provision 3 see Section 172 Statement on page 74.
Provision 5 see Section 172 Statement on page 74  
(see also Sustainability Committee report on page 104  
and Workforce engagement on pages 108 to 110)

pages 64 to 67

page 71

page 70

page 107

pages 74 to 77

Whistleblowing arrangements 
Provision 6 (see also Board Activities on page 73  
and Audit Committee report on pages 92 to 99)

page 97

Division of responsibilities

Division of responsibilities on the Board
Principles F and G and Provisions 9, 10, 12 and 14  
(see also Our Board of Directors on pages 64 to 67)
Provision 11 (see also Board diversity on page 85) 

2023 Board and Committee meeting attendance
Principle H Provision 13 

Board support
Principle I; Provisions 8 and 16

Board member appointment terms
Provision 15 (see also Directors’ report on page 142)

page 69

page 72

page 71

page 87

Nomination Committee report
Principles J, K and L Provisions 17, 18, 19, 20 to 23  
(see also Non-financial information statement on page 40  
of the Strategic report for information on gender balance  
of those in Senior Management and their direct reports)

pages 82 to 87

Audit, risk and internal control

Audit Committee report
Principles M and N Provisions 24, 25, 26 and 29 Provisions 27 
and 30 (see also Directors’ report on pages 141 to 146  
and Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 147)
Provision 31 (see also Directors’ report on pages 141 to 146 
and the Group’s Viability statement on pages 58 to 59 of the 
Strategic report)

Risk Committee report
Principle O Provisions 28 and 29 (see also Principal risks  
and uncertainties faced by the Group on pages 50 to 57  
of the Strategic report)

pages 92 to 99

pages 100 to 103

Remuneration

Directors’ Remuneration report
Provisions 34 to 39 and Principles P, Q and R 
Provisions 32, 33, 40 and 41 (see also Remuneration 
Committee Chair’s letter on pages 113 and 114 and 
Remuneration Committee governance and activities  
on pages 111 and 112) 

pages 111 to 140

of the role of the governing body of the firm;
• leading the development of and monitoring 
the effective implementation of policies 
and procedures for the induction, training 
and professional development of all members 
of the firm’s governing body;

• leading the development of the firm’s 
culture by the governing body; and

• ensuring an orderly succession process for 
the Group CEO and the Board as a whole.

The Chair’s external commitments are set out  
on page 87 within this report.

– business strategy and management;
– 
investment and financing;
– risk management and controls;
–  regulation;
–  communication; and
–  HR policies.

The CEO’s external commitments are set out  
on page 87 within this report.

• being available to shareholders whose concerns 
are not resolved through the normal channels 
or when such channels are inappropriate;
• leading the annual appraisal of the Chair’s 

performance by the NEDs;

• acting as the sounding board for the Chair;
• serving as an intermediary between the Chair 

and the other Directors as necessary; and

• ensuring an orderly succession process 

for the Chair.

The SID’s external commitments are set out  
on page 87 within this report.

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Workforce Engagement

Shareholder Nominated Directors

The Board considers the following NEDs  
to be independent:

Maggie Semple is the Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement.

• Eleanor Bucks
• Karen Green
• Mark Gregory
• Katie Murray
• John Pollock
• Belinda Richards
• Maggie Semple
• Nicholas Shott

As at 21 March 2024, 62% of the Board are 
considered to be independent. The Board uses  
the independence criteria as set out in the 2018 
Code to assess and confirm independence.

The Designated NED for Workforce Engagement  
is responsible for:

•  acting as the primary Board contact in facilitating 

and developing communication between 
colleagues across the Group and the Board;
• providing the Employee Voice to the Board 

by raising relevant matters, or issues of 
concern, highlighted by engagement with 
the workforce; and

• challenging the Executive Directors, as needed, 
as to the way in which workforce engagement 
is undertaken and steps taken to address 
workforce concerns.

Hiroyuki Iioka and David Scott are Shareholder 
Nominated Directors. Hiroyuki Iioka is appointed  
to the Board on behalf of MS&AD and David Scott  
is appointed to the Board on behalf of abrdn.

In accordance with the Phoenix Group acquisition 
of ReAssure from Swiss Re in July 2020, MS&AD 
was entitled to appoint a representative NED to the 
Phoenix Group Board. A relationship agreement 
between Phoenix Group and abrdn includes the 
right for abrdn to appoint a representative NED, 
provided abrdn continues to hold 10% or more  
of Phoenix Group’s shares.

Full descriptions of the roles and responsibilities  
of the Chair, CEO, SID and Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement are available on the 
Company’s website.

68

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

69

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDivision of responsibilities continued
Division of responsibilities on the Board

Independence
During the year, the Nomination Committee 
assessed the independence of the NEDs to 
ensure that they are able to properly fulfil their 
roles on the Board and provide constructive 
challenge to the Executive Directors. 

The independence criteria set out in the 
2018 Code was taken into account as part  
of the selection process for Mark Gregory 
and Eleanor Bucks who joined Phoenix 
Group during 2023, both of whom were 
considered to be independent.

During 2023, the Committee determined 
that all NEDs were free from any relationship 
or circumstances that could affect, or appear 
to affect, their independent judgement.  
In line with the 2018 Code, over half of  
our Board members, excluding the Chair,  
are independent NEDs. The Shareholder 
Nominated Directors, Hiroyuki Iioka and 
David Scott, do not meet the independence 
criteria under the 2018 Code. The Chair  
of the Group Board, Nicholas Lyons,  
is not considered to be independent on  
his re-appointment, having previously  
held the role from 2018 to 2022 before  
his sabbatical but was independent on  
his original appointment. 

Conflicts of interest
A register of conflicts of interest is 
maintained by the Group Company 
Secretary. Each Director has a duty under 
the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation 
in which they have or may have a direct 
or indirect interest that conflicts or might 
conflict with the interests of the Company. 

If any Director becomes aware of any 
situation which might give rise to a conflict  
of interest, they must, and do, inform the  
rest of the Board immediately and the Board  
is then permitted under the Company’s 
Articles of Association to authorise such 
conflict. This information is then recorded  
in the Company’s Register of Conflicts, 
together with the date on which authorisation 
was given. In addition, each Director certifies 
on an annual basis that the information 
contained in the Register of Conflicts  
is correct and completes an annual 
questionnaire to ensure any conflict  
of interest has been disclosed.

When the Board decides whether or not to 
authorise a conflict, only the Directors who 
have no interest in the matter are permitted 
to participate in the discussion and a conflict 
is only authorised if the Board believes 
that it would not have an impact on the 
Board’s ability to promote the success of 
the Company in the long-term. Additionally, 
the Board may determine that certain 
limits or conditions must be imposed when 
giving authorisation. At 31 December 2023, 
no actual conflicts have been identified 
which have required approval by the Board. 
However, the situations that could potentially 
give rise to a conflict of interest have been 
identified and duly authorised by the Board 
and are reviewed at least on an annual basis. 
Due care and process is, of course, applied in 
respect of the two Shareholder Nominated 
Directors for abrdn and MS&AD and when 
the Group CEO and Group CFO declare 
any conflict relating to their appointments 
on subsidiary boards of the Phoenix Group.

Outside directorships
Executive Directors are encouraged to  
serve as NEDs of external companies, 
dependent upon time commitment in 
accordance with the 2018 Code. Andy 
Briggs is a board member of the Association 
of British Insurers and is the UK Government’s 
Business Champion for Older Workers. 
Rakesh Thakrar is a NED, Chair of the 
Audit Committee and member of the Risk 
Committee of Bupa Insurance Services 
Limited and Bupa Insurance Limited. 

Re-appointment of Directors
In accordance with the 2018 Code,  
all Directors offer themselves individually  
to shareholders for initial election or 
re-election annually, unless retiring 
immediately following the AGM. 

Independent advice
All Directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Group Company 
Secretary in relation to the discharge  
of their duties on the Board and any 
committees they serve on. Furthermore,  
any Directors may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s 
expense. During the year, no Directors  
sought to do so. The Company arranges 
appropriate insurance cover in respect 
of legal actions against its Directors 
and has also entered into indemnities 
with its Directors as described in the 
Directors’ report on page 142.

Andy Briggs is a board member of  
the Association of British Insurers  
and is the UK Government’s Business 
Champion for Older Workers.

Our governance framework

The Board provides strong challenge to Management through a robust governance framework enabling cohesion of our purpose, 
strategy, values and culture. We maintain high standards of corporate governance to enable the successful delivery of our strategy. 
Our governance framework ensures that the Board is effective in both making decisions and maintaining oversight of those Committees  
it delegates to. Each Committee reports into the Board at the end of each Board meeting cycle. 

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Board

Chair of the Group Board, Nicholas Lyons

The Board’s role is to provide leadership, promoting the long-term sustainable success of the Company,
generating value for shareholders and positively contributing to wider society, within a framework of prudent
and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.

Matters Reserved for the Board can be found at: www.thephoenixgroup.com

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
M
d
n
a
s
e
e
t
t
i

l

m
m
o
C
o
t
n
o
i
t
a
g
e
e
d
d
n
a
t
h
g
i
s
r
e
v
o
d
r
a
o
B

Nomination
Committee

Audit
Committee

Chair,
Nicholas Lyons 

Chair,
Katie Murray

Risk
Committee

Chair,
John Pollock

Sustainability
Committee

Chair,
Karen Green

Remuneration
Committee

Chair,
Nicholas Shott

•  Financial 
reporting

•  Internal Controls
•  External Audit
•  Internal Audit
•  Whistleblowing

•  Risk appetite 

and high-level 
risk matters

•  The Group’s Risk 
Management
Framework

•  Board and 

senior executive 
appointments

•  Diversity 

and inclusion

•  Board and 

senior executive 
succession 
planning

•  Sustainability

•  Group 

strategy

•  ESG reporting
•  Culture 

monitoring

remuneration
framework
•  Executive 
Director
remuneration
•  Employee share

schemes

•  Wider workforce
remuneration

See pages 82 to 87

See pages 92 to 99

See pages 100 to 103

See pages 104 to 107

See pages 111 to 114

Terms of Reference for all Committees can be found at: www.thephoenixgroup.com

Phoenix Group Holdings plc ExCo

Chair, Andy Briggs

•  Formulation of objectives 

•  Business division objectives 

•  Operational capacity, resourcing

and strategy

•  Embedding of culture
•  Management development

and succession

and budgets

•  Business performance
•  Recommendation of major

capital expenditure proposals

and priorities monitoring

•  ESG is monitored at Management 
Committee level before the Audit/
Risk/Sustainability Committees 
and ﬁnally the Board

C
o
m
m

i
t
t
e
e
s
a
n
d
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
a
b

i
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
i
n
g

Market Disclosure Committee (‘MDC’)

(Management Committee that reports into the Group CEO)

•  Oversight of the Group’s compliance 

with its disclosure obligations

•  Considering the materiality, accuracy, 
reliability and timelines of information 
to be disclosed to the market.

Board support 
All Board Directors have access to the  
advice and services of the Group Company 
Secretary to support the discharge of  
their duties and on matters of governance. 

The Group Company Secretary supports the 
Chair of the Group Board, ensuring that the 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information. Appropriate policies, processes, 
time and resources are available to the Board 
to ensure its effective and efficient operation.

The Group Company Secretary ensures that 
accurate records of Board and Committee 
meetings are prepared on a timely basis 
enabling unresolved concerns of Directors  
to be duly recorded. No concerns were 
recorded during 2023.

70

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

71

Corporate governanceCorporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Division of responsibilities continued 
2023 Board and Committee meeting attendance

The Board met formally seven times during 
2023, including a two-day strategy setting 
meeting. The Board met additionally for 
regular briefing meetings to continue 
to monitor the volatile macro-economic 
environment and oversight of the Group’s 
strategic objectives. The Board continued 
with the briefing calls that were set up 
during the pandemic as they serve as a 
valuable bridge outside of formal Board 
meetings and often facilitate education 

sessions. Additional meetings have also 
been held in respect of M&A activity.
The NEDs met with the Chair of the  
Group Board on at least seven occasions 
without Executive Directors present, which 
normally take place at each Board meeting. 

The following Board and Board 
Committee attendance table below 
details all formal Board and Board 
Committee meetings held during 2023. 

Board members are expected to  
attend all formal Board meetings  
with the aim of 100% attendance. 

The Nomination Committee has confirmed 
its satisfaction with the time and commitment 
given to the Phoenix Group Board and 
its Committees by all Directors.

Chair

Nicholas Lyons2

Alastair Barbour3

Executive Directors

Andy Briggs (Group CEO)

Rakesh Thakrar (Group CFO)

Non-Executive Directors 

Karen Green4

Stephanie Bruce5

Eleanor Bucks6

Mark Gregory7

Hiroyuki Iioka

Katie Murray8

John Pollock 

Belinda Richards9

David Scott10

Maggie Semple

Nicholas Shott11

Kory Sorenson12

Board

Audit 
Committee1

Risk 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Sustainability 
Committee

Actual/Max

Actual/Max

Actual/Max

Actual/Max

Actual/Max

Actual/Max

–

7/7

7/7

7/7

7/7

3/3

–

5/5

7/7

7/7

7/7

7/7

4/4

7/7

7/7

4/4

–

–

–

–

8/9

–

–

–

–

9/9

9/9

–

–

–

9/9

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

6/6

–

–

8/8

7/8

–

8/8

–

5/5

–

–

–

–

–

7/7

–

–

–

–

–

–

5/5

7/7

6/6

–

–

–

–

–

–

5/5

–

–

5/5

3/3

–

–

–

–

4/4

7/7

–

–

–

7/7

4/4

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

6/6

6/6

3/3

1  Additional Audit Committee meetings were held due to the introduction of the new accounting standard IFRS 17.
2 
3 

 Nicholas Lyons stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2022 and commenced his sabbatical. He returned as Chair of the Group Board on 1 December 2023.
 Alastair Barbour became Chair of the Group Board on 1 September 2022 and stepped down from the position of Chair of the Group Board and the Nomination Committee on 30 November 2023. 
Alastair Barbour then retired from the Board on 31 December 2023.

4  Karen Green was unable to attend a joint Audit and Risk Committee meeting due to attending a funeral. 
5  Stephanie Bruce retired from the Board on 11 May 2023.
6  Eleanor Bucks was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2023.
7  Mark Gregory was appointed as a Director and became a member of the Risk Committee on 1 April 2023.
8  Katie Murray became a member of the Nomination Committee on 29 June 2023.
9  Belinda Richards was unable to attend a joint Audit and Risk Committee meeting due to attending a funeral. 
10  David Scott was appointed as a Director on 11 May 2023.
11  Nicholas Shott became Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 4 May 2023.
12  Kory Sorenson retired from the Board on 30 June 2023.

Board activities

Purpose, values and strategy

Sustainability

Financial management and performance

Approval of Annual Operating Plan 2023. 

Approval of new and reviewed policies: 

• Board Diversity policy; 
• Voting policy and strategy;
• Market Abuse Disclosure policy; and 
• Share Dealing Code. 

Approval of Phoenix Group’s 2023  
sustainability strategy. 

Monitoring of Phoenix Group’s solvency  
and liquidity positions.

Monitoring progress against Phoenix Group’s 
sustainability agenda and strategy.

Monitoring of capital resilience, financial 
performance and growth of Phoenix Group. 

Approval of Phoenix Group’s 2023 Modern  
Slavery Statement.

Meeting the Sun Life of Canada UK team  
to discuss its strategy.

Approval of the Net Zero Transition Plan published  
on 24 May 2023. 

Two-day strategy meeting in June 2023.

Oversight of the transformation agenda.

Oversight of Phoenix Asset Management. 

Oversight of Phoenix Group’s progress against  
the Stewardship Code. 

Receiving and considering regular updates from  
the Board Sustainability Committee. 

Monitoring of internal perception of culture and 
alignment with the Phoenix Group’s purpose and values. 

Update on Mansion House Compact. 

Update from Phoenix Re, Bermuda. 

Workforce policies and culture oversight 

Stakeholder engagement

Approval of the Group’s Human Rights policy.

Monitoring of customer service, operational 
resilience and colleague wellbeing. 

Approval of Phoenix Group’s dividend policy.

Recommendation of the 2022 Final dividend  
and 2023 Interim dividend. 

Approval of Phoenix Group’s funding  
and capital strategy. 

Approval of the Group’s tax strategy. 

People strategy, diversity,  
equity & inclusion (‘DE&I’)  
and succession planning

Monitoring of data collation through the ‘Who We 
Are’ application from which a 2024 DE&I action  
plan was produced spanning: inclusive leadership, 
diversity data and reports, social mobility, race  
and ethnicity and disability and neurodiversity. 

Oversight of people capability requirements  
and management actions to enhance capabilities.

Monitoring of diversity in ExCo -1 (Business 
Leadership) and ExCo -2 (Senior Leadership)  
role hires and challenge to the hiring process.

Approval of Board and Executive Succession Plans.

Monitoring of investor engagement activities, and 
oversight of the year end investor presentation. 

Consideration of investor and media reaction  
to Full Year 2022 and Half Year 2023 results, 
including IFRS 17 results. 

Consideration of investor feedback and analyst 
reports, including investor sentiment and deep  
dive session with the corporate brokers.

Participating in open and honest dialogue with  
all applicable regulators.

Interaction with colleagues, through the PCRF  
and Designated NED for Workforce Engagement 
(see pages 108 to 110 for more detail) and the 
Colleague Interaction Session between the Board 
and colleagues at various stages of their career.

Approval of appointment of Group and material 
subsidiary Board changes.

Reviewing changes to the Executive Management 
and succession planning.

Consultation with major shareholders on the 
Directors’ Remuneration policy.

Corporate governance and reporting 

Simplification of governance continued. 

Monitoring compliance with the 2018 Code. 

Review of corporate governance reforms.

External Board effectiveness review. 

Subsidiary governance oversight.

External reporting including the Annual Report  
and the Sustainability and Climate Reports and the 
Solvency and Financial Condition Report (‘SFCR’).

2023 Annual General Meeting.

Whistleblowing oversight.

Oversight of insights from colleague engagement 
surveys and culture dashboards. 

Monitoring of colleague engagement initiatives.

Regular updates from the Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement.

Risk management and assurance

Climate change stress and scenario testing. 

Monitoring of the Group’s risk culture. 

Approval of Phoenix Group’s risk appetite  
and assessment of the approach to identifying  
and managing emerging risks.

Approval of Principal Risks and  
Uncertainties disclosures.

Monitoring performance against Phoenix Group’s 
operational Risk Management Framework.

Receiving and considering regular updates from  
the Board Audit and Risk Committees.

72

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

73

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceStakeholder engagement 
Stakeholder engagement from the top

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) 
requires each director of a company to act in  
the way they consider, in good faith, would most 
likely promote the success of the company for  
the benefit of its members as a whole.

The Directors have applied Section 172 
of the Act in a manner consistent with the 
Group’s purpose, values and strategic 
priorities, having due regard to the Group’s 
ongoing regulatory responsibilities as a 
financial services operation. To support 
the fulfilment of the Directors’ duties 
outlined above, each paper prepared for 
consideration by the Board contains an 
analysis of the potential impact of proposals 
to be considered by the Board considering 
the factors contained in Section 172.

Page 77 contains examples of key decisions 
of the Board, their alignment to the Group’s 
strategy, how the Board reached its decision 
(including consideration of matters set out 
in Section 172; the interests of stakeholders; 
related risks and opportunities; and 
challenges it faced) and the outcome of 
those considerations. The examples shown 
are provided to demonstrate how the 
Directors of the Company have carried out 
their duties under Section 172 of the Act.

Board discussion and decision-making
During their discussions, the Board provides 
rigorous risk management, assessment and 
challenges Senior Management to ensure 
a decision promotes long-term, sustainable 
success for the Group and that all relevant 
stakeholders have been appropriately 
considered. See page 77 for examples. 

Monitoring
The Board receives regular updates on 
 key actions taken from outcomes. This is 
done through regular reports from Senior 
Management at each Board meeting, and if 
necessary, verbal updates are also provided. 

S.172 Key to decision criteria
A. Likely consequences of any decisions 

in the long-term. 
Interests of the Company’s employees.
B.
C. Need to foster the Company’s business 
relationships with suppliers, customers, 
and others.
Impact of the Company’s operations 
on the community and the environment.
E. Desirability of the Company maintaining 

D.

a reputation for high standards of 
business conduct.

F. Need to act fairly between members 

of the Company.

Setting our culture, values and strategy
The Board sets the strategic direction, 
culture and values for Phoenix Group; 
these are key to how we do business 
and how we achieve our purpose.

Diverse set of skills, knowledge 
and experience
The Phoenix Group Directors collectively 
have a diverse set of skills, knowledge, 
experience and stakeholder expertise  
which assists the Board in making decisions. 
This contributes to their ability to make 
well-informed decisions which, in turn, 
promotes long-term, sustainable success  
for all stakeholders. As part of their induction 
when joining the Group, all Directors  
receive a detailed briefing on their duties  
as a Director.

Board information
At each Board meeting, detailed papers 
from Management are submitted. These 
provide information on the likely long-term 
impacts of decisions on stakeholders and 
how they have been considered during 
the discussion process, including any 
engagement with relevant groups. See 
pages 74 to 77 for further information. 
The Board also has an annual schedule 
of ‘Board education’ topics where the 
Board, in collaboration with Senior 
Management, establish key activities that 
will be undertaken during the coming 
year and arrange for Heads of Functions 
to deliver education sessions which feed 
into the decision-making process. 

Key stakeholder groups

Customers

A, C, D, E, F

Suppliers

A, C, D, E

Understanding our customers and their requirements is 
core to our purpose and strategic priorities. By listening 
to their needs and what matters most, the Group can 
improve our services. The Group continually strives  
to develop and refresh the product offering to assist 
customers in making the most of their retirement. 

The Board acknowledges its responsibility and duty 
to ensure the success of the business for all customers.

Suppliers are important to Phoenix Group’s success as 
they provide operational support, working in partnership 
with us, so that we can achieve our strategic priorities 
including the delivery of services to our customers.

Developing and maintaining quality relationships with  
our suppliers, strategic or otherwise, is core to Phoenix 
Group fulfilling our ultimate purpose of helping people 
secure a life of possibilities.

Link to strategic priorities

How the Board has engaged with and had oversight of stakeholder views during the year

• Received formal training regarding their 

• Together with the Board Risk Committee monitored 

responsibilities regarding the implementation of 
the new Consumer Duty regulations implemented 
in July 2023 for open book products and July 2024 
for closed books. See page 77 for more details.

• Received regular updates from Management on the 
potential impact any ongoing project may have on 
customer service, with detailed oversight of customer 
service being undertaken by the subsidiary board 
for the Phoenix Life Companies and its committees. 

• Spent time during their annual strategy session 
discussing customer needs and customer desire
for sustainably driven products.

risks related to suppliers, including the potential for poor 
customer service and risks connected with the migration 
of acquired books of business. Such monitoring included
discussions with regulators to ensure clarity of 
Phoenix Group’s focus on positive customer outcomes.
• The Board Risk Committee received updates from the 
Group Chief Risk Officer (‘CRO’) on service levels 
provided by suppliers and considered fulfilment 
of Service Level Agreement terms in the year, 
with detailed oversight of customer service being 
undertaken by the subsidiary board for the Life 
Companies and its committees.

The Board’s role in promoting positive stakeholder relationships

The Board held Management to account throughout  
the year, ensuring due care and attention was given  
to customer outcomes and needs, especially in the 
context of implementing the new regulations required 
for Consumer Duty.

The reward of the Executive Directors include customer 
metrics which they measure against as part of the 
Annual Incentive Plan (‘AIP’).Please see page 120  
of the Directors’ Remuneration report.

The Board, via regular reports from the Board Risk 
Committee, scrutinises the performance of key suppliers 
to ensure Phoenix Group can provide the best customer 
outcomes to deliver its operational and financial targets. 
Ensuring that relationships with suppliers are mutually 
beneficial and progressive is essential to the success  
of both Phoenix Group and our suppliers.

Colleagues

A, B, D, E, F

Phoenix Group takes great pride in being a  
people business and engagement with our 
stakeholders is through its people. Our colleagues 
are, therefore, vital for the Group and to the 
achievement of our strategic priorities and 
long-term success. Their dedication, commitment 
and capabilities are integral to the Group’s success. 

Oversight of our culture, purpose, values and 
colleague initiatives is a core focus for the Board. 
The Board considers colleagues in the widest sense, 
including the Group’s relationships with its pension 
schemes and members who are former colleagues 
as well as members of the Group’s workforce  
who are not employed directly by the Group.

• Members held regular colleague engagement
sessions and met with a range of colleagues, 
listening to their views, ideas and experiences. 
This input was then used to assist the Board 
decision-making process.

• Received updates on colleague wellbeing and 
engagement levels from the regular employee 
surveys completed by colleagues throughout 
the year. 

• Monitored the impact of projects and the Group’s 
change agenda on colleagues, including potential 
areas of stretch on resource. 

• Together with the Board Sustainability Committee 
received updates from the Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement following engagement 
sessions with colleagues, including meetings with 
the PCRF. 

• Additional information on colleague engagement

can be found on pages 108 to 110.

The Board strongly believes in leading by example 
and sets the cultural tone from the top, engaging 
with colleagues (both directly and indirectly) which 
is key to ensuring positive relationships. Two-way 
engagement, via the Designated NED for Workforce 
Engagement and the PCRF, gives colleagues  
a direct link to the Group Board to keep them 
informed on how the Board is driving Group strategy 
while enabling the Board to stay connected to what’s 
important to colleagues and how the decisions it 
makes impact their working lives.

The Board takes its responsibilities seriously in 
promoting positive stakeholder relationships  
and has included People metrics in the reward 
framework for Executive Directors; further details 
on the outcomes against these metrics can be  
found in the Directors’ Remuneration report on 
page 111 to 140. 

Strategic priorities key

Grow

 Optimise

Enhance

74

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

75

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceStakeholder engagement continued
Key stakeholder groups

How the Board considered stakeholders during the year

Community and the environment

Investors

Government, trade bodies and regulators

Consumer Duty

A, C, D, E, F

A, C, D, E, F

A, C, D, E, F

We are working collaboratively to drive a stable investment 
policy that enables us to invest at scale in productive assets 
to support economic growth, levelling up and the climate 
change agenda. This benefits customers and their 
communities in the short and longer term.

Our investors continue to be crucial to the growth and 
achievements of the Group. Phoenix Group is dedicated 
to delivering long-term value to our shareholders and 
intends to provide a dividend that is sustainable and 
grows over time.

Building trust and inspiring confidence through 
community engagement and partnerships is important 
to the Board for the continued good reputation of the 
Group. To achieve this, we are expanding our work on 
nature, by setting out priority areas of focus to drive on 
nature investment opportunities.

The Board is cognisant of the value our investors  
add to safeguarding the Group’s governance through 
monitoring of performance and engagement with  
the Board throughout the year.

Phoenix Group is the UK’s largest long-term savings 
and retirement business and is subject to both 
financial services regulations and to listed entity 
regulation. The way we operate and interact with  
our regulators provides the trust and reassurance 
needed by stakeholders to enable Phoenix Group  
to deliver its purpose. 

The Board recognises the importance of maintaining 
positive relationships with the UK Government, 
trade bodies and regulators to enable the Group  
to communicate the views and concerns of our 
customers and society generally, while providing 
reassurance to customers that Phoenix Group is 
transparent and compliant with all its transactions.

Link to strategic priorities

How the Board reached its decision

Consideration of Section 172 matters 

During the year, the Board considered the steps necessary for the implementation of the new Consumer Duty regulations, which came/will 
come into force in July 2023 for open book products and July 2024 for closed book ones. 

The Board identified customers, colleagues, investors, regulators and community as key stakeholders in the decision-making process. 
Discussions of the potential risks and opportunities for each category of stakeholders were considered throughout the process. 

The Consumer Duty programme had been established within the Life Companies, with the Life Companies Board acting as the key decision-making 
forum for material decisions, as well as overseeing progress to the regulatory deadline in July 2024. As a result, the Life Companies Board and 
Group Board Risk Committee received regular updates on progress, with Rosie Harris, NED on the Life Companies Board, appointed as the 
Group’s NED sponsor for this work. Consumer Duty, however, is a significant programme of work for the Group and the changes introduced  
by the programme had the potential to have a material impact on the Group, and as a flagship initiative by the FCA to enhance standards  
across the industry and increase levels of consumer protection, it was therefore important that the Group Board was appropriately engaged  
in the programme.

While the Life Companies, as the regulated entities, are accountable for the successful delivery of the Consumer Duty programme, there are  
a number of sections where it is appropriate for the Group Board to have oversight to ensure the best outcome for all stakeholders. 

These sections are that the Group Board:
•  approves the overall strategy in pursuit of good customer outcomes, and should be kept informed of key developments;
•

is provided with regular updates to ensure it is satisfied that the Life Companies Board have reviewed and fulfilled their Directors’ duties 
and are meeting the compliance requirements of Consumer Duty;
is made aware of, and provided with all relevant information regarding any matters relating to the Consumer Duty programme which trigger 
the Matters Reserved for the Board; and

How the Board has engaged with and had oversight of stakeholder views during the year

• Together with the Board Sustainability Committee 

• Received feedback from the Chair of the Group Board 

• Received updates at every Board meeting on 

•

received updates on progress against KPIs and targets 
aligned with the Group’s community engagement 
strategy, with relevant highlights reported to the Board. 

• Together with the Board Audit Committee, the Board 

attended a training session on TCFD and climate 
change in relation to the financial statements.
• Received training on the proposed plans for net 

on investor relations roadshow meetings.

• Received regular updates from the Group CEO on 
investor relations activities and feedback/questions 
received from investors.

• Received investor feedback from the Group’s results 

announcements and investor roadshows.

•  Considered key concerns relating to investor messaging

zero transition in advance of the Board being asked 
to approve the plan.

and various investor communication approaches.

• Considered and provided feedback on the contents 

• The Group HR Director provided regular updates 
on colleague engagement activities, initiatives, 
and progress on community-related KPIs which 
can be found in the Sustainability Report at: 
www.thephoenixgroup.com.

of the year end investor presentation.

• Members, including the Chair of the Group Board 
and Non-Executive Directors acting in the capacity 
of Committee Chairs, were available to investors 
for engagement, including to answer questions 
on significant matters related to their areas of 
responsibility. Prior to, and at, the Company’s AGM, 
investors were able to submit questions to be answered 
by each of the above. 

Management’s progress with regulators’ requests 
for information and any feedback received. 

• Formally met with the FCA and Prudential 

Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) during the year 
on a range of issues relating to the impact of 
each regulators’ strategic objectives and routine 
regulatory matters.

• Both the FCA and PRA requested more formal 
meetings with certain Board Directors and 
Senior Managers as part of their respective 
supervisory strategies.

• Continually challenged Management on ensuring 
that Phoenix Group maintains open and honest 
dialogue with the FCA, PRA, Central Bank 
of Ireland, The Pensions Regulator and other 
jurisdictional regulators. 

The Board’s role in promoting positive stakeholder relationships

The Board monitors investor sentiment and feedback 
throughout the year to ensure the Group can respond 
to investor concerns, which is key to the success of 
the Group. 

The Board also ensures that the Group’s strategy and 
purpose are set to ensure the long-term success of the 
business and generation of value for shareholders.

As the Group’s custodian, ensuring robust 
governance, controls and risk management, 
the Board is responsible for holding Management 
to account for the day-to-day compliance with 
regulation and legislation; ensuring transparent 
communication of such compliance to maintain 
trust in Phoenix Group. The SID is also available  
to meet shareholders as she did in 2023.

The Board, through the Board Sustainability Committee, 
has monitored Management’s engagement activities 
with our communities and the environment, ensuring 
that the Group is able to fulfil its purpose and colleagues 
have the opportunity to participate in charitable giving 
and volunteering both within their communities and also 
with environmental projects. It is the Board’s role to hold 
Management to account in maintaining sufficient 
resources needed to support our communities.

Reaching our Net Zero Transition Plan ambitions 
features highly on the Board’s agenda through the 
Sustainability Committee and metrics are included in 
the reward framework. For further details see page 117  
of the Directors’ Remuneration report.

Strategic priorities key

Grow

 Optimise

Enhance

• as Consumer Duty is a material programme for the Group, the Group Board should have oversight of the overall progress of the work and 

assurance that the Group is adhering to the spirit of the rules.

To ensure that it was fully aware of its responsibilities to the Group regarding the Consumer Duty programme, the Group Board undertook  
a formal training sessions arranged by the Group Company Secretary and delivered by the Chief Risk Officer for the Life Companies.

Outcome

Following due consideration of all the matters set out in Section 172 of the Act, the Group Board agreed that it would receive regular updates  
via the Group CEO report, and regular training sessions would be scheduled on material matters as they arose. 

IFRS 17 implementation

How the Board reached its decision

Consideration of Section 172 matters 

During the year, the Board was required to monitor the implementation of the new accounting standard IFRS 17 for insurance contracts issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Boards (‘IASB’). This supports efficient risk management and allows stakeholders to gain important 
insights into the entity’s business model, exposures, and performance. As this was a new accounting standard, the Board dedicated significant 
time to the matter to ensure that regulatory deadlines were met for the successful announcement of the Half Year 2023 results, which would 
have a positive outcome for customers, investors, regulators and colleagues. 

This required the following steps to be taken at meetings held during 2023:
• Consideration of the impact of work required for this project on others within the Group, due to the significant internal resources required 

to ensure delivery. The Board was required to consider other projects in the pipeline and the impact on colleagues to ensure a balanced and 
manageable workload for all.

• Successful execution of the plan would be based on careful management of a number of key operational risks. The risks relating to 

judgements or technical assumptions were considered and Management regularly reported the results of testing through the Transition 
Balance Sheet and Comparatives process.

• Regular updates were received from both the Board Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee to ensure that all steps and risks were 

being carefully monitored and progress was appropriately reported to the Group Board to enable its decision-making process.

• Updates were provided at every meeting throughout the year from Management.

To ensure that it was fully aware of its responsibilities to the Group regarding the implementation of the IFRS 17 standard, the Group Board 
undertook several formal training sessions delivered by the Group CFO and Heritage CEO.

Outcome

Following due consideration of all the matters set out in Section 172 of the Act, the Board announced the Half Year 2023 results in September 
2023. In addition, significant time was spent during Board meetings discussing the project’s progress, receiving frank reports from Management. 
As a result, consideration was given to customers, investors, colleagues, government bodies and regulators, together with the wider market,  
to ensure that suitable triggers were in place to take action based on investor sentiment. 

76

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

77

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceComposition, succession and evaluation
Board review

Following internal Board effectiveness reviews in 2021 and 2022, an external 
Board effectiveness review was facilitated by the Board Reviewer in 2023.  
The Board confirms the external Board Reviewer has no other connection  
with Phoenix Group or individual Directors. Its work is guided by a Code of 
Practice published by the Board Effectiveness Guild of which it is a member.

External Board review process:

1. The format and scope of the review 

were discussed by the Board Reviewer, 
the Chair of the Group Board and the 
Group Company Secretary, the Senior 
Independent Director and the 
Committee Chairs. 

2. The Board Reviewer sent a questionnaire, 
firstly reviewed and approved by the 
Chair of the Group Board and Group 
Company Secretary, to every member 
of the ExCo, Board and the Group 
Company Secretary. 

3. Each member of the ExCo, the NEDs, 
the Chair of the Group Board and 
the Group Company Secretary had 
a confidential interview with the Board 
Reviewer to thoroughly discuss their 
answers to the questionnaire and any 
other topics individuals felt were pertinent.

4. The external Board Reviewer observed 
the meetings held on 2 and 3 October 
2023, which included reviewing the 
Board and Committee papers for 
those meetings. 

5.  Draft reports were circulated to the 
Chair of the Group Board and each 
Committee Chair, noting that the 
October Remuneration Committee 
meeting was an education session. 
These were then individually discussed 
with each Chair. 

6. Observations were presented at 

the November Board and Committee 
meetings by the Board Reviewer. 
Results and potential actions were 
discussed at each Committee meeting. 

7. The Group Company Secretary, or her 
designate, worked with each individual 
Chair of the Committees to finalise 
actions and any potential 2024 education 
sessions. These were then added to 
the 2024 education session calendar. 
Actions were approved at the early 
February 2024 meeting and will be 
monitored by the Board and Committees 
throughout the year. 

Board review
The 2023 Board effectiveness review concluded that the Board is capable, hard-working with a large workload, is reflective and has strong 
360-degree challenge between both Non-Executive Directors and Management. It scored itself as effective, whilst acknowledging there 
was always room for improvement to maintain high performance. The 2023 review by the Board Reviewer concluded that the Board and its 
Committees operated and were chaired effectively. However, the Board Reviewer did identify a few areas for enhancement for the Board 
and these are highlighted below:

Action 1

Action 2

Action 3

Action 4

Management to continue  
to consult with the NED’s in 
preparation of the annual 
strategy session to ensure 
that extensive experience  
of strategy development  
on the Board is leveraged 
appropriately.

The Chair of the Group 
Board, Group Chief 
Executive Officer, Group 
Company Secretary and 
Committee Chairs to ensure 
adequate time is given to 
debate strategic objectives.

The Chair of the Group 
Board to continue to  
provide regular individual 
performance feedback to 
each Director as appropriate 
and at least annually. 

Continued Board focus on  
key material and relevant  
issues with support from the 
Chair of the Group Board. 
To enhance the timeliness 
and succinctness of papers.

Committees’ effectiveness
The Committees’ effectiveness review was 
undertaken as part of the Board review 
process and concluded that they operate 
effectively and Chairs performed strongly. 
All duties set out in the Committees’ Terms of 
References were addressed during the year. 
The areas of enhancement for Committees 
for 2024 are set out in each committee report 
in a similar format to the previous page for ease. 

Individual effectiveness
Executive Directors are evaluated annually  
to ensure they have performed against  
their strategic targets (see page 114 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration report ). The Group 
Company Secretary was appointed on  
1 April 2022 to ensure Phoenix Group’s 
governance is in line with its FTSE 100 peers. 
It has become apparent that compliance with 

Principle L of the 2018 Code could be 
enhanced. Therefore, NEDs will be subject  
to a formal and rigorous individual evaluation 
as part of both internal and external evaluations 
going forward. As part of this process, the 
Board Reviewer appraised each Director’s 
performance, this was reviewed by the  
Chair and then discussed with each Director. 
The Board Reviewer found the Board to be 
effective and individuals specifically provided 
strong support, belief and optimism in the  
Phoenix Group strategy. 

Assessment of the Chair’s performance
Feedback was provided by the Board,  
ExCo and Group Company Secretary on the 
effectiveness of the Chair, who was found to 
be thorough, competent and unhindered by 
the interim nature of his role. He was found  
to be capable of both challenging 

Management whilst also being a critical 
friend when required. Alastair Barbour made 
a seamless transition from Non-Executive 
Director to Chair of the Group Board during 
2023 and back again to provide Nicholas 
Lyons with a diligent handover, providing the 
Board with much confidence. The Board  
has valued Alastair’s challenge, leadership, 
inclusivity and support for all Directors,  
and of course, his historical knowledge. 

The 2022 Board review 
The 2022 Board review was internally facilitated by the then Chair of the Group Board, Alastair Barbour, who was supported by the Group 
Company Secretary. The following progress against actions identified during that review has taken place during 2023:

Action identified

Action taken

Strategic Topics – further deep dives into the Open Business,  
including the existing European business strategy.

Education/Training – determination of the topics to be included  
in 2023 and ensure compliance/regulatory required matters are  
covered in the most efficient manner. 

Colleague Engagement – to enhance colleague engagement for 
Directors working with the Designated NED for Workforce Engagement.

This was an agenda item at the Strategy Day in June. 

An annual education/training plan was agreed on regular training 
sessions for the Board during 2023 and included the Annual Operating 
Plan 2023, various projects, IFRS 17, the customer view, Internal Model, 
Net Zero Transition Plan, as well as mandatory training. 

The Board met colleagues in May and November 2023. The first 
session was with graduates and the second was with female 
colleagues over 50. See pages 108 to 110 for more details. 

Talent and Succession Planning – closer focus as the Group continues  
to build its capabilities and strengthens the succession pipeline. 

A review of talent and succession planning was undertaken twice  
in 2023. A talent grid has been developed for consideration.

Board Information – ongoing improvement in the quality and content  
of information to the Board, building on the progress made in 2022.

The paper template was further enhanced, and the Company 
Secretariat Team provided education sessions to colleagues on  
how to draft good quality papers. 

78

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

79

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceComposition, succession and evaluation continued
Board development

Each year, through its annual performance review, the Board ensures a 
continuous improvement cycle and clear focus on personal and collective 
development through a formal programme of education/deep dive 
sessions. The following education/deep dive sessions were provided to  
the Board during 2023. Board Committees may have specific educational 
or deep dive sessions relevant to the work of each Committee. 

Q1

Q2

Annual Operating Plan (‘AOP’) 23 and expenses
Deep dive focusing on: 
1. planned investment over the next three years 

and expected benefits;

2. Management’s view on the prioritisation of projects 

and planned spend; and 

3. balance sheet focus. 

IFRS 17 
Review of timeline to announce IFRS 17 and Half Year 2023 
results to the market. Providing an update on the progression  
of Full Year 2022, Half Year 2022, Half Year 2023 IFRS 17 results 
and any challenges faced by Management. A planning update 
was also provided. 

Sun Life of Canada
Update on business and governance integration post-acquisition 
including a 2023 timeline. 

Outcome: Day one vision to be provided to the Board.

IFRS 17 programme update
Programme update and deep dive into current end-to-end 
controls for the production of IFRS 17 results. 

Net Zero Transition Plan 
In advance of its May 2023 publication, a deep dive focusing  
on the balance between ESG ambition and any false sense  
of progress. The risks of greenwashing and greenhushing  
were also highlighted to the Board. 

Brand engagement
Focus on digital and the impact of Artificial Intelligence  
(‘AI’) on future engagement with our customers. 

Customer trends
Strategy session on customer views, what is driving  
customers’ behaviours and how these can be embedded  
within Phoenix Group’s strategy. 

Q3

Q4

Group CEO and Group CFO update
Review of current bank loans and facilities, cash generation, 
controls and potential M&A. In addition, a reflection of 
inadvertent consumer exclusion, except for financial crime. 

IFRS 17 
Two further sessions on the programme update for IFRS 17  
and market disclosure considerations. 

Consumer Duty
Deep dive focused on the implementation of Consumer Duty  
at the Life Companies Board ready for regulatory implementation 
in June 2024. 

Outcome: More regular updates to the Phoenix Group Board 
from the Life Companies Board on its role and actions relating  
to Consumer Duty. There had been particular focus on the 
With-Profits Committee as this was a complex area.

Investor Relations 
Investor feedback from brokers on the Half Year 2023 results.

Major Model Change
Understanding of the Major Model Change 2022 changes from  
the previous Major Model Change and the liaison with the PRA. 

Market Abuse Regulations
Refresher training on UK Market Abuse Regulations.  
Including recently implemented systems to monitor share 
dealing, project lists and closed periods for both the asset 
management business and PDMRs and employees dealing  
in Phoenix Group Holdings plc’s shares. 

Internal Model
Review of how the Internal Model supports the  
Risk Management Framework. 

The Board received specific mandatory training: 
• Code of Conduct
• Data Protection 
• Financial Crime

•
•
• Consumer Duty 

Information Security 
Internal Model Validation 

Committee deep dives and education sessions

Committee deep dives and education sessions

Committee deep dives and education sessions

Committee deep dives and education sessions

Joint Audit Committee and Risk Committee
IFRS 17 
Review of governance path, status update and identification of 
the requirement for any further education sessions. Review of 
the Transition (opening) Balance Sheet, IFRS 17 liabilities, key 
judgements, controls and validations required, plus an update 
from the External Auditor, EY LLP (‘EY’), on progress and where 
challenge may be needed. 

Sustainability Committee
Stewardship Code 
Overview of Phoenix Group’s approach to the Stewardship Code. 

Human rights
Teach-in by the business for Social Responsibility.

Remuneration Committee
Benchmarking 
External adviser PwC provided a benchmarking session  
on CEO and CFO pay for the financial services sector.

Sustainability Committee
Phoenix Insights
Update on how the ‘Think Tank’ was focusing on consumers,  
the undersavings crisis, female re-skilling opportunities in the 
workplace and broadening methods of financial education. 

Digital inclusion
Overview of the development and delivery of Phoenix Group’s 
digital inclusion strategy which formed part of the wider 
customer sustainability strategy and ambitions. 

‘Let’s Start Talking’ Campaign
Work undertaken by colleagues to ensure that the Company 
continued to be a purpose-led organisation. 

Outcome: To find a more accurate method of tracking 
engagement with the website.

Sustainability Committee
Climate litigation 
Insight into current trends and how climate change litigation 
was expected to develop over time. Particular focus on human 
rights protection and derivative actions. 

Nature and The Taskforce on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures 
Overview of the science-based foundation for  
understanding nature, and how this was incorporated  
into the TNFD framework’s components. 

Money Mindset
Deep dive into the workplace pension platform  
for Standard Life customers. 

Financial inclusion
Overview of work undertaken to increase financial  
inclusion for all customers, as well as wider society. 

Audit Committee
IFRS 17 disclosure as the publication date approached.

Audit Committee
Disclosure of climate reporting on financial disclosures
Deloitte provided a session on the financial impact of the new 
sustainability and climate change regulations. Feedback on any 
potential gaps with the new regulations in Phoenix Group’s own 
Sustainability Report and appropriate assurance. 

Outcome: A further education session scheduled for Q1 2024 
was identified to review an assurance timeline, for the impact 
climate reporting had upon financial statements. 

Remuneration Committee
Current and potential changes under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2024 (‘the 2024 Code’) and the impact for the Committee 
were provided by PwC, the Committee’s external adviser. 

Consumer Duty was also outlined in relation to remuneration.

Outcome: Maggie Semple to join the Remuneration  
Committee as a member on 1 January 2024 to assist  
the Committee to better understand the voice of the  
wider workforce.

Outcome: The Committee to receive an annual  
wider workforce dashboard at each October  
education session.

80

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

81

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceGender diversity  
will be considered 
when succession 
planning over the 
next two years for 
the appointments 
that the Board  
can influence.

Role of the Committee 
The Committee is responsible for 
considering the size, composition and 
balance of the Board, the retirement  
and appointment of Directors and  
Senior Management, succession planning  
for the Board and Executive Committee  
and monitoring of diversity metrics. It is 
focused on the development of a diverse 
pipeline and making recommendations  
to the Board on these matters. 

Following each meeting, the Chair  
of the Committee provides a summary  
of discussion, outcomes and where  
relevant makes recommendations to  
the Board in line with the Committee’s  
Terms of Reference, which can be  
found at: www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

Composition, succession and evaluation continued
Nomination Committee report

Nicholas Lyons
Nomination Committee Chair

Composition of the Committee
The Board confirms that with the exception of the Chair, all of the members  
of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.

Regular attendees include the Group CEO and Group HR Director. 

Committee meetings and membership
Under the Committee’s Terms of Reference it should meet at least twice a year.  
During 2023 there were seven formal meetings.

Member  
from

2023 meeting  
attendance

2023 %  
attendance

Nicholas Lyons1

Alastair Barbour2

Karen Green 

Katie Murray3 

John Pollock 

Nicholas Shott 

Kory Sorenson4 

1 December 2023

11 May 2016

5 May 2022 

29 June 2023

1 November 2022 

11 May 2017 

2 May 2018 

–

7/7

7/7

4/4

7/7

7/7

4/4

–

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

1 

2 

3 
4 

 Nicholas Lyons stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2022 to commence his sabbatical.  
He returned as Chair of the Group Board on 1 December 2023.
 Alastair Barbour became Chair of the Group Board on 1 September 2022 and stepped down from  
the position of Chair of the Group Board and the Nomination Committee on 30 November 2023.  
Alastair Barbour then retired from the Board on 31 December 2023.
 Katie Murray became a member of the Nomination Committee on 29 June 2023.
 Kory Sorenson retired from the Board on 30 June 2023.

Committee gender

Male 
Female 

60%
40%

7

Number of Committee  
meetings held this year

Overview of the year

Key Committee activities during 2023

Succession planning for the NEDs leading to the appointment of two new NEDs.

The appointment of Mark Gregory with effect from 1 April 2023.

The review of Committee membership and the approval of Katie Murray as a member of the Nomination Committee effective 29 June 2023 
and Nicholas Shott as Chair of the Remuneration Committee effective 4 May 2023. Mark Gregory became a member of the Audit Committee 
and Maggie Semple the Remuneration Committee both with effect from 1 January 2024. 

Monitoring our DE&I targets at Board, Executive Committee and Business Leadership level. 

Appointment of Bvalco Ltd (the external Board Reviewer) to review the performance of the Phoenix Group Board for 2023.

Approve any changes to the Life Companies Board and direct subsidiaries of Phoenix Group Holdings plc.

The appointment of Eleanor Bucks with effect from 1 December 2023.

2024 focus 

Succession planning for the Board, recognising that John Pollock and Nicholas Shott conclude their nine-year terms in 2025.

Continue to consider the succession planning for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members, closely reviewing the talent grid.

Review of the Board Diversity policy and monitor against the Listing Rules, Parker Review and FTSE Women Leaders. 

Committee review
The 2023 effectiveness review was externally 
facilitated by an external Board Reviewer.  
The review concluded that the Committee was 
functioning extremely effectively, there was 
good respect and trust between the Board 
and members, new appointments including the 
interim Chair of the Group Board had been dealt 
with strongly. There was good diversity on the 
Board which was continuously improving and 
new NEDs had commented on the quality of the 
appointment process, particularly at the interview 
stage. However, the Board Reviewer did identify 
a few areas of enhancement by the Committee, 
and these are highlighted to the right:

Action 1

Action 2

Continued focus on the 
executive succession plan  
and talent grid.

Review the Committee 
memberships on an  
ongoing basis to ensure  
skills and experience are  
being utilised effectively.

82

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

83

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceComposition, succession and evaluation continued
Nomination Committee report

Outcomes from Nomination Committee discussions
On an annual basis, a review of the Committee’s activities is undertaken. In 2023, it was concluded that all elements of responsibility detailed  
in the Committee’s Terms of Reference had been addressed. An overview of some of the key activities undertaken during the year and the way  
in which they contributed to important outcomes is detailed in the following table:

Outcomes from Nomination Committee agenda items

Time commitment

Outcome

Full assessment that each of the NEDs continue to  
be appropriately defined as ‘independent’ and have 
offered and continue to offer the appropriate time 
commitment expected in their role. 

The Nomination Committee has confirmed its satisfaction with the time and commitment given to Phoenix Group 
by all Directors.
All Directors should be proposed for election or re-election by shareholders at the AGM being held on 14 May 2024.
Time commitments were also reviewed on the appointment of two new NEDs and as NEDs take on new roles. 

Emergency cover for Board Committees  
should a Chair be unable to attend a meeting.

Role

Emergency cover

Chair of the Group Board and Nomination Committee

SID

Chair of the Audit Committee

Chair of the Risk Committee

Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Chair of the Risk Committee

Member of the Risk Committee 

SID or member of the Committee who has been  
a member for at least 12 months

Chair of the Sustainability Committee

Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Appointment process

Outcome

Scoring by NEDs when interviewing candidates had  
to be consistent.

Focusing on continuous improvement through HR reviewing the scoring process, incorporating feedback from 
the last recruitment campaign to ensure it was relevant for the skills and experience being sought, whilst ensuring 
consistent assessment for all candidates. The scoring methodology was being updated to encompass learnings 
from the recruitment campaigns undertaken in 2023 and would ensure appropriateness for the next campaign. 

The Committee also received education sessions as shown on pages 80 to 81.

Board succession
During 2023, the Committee has remained 
active in its consideration of NED succession, 
which, following further consideration by the 
Board, has led to:
•

the appointment of Nicholas Lyons on 
1 December 2023 following his return from 
sabbatical between 1 September 2022 
and 30 November 2023 to take on the 
prestigious role of Lord Mayor of the City 
of London. Alastair Barbour was interim 
Chair of the Group Board for that duration. 
During this period, Alastair reached his 
ten-year tenure and therefore retired 
from the Board on 31 December 2023;
the appointment of Mark Gregory to the 
Board and member of the Risk Committee 
on 1 April 2023. Mark was appointed as 
a member of the Audit Committee on 
1 January 2024, in place of Karen Green 
who stepped down on 31 December 2023;
the appointment of Katie Murray as a 
member of the Nomination Committee 
on 29 June 2023;

•

•

•  the appointment of Nicholas Shott as 

Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
on 4 May 2023, following the conclusion 
of the 2023 AGM;

•  support for the appointment of David Scott 
as the Shareholder Nominated Director 
of abrdn on 11 May 2023, adding valuable 
and relevant skills through his role as 
Chief Enterprise Technology Officer, 
having worked in financial services for 
over 35 years;
the appointment of Maggie Semple 
as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee on 1 January 2024; and
the appointment of Eleanor Bucks 
to the Board on 1 December 2023. 

•

•

from the Board and Leadership Team. 
Interviews are also held with the Group 
CEO and Group HR Director as part of  
the process and other members of the 
ExCo as appropriate. 

References are then obtained prior  
to the Committee recommending the 
appointment to the Board. Once the 
Board has approved the recommendation 
a market announcement is made 
immediately, and the onboarding process 
begins. Please see pages 90 to 91 for more 
information on the induction programme.

A similar process is followed for executive 
succession planning, which is undertaken 
by the Committee for Executive Directors 
and for ‘ExCo’ roles to ensure appropriate 
succession in an emergency situation with 
at least one internal successor, who is 
ready now or expected to be ready in one 
to two years. External candidates are also 
included in the process. ExCo succession 
planning remains a focus for 2024, 
considering talent, capabilities and the 
broader diversity agenda. Much work  
has been undertaken to strengthen the 
capabilities and skillset at ExCo level,  
with focus now on successors for  
all ExCo members to ensure there  
is a strong pipeline of talent.

Appointment process
The standard process used by the 
Committee for Board appointments 
involves the use of an external search 
consultancy to source external candidates 
and, in the case of executive appointments, 
also considers internal candidates. A role 
profile is drafted by the Group Company 
Secretary and reviewed for approval by 
the Nomination Committee and other 
members of the ExCo as appropriate.

The Nomination Committee appointed 
Hedley May for the appointment of  
Mark Gregory and Korn Ferry for the 
appointment of Eleanor Bucks.  
Both search firms are signatories to  
the Executive Search Firms’ Voluntary 
Code of Conduct and neither firm had  
any other connections with the Company 
or its Directors during the year.

Detailed assessments of short-listed 
candidates are undertaken by the  
search consultancy and the Committee. 
The Committee requires search firms to 
ensure that both long-lists and short-lists 
are balanced from a diversity and inclusion 
perspective. If not, the Committee will 
insist on a refresh.

Each member of the Nomination 
Committee interviews short-listed 
candidates individually or jointly with  
other members of the Committee.  
A pre-prepared list of questions are  
used to ensure continuity. Interviewers  
are mindful of the skills matrix, diversity  
of thought and how Phoenix Group  
values are demonstrated openly for 
culture fit, which must always come  

Board skills
A Board skills review was undertaken by the 
external Board Reviewer as part of its 2023 
effectiveness review. It concluded that skills 
could be expanded further as well as 
experience in the banking sector, where 
complex transformational experience could  
be advantageous along with a focus on 
digitisation. Eleanor Bucks’ recent appointment 
has brought the wider actuarial and asset 
management financial services experience 
identified by the Board Reviewer. Future 
succession planning will take this criterion 
into account as well as proven experience in 
AI, which will be an imminent requirement. 
Board skills are separated into core and 
secondary skills and can be found on page 89. 

Board diversity
The Board supports and aims to fully comply 
with the FTSE Women Leaders Review 
guidance for FTSE 350 companies,  
which is aligned with the FCA’s Listing Rules  
(LR 9.8.6(9)) on diversity, being: 

• at least 40% of the board are women;
• at least one of the senior board positions 
(chair, chief executive officer, senior 
independent director or chief financial 
officer is a woman); and 

• at least one member of the board is from 

a minority ethnic background.

Gender diversity

As at 21 March 2024, the Board is comprised  
of 38% female Directors. The Board has two 
Shareholder Nominated Directors. The 
Board is unable to choose these candidates 
as these are nominated and therefore is 
unable to influence its composition entirely. 
David Scott from abrdn replaced Stephanie 
Bruce, which has impacted the female 
representation of the Board. The Board  
is comprised of 45% female Directors when 
considering appointments, the Board has 
independently made. 

Senior Management1 ethnic minority 
representation is 13% by 2027 as submitted 
to the Parker Review in December 2023.  
As at 21 March 2024, the Board has three 
members of an ethnic minority background, 
representing 23% of the total Board 
composition. If the Shareholder Nominated 
Directors are excluded, the Board has two 
members of an ethnic minority background 
representing 18% of the total Board 
composition. Further information can be 
found below. 

The Board is mindful that when female 
representation is reported as a whole and 
includes the Shareholder Nominated 
Directors, it falls short of the Listing Rules. 
This will be taken into account when planning 
the succession of retiring Directors over the 
next two years for the appointments that the 
Board can influence from a diversity perspective. 
In relation to the second part of the Listing Rule, 
Karen Green is the Senior Independent 
Director of the Board. Again the Board will 
be mindful of gender diversity when making 
future senior board appointments.

In addition, the Board met the recommendation 
of the Parker Review for FTSE 100 companies 
in relation to there being at least one director 
from an ethnic minority background on the 
Board by 2021. Phoenix Group’s target for 

The Committee has been active in promoting 
gender and ethnic diversity on the Board 
and continues to take an active role in 
oversight and guidance of the executive 
diversity and inclusion process including  
a focus on the development of a diverse 
succession pipeline. Details of the diversity 
and inclusion initiatives for Phoenix Group 
colleagues (including the Executives) are 
contained in the Group’s Sustainability 
Report. The Group’s Senior Management 
gender diversity data (including statutory 
requirements) is contained in the Strategic 
report on page 40.

1 

 Definition of Senior Management is in line with the  
Parker Review of ExCo and ExCo minus 1, excluding those 
not in senior management roles.

Number  
of Board 
members

Percentage 
of the Board

Number of  
Board members 
appointed by 
Phoenix Group

Percentage  
of the Board 
appointed by 
Phoenix Group

Number  
of senior 
 positions on 
the Board 
(CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in 
Executive 
Management

Percentage  
of Executive 
Management

Number  
of total 
employees

Percentage  
of total 
employees

As at 21 March 2024
Men

Women
As at 31 December 2023
Men
Women

8

5

9
5

62%

38%

64%
36%

6

5

7
5

55%

45%

58%
42%

3

1

3
1

6

6

6
6

50

50

50
50

3830

4,031

3,771
3,986

49%

51%

49%
51%

Please note the definition of Executive Management includes the Group Company Secretary in line with that under LR 9.8.6(10) and Provision 23 of the 2018 Code. 

Ethnic diversity

As at 21 March 20241
White British or other White 
(including minority White groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/ 
Black British
Other ethnic group, including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say
As at 31 December 20231
White British or other White 
(including minority White groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/ 
Black British
Other ethnic group, including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number 
of Board 
members

Percentage  
of the Board

Number of  
Board members 
appointed by 
Phoenix Group

Percentage  
of the Board  
appointed by 
Phoenix Group

Number  
of senior 
positions on  
the Board  
(CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number 
in ExCo

Percentage2 
of ExCo

Number  
of total 
employees2,3

Percentage  
of total 
employees

10

0
2

1
0
0

11
– 
2

1
–
–

77%

–
15%

8%
0%
0%

79%
–
14%

7%
–
–

9

0
1

1
0
0

10
–
1

1
–
–

82%

–
9%

9%
0%
0%

83%
–
8.5%

8.5%
– 
–

3

0
1

0
0
0

3
–
1

0
–
–

10

0
1

0
0
0

10
0
1

0
–
–

91%

–
9%

0%
0%
0%

91%
–
9%

–
–
–

–

–
–

–
–
–

4,279³
98
502

121
24
2,733

–

–
–

–
–
–

55%
1%
6%

2%
0%
36%

1  Based on the Office for National Statistics classification and included: Asian, Black, Mixed/multiple ethnic groups, Other ethnic groups, White and Prefer not to say.
2 

 In January 2024, Phoenix Group moved from an annual diversity data survey collected via an app to data collection through our internal HR platform.  
This will provide an up-to-date view of the diversity of our colleagues and allow us data analysis on an intersectional basis, providing better data insights than an annual survey.  
Currently the participation rate is 42%. When it is at 50%, high level results can be shared and at 65% detailed data analysis can be provided.  
It is not known when these targets will be hit. A full programme of employment engagement is in place to help colleagues increase its participation. 

3  Data collected, permissible and volunteered by colleagues. 

84

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

85

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceComposition, succession and evaluation continued
Nomination Committee report

Board Diversity policy

Board policy

Progress

The Board’s overriding aim is to appoint  
the right Directors to the Board to drive  
forward the Group’s strategy within  
a compliant framework.

During the year, Mark Gregory and Eleanor Bucks joined the Group Board.  
Their experience, background and skills are aligned with the Group’s strategy.  
The Board will endeavour to appoint the right candidate for each Board role  
and consistently seeks to enhance diversity in the broadest sense.

Board policy

Progress

The Board promotes the enhancement of  
diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity,  
as a consideration when recruiting new Directors.

In line with our succession planning processes, we undertake a formal, rigorous and 
transparent search process for each appointment, considering the current balance  
of skills, experience and diversity amongst our Directors. Each appointment is made 
subject to receipt of the requisite regulatory approvals (where required).

The Committee strives to achieve balanced recruitment long-lists demonstrating 
diversity in the broader sense, including gender, ethnicity and other diversity  
attributes and will challenge search firms to ensure this aim is achieved.

Board policy

Progress

The Board intends to comply or explain  
why on a continual basis whether the FTSE  
Women Leaders Review, Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)  
and Parker Review targets have been met:

•

•

that the board should be comprised 
of at least 40% female directors; 
that at least one of the chair, the chief 
executive officer, the senior independent 
director, or the chief finance officer is 
a woman; and

• at least one member of the board is from 
a minority ethnic background as per 
the Parker Review.

As at 21 March 2024:

• Five female Directors representing 38% of Board composition. 
When excluding Shareholder Nominated Directors this is 45%.

• The Senior Independent Director is female.
• Three minority ethnic Directors representing 23% of Board composition. 

When excluding Shareholder Nominated Directors this is 18%. 

• Phoenix Group’s target for ethnic minority representation at Senior Management 

level is 13% by 2027.

Board policy

Progress

The Board will undertake regular skills  
audits to ensure the Board’s skills remain 
appropriate for its strategy and provide  
diversity where possible.

The Board skills review was carried out during 2023 and concluded that enhancing  
the skills in the areas of digitisation and banking transformation would be valuable 
going forward. Other skills such as actuarial and asset management have been 
provided by the recent appointment of Eleanor Bucks. The skills required on the  
Board will be reviewed when considering the replacement of the two Directors due  
to retire in 2025 and the retirement of Alastair Barbour. 

I am pleased to be back in my role  
as Chair of the Group Board and its  
Nomination Committee and look  
forward to a year of continually  
enhancing governance during 2024. 

Nicholas Lyons
Chair

Board independence
With the exception of the Chair of the  
Group Board and Shareholder Nominated 
Directors, all NEDs are considered 
independent in character and judgement. 
The independence criteria set out in the 
2018 Code was taken into account as part  
of the selection process for the NEDs  
who joined Phoenix Group during the year. 
Mark Gregory and Eleanor Bucks were 
considered to be independent. David Scott  
was not considered to be independent  
due to his capacity as a Shareholder 
Nominated Director. Over half of our  
Board members, excluding the Chair of  
the Group Board, are Independent NEDs. 
The independence of NEDs is reviewed  
and confirmed annually by the Committee. 

Additional appointments
If any Director wishes to take on an additional 
external appointment, they are required to 
seek permission from the Board. The Board 
will take into consideration the additional 
time commitments, independence and any 
potential conflicts of interest in relation to the 
Directors’ current roles and responsibilities 
before any permission is given. 

Time commitment
All Directors are expected to commit 
sufficient time to the Board, and the 
Company. Time commitments for Directors 
are reviewed by the Committee on a regular 
basis including prior to recommendation for 
appointment to the Board, on changes in role 
(joining additional Committees or taking on 
further responsibility) and prior to approving 
external appointments. It is expected that  
on average, each of the seven scheduled 
Board meetings is likely to require two days  
of participation (including Committee 
meetings, education sessions, travel and 

Board dinners) and at least a further day  
of preparation time. It is further estimated 
that each Director is required to spend at 
least an additional day each month reviewing 
information supplied by the Company.  
In addition, a two-day strategy session is  
held and there are also regular briefing 
sessions for the Board Committees. On this 
basis, the basic time commitment required  
of each Board member is estimated to be at 
least 40 days each year (unless agreed as  
24 days for a full-time executive undertaking 
a NED role and chairing one Committee). 

The basic time commitment can be significantly 
increased on account of transactional or 
other activity. The Nomination Committee 
confirms that all NEDs have demonstrated 
they have sufficient time to devote to their 
present roles and this has been an area of 
focus during 2023. 

The Group Company Secretary maintains  
a register of Directors’ commitments which  
is regularly reviewed by the Committee.  
As part of the Board review process,  
the Board, supported by the Committee, 
considered each individual Director’s 
attendance, contribution and external 
appointments, and has concluded that the 
time given by individual Directors during 
2023 exceeded the level expected in their 
appointment terms.

The Group Company Secretary completed  
a full review of Directors’ non-listed 
appointments. The following table outlines 
the number of appointments held by Directors.

Name

Nicholas Lyons1,2

Karen Green1

Eleanor Bucks3

Mark Gregory

Katie Murray4 

John Pollock 

Belinda Richards

Maggie Semple 

Nicholas Shott

Andy Briggs5 

Rakesh Thakrar5,6

Number of  
boards including 
Phoenix Group  
Holdings plc

Number of 
Directorships of public 
limited companies

Number of 
directorships of private  
limited companies 

Number of  
directorships of trusts, 
charities and other 
companies

8

7

1

5

4

1

4

9

3

5

6

2

3

1

2

4

1

3

2

1

3

3

5

3

–

3

–

–

1

6

2

–

3

1

1

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

2

–

86

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

87

5  Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar are Executive Directors of Phoenix Group Holdings plc which proxy advisers count as three listed companies. 
6  

 Two of Rakesh Thakrar’s private limited company appointments relate to his appointment at Bupa Regulated Entities.

 Nicholas Lyons and Karen Green are both Non-Executive Directors of Miller Insurance Services LLP. Nicholas Lyons will retire from that board in 2024. 

1 
2  Nicholas Lyons is the Chair of the Group Board of Phoenix Group Holdings plc which proxy advisers count as two listed companies. 
3 

 Eleanor Bucks has one listed role at Phoenix Group Holdings plc in addition to her role as Chief Investment Officer at Lloyd’s of London.  
Any subsidiary appointments which are a result of Eleanor’s executive role have been excluded from the table above. 
 Katie Murray is an Executive Director at NatWest Group plc which proxy advisers count as three listed companies.  
Any subsidiary appointments which are as a result of Katie’s executive role have been excluded from the table above. 

4  

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceComposition, succession and evaluation continued
Board diversity

The composition of the Board ensures a diverse mix of 
backgrounds, skills, knowledge and expertise to enhance 
decision-making; reduce the risk of ‘group-think’; and 
support robust management of risk. 

Board gender balance¹ (including 
Shareholder Nominated Directors)

Board gender balance¹ (excluding 
Shareholder Nominated Directors)

Overall diversity progress for the Board¹

Male  
Female 

62%
38%

Male  
Female 

55%
45%

Board ethnicity¹ (including 
Shareholder Nominated Directors) 

Board ethnicity¹ (excluding 
Shareholder Nominated Directors) 

FTSE Women 
Leaders target

Target

Achieved

Parker Review 
target

Target

Achieved

FCA Listing Rules
target – gender

Target

Achieved

FCA Listing Rules
target – ethnicity

FCA Listing Rules
target – female 
Chair, CEO, 
CFO or SID 

Target

Achieved

Target

Achieved

White (English)  
White (Scottish) 
Asian (Indian)  
Black (Caribbean) 
White (Other) 

55%
18%
9%
9%
9%

Overall diversity progress for the Board 
members appointed by Phoenix Group¹

FTSE Women 
Leaders target

Target

Achieved

White (English)  
White (Scottish) 
Asian (Indian)  
Asian (Japanese) 
Black (Caribbean) 
White (Other) 

50%
17%
9%
8%
8%
8%

Board tenure¹

59

Average age  
of the Board 

Less than 1 year  
1–3 years 
3–6 years  
6–9 years 
9 years or more 

23%
15%
31%
31%
0%

1  As at 21 March 2024.

Parker Review 
target

Target

Achieved

FCA Listing Rules
target – gender

Target

Achieved

FCA Listing Rules
target – ethnicity

FCA Listing Rules
target – female 
Chair, CEO, 
CFO or SID 

Target

Achieved

Target

Achieved

40%

38%

1

3

40%

38%

1

3

1

1

40%

45%

1

2

40%

45%

1

2

1

1

Board skills and expertise
The Board skills and expertise below shows a high level of skills in the expected categories and a wide breadth of skills across the Board.  
The assessment of Board skills and areas of expertise feeds into its succession planning and the ongoing recruitment of NEDs, with action 
being taken to address areas highlighted for strengthening.

s
n
o
i
t
i
s
i
u
q
c
A
&
s
r
e
g
r
e
M

s
t
e
k
r
a
m

l

a
t
i
p
a
C

l

y
r
o
t
a
u
g
e
R

l

i

a
c
n
a
n
F

i

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m

t
e
s
s
A

e
c
n
a
r
u
s
s
a
e
f
i
L

l

a
i
r
a
u
t
c
A

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m

t
n
e
m

t
s
e
v
n

I

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m
k
s
i
R

l

s
n
o
i
t
u
o
s
&
e
c
v
r
e
s

i

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

G
S
E
/
y
t
i
l
i

i

b
a
n
a
t
s
u
S

n
o
i
t
u
b
i
r
t
s
i
D
/
s
e
a
S

l

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
r
n
a
m
u
H

g
n
i
t
e
k
r
a
M

s
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
p
O

e
g
n
a
h
C

l

a
t
i
g
D
/
T

i

I

e
c
n
e
i
r
e
p
x
e
d
r
a
o
b
0
0
1
E
S
T
F

Nicholas Lyons  
Chair of the Group Board

Andy Briggs, MBE 
Group Chief Executive Officer

Rakesh Thakrar 
Group Chief Financial Officer

Karen Green 
Senior Independent Director

Belinda Richards  
Independent Non-Executive Director 

David Scott  
Non-Executive Director

Hiroyuki Iioka  
Non-Executive Director 

Nicholas Shott 
Independent Non-Executive Director

John Pollock 
Independent Non-Executive Director

Katie Murray 
Independent Non-Executive Director

Maggie Semple, OBE  
Independent Non-Executive Director

Mark Gregory 
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Eleanor Bucks  
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Total core skills 

Total secondary skills 

     

    

 

 

      

         

        

 

 

     

 

  

  

     

          







  

  

 

     

 

 

    



    

              



        

 

 



  

     

         



  



8

3

9

1

     

11

1

9

2

8

3

5

6

4

2

7

3

10

2

6

1



6

4

6

3

5

1

4

3

5

1

6

3

3

8

10

0

88

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

89

Corporate governanceCorporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition, succession and evaluation continued
Board induction
A strong induction programme, including the 
interview process, is integral to a Director’s 
ability to quickly thrive in their role.

The Chair is responsible for leading the 
development of, and monitoring the 
effective implementation of training 
policies and procedures for the Directors. 
On appointment, each Director receives 
a formal and tailored induction. In 
addition, there is a programme of ongoing 
education and deep dives for Directors.

The Directors are committed to their own 
ongoing professional development and  
the Chair of the Group Board discusses 
training with each NED at least annually.  
The Group Company Secretary supports  
the Chair of the Group Board in the oversight 
of the induction and development plans 
for the NEDs following either an internal 
or external Board effectiveness review. 

All NEDs are encouraged to suggest 
training topics of interest and all Directors 
are able to access a Board portal where 
additional resources are available. 

Mark Gregory
Joined the Board on 1 April 2023

Eleanor Bucks
Joined the Board on 1 December 2023

Typical induction  
programme features

I’ve had meetings with 
relevant stakeholders,  
who have been transparent 
and given me comfort in 
Phoenix Group, its strategy 
and people.

I felt encouraged by 
Management’s preparation 
and candid response to my 
questions when meeting 
individuals during my 
induction process.

The induction programme at Phoenix Group 
has been well structured and given me a 
strong grounding to confidently commence 
my NED role here. I’ve had meetings  
with relevant stakeholders, who have  
been transparent and given me comfort  
in the Group, its strategy and people. 
Management was open and well-prepared 
for each session and I was provided with 
useful reading material and a detailed 
overview of the key matters for which 
Executives were accountable. For me, joining 
in April and attending the Board Strategy 
Days in June 2023 was extremely helpful.  
I learnt a lot within the two days as I had an 
informal environment to ask lots of questions. 
I tend to join some Committee meetings as  
an attendee to gain as much information to 
help me understand the wider Board matters,  
risks and opportunities, key areas of focus 
and to meet other presenters. I find the 
Phoenix Group offices welcoming when  
I visit outside of the Board schedule,  

which gives me the opportunity to observe 
Phoenix Group’s culture independently  
and to build relationships. 

The schedule of meetings with Senior 
Management and other key internal 
stakeholders was well managed. In addition, 
during my first year of joining the Board,  
I’ve enjoyed the two colleague engagement 
sessions. At the first, I was able to meet some 
Phoenix Group graduates and understand 
their training programme and roles better.  
At the second, our female colleagues who 
were over 50 provided insight into their 
working life at Phoenix Group. The Board 
found both sessions insightful and at the 
same time comforting. It was great to meet 
such different demographics and learn 
about their roles and how the Group was 
providing a clear career path for those  
that wanted it.

I recently joined the Board and both the 
appointment and induction processes were 
seamless. Meeting so many of the Board at 
interview stage helped me form an opinion 
quickly on the culture at Phoenix Group and 
whether this was a company where I felt  
I could add value. 

My induction programme has been well 
structured and the reading material in 
advance comprehensive. There were 
detailed overviews of the key matters  
for which Executives were accountable 
which was useful. I felt encouraged by 
Management’s preparation and candid 
response to my questions when meeting 
individuals during my induction process.  
This is my first listed NED role and it’s 
important to feel supported by the Group 
Company Secretary and other Board 
members, who have all been exemplary.  
I am particularly excited by the two-day 
strategy away day in June 2024. Feedback 
from the external Board review was that this 
provides the time to get to know the Board 
members and Management in a more 

informal environment, being a combination  
of business and relationship immersion.  
This will provide an opportunity to help 
Board members appreciate individual 
strengths and the collective capability  
of the Board which can only ever enhance 
Board performance. It’s encouraging that the 
Board and Phoenix Group are so focused  
on such strategy meetings. I am personally 
excited by the NED mentoring programme  
to those Phoenix Group employees 
identified by Management. 

In addition, meeting the wider workforce  
and supporting the implementation of 
Phoenix Group’s strategic journey will be  
a focus for me in 2024. How sustainability  
is embedded not only into the strategy  
but every day has been a focus for me and  
I enjoyed meeting the Sustainability Team 
soon into my induction. The impact of these 
meetings has enabled me to accelerate my 
understanding of the business, its values  
and culture, key stakeholders, risks and 
opportunities. I look forward to continuing 
my induction during 2024. 

Meetings

• Chair of the Group Board.
• Group Chief Executive Officer.
• Group Chief Financial Officer.
• Group Company Secretary.
• Group Head of Internal Audit.
• Chief Risk Officer. 
• Head of M&A and Corporate Development.
• Group Treasurer.
• Corporate Affairs & Investor Relations 
Director, who also has responsibility 
for Sustainability. 

• Other members of the ExCo, as appropriate.
• External stakeholders which may include the 
External Auditor, brokers, major shareholders
or remuneration consultants. 

Site tours and meetings  
with Management 

• London
• Edinburgh
• Birmingham
• Telford
• Ireland

Key documents

• Board operations, minutes and 

meeting packs, governance framework, 
policies, delegations of authority, 
conduct/regulatory responsibilities.

• Financial, strategic and operation 

plans and priorities.

• Directors’ & Officers’ liability 

insurance summary.

• Market Abuse Regulations training.
• Listed Company and Life Companies 

governance training. 

• Other documents as appropriate 
in relation to the level of Board 
or Board Committee responsibilities.

• Mandatory training.

90

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

91

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceAudit, risk and internal controls
Audit Committee report 

Katie Murray  
Audit Committee Chair

Composition of the Committee
The Board confirms that all members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and as a whole have the competence relevant to the financial services sector 
and the insurance and pensions sector in which Phoenix Group operates. The Board is 
satisfied that Katie Murray, as Chair of the Committee has recent and relevant financial 
experience to chair the Committee through her current role as Group Chief Financial 
Officer of NatWest plc. Further information on the experience, skills and competencies 
of the Committee members can be found on pages 64 to 67.

Regular attendees include the Chair of the Life Companies Board Audit Committee, 
the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group CRO, 
Group Chief Actuary and the External Auditor. The Chair meets regularly with the 
Group Chief Financial Officer and the External Auditor to discuss priorities and  
track key actions.

Committee meetings and membership 
Under the Committee’s Terms of Reference it should meet at least four times a year. 
During 2023 there were nine formal meetings. 

Member  
from

2023 meeting  
attendance

2023 %  
attendance

Katie Murray 

Karen Green1 

Mark Gregory2

John Pollock 

Nicholas Shott 

1 April 2022

1 July 2017

1 January 2024

11 May 2017

2 July 2019

9/9

8/9

–

9/9

9/9

100%

89%

–

100%

100%

1 
2 

 Karen Green was unable to attend a joint Audit and Risk Committee meeting due to attending a funeral. 
 Mark Gregory became a member of the Committee on 1 January 2024 in place of Karen Green who stepped  
down as a member of the Committee on 31 December 2023.

Committee gender

Male 
Female 

75%
25%

9

Number of Committee  
meetings held this year  
(12 including ad hoc meetings)

The Audit 
Committee has 
robustly challenged 
on the IFRS 17 
standard, climate  
risk and controls 
during 2024.

Role of the Committee 
The Committee is responsible for  
reviewing and monitoring the integrity 
of the Group’s financial reporting and 
judgements applied to that reporting, 
Internal Control Framework, whistleblowing, 
monitoring the effectiveness of the 
Internal Audit function and framework, 
changes in regulatory requirements and 
managing its duties in relation to the 
External Auditor and any tender process. 

Following each meeting, the Chair of  
the Committee provides a summary of 
discussion, outcomes and where relevant 
makes recommendations to the Board  
on matters such as Solvency II reporting,  
Full Year and Half Year financial statements, 
finance-related risk policies, External Auditor 
appointment, resignation or dismissal and 
fees, in line with the Committee’s Terms  
of Reference which can be found at  
www.thephoenixgroup.com. These have 
been updated in line with the Minimum 
Standards for Audit Committees published 
by the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’)  
in May 2023. 

Overview of the year

Key Committee activities during 2023

Publication of the Half Year 2023 results following the adoption of the new IFRS 17 standard. 

Continued oversight on UK Corporate Governance reforms and Solvency II.

Reviewed the adequacy of the control environment considering both Business As Usual (‘BAU’) and in light of economic volatility.

Transition commenced from EY to KPMG LLP as External Auditor of Phoenix Group.

2024 focus

Monitoring the transition of IFRS 17 processes to BAU and review lessons learnt from the implementation of the standard.

Further focus on reviewing Phoenix Group’s risk management and internal control framework in anticipation of the Board’s declaration  
of effectiveness in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024 (the ‘2024 Code’).

Monitoring the transition of KPMG LLP as the Company’s External Auditor from EY LLP.

Further consideration of financial reporting and disclosure impacts of UK Solvency II reform. 

Preparing for the new corporate sustainability requirements, with an added focus on controls published by the International Sustainability 
Standards Board (‘ISSB’).

Committee review
The 2023 effectiveness review was facilitated by an external Board Reviewer. The review concluded  
that the Committee is functioning effectively. NEDs were well prepared, providing strong challenge  
to Management with a very capable Chair. However, the Board Reviewer did identify a few areas of 
enhancement by the Committee and these are highlighted below: 

Action 1

Action 2

Action 3

Subsidiary companies 
to provide a one-page 
summary only, rather than  
a full set of minutes. 

Number of attendees  
to be streamlined.

Papers to be published  
no less than five days before  
the meeting.

92

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

93

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceAudit, risk and internal controls continued
Audit Committee report

Outcomes from Audit Committee discussions 
On an annual basis, a review of the Committee’s activities is undertaken. In 2023, it was concluded that all elements of responsibility detailed  
in the Committee’s Terms of Reference had been addressed. An overview of some of the key activities undertaken during the year and the way  
in which they contributed to important outcomes are detailed in the following table: 

Key activities

Financial reporting

Group CFO update.

Receiving and reviewing the Group’s external Full Year and Half Year  
financial reports.

Outcome 

Implementation of private sessions between the Group CFO and the Committee.

Half Year reporting was impacted by IFRS 17 and this was a major focus for the  
Committee in 2023. Usual Phoenix Group practice is to complete a lessons learnt  
for 2023 following the implementation of such a large project.

Ensuring accounts are fair, balanced and understandable as a whole and 
recommending their approval to the Board, taking into account shareholders’ 
ability to assess the Group’s position, performance, business model and strategy.

Strong challenge from the Committee to ensure the news was balanced with both positive 
and negative news reported. Cash generation was countered by the highlight of total 
funds flow target to provide appropriate balance. 

IFRS 17 accounting standard.

Strong challenge at Half Year 2023 ensuring the process, methodology and assumptions 
were appropriate, ready for Full Year 2023. Three additional ad hoc meetings were held. 

External audit

Outcome

Recommend to the Board the appointment of the External Auditor, their  
terms of engagement including approval of their fees and non-audit services and for 
reviewing the performance, objectivity and independence of the External Auditor.

Particularly strong challenge from the Committee on the External Auditor’s fees.

Internal control, risk management & compliance 

Outcome

Monitoring the overall integrity of financial reporting by the Company and its 
subsidiaries and the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls.

Climate change risk.

Further enhancement and focus in 2023 and 2024 on internal controls and  
end-to-end processes. Robust challenge to ensure risk management and internal  
controls effectiveness review is appropriate for Provision 29 of the 2024 Code. 

Decided to implement a joint Audit/Risk/Sustainability Committee bi-annually  
to review disclosures and monitor changes in climate risk.

Sustainability Reporting

Outcome

Received and reviewed the Group’s Sustainability and Climate Reports and Net 
Zero Transition Plan published in May 2023.

Education session on the financial impact of new sustainability and climate  
change regulations. 

Private meetings

Private meeting with External Audit partner.

Outcome

More private meetings required with the transition to KPMG LLP in 2024.

Where relevant, all papers receive a Line 1, 2 
and regulatory review. 

The Committee also received education 
sessions as shown on pages 80 and 81.

Connectivity with other relevant 
Committees 
The following joint Committees promoted 
the sharing of information and best practices. 
The Committees were able to review, 
approve and recommend for Board approval 
the following items: 

Audit and Risk Committees 
• Solvency & Financial Condition Report 

(‘SFCR’) approval (including Risk 
Disclosures in Solvency II Pillar III 
Reporting) – April 2023.

• Own Risk & Solvency Assessment (‘ORSA’)

approval – June 2023. 

Audit, Risk and Sustainability Committees
• Review of Year End 2023 Climate and 
Sustainability Reports – March 2024.

External Auditor
A key part of the role of the Audit Committee 
is the review and oversight of the work of 
the Group’s External Auditor, EY LLP (‘EY’). 
The External Audit partner attended all 
Committee meetings during 2023 and to 
the date of this report, presenting reports 
on the external audit process, IT controls, 
internal controls, audit differences, fraud risk 
areas, audit improvements, planning report, 
any pre-approval for non-audit services 
and the assessments on methodology 
and actuarial assumptions. The External 
Auditor provided details on benchmarking 
with regard to assumptions setting as well 
as challenging and providing guidance 
on reporting matters and disclosure 
requirements. Where necessary, the External 
Auditor challenged Management’s view 
on certain assumptions and reporting 
requirements which were reported to 
and discussed with the Committee.

The Committee reviewed and discussed 
various reports from the External Auditor 
throughout 2023, including the 2023 Audit 
Plan, progress reports against that plan, 
a report on their audit procedures on the 
2022 annual IFRS and Solvency II results, 

their interim review of the Half Year 2023 
IFRS results. EY have provided exceptional 
support and challenge to the Group during 
its transition to IFRS 17 and the collaborative, 
yet robust approach should be commended. 
The Committee considered throughout 
2023 and for the 2023 audit, the effectiveness, 
engagement and remuneration of the current 
External Auditor. The Committee did not 
request the External Auditor to specifically 
audit a certain area of concern during 2023. 

Assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external audit process
Part of the Committee’s role is to oversee 
the Group’s relationship with the External 
Auditor to ensure independence, quality, 
rigour, objectivity and robust challenge of 
the external audit process. The Committee 
does this throughout the year by: 

• Reviewing EY’s UK Audit Quality Reports 
including the FRC’s audit quality review, 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of England and Wales (‘ICAEW’) Quality 
Assurance Department (‘QAD’) review and 
Internal reviews, outlining its response to 
those reviews and actions to be taken. 
Within those reports there is a key focus 

on EY’s people around understanding 
their role, asking for help and resources,  
a review of the detailed Audit Plan and 
consideration of its coverage and approach 
to identified risks.

• Assessing the quality of interactions 
between the Audit Team and the 
Committee, including the provision 
of technical and industry knowledge.

• Considering the level of insight provided 
by the audit findings in the key areas 
of judgement, including quality of 
benchmarking with regard to valuation 
assumptions and supporting analysis, 
and the ability of the Audit Team to 
demonstrate that they had applied 
professional scepticism in their dealings 
with Management.

• Comprehensive assessment and review 
of the External Auditor where feedback 
was received from Life Companies’ 
Directors as well as members of the 
Committee, Management and teams that 
supported the audit such as Group and 
Service company teams, FRC, IT, Internal 
Audit, Tax, Actuarial and Operations.

• Meeting privately with EY to discuss in 

depth its approach to quality assurance 
and internal assurance processes across 
the audit firm that ensure the quality of 
the audit service. These meetings provide 
an opportunity to discuss freely without 
Management present on the most 
significant areas of challenge by EY. 

• Considering the findings of external 

evaluations of EY, notably the findings 
from the FRC’s Audit Quality 
Inspection Report.

• Reviewing the findings from EY’s UK 

2023 Transparency Report which outlines 
the key policies and processes in place 
within EY for maintaining objectivity 
and independence for EY’s year ended 
30 June 2023.

• Reviewing EY’s impact of ISOM1 ensuring 
firms implement an agreed process to 
design, implement and operate a system 
of quality management. Aligning with EY’s 
commitment to deliver high-quality audits 
to serve the public. 

• 

In addition, from 2023 EY have included 
Engagement Level Audit Quality Indicators 
(‘AQIs’). A measure of audit quality, AQIs 
cover topics such as most recent firmwide 
inspection results, hours an audit takes and 
timeliness of reporting. The Committee has 
found this information useful during the 
year to monitor audit quality.

Overall, the Audit Committee concluded  
that EY had carried out its 2022 audit 
effectively. Stakeholders do not review  
the effectiveness of the audit until June  
the following year. The additional criteria 
included in the Minimum Standards for  
Audit Committees published in May 2023 
will be included in the audit review for year 
ended 31 December 2023 which will be 
completed in June 2024.

Independence and objectivity of the 
External Auditor
The External Auditor’s independence  
was reviewed and monitored against the 
Group’s External Auditor policy, including its 
provision of non-audit services. This included 
an assessment of its independence and a 
review of services provided by EY during the 
2022 and 2023 financial years. The Committee 
is satisfied with EY’s objectivity and that EY  
is fully independent from Management and 
free from conflicts of interest. EY continually 
monitors its own independence throughout 
the year and voluntarily brings any potential 
matter to the Committee. EY has confirmed 
that between 1 January 2023 to 21 March 
2024 there were no relationships that would 
be thought to bear on EY’s independence 
and objectivity. It outlines to the Committee 
its independent approach, including threats 
and safeguards when the audit plan for that 
year is approved by the Committee. 

Re-appointment of External Auditor
As previously announced, the Committee 
concluded an audit tender process in 2021 
resulting in KPMG LLP (‘KPMG’) being 
appointed as the Group’s External Auditor 
commencing from the financial period 
starting 1 January 2024. A transition process 
was undertaken from 30 June 2023, including 
regular review meetings with Management, 
EY, Internal Audit and Committee members, 

prior to their formal appointment at the 2024 
AGM on 14 May 2024, subject to shareholder 
approval. KPMG has attended all Audit 
Committee meetings from 30 June 2023 and 
had access to papers presented to the 
Committee at each meeting. The Committee 
has received updates on the transition from 
EY to KPMG as External Auditor and provided 
challenge to ensure KPMG is receiving an 
appropriate handover with sufficient input 
from Management and EY itself. The Committee 
confirms that it complied with the provision  
of The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use Of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 
2014 (‘CMA Order 2014’) for that tender. 

However, the Committee is mindful of the 
Minimum Standards for Audit Committees 
published by the FRC in May 2023 and that 
this particular tender had been completed 
before that publication. Within the previous 
tender process, challenger firms were 
included. Those challenger firms with 
adequate insurance capability will again  
be included and the Committee may 
consider a price-blind tender in 2031. 

The Group’s External Auditor policy includes 
audit partner rotation with the expectation 
that the audit partner will rotate at least every 
five years. EY has served as External Auditor 
to the Company since December 2018. 
Under the Audit Ethical Standards, signing 
audit partners for public interest entities 
should retain the role for up to five years.  
In order to safeguard the quality of the audit 
and in light of the Group’s extensive change 
programme, particularly the implementation 
of IFRS 17 and the acquisition of SunLife of 
Canada UK, the Committee requested a 
further tenure extension for Stuart Wilson 
as a result of reaching his sixth year of 
tenure associated with the Group following 
completion of the 2022 audit. In total,  
Stuart Wilson acted as audit partner for 
Phoenix Life Limited for two years, and then 
lead audit partner for Phoenix Group for five 
years. Such an extension is permissible under 
the Audit Ethical Standards for a maximum 
of two additional years until 2023, when EY 
will retire as External Auditor of the Group. 

External Auditor review
Actions to be undertaken 
during the year following the 
effectiveness review, which  
will provide KPMG with further 
insight during its transition  
as External Auditor are 
highlighted to the right. 

Action 1

Action 2

Action 3

Enhance the process for 
recognition and escalation  
of any significant issue. 

Continue to understand 
Phoenix Group’s  
complex business. 

Review subsidiary audits  
and consider including the 
service companies within 
the same Audit Team. 

94

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

95

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceAudit, risk and internal controls continued
Audit Committee report

Appointment of External Auditor  
at Annual General Meeting
Resolutions will be put to the AGM to 
be held on 14 May 2024 proposing the 
appointment of KPMG as the Company’s 
External Auditor and authorising the Board 
to determine its remuneration, on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee 
in accordance with the CMA Order 2014. 

External Auditor policy
The Company has an External Auditor 
policy which requires the Company and 
the External Auditor to take measures to 
safeguard the integrity, objectivity and 
independence of the External Auditor and 
cap the level of any non-audit fee paid to its 
External Auditor at 70% of the average audit 
fees paid in the previous three consecutive 
financial years. The External Auditor policy 
can be found on the website at  
www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

The External Auditor policy covers  
matters such as the rotation of audit partner, 
employment of external auditor employees, 
permitted non-audit services and  
audit-related services. 

Permitted non-audit services are those 
contained in the Revised Ethical Standard 
2019 of the FRC. For 2023 these related  
to Phoenix Re and Standard Life 
International Dac. 

Audit-related services are a subset of 
permitted non-audit services that are largely 
carried out by the Audit Engagement Team 
and where the work involved is closely 
related to the work performed in the  
audit. For 2023 this included work on the 
Sustainability Report and the collateral  
audit for Standard Life International Dac.

The Committee is satisfied that there are 
no circumstances that could affect the 
independence or objectivity of the Auditor. 
The External Auditor policy is refreshed 
annually and in May 2023 was updated 
to note that audit services provided to 
investment funds, where wholly managed 
by third parties, and which the Group 
consolidates in its IFRS financial statements 
would be exempt from the requirements 
for fees to be approved by the Audit 
Committee, and are instead considered 
a pre-approved service. Related fees 
continue to be reported to the Audit 
Committee on at least an annual basis. 

External Auditor’s fees
The engagement of EY to perform any 
non-audit service is subject to a process of 
pre-approval by the Committee to safeguard 
the External Auditor’s objectivity and 
independence and the prescribed limit set 
out above in line with statutory requirements.

Non-audit fees

Audit fees

Audit-related fees

Total

Ratio of non-audit: 
audit fees

Rolling 3-year 
average audit fee

2023 
£m

25.6

2.8

28.4

2022 
£m

–

15.5

2.4

17.9

2021 
£m

–

11.6

2.3

13.9

3%

4%

6%

6%

6%

8%

In 2023, total fees of £28.4 million were paid 
to EY. Of this amount £25.6million related  
to statutory audit fees of the parent and its 
subsidiaries, with a further £2.2 million 
incurred in relation to services provided 
pursuant to legal or regulatory requirements. 
The remaining fees of £0.6 million relate  
to other services including review of the 
Group’s Interim Report and Sustainability 
Report. This gives rise to a non-audit to  
audit fee ratio under the EU Directive  
and Regulations of 3% for the 2023 year,  
and 6% based on a three-year average audit 
fee. This lies well within the limits prescribed 
in the Group’s policy. The increase in the 
audit fee principally reflects the additional 
work undertaken in connection with the 
transition to IFRS 17. 

In light of the above, the Committee  
is satisfied that the non-audit services 
performed during 2023 have not impaired 
the independence of EY in its role as 
External Auditor.

Internal Audit
During 2023, the Committee continued to receive regular updates from the Group Head of Internal Audit on all Internal Audit related matters. 
This included

Item 

Outcome 

Regular updates on the progress of the 2023 Internal Audit Plan 
approved in late 2022. 

Group Internal Audit provided regular progress reports on plan delivery. 
At the end of the year plan finalisation was at an advanced stage. 

Budget and resource.

Robustly challenged by the Committee to ensure appropriate  
and adequate.

Annual update of the Group Internal Audit Charter  
and independence.

The Internal Audit Charter was approved by the Committee  
in November 2023. 

Control environment opinion which included Internal Audit’s  
view of the Risk Management Framework, Governance and  
Control Frameworks across the Group at both the Half Year  
and Full Year end.

Performance evaluation: the next externally facilitated EQA  
is due not later than 2025. 

Control opinions were provided by Internal Audit in March and August 
which provided Internal Audit’s view of the Risk Management Framework, 
Governance and Control Frameworks. 

Internal Audits were assessed as effective. The process included  
self-assessment against CIIA standards, with consideration of the  
Internal Audit Quality and Improvement Programme. QA results were 
independently completed by Grant Thornton UK LLP, and the results  
of a stakeholder survey were also reviewed by the Committee. 

All areas of Internal Audit’s plan were aligned with Phoenix Group’s strategic priorities. For 2024, the use of data analytics by Internal Audit is 
expected to be a key development area. 

significant judgements involved in the 
preparation of the Half Year 2023 results 
and comparative information. These 
processes underpinned the Committee’s 
recommendation that the Board approve 
the Interim report in September 2023. 

Following publication of the Half Year 2023 
results, the Committee’s focus on IFRS 17 
shifted to the transfer of processes and 
controls from a programme-led environment 
to BAU activity. It will continue to be a 
focus for 2024, whilst IFRS 17 is further 
embedded into the Group’s financial 
reporting framework. Work will continue 
to streamline and automate reporting 
under the new standard and enhance 
the related internal control environment. 
The Committee has been supportive of 
Management during the transition, whilst 
executing its professional scepticism through 
deep dives and robustly challenging both 
Management and the External Auditor.

Department for Business & Trade
A focus for Management during much 
of 2023 was the ongoing Government 
proposals regarding the Department for 
Business & Trade reforms on Corporate 
Governance and Audit. Management 
provided regular updates to the 
Committee and has continued to do so 
following the Government’s withdrawal 
on primary and secondary legislation, 
now focusing on how Phoenix Group will 
implement the 2024 Code principles and 
provisions by 1 January 2025 and 2026.

Finally, I’d like to thank the Finance Team 
for what has been a busy year with the 
implementation of the new IFRS 17 standard. 

Katie Murray
Chair of the Audit Committee

Internal control
The Committee, alongside the Risk 
Committee, supports the Board in ensuring 
a robust system of internal control and risk 
management is in place across the Group. 
The Committee receives reports from the 
Group Head of Internal Audit on the status 
of the control environment and management 
of the Group’s principal risks and controls 
across the Group’s Risk Universe.

The Committee also considers bi-annual 
Internal Control Self-Assessment reports 
in which Line 1 risk owners self-assess 
the design and operation of their control 
environments. These assessments are 
independently validated by Line 2 
(Risk) and supplemented by an Annual 
Internal Control Environment Opinion 
Report from Line 3 (Internal Audit).

During 2023, the Committee regularly 
challenged Management to ensure, where 
any control weaknesses were identified, that 
there are robust and timely action plans to 
address these. In performing this review and 
challenge of the control environment, the 
Committee has assessed and confirms that  
in 2023 it has complied with Principle O  
and Provisions 25 and 29 of the 2018 Code. 

Looking ahead to 2024, the Committee 
will maintain its scrutiny of the Group’s 
control environment, including overseeing 
necessary modifications to the Internal 
Control Framework to meet the new 
requirements of the 2024 Code.

Climate change risk
Sustainability is a significant area of focus 
for the Group. The Committee has a key 
oversight role of climate-related reporting 
including TCFD and other sustainability 
disclosures. The Sustainability Committee 
works closely with both the Audit Committee 
and Risk Committee to review climate 
change risk, target setting and disclosure 
requirements to ensure that our reporting 
is aligned with strategy and regulatory 
requirements. The Committee received 
confirmation from Management of the 
KPIs and metrics the External Auditor had 
provided assurance over when reviewing, 
approving and recommending both the 
Net Zero Transition Plan published on 
24 May 2023 and the Sustainability and 
Climate Reports. An outcome following an 
education session on climate change risk 
was to continually assess the assurance 
level of TCFD reporting. Risk of incorrectly 
disclosing the financial impact of climate 
change is at the forefront for the Committee 
and will continue to be a focus for 2024. 
Both greenwashing and greenhushing 
that could lead to climate litigation is a 
focus for the Audit, Risk and Sustainability 
Committees. See pages 103 and 107 
where climate risk is discussed in the Risk 
and Sustainability Committee reports. 

Whistleblowing
Bi-annually, the Committee receives formal 
updates from the Group’s General Counsel 
on: whistleblowing activities and the 
operation of our processes to enable 
confidential reporting; involvement in the 
assessment and resolution of individual 
matters raised in accordance with our 
established policy; whistleblowing 
arrangements within the Group; and any 
whistleblowing activity where an employee 
raised concerns in confidence about any 
possible improprieties.

During 2023, there were a total of seven 
notifications reported to the Speak Up 
Office, of which two were triaged as 
‘whistleblows’ and five notifications related to 
people policy matters. Of the two Speak Up 
matters, both are closed and no material 
wrongdoing or control failures were  
found. Employee survey scores indicated 
colleagues generally felt that Phoenix Group 
was a psychologically safe environment 
where they can speak up freely and had  
a strong belief that serious misconduct  
would be dealt with appropriately.

Fair, balanced and understandable 
assurance framework. 
The Committee has satisfied itself that the 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc 2023 Annual 
Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and 
understandable. It has done so by taking 
relevant FRC guidance into consideration 
and feedback from various sources, then 
robust challenge by the Committee.

The External Auditor also considered 
the fair, balanced and understandable 
statement as part of the year end processes 
and concurred with its approval by the 
Committee. The Committee can therefore 
concur with the statement made by the 
Board of Directors on page 147 in line 
with Principle N of the 2018 Code.

Going concern
Please see page 143 for Phoenix 
Group’s Going concern statement. 

IFRS 17 implementation
During 2023, Management provided 
the Committee with regular updates 
and education sessions regarding the 
implementation of IFRS 17, the new 
accounting standard for insurance contracts 
that came into effect from 1 January 2023 
and its impact on the Group’s financial 
reporting and internal control framework. 
In dedicated sessions, the Committee has 
discussed in detail the financial impacts 
of IFRS 17, together with the operational 
considerations of the implementation 
programme including timetable, resourcing 
and internal control matters. The Committee 
reviewed and approved Phoenix Group’s 
revised accounting policies to reflect the 
new standard together with the underlying 

96

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

97

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceAudit, risk and internal controls continued
Audit Committee report

Significant matters considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements,  
where EY was invited to provide robust challenge. 

Significant matters considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements,  
where EY was invited to provide robust challenge. 

Significant matters in relation to  
the 2023 IFRS financial statements

Implementation of IFRS 17 and IFRS 9

Review of the IFRS and Solvency II actuarial 
valuation process, to include the setting of 
actuarial assumptions and methodologies,  
and the robustness of actuarial data

How these issues were addressed

The Committee devoted a significant amount of time to the oversight of the final  
aspects of the implementation of the new accounting standard for insurance contracts,  
IFRS 17. Having commenced its oversight of technical implementation matters in 2021,  
the Committee finalised its review and approval of the Group’s revised accounting policies  
to reflect adoption of the new standard, and evaluated the key judgements utilised in the 
application of those policies. 

The Committee received regular updates as to the impact of the implementation  
of the standard on the Group’s systems, processes and control environment, and  
provided oversight on the achievement of key milestones in the delivery of the IFRS 17 
implementation programme.

Working closely with the Phoenix Life Companies Board Audit Committee, and having 
considered findings from the Group’s External Auditor and specific assurance provided  
by Group Risk and Group Internal Audit, the Committee approved restatements of  
the Group’s transition balance sheet as at 1 January 2022 and its results for the year  
ended 31 December 2022 in accordance with the new standard. 

Although significantly less material to the Group’s results, the Committee also provided 
oversight on the implementation of IFRS 9, the new accounting standard for financial 
instruments which has been adopted for the first time alongside IFRS 17. 

The Committee concluded that the disclosures included in Note A as to the impact  
of new accounting standards adopted in the period were appropriate. 

Management presented papers to the Phoenix Life Companies Board Audit Committee 
detailing recommendations for the actuarial assumptions and methodologies to be used  
for the interim and year end reporting periods, with justification and benchmarking as 
appropriate. This included assumptions related to longevity, mortality, expenses, persistency 
and policyholder behaviour, as well as economic assumptions. These assumptions and 
methodologies were debated and challenged by the Phoenix Life Companies Board  
Audit Committee, prior to their approval, including consideration of the impacts of  
continued economic volatility, expense inflation and data quality. 

A summary of these papers was presented for oversight review by the Committee,  
and the Phoenix Life Companies Board Audit Committee’s conclusions were  
reported to the Committee through minutes of its meeting and a discussion between  
the Chairs of the committees. The Committee discussed and questioned Management  
and EY on the content of the summary papers and the Phoenix Life Companies Board  
Audit Committee’s conclusions. 

The Committee considered and debated the basis of the valuation for adjustments to  
actuarial provisions that arise at a consolidated Group level, including the methodology  
and derivation of certain IFRS 17 assumptions where calibrated on a Group basis.  
This included consideration of the results of a detailed review of the Group’s maintenance 
expense assumptions in light of the continuing investment in the Group’s growth strategy  
and the re-planning of strategic transformation initiatives. The Committee also evaluated the 
determination of the IFRS 17 discount rate, including the appropriateness of the allowances  
for illiquidity and credit risk, together with the calibration of the risk adjustment assumption. 

Pension assumptions for use in the IAS 19 Employee Benefits valuations were reviewed  
and approved by the Committee. 

The Committee received and considered detailed written and verbal reporting from the 
External Auditor setting out their observations and conclusions in respect of the assumptions, 
methodologies and actuarial models, including benchmarking analysis.

Significant matters in relation to  
the 2023 IFRS financial statements

Valuation of complex and  
illiquid financial assets

Valuation and recoverability  
of intangible assets

Provisions

Alternative performance measures (‘APMs’)

Assessment of whether the  
Annual Report and Accounts are  
fair, balanced and understandable

Going concern and viability analysis

How these issues were addressed

Management presented papers setting out the basis of the valuation of financial assets, 
including changes in methodology and assumptions, for the interim and year end reporting 
periods to the Phoenix Life Companies Board Audit Committee. The assumptions, valuations 
and processes, particularly for financial assets determined by valuation techniques using 
significant non-observable inputs (Level 3), were debated and challenged by the Phoenix  
Life Companies Board Audit Committee prior to being approved. This included a review  
of judgements made in respect of data and inputs driving the valuation of equity release 
mortgages, assumptions utilised in the valuation of modelled debt securities such as bond 
spreads, and the impacts of continued economic uncertainty.

The valuation information was then presented for oversight review by the Committee which 
considered and further challenged the information prior to confirmation of the 
appropriateness of the basis of valuation.

Management presented papers detailing the results of annual impairment testing carried  
out in respect of goodwill balances and reviews for indicators of impairment performed  
in respect of finite life intangibles. This included assessing the potential impact of the risk  
of climate change.

The Committee considered the results of the work performed and confirmed the 
appropriateness of the conclusions reached.

Management presented papers detailing the basis of recognition and measurement of 
accounting provisions recognised by the Group. The Committee considered the results  
of the analysis performed, the uncertainties surrounding the measurements adopted and 
confirmed the appropriateness of the conclusions reached.

The Committee reviewed the use of APMs in the Group’s financial reporting, understanding 
the basis for determining the metrics and considering the clarity and explanation of their 
usage within the Group’s Annual and Interim Reports. 

Specifically, the Committee considered the usage of new APMs such as Adjusted Shareholder 
Equity and amendments to existing APMs such as Adjusted Operating Profit, where necessary 
to reflect the implementation of IFRS 17. On reviewing the results, the Committee provided 
challenge as to the allocation of amounts to either Adjusted Operating Profit or to non-operating 
items for consistency with the Group’s Adjusted Operating Profit framework. 

The Committee concluded that the usage, disclosure and prominence of APMs within the 
Group’s Annual Report and Accounts was appropriate. 

The Committee considered and confirmed agreement with the analysis in support of 
Management’s conclusions that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and 
understandable. As part of the year end procedures, the Committee discussed with 
Management and EY the review processes that operated over the production of the  
Annual Report and Accounts.

The Committee reviewed information on the capital and liquidity position of the Group, 
together with a review of the associated risks and supporting stress and scenario testing.  
This was part of a comprehensive assessment undertaken prior to the Committee 
recommending to the Board that the Group financial statements should be prepared  
on a Going concern basis and that the disclosures, with regard to the long-term viability  
of the Group, were sufficient and appropriate.

98

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

99

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceAudit, risk and internal controls continued
Risk Committee report

John Pollock 
Risk Committee Chair

Composition of the Committee
The Board confirms that all members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Mark Gregory joined the Committee on 1 April 2023 and Kory Sorenson 
retired from the Board on 30 June 2023. Further information on the experience, 
skills and competencies of the Committee members can be found on pages 64 to 67. 

Regular attendees include the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chair of the Life Companies Board Risk Committee, the 
Group CRO, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the Group Chief Actuary.  
The Chair meets regularly with the Group CRO to discuss priorities and track 
progress on key actions. 

Committee meetings and membership 
Under the Committee’s Terms of Reference, the Committee should meet at least five 
times a year. During 2023 there were eight formal meetings.

Member  
from

2023 meeting  
attendance

2023 %  
attendance

John Pollock

Belinda Richards1

Kory Sorenson2

Maggie Semple

Mark Gregory3

20 October 2016

1 October 2017

2 July 2019

1 September 2022

1 April 2023

8/8

7/8

5/5

8/8

6/6

100%

87.5%

100%

100%

100%

1 
2 
3 

 Belinda Richards was unable to attend a joint Audit and Risk Committee meeting due to attending a funeral. 
 Kory Sorenson retired from the Board on 30 June 2023. 
 Mark Gregory was appointed as a Director and became a member of the Risk Committee on 1 April 2023. 

Committee gender

Male 
Female 

50%
50%

8

Number of Committee  
meetings held this year  
(including ad hoc)

The Committee  
has remained 
conscious of  
high-profile cyber 
security incidents 
that continue to 
impact corporates 
globally.

Role of the Committee 
The Committee is responsible for oversight 
of risk by assessing the effectiveness of the 
Group’s Risk Management Framework, risk 
strategy, risk appetite and profile; risk culture, 
the methodology used in determining the 
Group’s capital requirements and stress 
testing these requirements; assessing the 
adequacy of the Group’s system of non-
financial reporting controls and compliance 
with regulatory requirements. The Committee 
advises the Board on all high-level risk matters. 

Following each meeting, the Chair provides 
a summary of discussions and outcomes and, 
where relevant, makes recommendations to the 
Board on matters such as the Annual Operating 
Plan, specific investment limits, ORSA and 
Final and Interim dividends in line with the 
Committee’s Terms of Reference, which can 
be found at www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

Overview of the year

Key Committee activities during 2023

Monitoring the risks created by the macro-economic environment, particularly capital and liquidity risks.

Oversight of conduct risk and the implementation of regulations in relation to Consumer Duty.

The application of the Group’s Risk Management Framework which is reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval.

Monitoring the implementation of IFRS 17.

Assessing the risks in relation to the Group publishing its Net Zero Transition Plan.

Maintaining operational resilience through stress testing. 

2024 focus 

Continue oversight of capital and liquidity.

Maintain oversight over the implementation of regulations on Consumer Duty.

Monitor legal and regulatory developments in relation to anti-greenwashing and the impact on Group practices.

Continue to monitor the Group’s control environment.

Oversight of change across the Group.

Committee review 
The 2023 effectiveness review was facilitated by an external  
Board Reviewer. The review concluded that the Committee is 
functioning effectively, with both the Chair and Group CRO  
leading strong discussions and providing detailed insight into the 
business. However, the Board Reviewer did identify a few areas of 
enhancement by the Committee and these are highlighted below: 

Action 1

Action 2

Drive improvements in  
the quality of papers to 
ensure they are on time  
and more succinct.

To ensure that 
supplementary papers are 
clearly signposted so that 
members are clear on what 
they should read and why.

100

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

101

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceAudit, risk and internal controls continued
Risk Committee report

Outcomes from Risk Committee discussions: 
On an annual basis, a review of the Committee’s activities is undertaken. In 2023, it was concluded that all elements of responsibility detailed  
in the Committee’s Terms of Reference had been addressed. An overview of some of the key activities undertaken during the year and the way  
in which they contributed to important outcomes are detailed in the following table:  

Key activities

Key Committee activity

Outcome 

Regular reporting. 

Operational and conduct risk 

Change delivery, project update and 
operational capacity. 

Following changes to the membership of the Model Governance Committee, it was decided 
that the Chair of that Committee should attend each meeting to provide an update and answer 
any questions from members. 

Following the set-up of the Transformation Advisory Group (‘TAG’), the Committee requested 
that a summary of the TAG meetings be presented at the next possible Committee meeting. 
The first TAG update was provided in November 2023. 

Cyber risk, data protection and AI.

Following the rise of AI and its usage across the industry, the Committee requested a deep 
dive on AI, its opportunities and risks. 

Customer and conduct risk. 

Financial and strategic risk

Liquidity risk.

Climate and sustainability risk. 

Risk Management Framework 

Risk appetite review and oversight.

The Committee requested a deep dive on Consumer Duty and the preparation that had been 
undertaken to ensure that Phoenix Group will meet the requirements. This presentation was 
delivered to the Board in October 2023. 

Following industry liquidity stress tests in September/October 2022, the Company 
commissioned an external review of the liquidity management framework across the  
Group. These recommendations were presented to the Committee in June 2023 and  
the Committee requested a standing agenda item until such time that the recommendations 
were implemented. 

Noting the rise in climate litigation and the introduction of anti-greenwashing regulations,  
the Committee requested that a deep dive on reputational risk be provided to better 
understand the potential impact on the Company. This was delivered in May 2023.

The Committee requested to receive regular updates as the proposed improvements were 
implemented to ensure continued focus on risk appetite. This will be actioned in 2024. 

Group CRO report
At each meeting, the Committee receives 
a formal report from the Group CRO 
which highlights key factors impacting the 
Group’s operating environment as well 
as an assessment of emerging risks. The 
review includes analysis of risks arising 
from the macro-economic outlook and 
conditions in financial markets, together 
with geopolitical, legislative and regulatory 
change risks that may impact the Group 
and its customers as well as risks associated 
with the implementation of the Group’s 
business strategy. A summary of the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group can be found on pages 50 to 57. 

Cyber risk
The Committee has remained conscious of 
high-profile cyber security incidents that 
continue to impact corporates globally, 
driven by the use of destructive malware 
and ransomware. The Group is continually 
improving its controls, attack detection 
and response processes, identifying 
weaknesses through ongoing assessment 
and review. Supplier-related cyber attacks 
were detailed to the Committee through 
the Group CRO report along with the 
oversight and assurance processes in place 
to mitigate the impact on the Group. 

In 2023, the Committee received two cyber 
security updates which covered the threat 
landscape; cyber awareness and defence; 
and actions being undertaken to support 
and continually improve Phoenix Group’s 
security culture. The Committee found this 
session extremely informative and, as such, 
another session will be presented to the 
Board as part of its continued education 
in 2024. For more information on the 
classification of cyber risk and the controls 
in place to monitor and mitigate the impact 
on the business, please see page 55. 

Climate risk
The Committee remained cognisant of the 
continued prevalence of climate risk and the 
need to ensure collaboration across Board 
Committees. The Terms of Reference of the 
Audit, Risk and Sustainability Committees 
divide accountability for oversight and 
monitoring of work undertaken. During 2023, 
the Risk Committee received climate risk 
updates as well as reviewing disclosures in 
the Sustainability Report and Climate Report, 
which can be found on the Company’s website. 
The Committee worked in close collaboration 
with the Sustainability Committee on the 
Group’s first Net Zero Transition Plan.  
The Committee also remained vigilant in 
relation to anti-greenwashing and ensured 
that the Group’s labelling of investment funds 
was appropriate for future compliance. 

Individual responsibility for ensuring 
appropriate identification, assessment, 
management and reporting of 
climate-related financial risks and 
opportunities that could impact the Group  
sits with the Group’s CFO and CRO,  
both appointed as joint Senior Managers 
responsible for climate-related financial risk 
under the PRA and FCA’s Senior Managers 
and Certification Regime. 

Consumer Duty 
The Committee received regular updates in 
the delivery phase of the Group’s Consumer 
Duty plans, assessments of fair value and 
improvements to the customer journey. 
Updates were also provided by the Chair of 
the Life Companies Board Risk Committee as 
to the work being undertaken by subsidiaries 
to ensure that the customers’ best interests 
remain at the heart of decision-making at 
every level of the organisation. This focus 
and vigilance will continue into 2024. 

John Pollock 
Chair of the Risk Committee

Connectivity with principal subsidiaries 
and relevant Committees 
During 2023, the Committee continued to 
actively engage with principal subsidiaries 
and relevant Committees to keep abreast 
of key workstreams and to monitor the 
principal risks relevant to the Group. 
Examples of this engagement include: 

•

•

the Chair of the Life Companies Board 
Risk Committee attending all meetings 
to provide update on discussions such as 
Consumer Duty and the Internal Model; 

the Chair of the Risk Committee of 
Standard Life International Dac attending 
two meetings to provide formal updates 
to the Committee; 

• a member of the Model Governance 
Committee attending all meetings to 
provide updates on discussions to the 
Committee; and

•

the Chair of the Board Investment 
Committee attending on two occasions 
to provide an update on investment 
decision-making and oversight. 

This participation and connectivity 
promoted the sharing of information and 
best practices between the Group and its 
subsidiaries and allows the Committee to 
appropriately assess a broad range of risks 
and their impact across all stakeholders. 
All interactions between the Group, its 
subsidiaries and other committees continue 
to further the Committee’s understanding 
of the risk profile of the Group’s principal 
subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive 
review and challenge by members. 

A set of Operating Principles are in  
place to define the responsibilities and 
accountabilities of all relevant subsidiary 
Committees and Boards to mitigate  
the overlap of focus or assurance  
activity and are reviewed annually  
to ensure they remain appropriate. 

See pages 94 and 107 of the Audit 
Committee report and Sustainability 
Committee report, respectively, for examples 
of collaborative governance between the 
Audit, Sustainability and Risk Committees.

102

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

103

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceThe Committee is 
delighted that the 
first edition of 
Phoenix Group’s  
Net Zero Transition 
Plan was published 
in May 2023.

Role of the Committee 
The Committee is responsible for assisting 
the Board in overseeing the Group’s 
sustainability strategy and related activity, 
and approach to ESG matters. 

Following each meeting, the Chair provides 
a summary of discussions, outcomes and 
where relevant, makes recommendations  
to the Board on matters such as the Group’s 
sustainability strategy, Net Zero Transition 
Plan and TCFD disclosures, in line with the 
Committee’s Terms of Reference, which can 
be found at www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

Sustainability governance 
Sustainability Committee report

Karen Green  
Sustainability Committee Chair

Composition of the Committee
The Board confirms that all of the members of the Committee are Independent  
Non-Executive Directors and have been selected to ensure cross-Board  
Committee membership to facilitate engagement on sustainability matters across 
the Group’s governance framework. Further information on the experience, skills 
and competencies of the Committee members can be found on pages 64 to 67.

Regular attendees at the Committee include the Chair of the Board, Group 
CEO, Group HR Director, Director of Corporate Affairs and Investor Relations 
and the Chief Sustainability Officer. During 2023, a nominated NED from 
the Phoenix Life Companies Board was also a standing attendee. 

Committee meetings and membership 
Under the Committee’s Terms of Reference, the Committee should meet at least five 
times a year. During 2023 there were six formal meetings. 

Member  
from

2023 meeting  
attendance

2023 %  
attendance

Karen Green (Chair) 

1 December 2020

Maggie Semple 

Nicholas Shott 

Kory Sorenson1

1 September 2022

1 December 2020

1 December 2020

1  Kory Sorenson retired from the Board on 30 June 2023. 

Committee gender

Male 
Female 

33%
67%

6/6

6/6

6/6

3/3

100%

100%

100%

100%

6

Number of Committee  
meetings held this year.

Overview of the year

Key Committee activities during 2023

Overseeing the Group’s aim to be a leader in sustainability.

Ensuring tangible, measurable progress against the Group’s sustainability strategy. 

Monitoring the development, publication and progress of the Group’s Net Zero Transition Plan. 

Supporting the Board and Board Audit Committee in respect of the Group’s sustainability related reporting e.g. TCFD.

Monitoring developments in sustainability and emerging best practice. 

Providing oversight of regulatory compliance and actions being taken to enhance the Group’s contribution to a more sustainable world.

2024 focus 

Continue to monitor the progress of the Group’s Net Zero Transition Plan.

Support and oversee thought leadership initiatives throughout the organisation.

Continue to monitor the Group’s culture and review key people metrics including diversity.

Activity related to closing the UK pension savings gap.

Continue to consider how the Group can further support customers using wider social initiatives.

Continue to review the ways in which wider macro-economic factors will impact customers and colleagues.

Oversee the development of the Group’s nature and biodiversity strategy.

Committee review
The 2023 effectiveness review was facilitated by an external Board Reviewer. The review concluded that  
the Committee is functioning very effectively. Members of the Committee agreed that the meetings are 
constructive, with all members demonstrating a high level of engagement in topics throughout the year.  
It was noted that the agenda remains well balanced with appropriate information and insight and the rolling 
schedule of education on sustainability-related matters and external perspective sessions is valued and 
increases knowledge of emerging best practice. The Board Reviewer identified the following areas  
of enhancement by the Committee and these are highlighted below:

Action 1

Action 2

Action 3

Maintain focus on how to 
help customers through 
retirement and ensuring 
Consumer Duty remains  
a key consideration  
in all discussions.

Continue to address current 
affairs and how they impact 
the organisation’s strategy  
and culture.

Consider whether training 
sessions should be held as 
strategic deep dives with 
consideration of impact  
on the Group strategy.

104

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

105

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceSustainability governance continued
Sustainability Committee report

Outcomes from Sustainability Committee discussions: 
On an annual basis, a review of the Committee’s activities is undertaken. In 2023, it was concluded that all elements of responsibility detailed in 
the Committee’s Terms of Reference had been addressed. In addition, all elements of the Group’s sustainability strategy are covered throughout 
the year. The sustainability strategy in 2023 was divided into ‘Planet’ and ‘People’ with key themes falling below each pillar. These themes were 
‘Investing in a sustainable future’, ‘Engaging people in better financial futures’ and ‘Building a leading responsible business’. An overview of some 
key activities undertaken during the year and the way in which they contributed to the sustainability strategy are detailed in the following table:

Key activities

Key Committee activity

Outcome 

Investing in a sustainable future

Multiple discussions on all aspects  
of stewardship and the Stewardship  
Code including: the Stewardship  
Report, proxy voting guidelines and 
asset management commitments. 

Review and consideration of the  
Group’s Net Zero Transition Plan.

Monitored progress against proposals  
for TNFD regulation.

Following rigorous challenge, the organisation was formally accepted as a signatory to the 
Stewardship Code in August 2023. 

Improved clarity following Committee challenge on managerial decisions for the pathway  
to decarbonising investments. The Committee requested further oversight of this aspect  
of the plan and its development, and this has become a standing agenda item in 2024. 

Following a presentation from the Co-Chair of The Taskforce on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (‘TNFD’), the Committee decided that close engagement with that organisation  
should continue to allow the Company to disclose against the regulations once finalised.  
The Committee will continue to oversee engagement throughout 2024. 

Engaging people in better financial futures 

Review and oversight of the Money  
Mindset digital platform, which provides  
a holistic financial wellness solution to 
Standard Life Workplace customers. 

Monitoring the ongoing work  
of Phoenix Insights.

As a result of several updates throughout the year, the Committee developed a deeper 
understanding of the technological products being developed within the Group  
to support consumers. 

In-depth understanding of areas of investigation for the Company and how these might be 
disclosed to better provide a future of possibilities for consumers. The Committee requested  
an annual update on the proposition of collaborating with other think tanks to progress research 
and initiatives. 

Oversight of the launch of the Midlife  
MOT, a colleague initiative to help  
members of the Group workforce plan  
for the future.

Following discussion and challenge, the Committee requested an investigation into the ways in 
which the product could be extended for those interested, and how engagement with the initiative 
would be sustained to make a long-term, meaningful difference. The 2024 Committee agenda will 
include an update on engagement and statistics around uptake, alongside a view on how this 
product could be extended to customers. 

Building a leading responsible business 

Oversight of the research phases of a  
proposed five-year Race and Ethnicity 
Action Plan which sets out the roadmap for 
how the Company will increase ethnicity 
representation at all levels of Phoenix Group 
and more broadly within financial services. 

Oversight of collaboration with a third-party 
consultancy to determine actions required  
to align to international best practice in  
human rights. 

The Committee discussed research into views on diversity and the introduction of a  
framework on cultural intelligence and fluency training. The Committee requested oversight  
of the development of the framework to ensure the intended cultural development was 
embedded and sustained. 

The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval the first Human Rights 
policy for the Group, which sets out commitments to respect human rights in alignment with the 
international framework of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 

More information about how the Company delivered against the specific pillars of the sustainability strategy can be found the Group’s 
Sustainability Report. This is available on the Company’s website at www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

The Committee also received education sessions as shown on pages 80 and 81. 

Connectivity with other 
relevant Committees 
The following joint Committees promoted 
the sharing of information and best 
practices. The Committees were able 
to review, approve and recommend for 
Board approval the following items:

Sustainability and Risk Committees 

• Net Zero Transition Plan – May 2023.

• Annual Report disclosures relating 
to climate and sustainability – 
February 2023.

Audit, Risk and Sustainability Committees

• Review of Year End 2023 Climate and 
Sustainability Reports – March 2024.

The Committee ensures that collaboration 
with other Board Committees (Audit 
and Risk) takes place to provide holistic 
challenge on publicly communicated 
targets and statistics and to monitor 
changes in climate risk. 

The Group’s CEO, Andy Briggs, regularly 
attends meetings to provide insight 
into executive decision making and 
assurance. The Group’s External Auditor, 
EY, provides external limited assurance 
on both TCFD data and the disclosures 
made in the Sustainability Report, which 
can be found on the Company’s website.

Net Zero Transition Plan 
The Committee is delighted that the 
first edition of Phoenix Group’s Net Zero 
Transition Plan was published in May 2023. 
The plan sets out the actions the Company 
will take on its journey to becoming net zero 
by 2050 and to support achievement of its 
stretching interim targets in 2025 and 2030 
across its investment portfolio, operations 
and supply chain. The plan helps to ensure 
that our decarbonisation strategy is aligned 
with our wider business objectives and to 
deliver the right outcomes for our customers. 

The Net Zero Transition Plan is in line  
with the latest industry guidance from the 
Transition Plan Taskforce and Glasgow 
Financial Alliance for Net Zero. However, 
it is important to acknowledge that related 
policy setting and global decarbonisation 
are still evolving and that the Group is in the 
early stages of its net zero transition. As such, 
our Net Zero Transition Plan will continue 
to be developed and refined with customer 
outcomes at the heart of all decision-making. 

Monitoring culture and the 
Employee Voice 
In accordance with Provision 5 of the  
2018 Code, the Board is required to  
maintain an effective mechanism to engage 
with the workforce. Committee member 
Maggie Semple is the Designated NED 
for Workforce Engagement and provides 
regular updates to the Committee and the 
Board on the outcomes of her interactions 
with the Phoenix Colleague Representation 

Forum (‘PCRF’) and the actions being 
undertaken as a result. This mechanism 
provides the Committee and the Board with 
an in-depth understanding of colleagues’ 
perspectives in relation to topics such as 
mental wellbeing, flexible working, diversity 
and inclusion and insights into the tone 
of the Group’s culture from the ground 
up. In 2023, the Committee noted that 
there should be more interaction with the 
workforce following Board discussions 
to communicate outcomes and to ensure 
that colleagues are aware that the Board 
takes concerns seriously. This is something 
that will be improved and made standard 
practice in 2024. More information on 
how Maggie Semple and other Board 
members engage with the workforce 
can be found on pages 108 to 110. 

The Committee also receives updates  
from the Group HR Director on people  
and culture metrics, which allows members 
to review the Group’s people strategy and 
to monitor culture. This dashboard includes 
information on turnover and absenteeism 
rates, employee surveys, whistleblowing and 
‘Speak Up’ data, and diversity and inclusion 
statistics. The Committee will continue 
to follow best practice guidance and to 
identify both qualitative and quantitative 
data that should be reviewed to assess the 
development of culture in the organisation. 

Karen Green
Chair of the Sustainability Committee

106

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

107

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceWorkforce engagement

Maggie Semple  
Designated Non-Executive Director 
for Workforce Engagement

Engagement in  
action – listening to 
the colleague voice

Our growth and success at Phoenix  
Group are down to our amazing 
colleagues. They drive our business 
performance and help us to achieve  
our purpose. Having regular engagement 
with colleagues is integral to our strategy  
and vision to be the best company  
that colleagues have ever worked for. 
Through regular two-way dialogue,  
the Board seeks to understand the issues 
that matter most to our colleagues.

Board engagement with colleagues
The Board sets the cultural tone for the 
organisation and seeks to engage with 
colleagues, both directly and indirectly, 
throughout the year. The Board recognises 
that colleagues are central to the achievement 
of our strategic priorities and the Group’s 
ability to provide customers and wider 
stakeholders with the best outcomes possible. 

Across 2023, the Phoenix Group Board 
members, including the Chair of the  
Group Board, myself and our Executive 
Directors, held two dedicated sessions  
as part of our Board agenda to meet with 
colleagues. We held these in May and 
November, and we invited targeted groups 
of individuals to join us in an open and 
transparent conversation so that we could 
hear first-hand their experiences of  
working at Phoenix Group. 

At our session in May, we met with  
17 members of the Group’s graduate 
programme, and the primary focus of  
our conversations were around career  
and leadership. We thoroughly enjoyed  
the dynamic attitudes of the graduates,  
and how comfortable they were in  
speaking up and sharing their thoughts.  
Our discussions showcased that our 
graduates have come from varied 
backgrounds with a wide plethora of 
degrees, and they valued the approach  
to the Phoenix Group graduate programme 
as it provided them with an opportunity  
to rotate into many different business areas, 
giving them lots of exciting opportunities  
and experiences. 

It’s insightful to have Maggie’s experience 
and fresh perspective on our people  
agenda items. Maggie’s input and challenge 
ensures we discuss items from a 360-degree 
perspective which results in in-depth 
discussions and tangible outcomes we  
can work towards together to benefit  
both colleagues and the business.

David Berry, PCRF Lead Rep, Operations.

A key learning on the day was the approach  
for managing ‘home’ seats, which is the  
first seat the graduate rotates into and,  
at the end of the programme, if they’ve  
not secured an alternative role they will  
be guaranteed a role in their home seat.  
On the surface of it, this sounded positive 
and gave job security to the graduates; 
however, they shared that they have limited 
choice in where they start their graduate 
career with us, and so often their home seat 
was not an area they wanted to return to.  
This learning from our engagement with the 
graduate programme was discussed at  
the Board. 

Outcome: was a management action  
set by the Board to review the approach  
to rotations and home seats, which is 
currently being considered by the Group. 
This would facilitate greater choice for  
the graduates when they come to the end  
of their two-year programme. 

Our Board session in November focused 
on the experiences of females in their 50s, 
with a focus on the working environment. 
This session was attended by 12 women 
from across the Group, covering many of 
our locations and our corporate grades. 
We had a very engaging conversation 
covering their experiences at Phoenix Group 
and previous roles. What was incredibly 
pleasing to hear was that many of the women 
in the room said that, at Phoenix Group, 
they didn’t feel like they were treated 
as a ‘stereotype’. They spoke positively 
and favourably about the support and 
importance that the Group has placed on 
critical areas such as menopause and carers. 

They were also supportive of the focus 
Phoenix Group and Phoenix Insights has 
been placing on later working life, through 
their research and reporting and through 
initiatives such as the Over 50s jobs fair 
and the colleague Midlife MOT, which 
has helped them to feel comfortable and 
confident of their futures with the Group.

Hearing the wider colleague voice
In addition to the two sessions held  
with the wider Board members this year,  
I have spent time with colleagues across 
our sites to hear more from them about 
their experiences at Phoenix Group. 

One of my key points of connection with 
colleagues has been meeting with the PCRF 
on a quarterly basis. This is an autonomous 
forum made up of colleague representatives 
from each of our functions. Our partnership 
with the PCRF enables us to have direct, 
honest and open discussions about strategic 
topics and how they impact colleagues. 

One topic of note which came up frequently  
in our discussions was the colleague 
understanding of the Phoenix Group reward 
framework. With the backdrop of the 
economic situation, this was a particularly 
important topic which colleagues wanted  
to speak about. Through my discussions with 
the PCRF, it was agreed with Sara Thompson, 
Group HR Director, that a more proactive 
approach to communicating updates on  
the reward framework would be shared  
with colleagues. 

Outcome: was a common theme when  
the Remuneration Committee completed  
its education session on the 2018 Code  
in October. Particular attention was given  
to Provision 41 relating to the impact of 
engaging with the wider workforce on 
Executive Directors’ Remuneration policy 
and outcome. From that education session 
and my feedback on the PCRF to the Board, 
the outcome was that I should join the 
Remuneration Committee as a member  
with effect from 1 January 2024. This would 
allow me to provide a better link between  
the PCRF on wider workforce remuneration 
matters and the Remuneration Committee. 
Changes to the Executive Directors’ 
Remuneration policy or discretion applied  
to their remuneration outcomes would also 
be better understood and communicated  
to the wider workforce through the PCRF. 

In addition to regularly meetings with  
the PCRF, I hear from the colleague-led 
networks and I have taken the opportunity  
to invite wider colleagues to informal 
meetings to enable them to share what  
is on their mind in the moment, including  
a trip to visit colleagues in Dublin to hear  
more from them. At this visit, I also informally 
met with the representatives from Unite. 
Through this discussion, I took away that  
they were looking for greater clarity and 
communication when strategic decisions 
were made affecting their work.  
This comment related to a decision on 
Phoenix Group’s strategic partnership  
with TCS Diligenta that had been taken  
in a previous year. I provided this feedback  
to the Board. 

Outcome: was for the Group to ensure that 
communication relating to strategic decisions 
is clear and well understood by colleagues 
and their relevant representative bodies.

108

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

109

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceWorkforce engagement continued

Directors’ Remuneration report

Reflecting on 2023
In my role as the Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement I get to witness 
the power of two-way conversation. I share 
regular feedback from my sessions with 
colleagues to the Board, which provides 
additional perspective and insights on 
colleagues and can lead to outcomes 
that improve the experience of our wider 
workforce at Phoenix Group. I share key 
aspects of our Board discussions with 
colleagues when I meet with them and ask 
for their opinions, again relaying these back 
to the Board for potential outcomes. I have 
also this year created a blog which I share 
with colleagues, focusing on topics that 
they have told me are important to them.

Continuing to develop two-way 
communication enables colleagues  
to be kept informed of how the Board is 
engaged in overseeing the development 
and execution of the Group’s strategy 
and enables the Board to stay connected 
to what is important to our colleagues 
and the impact of Board decisions. 

Maggie Semple
Designated NED for Workforce Engagement

Each quarter, our colleague-led forum, made  
up of the PCRF central team and colleague 
representatives from each UK business function, 
meet with Maggie Semple to discuss key themes 
we’re hearing from colleagues. Partnering together 
has resulted in enabling direct honest and open 
conversations, more frequent feedback, and 
continuous listening through a variety of channels. 
We’re also able to hear first-hand about the Board’s 
priorities and provide representation and insights 
from colleagues.

After the quarterly meetings, the PCRF shares  
the key themes and discussions from the meeting 
with colleagues. Maggie also shares feedback from 
these sessions with the Board, which has allowed  
it to gain additional perspective and insights on 
colleagues’ working lives and the colleague voice on 
Phoenix Group’s strategic priorities and initiatives.

Continuing to develop this two-way communication 
enables colleagues to be kept informed of how the 
Board is driving the Group, and connects the Board 
to what’s important to colleagues and how their 
decisions impact their working lives.

Steph Jones, PCRF Colleague Consultant.

Nicholas Shott 
Remuneration Committee Chair

Composition of the Committee
The Board confirms that all of the members of the Committee are Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Before Nicholas Shott was appointed Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee on 4 May 2023, he had served on the Committee  
since 2016. 

Regular attendees include the Group HR Director, Executive Reward Director,  
Group Reward Director, Group Company Secretary, Group Chief Executive Officer 
and external adviser, PwC LLP. The Group CRO also attends to discuss his report at 
Full Year and Half Year. The Chair meets regularly with the Executive Reward Director 
to discuss priorities and track key actions.

Committee meetings and membership 
Under the Committee’s Terms of Reference it should meet at least four times a year. 
During 2023 there were five formal meetings and one education session.

Member  
from

2023 meeting  
attendance

2023 %  
attendance

Nicholas Shott1

Kory Sorenson2 

Karen Green 

Belinda Richards

Maggie Semple3

20 October 2016

3July 2014

1 July 2017

2 July 2019

1 January 2024

5/5

3/3

5/5

5/5

–

100%

100%

100%

100%

–

1   Nicholas Shott became Chair of the Committee on 4 May 2023.
2 

 Kory Sorenson retired as Chair of the Committee at the close of the Annual General Meeting  
on 4 May 2023 and from the Board on 30 June 2023. 

3  Maggie Semple was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 January 2024. 

Committee gender

Male 
Female 

25%
75%

5

Committee meetings  
and one education  
session held in 2023

In my first year  
as Remuneration 
Committee chair, the 
Committee’s focus has 
been on implementing  
our new Policy to ensure 
that remuneration aligns 
with our purpose and 
strategic priorities and  
has regard to the wider 
stakeholder experience.

Role of the Committee 
The Committee is responsible for 
establishing, implementing, overseeing  
and reviewing the Group-wide Remuneration 
policy in the context of business strategy  
and changing risk conditions. This is 
consistent with Solvency II requirements.  
The Group-wide Remuneration policy 
focuses on ensuring sound and effective  
risk management so as not to encourage 
risk-taking outside of the Group’s risk 
appetite. The Committee ensures the 
remuneration of our Executive Officers 
is aligned to the Group’s purpose and 
values and that our wider workforce are 
also engaged and an overview is provided 
of executive remuneration. None of the 
Committee’s members has any personal 
financial interest (other than as shareholders), 
conflicts of interest arising from cross-
directorships or day-to-day involvement 
with running the business. The Committee’s 
Terms of Reference can be found at 
www.thephoenixgroup.com. No Director  
is involved with any discussion about their  
own remuneration. The Committee makes 
recommendations to the Group Board on  
the Remuneration policy and Shareholder 
Consultation every three years and on  
the Committee’s Terms of Reference. 

110

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

111

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Overview of the year

Key Committee activities during 2023

Approval of incentive outcomes for the 2022 AIP and 2020 LTIP.

Approval of remuneration for all colleagues within the Committee’s remit.

Consideration and approval of metrics for 2023 variable pay schemes to align with the Group’s evolving business strategy.

Full benchmarking exercise of remuneration undertaken for the Business Leadership population. 

2024 focus

Approval of incentive outcomes for 2023 AIP and 2021 LTIP.

Review the good leaver process as part of Phoenix Group’s review of its strategic requirements

Monitoring the take-up of all-employee plans.

Listening to the voice of the wider workforce through the appointment of Maggie Semple, the Board’s Designated NED for  
Workforce Engagement, to the Committee and through her work with the Phoenix Colleague Representation Forum (‘PCRF’).

Further review on the impact on remuneration and the work of the Committee now that the 2024 Code has been published.

Committee effectiveness
The 2023 effectiveness review was facilitated by an external Board 
Reviewer. The review concluded that the Committee is functioning 
effectively, though the Board Reviewer did not observe a regular 
meeting, as the October one was an education session. Nevertheless, 
the external Board Reviewer did suggest that the effectiveness could 
be enhanced by building on some of the practices that had already 
been put in place and these are highlighted to the right. 

Action 1

Action 2

The Chair had instigated a 
process of agreeing with the 
Committee what the priority 
items of focus would be  
for each meeting. This had 
worked well and would be 
maintained going forward.

To continue with the  
Chief Risk Officer’s (‘CRO’) 
report which was deemed  
to be best practice and  
to be commended in 
supporting the Committee’s 
consideration of variable 
remuneration adjustments 
for senior leadership.

Outcomes from Remuneration Committee discussions: 
On an annual basis, a review of the Committee’s activities is undertaken. In 2023, it was concluded that all elements of responsibility detailed  
in the Committee’s Terms of Reference had been addressed. An overview of some of the key activities undertaken during the year and the way  
in which they contributed to important outcomes is detailed in the following table: 

Key activities

Key Committee activity

Outcome 

Review of Executive Directors’ pay against  
wider workforce in line with 2023 and 2024  
proxy advisers’ reports. 

With effect from 1 April 2023 Executive Directors received a pay increase of 4%, 
compared to the wider workforce of 6%. For 2024 it was agreed the Executive Directors 
would receive no pay increase, compared to the pay budget for the wider workforce  
of 4.4%. Wider workforce increases will be applied with effect from 1 April 2024. 

Engagement with shareholders to explain  
and receive feedback on the 2023 Directors’ 
Remuneration policy. 

2023 Directors’ Remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGM on  
4 May 2023 with 98.8% of votes in favour by our shareholders and the 2023 Directors’ 
Remuneration report approved with over 99% of votes in favour by our shareholders.

Review of Full Year and Half Year 2023 CRO report. 

The CRO Reports provided positive guidance to individuals whose remuneration may 
require adjustment. 

Education session – Proposals under the 2024 UK 
Corporate Governance Code, wider workforce 
engagement and Consumer Duty.

Education session to become an annual event. 
A dashboard on wider workforce metrics to be provided at each education session. 
Maggie Semple joined the Committee with effect from 1 January 2024. Given her  
role as Designated NED for Workforce Engagement, she will be able to communicate 
the views of the wider workforce on pay and its alignment with Executive Directors’ 
remuneration to the Committee, as well as her deep ESG and sustainability knowledge. 

Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present my first  
Directors’ Remuneration Report as  
Chair of the Remuneration Committee  
(the ‘Committee’), having taken over the  
role from Kory Sorenson on 4 May 2023.  
On behalf of the Committee I should like  
to take this opportunity to thank Kory on 
behalf of the Committee for her work as 
Chair and, in particular, her work last year 
engaging with our shareholders over  
our new Directors’ Remuneration policy 
(‘Policy’), which received 98.8% support  
at the 2023 AGM.

Summary of the year
Phoenix has again performed well in 2023,  
as we continued to execute against our 
strategy priorities, and which has supported 
strong financial results across our financial 
framework of cash, capital and earnings.

We have delivered over £2 billion of cash 
generation in 2023, supported by strong 
business performance and the impact of the 
Part VII transfer of Standard Life and Phoenix 
Life. Our organic growth continues at pace, 
with new business net fund flows increasing 
72% year-on-year, which helped to support 
us in delivering £1.5bn of new business 
long-term cash generation. This means  
we have achieved our 2025 new business 
long-term cash target two years early, 
reflecting the focus and investment we have 
put into our growth strategy. Our balance 
sheet also remains resilient with a Solvency II 
(‘SII’) surplus of £3.9 billion and Shareholder 
Capital Coverage Ratio of 176%. Our IFRS 
earnings have also improved during the year, 
with adjusted operating profit before tax 
increasing 13% year-on-year to £617m.

Executive remuneration outcomes for 2023
Based on its assessment of the corporate 
metrics, the Committee determined that  
the Annual Incentive Plan (‘AIP’) outcome 
should be 78.2% of the maximum opportunity.  
This outcome was driven by exceptional  
cash generation performance in the year, 
which benefited from particularly strong 
management actions delivery including  
the completion of one of the largest UK 
insurance Part VII transfers ever completed, 
with the funds merger of the Standard Life 
and Phoenix Life businesses into Phoenix Life 
Limited. With regard to the achievements 
under the Strategic Scorecard which 
represents 20% of the Executive Directors’ 
AIP, the Committee determined outcomes 
should be 69.0% for Andy Briggs and 69.8% 
for Rakesh Thakrar. This results in a formulaic 
outcome of 76.4% and 76.5% respectively  
of the maximum AIP opportunity. 

Each year the Committee reviews the  
AIP outcomes in the context of the Group’s 
management of risk, overall business 
performance and the broader stakeholder 
experience. In reviewing the 2023 AIP 
outcome, the Committee considered the 
delays faced during the year relating to  
the IFRS 17 project. As Group CFO, Rakesh 
Thakrar had the principal responsibility for 
delivering the project in a timely manner,  
so the Committee decided it was appropriate 
to use its discretion to reduce his AIP 
outcome by £75k (10%).

Andy Briggs recognises that, as Group CEO, 
he has ultimate accountability for all projects, 
including IFRS 17. Accordingly, in discussion 
with the Committee, he suggested – and the 
Committee agreed – that he should forgo 
£50k (4%) of his AIP outcome.

As a result of these discretionary adjustments, 
overall outcomes under the AIP were 73.4% 
of maximum for the Group CEO, and 69.0% 
of maximum for the Group CFO.

The 2021 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
award covering the years 2021–2023 was 
based on Net Operating Cash Receipts, 
Return on Shareholder Value, Persistency, 
and Relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’). 
The overall vesting outcome is 41.1% of the 
maximum opportunity. Further details are  
set out on page 122.

The resulting single total figure of remuneration 
for Andy Briggs is £2,901k and for Rakesh 
Thakrar is £1,543k. Full details are set out  
on page 121.

Updated metrics to align remuneration 
with our evolving strategy
The Committee approved a number of 
changes to the metrics for the AIP and LTIP  
in 2024 to ensure continued alignment  
to business priorities.

For the 2024 AIP, the Committee has 
decided to replace the Incremental  
New Business Long-Term Cash Generation 
(less strain) plus Own Funds impacting 
management actions metric with a New 
Business Contribution (‘NBC’) metric.  
NBC is a measure of the day one value  
of writing new business on a discounted 
basis. The metric is more aligned to peer 
disclosures and reflects feedback from  
the market over a preference for the use  
of a discounted metric within the business.  
A new Cost Savings metric will also be 
included which reflects the criticality of 
reducing our cost base in order to improve 
performance across our financial metrics. 
The targets are aligned to those defined as 
part of our strategic cost review. The Open 
Net Flows metric that was used in 2023  
to incentivise growth in our Pensions and 
Savings business will now be a Group  
Net Flows metric, which aligns with our 
external reporting and supports our focus  
on improving overall Group net funds flows.  
No changes are proposed to the definitions 
or weightings of our Customer metrics in  
the AIP assessment. 

For the 2024 LTIP, the Group In-force  
Long Term Free Cash metric will be  
replaced by a Return on Capital metric to 
provide a measure of the efficiency of the 
Company’s use of capital. The Persistency 
metric in the previous year’s LTIP will be 
replaced by a Cumulative Net Flows metric, 
which demonstrates our commitment to 
incentivising growth in new business and 
retention of existing business. Following  
a significant reduction in emissions from 
operations, the Decarbonisation from 
Operations metric (10% weighting) will be 
replaced by a Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
metric measuring ethnicity representation 
amongst our senior leadership population. 

Consistent with previous years, targets have 
been set with reference to the Group Annual 
Operating Plan and maximum payouts will 
only be delivered in the event of exceptional 
performance. The LTIP targets are disclosed 
prospectively on page 127.

112

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

113

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Implementation of pay in 2024
The Committee decided that there will  
be no increase to the base salary of either 
Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar in 2024. 
The Company continues to target increases 
to more junior and lower paid colleagues  
this year with a pay award budget of 4.4%. 
Further details on how we implement pay for 
the wider workforce is set out on page 133.

Looking forward
I hope that the implementation of pay as set 
out in this report will meet our shareholders’ 
expectations and will receive a favourable 
voting outcome in the resolution proposed  
at the 2024 AGM. I would welcome any 
comments you may have on this report  
as I begin my first full year as Chair of  
the Committee. 

Nicholas Shott
Remuneration Committee Chair
21 March 2024

Consistent with the approach for executive 
directors, there will be no increases to 
Non-Executive Director base fees in 2024. 
The Chair’s fee was last reviewed in August 
2021 with the next review due to take place  
in August 2024. For simplicity, it has been 
decided not to proceed with the review in 
2024 and instead to consider the Chair’s  
fee at the same time as the annual review  
of Non-Executive Director fees from 2025, 
which is normally in quarter one.

Annual Incentive Plan

2023

Total Cash
Generation1
24%

 Incremental New Business 
Long-term Cash Generation 
(less strain) plus Own Funds 
impacting management actions
24%

Corporate element

Pension &
Savings Net 
Flows – 
Workplace
& Retail2
12%

Customer
Experience
20%

Strategic
Scorecard
20%

Deferral 50%
for a period
of 3 years

2024

Total Cash
Generation
16%

New Business
Contribution
16%

Cost
Savings
16%

Group
Net Flows
12%

Customer
Experience
20%

Strategic
Scorecard
20%

Deferral 50%
for a period
of 3 years

Long Term Incentive Plan

Corporate element

2023

Net Operating
Cash Receipts
20%

Group In-force
Long-Term Free Cash
20%

Relative TSR
20%

Persistency
20%

Decarbonisation
20%

2024

Net Operating
Cash Receipts
20%

Return 
on Capital 
20%

Relative TSR
20%

Cumulative
Net Flows
20%

Decarbon-
isation –
Investment
Portfolio
10%

Diversity
and
Inclusion
10%

 Total Cash Generation was previously referred to as Cash Generation.

1 
2  Pensions and Savings Net Flows – Workplace and Retail was previously referred to as Open (Pensions and Savings ) Net Flows.

Remuneration at a glance

Overview

Remuneration structure

Alignment to purpose and strategy

Base salary
Base salaries are reviewed each year against companies of similar 
size and complexity. 
Pension
Competitive employer sponsored defined contribution pension 
plan with contributions at the same level as the wider workforce.
Benefits
Market competitive benefits are provided in a consistent manner 
with the wider workforce.
Annual Incentive Plan
AIP to motivate employees and incentivise delivery of annual 
performance targets aligned to strategy.
Long Term Incentive Plan
LTIP to motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained 
performance over the long-term in line with our strategy and 
purpose, and to promote alignment with shareholders’ interests.

Statement of intent
The Committee adopts a simple and transparent approach  
to remuneration to support the Group’s purpose, values and 
strategic priorities, in order to ensure the sustainability of the 
business. When setting the remuneration for Executive Directors, 
the Committee carefully considers wider workforce pay across 
the whole organisation.

Company performance snapshot

78.2%

Outturn of 2023 AIP 

41.1%

Outturn of 2021 LTIP

Our Remuneration policy is designed to align to our purpose and 
focused on the delivery of our strategy and long-term value creation 
for our stakeholders.  

Our variable pay plans ensure remuneration outcomes are directly 
aligned to our core strategic priorities as shown on page 117 and to 
deliver long-term sustainable value. A significant portion of Executive 
remuneration is delivered in shares and deferred for up to five years.

Our purpose

Helping people secure 
a life of possibilities

Our strategy

Grow

People

Optimise

Planet

Enhance

Building a  
sustainable  
business 

Pay for performance
A material portion of total remuneration is based on variable  
pay (c.80% of total maximum remuneration for the Group CEO  
and Group CFO). Performance targets are set with reference to 
Annual Operating Plan (‘AOP’) and consensus such that maximum 
payouts can only be achieved for exceptional performance.  
Under the maximum scenario, over 63% of the Group’s CEO 
maximum remuneration is delivered in shares, deferred for three 
years under the DBSS and subject to a combined vesting and  
holding period of 5 years for LTIP. This ensures strong alignment 
between Executive Directors and shareholders. 

 For more information  
see page 118

114

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

115

Corporate governanceCorporate governance 
 
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Remuneration at a glance

2023 at a glance

Remuneration for 2023

 2023 single figure
The outcomes under the AIP and LTIP 
resulted in a single figure outcome  
for Andy Briggs of £2.901m and  
for Rakesh Thakrar of £1.543m.  
Further details are on page 119.

CEO total pay

£2.9m

CFO total pay

£1.5m

Group CEO 
Fixed vs variable pay (% weighting)

Group CFO 
Fixed vs variable pay (% weighting)

£739k

£289k

£836k

Fixed Pay
32%

Variable Pay
68%

£11k
£88k

Fixed Pay
37%

Variable Pay
63%

£1,227k

Fixed pay 
Salary 
Beneﬁts  
Pension 
Variable pay 

AIP 
LTIP 

£689k

32%
29%
0%
3%
68%
42%
25%

Fixed pay 
Salary 
Beneﬁts  
Pension 
Variable pay 

AIP 
LTIP 

£500k

£11k
£54k

37%
32%
1%
3%
63%
45%
19%

Share ownership guidelines (‘SOGs’)

A significant proportion of Executive 
remuneration is delivered in shares which  
are released over a period of five years.  
In combination with our shareholding  
guidelines, this aligns Executive Directors  
with shareholders over the long-term.  
As at 31 December 2023, shareholdings  
for Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar are  
shown to the right.

Further details on SOGs, including  
post-cessation requirements are included  
in the Remuneration policy on page 140.  
The SOGs increased from 2023 under  
the new Remuneration policy.

Group CEO

Group CFO

Shareholding guideline
Shares held at 31 December 2023

384%

350%

300%

268%

Group CEO

Group CFO

SOGs percentages shown for Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar include the value of shares held based on a share 
price of £5.352 (as at close of business on 29 December 2023). Shares included are those shares held directly and 
beneficially, any vested LTIP awards that have not been exercised and unvested Deferred Bonus Share Scheme 
options taking into account tax liabilities.

2023 AIP weighted performance outturn

Total AIP out of maximum opportunity

Group CEO 

Group CFO

2024 at a glance

Group CEO

73.4%

Group CFO

69.0%

The above figures and charts opposite reflect AIP outcomes after 
discretionary adjustment (see page 120 to 121 for further details).

utturn 13.8 %

 O

O

uttu

r
n 2

4
.

0

%

20%
weighting

24%
weighting

%

utturn 14.0

 O

O

uttu

r
n 2

4

.

0

%

20%
weighting

24%
weighting

Total Cash Generation1
Incremental New Business Long-term Cash   
Generation (less strain) plus Own Funds   
impacting management actions
Pension & Savings Net Flows – Workplace & Retail2
Customer Experience
Strategic Scorecard

1  Previously referred to as Cash Generation. 
2  Previously referred to as Open (Pensions and Savings ) Net Flows.

2021 LTIP weighted performance outturn

Total LTIP

Group CEO

41.1%

Group CFO

41.1%

(See page 122 for further details).

Net Operating Cash Receipts
Return on Shareholder Value
Persistency
Relative TSR

O

u

t

t

u

r

n

8

.
8

%

20%
weighting

12%
weighting

  Outturn 5.8%   

24%
weighting

% 

   O utturn 24.0

O

u

t

t

u

r

n

8

.
8

%

20%
weighting

12%
weighting

  Outturn 5.8% 

24%
weighting

%

   O utturn24.0

O

u

t

t

u

r

n

3

5

.

0

%

  Outtur n  0 . 0 %

20%
weighting

35%
weighting

20%
weighting

O

u

t

t

u

r

n

6

.1

%

25%
weighting

Outtu r n   0 . 0 %

Alignment to strategy
This table demonstrates how each of our performance measures for AIP and LTIP align with the Group’s strategic priorities. 

Performance measures 2024

AIP

Total Cash Generation

New Business Contribution

Cost Savings

Group Net Flows

Customer Experience

Strategic Scorecard

LTIP

Net Operating Cash Receipts

Return on Capital

Relative TSR

Cumulative Net Flows

Diversity and Inclusion

Decarbonisation – Investment Portfolio

Strategic priorities

  Grow

  Optimise

  Enhance

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

All employees, with the exception of certain colleagues in our Asset Management function, participate in a common incentive plan ensuring 
consistency of corporate goals and individual performance management. Certain colleagues in our growth centres have additional functional 
metrics, and our Asset Management colleagues participate in a separate bonus plan more aligned to their external market.

116

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

117

Corporate governanceCorporate governance 
         
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Remuneration at a glance

Alignment to shareholders
Our Executive remuneration is designed to align with shareholder interests to deliver long-term sustainable value. The diagram below shows  
how a significant portion of Executive remuneration under the Remuneration policy is delivered in shares and deferred for up to five years. 
Under the maximum scenario, over 63% of the Group CEO’s maximum remuneration is delivered in shares. 

LTIP
CEO – 275%
CFO – 200%

AIP
CEO – 200%
CFO – 200%

Pension
CEO – 12%
CFO – 12%
Beneﬁts

Salary
CEO – £844k
CFO – £504k

Maximum

3 year performance period

Shares vest

2 year
holding
period 

Shares released

1 year performance period

50% awarded
in cash 

50% awarded
in shares

3 year deferral period

Shares vest

Shares vest

Pension
CEO – 12%
CFO – 12%
Beneﬁts

Salary
CEO – £844k
CFO – £504k

2024  

2025  

2026  

2027  

2028  

2029

Scenario charts
Group CEO – Andy Briggs
£000

Total ﬁxed pay
AIP
LTIP
Share price growth 
and dividends

6,129

19%

38%

4,964

47%

2,219
19%
38%

43%

34%

28%

19%

15%

944

100%

Group CFO – Rakesh Thakrar
£000

Total ﬁxed pay
AIP
LTIP
Share price growth 
and dividends

3,101

16%

33%

2,593

39%

1,332
20%
38%

43%

39%

33%

22%

18%

567
100%

Minimum

On-target

Maximum

Maximum 
with growth

Minimum

On-target

Maximum

Maximum 
with growth

Name
Andy Briggs 
Rakesh Thakrar

Base salary 
£000
844
504

Benefits 
£000
10
10

Pension 
£000
90
53

Total fixed 
£000
944
567

Minimum

Consists of base salary, benefits and pension:
• Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2024. 
• Benefits measured as benefits to be paid in 2024.
• Pension measured as the full entitlement of approximately 10.6% of base salary receivable (after the reduction to payments made 

in cash for employers’ National Insurance Contributions).

On-target

Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was on-target:
• AIP: consists of the on-target annual incentive (100% of base salary).
• LTIP: consists of the threshold level of vesting (50% of base salary for Group CEO and Group CFO). 

In addition, the potential value of ShareSave and Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) participation is also recognised.

Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable:

• AIP: consists of the maximum annual incentive (200% of base salary).
• LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards and valued as on the date of grant (award of 275% of base salary for Group CEO and 200% 

of base salary for Group CFO). ShareSave and SIP valued on the same basis as in the on-target row.

Maximum 
with  
Growth

Based on the maximum remuneration receivable assuming share price growth of 50%:
• AIP: consists of the maximum annual incentive (200% of base salary).
• LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards and valued as on the date of grant (award of 275% of base salary for Group CEO and 200% 

of base salary for Group CFO) and assumes 50% share price growth. ShareSave and SIP valued on the same basis as in the on-target row.

Annual report on remuneration 
This section of the Directors’ Remuneration report sets out the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2023. It contains the annual 
report on remuneration which forms part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report to be proposed for approval by the Group’s 
shareholders at the Group’s 2024 AGM on 14 May 2024.

Introduction
This report contains the material required to be set out as the Directors’ Remuneration report (‘Remuneration report’) for the purposes of  
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 (as amended) (‘the DRR regulations’).

Directors’ Remuneration policy
A summary of the Remuneration policy approved by the shareholders at the 2023 AGM is set out on pages 136 to 140 of this Remuneration 
report. The full policy can be found on the company’s website and on pages 118 to 126 of the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts. 

Implementation report – Audited information 

Single Figure Table

Salary/fees1,2

Benefits3

Pension4

Total  
fixed pay

Annual  
incentive5

Long-term  
incentives

Total  
variable pay

Total

£000

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

20236

20227 
(restated)

20227 
(restated)

2023

20227 
(restated)

2023

Executive  
Directors
Andy 
Briggs
Rakesh 
Thakrar

836

809

500

471

11

11

11

13

88

54

85

935

905 1,227 1,053

739 1,154 1,966 2,207 2,901 3,112

50

565

534

689

601

289

441

978 1,042 1,543 1,576

1  Andy Briggs’ salary increased to £844,480 with effect from 1 April 2023. Rakesh Thakrar’s salary increased to £504,400 with effect from 1 April 2023. 
2 
3 

 The Executive Directors are entitled to adjust their salary/benefit combination under flexible benefits arrangements and the figures shown are before individual elections.
 Benefits for Executive Directors include car allowance, private medical insurance, other taxable allowances, ShareSave and matching shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan.  
No individual benefit provided has a value which is significant enough to warrant separate disclosure. 
 Executive Directors are entitled to each receive a Company pension contribution of 12% which may be paid as a cash supplement, reduced for the effect of employers’ National Insurance 
Contributions. Andy Briggs received his whole contribution as a cash supplement (10.6%) and Rakesh Thakrar received a combination of cash supplement and contribution (10.8%).  
No Director participated in a defined benefit pension arrangement in the year and none have any prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension arrangement.
 Annual incentive amounts are presented inclusive of any amounts which must be deferred into shares for three years and which are subject to continued employment (i.e. 50% of the AIP award  
for 2023). In 2023 £613,644 of Andy Briggs’s incentive payment is subject to three-year deferral delivered in shares (2022: deferral of £526,416), and £344,706 of Rakesh Thakrar’s incentive payment 
is subject to a similar deferral (2022: deferral of £300,280). 
 The 2023 value for long-term incentives is an estimate of the vesting outcomes for LTIP awards granted in 2021 which are due to vest once the Full Year results are announced. This vesting level  
is at 41.1% reflecting outcomes against the Net Operating Cash Receipts, Return on Shareholder Value, Persistency and Relative TSR performance measures to 31 December 2023 (see page 122). 
This vesting outcome is then applied to the average share price between 2 October 2023 and 29 December 2023 (478.621 pence) to produce the estimated long-term incentives figures shown  
for 2023 in the above table. The assumptions will be trued up for actual share price at the day of vesting in the Directors’ Remuneration report for 2024. For Andy Briggs, the disclosed LTIP figure  
of £739k comprises the disclosed LTIP figure of £587,837 for the value of the proportion of the original LTIP award which ultimately vested, plus the value of dividend roll-up on those shares  
of £150,679. All values are calculated using the three-month average share price to 29 December 2023 (478.621 pence). For Rakesh Thakrar, the disclosed LTIP figure of £289k comprises the 
disclosed LTIP figure of £229,791 for the value of the proportion of the original LTIP award which ultimately vested, plus the value of dividend roll-up on those shares of £58,899. No portion  
of the awards for Andy or Rakesh related to share price appreciation.
 For 2020’s LTIP awards which are reflected in the 2022 long-term incentives column above, the performance conditions were met as to 44.3% of maximum. The 2022 long-term incentives values in 
the above table reflect the value of the Company’s shares on the date of vesting which was 13 March 2023 (598.4 pence per share) multiplied by the number of shares vesting whereas the equivalent 
figure within the published 2022 Single Figure Table was an estimate which reflected the average share price between 1 October 2022 and 31 December 2022 (570.5 pence per share) and certain 
assumptions regarding the cumulative value of dividends on the number of shares vesting. 

4 

5 

6 

7 

118

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

119

Corporate governanceCorporate governance 
 
Directors’ Remuneration report continued

AIP outcomes for 2023 – Audited information
The overall weightings between Corporate measures and Strategic Scorecard for AIP in 2023 were:

• 80% – Corporate (financial and customer) performance measures.

• 20% – Strategic Scorecard (strategic company priorities).

As described in the Remuneration policy, 50% of 2023 AIP outcomes will be delivered as an award of deferred shares under the DBSS which  
will vest after a three-year deferral period subject to continued employment or good leaver status.

Corporate (financial and customer) performance measures
The Corporate (financial and customer) measures represent 80% of the overall incentive opportunity. The table below details the outcome 
against the measures and targets that were agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year.

Performance measure
Total Cash Generation (£m)1
Incremental New Business Long-Term Cash  
Generation (less strain) plus Own Funds impacting 
management actions (£m) 
Pensions and Savings Net Flows – Workplace  
and Retail (£m)2
Customer Satisfaction – Telephony (%)3
Customer Satisfaction – Digital (%)4
Service Levels (Demand Processed) (%)5 
Complaints Resolved in < 3 days (%)6
Total of Corporate element 

2023 performance targets and outcomes

Threshold 
 performance 
level of  
2023 AIP
1,300

Target 
 performance  
level for  
2023 AIP
1,400

Maximum 
 performance 
level for 
2023 AIP
1,500

Performance  
level attained 
for 2023 
 AIP
2,024

% of 
Corporate 
element  
based on 
 performance 
 measure
30.00%

% 
achieved
30.00%

905

1,091

1,277

1,595

30.00%

30.00%

2,742
86%
92%
88%
33%

3,142
88%
94%
90%
35%

3,542
90%
96%
92%
37%

3,130
87%
93%
91%
35%

15.00%
6.25%
6.25%
6.25%
6.25%
100%

7.28%
1.56%
1.56%
4.69%
3.13%
78.22%

1  Total Cash Generation was previously referred to as Cash Generation 
2  Pensions and Savings Net Flows – Workplace and Retail was previously referred to as Open (Pensions and Savings ) Net Flows.
3 

 Customer Feedback scores as reported through a survey following telephony service, where customers can rate us between 1–5. The approach is now consistent across each platform/entity for 2023. 
The target was reduced from 91% in 2022 to 88% in 2023 in light of implementing this consistent survey approach across Phoenix Group; the Committee was satisfied the targets remained 
equivalently stretching to prior years.
 Customer Satisfaction scores as gathered immediately following Customer Digital journeys, where customers can rate their experience between 1–5. For Standard Life, all transactional journeys for 
which feedback is live on our secure site including all transactional journeys for which feedback is live on our mobile app. For Phoenix Life, encashment journey for which survey is live on MyPhoenix.
 Percentage of all back-office manual workflow completed within service level (services levels vary across entities). Across entities this includes Claims & Servicing, with Standard Life also including 
new business acquisition and straight through processing. The target was reduced from 92% in 2022 to 90% in 2023 to align with our in-house manpower model and contractual agreements with 
OSPs which have a 90% target; the Committee was satisfied the targets remained equivalently stretching to prior years.
 Percentage of complaints that were closed within three days of the date of receipt.

4 

5 

6 

Total Cash generation in 2023 benefitted from particularly strong management actions delivery including the completion of one of the largest 
UK insurance Part VII transfers ever completed, with the funds merger of the Standard Life and Phoenix Life businesses into Phoenix Life Limited. 
The Part VII transfer created additional free surplus within our life companies through the realisation of the diversification benefit, which enabled 
the Group to significantly increase total cash generation in 2023.

Incremental New Business Long-Term Cash Generation (less strain) plus Own Funds impacting Management Actions benefitted from a  
strong year of organic growth and management actions delivery. Our organic growth was supported by targeted participation in a growing  
BPA market, and strong growth in our Workplace business, as we retain our existing schemes and win new schemes in the market.

As described in the Committee Chair’s covering letter (page 113), Phoenix has achieved strong financial and non-financial performance and 
progress on key strategic objectives during the year. The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration outcomes for 2023 are an appropriate 
reflection of the year’s business performance and its trajectory providing strong alignment between pay and performance and with appropriate 
regard to both the management of risk within our incentives and the broader stakeholder experience. Prior to confirming the outcomes for  
the 2023 AIP, the Committee reviewed in detail the extent to which the Group had operated within its stated risk appetite during the year and 
determined that no moderation of the 2023 formulaic outcome was necessary. Separately, the Committee made individual adjustments to the 
AIP outcomes which are set out on page 121.

Whilst the performance measures for the 2024 AIP have been disclosed (see Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2024 on page 126),  
the actual performance targets for these measures are regarded as commercially sensitive at the current time and accordingly are not disclosed. 
However, as in previous years, the Group intends to disclose the performance targets for 2024’s AIP retrospectively in next year’s Remuneration 
report on a similar basis to the disclosures made above in respect of 2023’s AIP. 

Strategic Scorecard
The Strategic Scorecard represents 20% of the overall incentive opportunity. Metrics and targets relating to this scorecard were agreed by the 
Remuneration Committee at the start of the year. The table below details the outcome against targets of the Strategic Scorecard together with 
respective weightings and outturns for the Group CEO and Group CFO.

2023 performance targets and outcomes

Strategic priority
Optimise our 
in-force business

CEO
15%

CFO
20%

Enhance our  
operating model…

30%

30%

… and our culture

20%

15%

25%

20%

Grow organically  
and through M&A  
by better addressing 
customer needs

10%

15%

Financial framework  
– Cash, Resilience 
and Growth
Total

Description
% range for all sustainable 
illiquid asset origination and 
transition assets
Publish Net Zero  
Transition Plan
BPA NB strain (%)
BPA Cash Multiple (x)
ReAssure integration –  
Capital synergies lifetime
SLOC integration – Cost 
synergies lifetime1 
Risk culture dashboard
Action Plan delivery
Employee Engagement eNPS
Female senior leaders (%)
Phoenix Group corporate 
reputation score
Provide access for  
at least 1.5m Standard Life 
customers to an integrated 
financial wellness hub,  
Money Mindset
Reach 1.5m customers to raise 
awareness about the impact 
of their investments
Complaints resolved  
in 8 weeks
New Business Contribution

Base
50–70%

Performance
87%

CEO 
CFO 
Outcome
outcome
outcome
100% 15.00% 20.00%

75% 22.50% 22.50%

75% 15.00% 11.25%

50% 

12.50% 10.00%

Plan published

Plan published

5.50%
2.8x
£1,064m

£16m

Green
Green 
13
40%
25%

1.5m  
Standard Life 
customers

4.7%
3.7x
£1,089m

£16m

Green
Amber
32
39%
21%

Complete

1.5m  
customers  
reached
91%

1.65m  
customers  
reached
87%

£372m

£354m

40%

4.00%

6.00%

69.00% 69.75%

1 

 The SLOC integration target was reduced from £19m to £16m following a review of the definition of activity in scope. The Committee was satisfied that the revised base was equally stretching  
as originally intended.

Each year the Committee reviews the AIP outcomes in the context of the Group’s management of risk, overall business performance and the 
broader stakeholder experience. In reviewing the 2023 AIP outcome, the Committee considered the delays faced during the year relating  
to the IFRS 17 project. As Group CFO, Rakesh Thakrar had the principal responsibility for delivering the project in a timely manner, so the 
Committee decided it was appropriate to use its discretion to reduce his AIP outcome by £75,000 (10%). Andy Briggs recognises that,  
as Group CEO, he has ultimate accountability for all projects, including IFRS 17. Accordingly, in discussion with the Committee, he suggested  
– and the Committee agreed – that he should forgo £50,000 (4%) of his AIP outcome.

As a result of these reductions, the Committee determined it was appropriate to pay the following outcomes under the AIP:

Name 

Andy Briggs

Rakesh Thakrar

Corporate  
element outcome 
(80% weighting)
% and £000

Scorecard 
element outcome 
(20% weighting)
% and £000

Total  
outcome 
% and £000 

78.2%
£1,046

78.2%
£625

69.0%
£230

69.8%
£139

76.4%
£1,277

76.5%
£764

Discretionary 
adjustment
% and £000
4% of  
outcome
£50
10% of 
outcome
£75

Actual  
outcome
% and £000

Maximum 
opportunity as 
% of salary
% and £000

73.4%
£1,227

69.0%
£689

200%
£1,673

200%
£999

120

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

121

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

LTIP outcomes for 2021 awards – Audited information

Performance measure and weighting
Net Operating Cash  
Receipts (35%)
Return on Shareholder  
Value (25%)
Persistency (20%)
Relative TSR (20%)

Target range
Target range between Net Operating Cash Receipts  
of £4.330bn and Net Operating Cash Receipts of £4.780bn

Target range between 2% CAGR and 4% CAGR
Target range between 7.4% and 6.1%
Target range between median performance against the  
constituents of the FTSE 350 (excluding Investment Trusts) rising  
on a pro rata basis until full vesting for upper quintile performance.  
In addition, the Committee must consider whether the TSR performance 
is reflective of the underlying financial performance of the Company

Performance 
 achieved

Vesting 
outcome

% 
achieved

£4.966bn

100.0%

35.0%

(6.3)%
7.3%
32nd 
percentile

0.0%
31.0%
0.0%

0.0%
6.1%
0.0%

Total

41.1%

The above targets were all measured over the period of three financial years 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023.

Underpin and discretion
In addition to the above targets, the Committee confirmed that the underpin performance condition relating to risk management within the 
Group, customer satisfaction and, in exceptional cases, personal performance had been achieved in the performance period.

Windfall gains 
The Committee reviewed the grant price of the 2021 LTIP (736.2 pence) compared to the grant price of the 2020 LTIP (620.54 pence) and was 
satisfied that no adjustments were required to the awards on grant for windfall gains. The Committee has again reviewed the position ahead of 
the vesting, taking into account Phoenix Group’s share price as at 29 February 2024 (496.35 pence) and is satisfied that no windfall gains have 
occurred and that no adjustment is required on vesting.

Share-based awards
LTIP targets 
The performance conditions for the 2021, 2022 and 2023 awards are set out below.

Performance measure1 
Net Operating Cash Receipts

2021 award

2022 award

2023 award

35% Net Operating Cash Receipts  
25% Return on Shareholder Value  
20% Relative TSR  
20% Persistency
Target range of £4.330bn  
to £4.780bn

20% Net Operating Cash Receipts  
20% Return on Shareholder Value  
20% Relative TSR  
20% Persistency  
20% Decarbonisation 
Target range of £3.800bn  
to £4.100bn

20% Net Operating Cash Receipts  
20% Group In-Force Long-Term Free Cash 
20% Relative TSR  
20% Persistency  
20% Decarbonisation 
Target range of £3.556bn  
to £4.006bn

Return on Shareholder Value
Group In-Force Long-Term Free Cash n/a

Between 2% CAGR and 4% CAGR Between 3% CAGR and 5% CAGR n/a
n/a

Persistency

Target range between 7.4%  
and 6.1%

Decarbonisation – Investment Portfolio n/a

Decarbonisation – Operations

n/a

Relative TSR2 
25% of this part vests at threshold 
performance rising on a pro rata 
basis until 100% vests

Target range between median 
performance against the  
constituents of the FTSE 350 
(excluding Investment Trusts) rising 
on a pro rata basis until full vesting 
for upper quintile performance

Target range between 7.6%  
and 6.2%
Net zero strategy applied between 
target range of 75% and 85%  
of assets in scope by 2025

Reduction of 18%–22% in 
portfolios where a net zero  
strategy has been applied
Target range of 15%–25% 
reduction year on year against  
2019 carbon intensity of Scope 1 
and 2 emissions from occupied 
premises and Scope 3 emissions 
from business travel
Target range between median 
performance against the 
constituents of the FTSE 350 
(excluding Investment Trusts rising 
on a pro rata basis until full vesting 
for upper quintile performance

Target range between £14.7bn  
and £15.4bn
Target range between 7.10%  
and 6.08%
Net zero strategy applied to target 
range of 80%–90% of in-scope 
assets and 25% reduction in  
carbon intensity (provided in the 
best interests of customers)

Target range of 75% to 85% 
reduction pre-offset,  
plus net zero post offset 

Target range between median 
performance against the 
constituents of the FTSE 350 
(excluding Investment Trusts) rising 
on a pro rata basis until full vesting 
for upper quintile performance

1  For each measure above, 25% of the award vests at threshold performance rising on a pro rata basis until 100% vests. Measured over three financial years commencing with the year of award.
2 

 The Committee must also consider whether the TSR performance is reflective of the underlying performance of the Company measured over three financial years commencing with the year of award. 

A consistent approach to target setting for the LTIP metrics has been taken each year with reference to the Group’s long range plan so that 
delivery of target performance is considered to be comparably stretching for each award. As a result, the cash targets have not always increased 
and did indeed reduce in 2022 and 2023 reflecting our business model shifting from being a closed life consolidator to an organic growth 
business. The 2024 LTIP cash targets disclosed on page 127 have again been set with reference to the Group’s business plan and are higher than 
in 2023.

LTIP underpin
Awards are subject to an underpin relating to risk management within the Group, consideration of customer satisfaction and, to meet Solvency II 
requirements, in exceptional cases, personal performance. 

Share-based awards – Audited information 
As at 31 December 2023, Directors’ interests under long-term share-based arrangements were as follows:

LTIP

Name
Andy Briggs
LTIP
LTIP
LTIP
LTIP

Date of grant

Share price  
on grant

13 Mar 2020
12 Mar 2021
18 Mar 2022
17 Mar 2023

Rakesh Thakrar
LTIP
LTIP
LTIP
LTIP
LTIP

11 Mar 2019 
13 Mar 2020
12 Mar 2021
18 Mar 2022
17 Mar 2023

No. of  
shares  
granted as at  
1 Jan 2023

354,529
298,831
351,133
–
1,004,493

39,259
135,365
116,816
152,530
–
443,970

No. of  
shares  
granted in  
2023

–
–
–
402,712
402,712

–
–
–
–
174,935
174,935

No. of  
dividend  
shares 
accumulating  
at vesting1

80,777
–
–
–
80,777

8,530
30,840
–
–
–
39,370

No. of  
shares  
exercised2

No. of  
shares  
lapsed3

No. of  
shares as at  
31 Dec 2023 

Vesting  
date4

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

(242,466)
–
–
–
(242,466)

(10,323)
(92,577)
–
–
–
(102,900)

192,840 13 Mar 2023
298,831 12 Mar 2024
351,133 18 Mar 2025
402,712 17 Mar 2026

1,245,516

37,466 11 Mar 2022
73,628 13 Mar 2023
116,816 12 Mar 2024
152,530 18 Mar 2025
174,935 17 Mar 2026
555,375

620.5p
736.2p
635.9p
576.6p

700.4p
620.5p
736.2p
635.9p
576.6p

1 

2 

3 
4 

 In addition to the share options awarded under the LTIP shown above, dividends are awarded as additional options at vest. Dividends calculated are based on the final vesting figure  
(post-performance) to reflect dividends paid from the date of award to the date of vest. Once the additional holding period of two years has been reached, further dividends are awarded  
to reflect dividends paid from the date of vest to the end of the holding period. 
 Whilst both Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar had LTIP awards which have vested, they cannot be exercised due to the additional two-year holding requirement resulting in an overall gain  
of £nil in 2023 (2022: £645,224).
 The 2020 LTIP award vested at 44.3% of maximum. The 2019 LTIP award vested at 78.4% of maximum.
 LTIP awards granted on 12 March 2021 will vest after the 2023 Full year results are announced. LTIP awards made to all members of the Executive Committee are subject to a three-year  
performance period and a two-year holding period.

DBSS 
The DBSS is the share scheme used for the deferral of the AIP. Whilst no performance conditions are applicable, awards are subject to continued 
employment or a good leaver status.

Name

Date of grant

No. of  
shares  
granted as at  
1 Jan 2023

No. of  
shares  
granted in  
2023

Share price  
on grant

No. of  
dividend  
shares 
accumulating  
at vesting1

No. of  
shares  
exercised2

No. of  
shares  
lapsed/waived

No. of  
shares as at  
31 Dec 2023 

Vesting  
date

Andy Briggs
DBSS
DBSS
DBSS

12 Mar 2021
18 Mar 2022
17 Mar 2023

736.2p
635.9p
576.6p

Rakesh Thakrar
DBSS
DBSS
DBSS
DBSS

13 Mar 2020
12 Mar 2021
18 Mar 2022
17 Mar 2023

620.5p
736.2p
635.9p
576.6p

67,269
73,610
–
140,879

15,262
27,381
39,209
–
81,852

–
91,285
91,285

–
–
–
52,071
52,071

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

3,476
–
–
–
3,476

(18,738)
–
–
–
(18,738)

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

67,269 12 Mar 2024
73,610 18 Mar 2025
91,285 17 Mar 2026

232,164

– 13 Mar 2023
27,381 12 Mar 2024
39,209 18 Mar 2025
52,071 17 Mar 2026

118,661

1 

  In addition to the share options awarded under the DBSS shown above, dividends are awarded as additional options at vest. Dividends calculated are based the final vesting figure to reflect 
dividends paid from the date of award to the date of vest.

2   Gains of Directors (Rakesh Thakrar only) from share options exercised and vesting shares under the DBSS in 2023 was £102,537.03 (2022: £91,800.33) arising from an award exercised  

on 27 March 2023 at a share price of 547.2 pence.

122

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

123

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Scheme interests awarded in the year – Audited information

Name 
Andy Briggs
Andy Briggs
Rakesh Thakrar
Rakesh Thakrar

Date 
of award
17 Mar 2023
17 Mar 2023
17 Mar 2023
17 Mar 2023

Type 
of award
LTIP
DBSS
LTIP
DBSS

Nature of 
the award
Nil Cost Option
Nil Cost Option
Nil Cost Option
Nil Cost Option

1  The DBSS awards have no threshold performance level. 

How the 
award is 
calculated
275% of salary
50% of AIP

Face value 
of award
£2,322,320
£526,416
200% of salary £1,008,800
£300,281

50% of AIP

Percentage 
vesting at 
threshold
performance1

Vesting 
Performance
 measures1
date
25% 17 Mar 2026 See page 122
None
25% 17 Mar 2026 See page 122
None

– 17 Mar 2026

– 17 Mar 2026

The face value represents the maximum vesting of awards granted (but before any credit for dividends over the period to vesting) and  
is calculated using a share price of the average of the closing middle market prices of Phoenix shares for the three dealing days preceding  
the award date (2023 LTIP and DBSS award share price was 576.6 pence). 

ShareSave – Audited information 

Name
Andy Briggs
Rakesh Thakrar
Rakesh Thakrar
Rakesh Thakrar

As at 
1 Jan 2023
3,056
1,768
2,546
–

Options  
granted
–
–
–
8,359

Options  
exercised
–
–
–
–

Options  
lapsed
–
1,768
2,546
–

As at  
31 Dec 2023
3,056
–
–
8,359

Exercise  
price
£5.89
£5.09
£5.89
£3.78

Exercisable  
from
01 Jun 2024
–
–
01 Dec 2028

Date of expiry
01 Dec 2024
–
–
01 Jun 2029

ShareSave options are granted at a 20% discounted option price, calculated using the three-day average share price immediately before  
the invitation date.

Rakesh Thakrar closed his 2021 and 2022 ShareSave plans and elected to save the maximum amount into ShareSave 2023 for an increased 
five-year term. There was nil gain in 2023. (2022: £1,963).

Aggregate gains of Directors from share options exercised under all share plans in 2023 was £102,537 (2022: £738,988). This figure relates  
to Rakesh Thakrar’s 2020 DBSS share option exercise.

During the year ended 31 December 2023, the highest mid-market price of the Company’s shares was 647.0 pence and the lowest mid-market 
price was 441.6 pence. At 31 December 2023, the Company’s share price was 535.2 pence (29 December 2023 price).

Executive Directors’ interests – Audited information
The number of shares and share plan interests held by each Director and their connected persons are shown below:

Name
Andy Briggs 
Rakesh Thakrar

Share interests  
as at 1 January 
2023 or date  
of appointment 
 if later1
358,839
115,441

Share 
interests as at  
31 December  
2023 or  
retirement  
if earlier
380,274
130,556

Total  
share plan  
interests as at  
31 December  
2023 – Subject  
to performance 
measures
1,052,676
444,281

Total  
share plan 
interests as at  
31 December 
2023 – Not  
subject to 
performance 
measures
232,164
118,661

Total  
share plan 
interests as at  
31 December  
2023 – Vested 
 but unexercised 
scheme interest
192,840
111,094

1  Share interests values have reduced due to SIP matching shares being included previously.

The Directors’ share interests of the following Directors have increased between 31 December 2023 and 21 March 2024 (being the latest 
practicable date prior to the release of this Annual Report). Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar acquired an additional 89 shares each following 
purchases under the Group’s Share Incentive Plan. There were no other changes between these dates.

Shareholding requirements – Audited information
The Executive Directors are subject to shareholding requirements during their employment with the Group and for a period of two years post 
termination of employment. Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar are subject to a post-cessation shareholding of 100% of their in-employment 
shareholding for a period of two years post-employment. The extent to which Executive Directors have achieved the requirements by 
31 December 2023 (using the share price of 535.2 pence as at 29 December 2023) is summarised below. Unvested share awards no longer 
subject to performance conditions (discounted for tax liabilities) are included within the SOGs.

The Executive Directors are subject to shareholding requirements during their employment with the Group and for a period of two years post 
termination of employment. Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar are subject to a post-cessation shareholding of 100% of their in-employment 
shareholding for a period of two years post-employment. The extent to which Executive Directors have achieved the requirements by 
31 December 2023 (using the share price of 535.2 pence as at 29 December 2023) is summarised below. Unvested share awards no longer 
subject to performance conditions (discounted for tax liabilities) are included within the SOGs. In addition to the unvested share awards and 
shares previously acquired, during 2023, Andy Brigs and his connected persons purchased 20,964 shares privately and a total of 471 shares 
were purchased and/or awarded under the Phoenix Group UK SIP (partnership and dividend shares). During 2023, Rakesh Thakrar purchased 
3,566 shares privately, received an additional 737 dividend shares based on his ISA holdings, retained 9,860 net shares following his 2020  
DBSS exercise and a total of 952 shares were purchased and/or awarded under Phoenix Group UK SIP (partnership and dividend shares).

The extent to which the Executive Directors have achieved their SOG percentage is shown below:

Name

Andy Briggs 
Rakesh Thakrar

Value of  
shares held at 
31 December 
2023
 (% of salary)

SOG 
 (minimum % 
of salary)

350%
300%

384%
268%

The post-cessation shareholding requirement is monitored and enforced by direct liaison and confirmation with the Directors and their brokers; 
all trades and transfers are notified to the Group by the relevant Director and registered accordingly.

The Executive Directors are required to sign a declaration that they have not, and will not at any time during their employment with Phoenix Group, 
enter into any hedging contract in respect of their participation in the AIP, LTIP, ShareSave, Share Incentive Plan or any other incentive plan of  
the Company, or pledge awards in such plans as collateral, and additionally that they will neither enter into a hedging contract in respect of,  
nor pledge as collateral, any shares which are required to be held for the purposes of the Company’s shareholding requirements or any vested LTIP 
award shares subject to a LTIP holding period.

Non-Executive Directors’ interests – Audited information
The number of shares held by each Director and their connected persons are shown below:

Name
Nicholas Lyons
Alastair Barbour
Karen Green
Stephanie Bruce
Eleanor Bucks
Hiroyuki Iioka
Mark Gregory
Katie Murray
John Pollock
Belinda Richards
David Scott
Maggie Semple
Nicholas Shott
Kory Sorenson

Share  
interests as at  
1 January  
2023 or date  
of appointment 
 if later
65,990
9,716
–
–
–
–
–
4,600
14,666
–
–
–
69,473
45,000

Share  
interests as at  
31 December  
2023 or  
retirement  
if earlier
105,990
17,966
–
11,054
–
–
–
9,780
14,666
–
–
–
182,146
45,000

124

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

125

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Implementation of Remuneration policy in 2024 – Non-auditable 
A summary of the packages of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below. 

Salary
Benefits

Pension

Annual bonus
LTIP

Shareholding requirement

Post cessation  
shareholding requirement
Element of Remuneration policy
Annual Incentive Plan (‘AIP’)

Rakesh Thakrar
£504,400, no change to 2023.

Andy Briggs
£844,480, no change to 2023.
Benefits in line with the rest of the workforce including legacy car allowance of £10,000 and Private Medical Insurance 
cover for self only. Executive Directors are also entitled to receive benefits in accordance with our Directors’ 
Remuneration policy which will be reported in the Single Figure Table each year.
Contribution rate of 12% of base salary (reduced for the impact of employers’ NIC if taken as a cash payment),  
aligned to our wider workforce.
200% of base salary at maximum. Details of the 2024 AIP are set out below.
275% of base salary.
Details of the 2024 LTIP awards are set out overleaf.
350% of base salary.
Where any performance vested LTIP awards are subject to a holding period requirement, the relevant LTIP award  
shares (discounted for anticipated tax liabilities) will count towards the shareholding requirements. Unvested awards 
under the DBSS which are not subject to performance conditions are included in this assessment on a net of tax basis. 
Unvested awards under the LTIP are not included in this assessment.
Executive Directors are expected to retain the lower of their shareholding on termination or their full in-employment 
shareholding requirement for two years.

300% of base salary.

200% of base salary.

The Committee regularly reviews the performance measures of the incentive plans to ensure they remain aligned with 
our strategy, are appropriately challenging, support the Company’s culture and values, and create value for stakeholders. 
As detailed in the Committee Chair’s covering letter on page 114 the metrics for the 2024 AIP are shown below. 

The Strategic Scorecard reflects 20% of the Executive Directors’ AIP. This will include a number of the strategic priorities 
for the year (but avoiding duplication with any outcomes under the Corporate element) and which can be clearly 
articulated and measured. Sustainability remains at the heart of our purpose and ESG metrics continue to form part  
of the Strategic Scorecard elements of the Executive Directors.

The overall weightings between Corporate measures and Strategic Scorecard for AIP in 2024 are:
• Corporate (financial and customer) performance measures – 80%; no change from 2023.
• Strategic Scorecard (strategic Company priorities ) – 20%; no change from 2023.

The weightings of the AIP performance measures for 2024 are summarised below:
Performance measure  
Corporate measure
Total Cash Generation
New Business Contribution 
Cost Savings
Group Net Flows 
Customer Experience
Strategic Scorecard
Total
Whilst the performance measures for the 2024 AIP are disclosed above, the actual performance targets for  
these measures are regarded as commercially sensitive at the current time and accordingly are not disclosed.  
However, as in previous years, the Group intends to disclose the performance targets for 2024’s AIP retrospectively  
in next year’s Remuneration report on a similar basis to the disclosures made above in respect of 2023’s AIP. 

% of incentive potential
16% (20% of Corporate element)
16% (20% of Corporate element)
16% (20% of Corporate element)
12% (15% of Corporate element)
20% (25% of Corporate element)
20%
100%

Outcomes from performance measures for 2024’s AIP may be moderated by the Remuneration Committee in line  
with the approved Remuneration policy. This will include a review by the Remuneration Committee of the extent to  
which the Group has operated within its stated risk appetite and that there are no other risk-related concerns that would 
necessitate moderation before any 2024 AIP outcomes are confirmed. The targets for the specific performance 
measures for the AIP in 2024 are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Group but will be disclosed retrospectively 
in the Remuneration report for 2024. 

Deferred Bonus Share  
Scheme (‘DBSS’)

50% of AIP outcomes for 2024 will be delivered as an award of deferred shares under the DBSS which will vest after  
a three-year deferral period.
DBSS awards made in 2024 (in respect of 2023’s AIP outcome) will be made automatically on the fourth dealing day 
following the announcement of the Group’s 2023 annual results in accordance with the Remuneration policy.

The number of shares for DBSS awards will be calculated using the average share price for the three dealing days before 
the grant of the DBSS awards. The three-year deferral period will run to the three-year anniversary of the making of the 
DBSS awards. Dividend entitlements for the shares subject to DBSS awards will accrue over the three-year deferral period.

Long Term Incentive  
Plan (‘LTIP’)

Awards under the LTIP will be made automatically on the fourth dealing day following the announcement of the Group’s 
Full or Half year results under a procedure similar to that described above for awards under the DBSS. 

The number of shares for LTIP awards will be calculated using the average share price for the three dealing days before 
the grant of the LTIP awards. The initial three-year vesting period will run to the three-year anniversary of the granting  
of the LTIP awards. At this time, the performance conditions will be determined.

All annual LTIP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to a holding period so that any LTIP awards for which the 
performance conditions are satisfied will not be released for a further two-years from the third anniversary of the original 
award date. Dividend accrual for LTIP awards will continue until the end of the holding period.

The Committee reviews the performance measures and targets of the LTIP each year to ensure these are aligned  
to Phoenix Group’s strategic priorities, are appropriately challenging, support the Company’s culture and values,  
and create value for stakeholders. For the 2024 LTIP, the Long-Term Free Cash metric will be replaced by a Return  
on Capital metric to provide a measure of the efficiency of the Company’s use of capital. The Persistency metric in  
the previous year’s LTIP will be replaced by a Cumulative Net Flows metric, which demonstrates our commitment to 
incentivising growth in new business and retention of existing business. Following a significant reduction in emissions 
from operations, the Decarbonisation from Operations metric (10% weighting) will be replaced by a Diversity,  
Equity & Inclusion metric measuring ethnicity representation amongst our senior leadership population. 

The targets are measured over a period of three financial years, commencing with financial year 2024.  
As detailed in the Committee Chair’s covering letter on page 114 the 2024 LTIP measures have changed.  
Measures, weightings and targets are shown below:

Performance measure and weighting
Net Operating Cash Receipts (20%)
Return on Capital (20%)
Cumulative Net Flows (20%)
Decarbonisation – Investment Portfolio1 (10%)

Diversity and Inclusion – Senior Leadership Black,  
Asian and Ethnic Minority Representation3 (10%)
Relative TSR (20%) measured against the constituents  
of the FTSE 350 (excluding Investment Trusts),  
subject to the Committee considering whether the  
TSR performance is reflective of the underlying  
financial performance of the Company (20%)
1  For the investment portfolio that is within control and influence.
2 
3 

Threshold target
£3,848m
12.6%
£(7.1)bn
29% carbon intensity 
reduction of equity and  
credit portfolio and 87.5%  
of assets to have an agreed 
decarbonisation approach 
taken through governance2 
>12.0% 

Full vesting target
£4,298m
14.7%
£3.8bn
35% carbon intensity 
reduction of equity and 
credit portfolio and 100%  
of assets to have an agreed 
decarbonisation approach 
taken through governance2
>14.0%

50th percentile

80th percentile

Includes where the approved strategy can be to take no further action.
 The current Race and Ethnicity % senior leadership figure is based on c. 68% workforce coverage/respondents at the time the targets were set.  
A new data capture exercise is underway and as part of this the starting point will be assessed in H2 and any impact on target considered.

As described on page 123, the 2024 LTIP cash targets are higher than in 2023. A consistent approach to target setting  
is taken each year with reference to the Group’s business plan so that delivery of target performance is considered to  
be comparably stretching for each award.

All 2024 LTIP awards are subject to an underpin relating to risk management within the Group, consideration of customer 
satisfaction and, to meet Solvency II requirements, in exceptional cases, personal performance. This underpin relating to 
the formulaic outturn of the LTIP reflects the extent to which the Group has operated within its stated risk appetite and 
ensures that Management is not incentivised to accept risk outside of appetite in the pursuit of improved delivery against 
LTIP performance targets. It also offers a broader assessment than the previous focus on the management of the Group’s 
debt position. 

For the Group CEO, awards vesting under the LTIP will be subject to a cap on threshold performance of the lower  
of 50% of salary or 25% of maximum vesting.

The rules of the Company’s LTIP reserve discretion for the Committee to adjust the outturn for any LTIP performance 
measures (from zero to any cap) should it consider that to be appropriate. The Committee may operate this discretion 
having regard to such factors as it considers relevant, including the performance of the Group, any individual or business.

All-Employee Share Plans

With regard to the 2024 LTIP grants to be made in March, the Committee will review the outcome at the point of vesting 
in 2027 to consider if any windfall gains have been made.
Executive Directors have the opportunity to participate in HMRC tax advantaged ShareSave and Share Incentive Plans 
on the same basis as all other UK employees. Employees based in the Republic of Ireland and Germany have the 
opportunity to join the Irish SIP and International Purchase Plan.

All incentive plans are subject to malus/clawback. See ‘Notes to the Remuneration policy table’ on pages 122 to 125 of the 2022 Annual Report 
for details.

126

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

127

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Non-executive fees – Audited information 
The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors for 2023 based on the current disclosure requirements were as follows:

Name

Non-Executive Chair
Nicholas Lyons2
Alastair Barbour3
Non-Executive Directors
Karen Green
Stephanie Bruce4
Eleanor Bucks5
Mark Gregory6
Hiroyuki Iioka7
Katie Murray
John Pollock
Belinda Richards
David Scott8
Maggie Semple
Nicholas Shott9
Kory Sorenson10
Total11

Directors’ salaries/fees

2023
£000

38

430

173
–
7
86
–
107
146
126
–
128
159
71
1,471

2022
£000

307

307

159
–
–
–
–
74
141
116
–
63
139
141
1,395

Benefits1

2023
£000

2022
£000

–

30

2
–
–
3
–
2
4
2
–
3
2
–
48

8

21

3
–
–
–
–
2
3
2
–
1
2
1
43

Total 

2023
£000

38

460

175
–
7
89
–
109
150
128
–
131
161
71
1,519

2022  
£000

315

276

162
–
–
–
–
76
144
118
–
64
141
142
1,438

1 

2 
3 

 The amounts within the benefits columns reflect the fact that the reimbursement of expenses to Non-Executive Directors for travel and accommodation costs incurred in attending Phoenix Group 
Holdings plc Board and associated meetings represent a taxable benefit. This position has been clarified with HMRC and the amounts shown are for reimbursed travel and accommodation expenses 
(and the related tax liability which is settled by the Group).
 Nicholas Lyons stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2022 and commenced his sabbatical. He returned as Chair of the Group Board on 1 December 2023.
 Alastair Barbour became Chair of the Group Board on 1 September 2022 and stepped down from the position of Chair of the Group Board and the Nomination Committee on 30 November 2023. 
Alastair Barbour then retired from the Board on 31 December 2023.

4  Stephanie Bruce retired from the Board on 11 May 2023 and waived all emoluments with regard to her Directors’ fees.
5  Eleanor Bucks was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2023.
6  Mark Gregory was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2023 and became a member of the Risk Committee on 1 April 2023.
7  Hiroyuki Iioka has waived all current and future emoluments with regard to his Directors’ fees.
8  David Scott was appointed as a Director on 11 May 2023 and has waived all current and future emoluments with regard to his Directors’ fees.
9  Nicholas Shott became Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 4 May 2023.
10  Kory Sorenson retired from the Board on 30 June 2023. 
11  

 The increase in fees for Non-Executive Directors of the Company reflect the increase in base fee from 2022 to 2023 and fees in relation to chairing a committee as well as changes  
to committee membership.

The aggregate remuneration of all Executive and Non-Executive Directors under salary, fees, benefits, cash supplements in lieu of pensions  
and annual incentive was £5.963 million (2022: £6.181 million).

Implementation of Remuneration policy in 2024 – Non-auditable 
A summary of the annual base fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set out below.

Chair of the Group Board

Non-Executive Director
Senior Independent Director
Designated NED for Workforce Engagement
Committee Chair
Committee Member

Fee from  
1 April 2023
£000 
460

Fee from  
1 April 2024
£000
460

78
20
15
30
18

78
20
15
30
18

On 1 April 2023 the base fee for Non-Executive Directors increased by 4%, lower than that of the wider workforce. Consistent with the approach 
for executive directors, there will be no increases to Non-Executive Directors’ base fees in 2024. 

The Chair’s fee was last reviewed in August 2021 with the next review due to take place in August 2024. For simplicity, it has been decided not  
to proceed with the review in 2024 and instead to consider the Chair’s fee at the same time as the annual review of Non-Executive Director fees 
from 2025, which is normally in quarter one.

Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the value to 31 December 2023 on a TSR basis, of £100 invested in Phoenix Group Holdings plc on 31 December 2013 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index (excluding Investment Trusts).

The FTSE 100 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad equity index  
of which the Group is a constituent.

Total Shareholder Return
Value of a 100 unit investment made on 31 December 2013.

250

200

150

100

50

0

£3,500

£3,000

£2,500

£2,000

£1,500

£1,000

£500

£0

e
r
u
g
ﬁ
e
g
n
i
s

l

O
E
C

n
o
i
t
a
r
e
n
u
m
e
r

l

a
t
o
t

f
o

Dec 2013

Dec 2014

Dec 2015

Dec 2016

Dec 2017

Dec 2018

Dec 2019

Dec 2020

Dec 2021

Dec 2022

Dec 2023

CEO single ﬁgure of total remuneration

Phoenix Group Holdings

FTSE 100 Index

The total figure of remuneration for 2020 shown above is a combination of the single figures for Clive Bannister and Andy Briggs to reflect the 
change in Group CEO in 2020.

The DRR regulations also require that this performance graph is supported by a table summarising aspects of the Group CEO’s remuneration  
for the period covered by the above graph. 

Group CEO remuneration

2023
2022
2021
2020

2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014

Andy Briggs
Andy Briggs
Andy Briggs
Andy Briggs2
Clive Bannister2,4
Clive Bannister
Clive Bannister
Clive Bannister
Clive Bannister
Clive Bannister
Clive Bannister

Annual variable 
 element award 
 rates against 
 maximum 
 opportunity
(‘AIP’)
73%
87%
78%
83%
81% 
92%
86%
86%
84%
82%
68%

Long-Term 
 incentive vesting 
rates against 
 maximum 
 opportunity 
 (‘LTIP’)
41.1%
44.3%
n/a1
0.0%3
n/a5
68.5%
49.5%
64.0%
55.0%
57.0%
57.0%7

Single figure 
of total 
 remuneration
 (£000)
2,901
3,112
1,831
1,706 
321
2,7156
2,567
2,888
2,878
2,867
3,104

1  Andy Briggs was not in receipt of a 2019 LTIP due to the timing of his appointment.
2 

 Clive Bannister left the role of Group CEO on 10 March 2020 and left Phoenix Group on the same date. Andy Briggs was appointed to the Board on 10 February 2020 and remained  
as CEO-designate until 10 March 2020.

3  See footnote 11 on page 130 of the 2020 Annual Report and Accounts for details of Andy Briggs’s LTIP vesting.
4  Clive Bannister’s 2020 single figure of total remuneration does not include compensation for loss of office. 
5  

 Clive Bannister’s 2020 single figure of total remuneration does not include any value in respect of the 2018 LTIP. LTIP awards which vested after Clive Bannister stepped down from the Board  
of the Company have been reported as Payments to Past Directors on page 132 of the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts and are not included in the single figure of total remuneration, in line  
with the reporting regulations.
 The single figure of total remuneration for 2019 has been restated and now reflects the actual price of shares on the day the 2017 LTIP vested (24 March 2020, 557.4 pence per share) rather than  
the three-month average share price to 31 December 2019 (717.09 pence per share) which was required to be used last year for the single figure of total remuneration.

6 

7  The long-term incentive vesting rate is shown as 57%. The group CEO decided to voluntarily waive any entitlement in excess of two-thirds of the shares which would otherwise have vested.

128

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

129

Corporate governanceCorporate governance 
 
 
 
 
Directors’ Remuneration report continued

CEO pay ratio
The table below details the CEO pay ratio for the year ended 31 December 2023, in line with the UK regulatory requirements. The ratios 
compare the CEO total pay against the pay of three UK employees, whose earnings represent the lower quartile, median, and upper quartile 
positions of the UK employee population. The calculations are based on Option A of the three methodologies, which we believe is the most 
statistically robust approach.

The CEO value used is the total single figure remuneration data for 2023 (as detailed on page 119). For the 2023 ratio, the total compensation 
figure for UK employees follows the same methodology as for the CEO and is based on a full-time equivalent of actual earnings including 
amounts due from incentive plans. 

The Group reviewed the pay of the three identified employees at the 25th percentile, 50th percentile (median) and 75th percentile and 
concluded that they were a fair representation of pay at the relevant quartiles of the UK employee base. Each individual was a direct employee 
on a permanent or fixed-term contract during 2023 and received remuneration in line with Group-wide remuneration policies. None received  
an exceptional award that would otherwise inflate their pay figure. 

The table below sets out the salary and total single figure remuneration for the Group CEO and percentile employees included in the below ratios.

Salary
Total remuneration (single figure)
2023 ratio (total compensation)
2022 ratio (total compensation)
2021 ratio (total compensation)
2020 ratio (total compensation)
2019 ratio (total compensation)

Year
2023

Methodology
Option A

CEO
836,360
2,901,513

25th percentile
26,640
33,217
87:1
100:1
66:1
78:1
94:1

50th percentile 
(median) 
40,453
53,493
54:1
69:1
46:1
54:1
62:1

75th percentile
61,858
85,926
34:1
41:1
26:1
31:1
40:1

The reduction in ratio for 2023 reflects the lower level of total compensation for the CEO compared to 2022 due in part to the lower AIP outturn 
and LTIP vesting figures. Additionally, salary and total compensation levels at the relevant data points have increased reflecting our changed 
demographic as result of the Group-wide organisational review and capability uplift to deliver on our future strategy, in particular in our growth 
centres. The figures are also impacted by a number of lower earners transferring out of the Group as part of our ongoing outsource strategy.

Colleagues are also eligible to participate in our all-employee share plans, which were not included in the values in the employee single figure. 
Nearly half of all employees participate in Phoenix Group’s growth and success through either the ShareSave Scheme, the Share Incentive Plan 
or the International Purchase Plan.

Phoenix Group is committed to attracting best in class talent at all levels with a compelling and competitive total reward proposition. This includes 
a holistic core and flexible suite of benefits with the ability to customise these to meet individual needs, as well as industry-leading people policies 
including equal parental leave.

We are confident that the median pay ratio reported this year is consistent with our approach to pay, reward, career progression and growth  
for all colleagues. All colleagues have the opportunity for annual pay awards, performance-driven pay and recognition, as well as access to 
opportunities to develop their careers at Phoenix Group, ensuring we create an environment for everyone to feel it is the best place our 
colleagues have ever worked. 

Directors’ percentage change in pay 2022 to 2023 
In accordance with the DRR regulations, the table below provides a comparison of the percentage change in the prescribed pay elements  
of each individual who was a Director during the year (salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive outcomes) between financial years 2022  
and 2023 and the equivalent percentage changes in the average of all staff employed by Phoenix Group. As no staff are employed directly by 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc, we have disclosed information for an appropriate group that is representative of the employees of Phoenix Group 
and its subsidiaries, in line with the regulatory guidance for this disclosure). This group was selected as being representative of the wider 
workforce using the same process as was used for this comparison in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts.

Salary %

Taxable benefits %

Annual incentive %

2023

2022

2021

2020

2023

2022

2021

2020

2023

2022 

2021

2020

Year-on-year % change
Executive Directors1
Andy Briggs2
Rakesh Thakrar2
Chair
Nicholas Lyons

Alastair Barbour6

Non-Executive Directors3
Karen Green

Stephanie Bruce6

Eleanor Bucks5

Mark Gregory5

Hiroyuki Iioka

Katie Murray

John Pollock

Belinda Richards
David Scott5

3.4
6.0

(87.5)

68.8

8.9

0.0
n/a4
n/a4

0.0

45.4

3.4

8.4
n/a4

Maggie Semple
Nicholas Shott
Kory Sorenson6
Wider employee population

102.8
14.5
0.0
8.9

–
–

16.6% 12.4
14.8% 20.4

(5.5)
(3.3)

1.1
10.2 

(17.1)

58.4

12.8

n/a4

–

–

0.0

0.0

0.0

4.5
–

0.0
7.7
0.0
4.4

0.0
2.3

13.8

11.0

–
–

0.0

0.0

(0.96)
(15.8)

2.6
20.7

(100)

41.7

897.6

109.1

3.3
3.3

0.0

66.6

(100)

(60)

12.8

6.8

(26.2)

362.9

0.0

(100)

–

–

–

0.0

–

4.4

5.7
–

–
22.8
12.8
4.7

–

–

–

0.0

–

0.7

0.0
–

–
0.0
0.0
3.9

0.0
n/a4
n/a4

0.0

(3.3)

56.0

(10.7)
n/a4

106.4
42.8
0.0
(55.3)

n/a4

–

–

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0
–

–

–

–

0.0

–

0.0

0.0
–

0.0
208.3
0.0
57.2

–
(100)
0.0
1.4

–

–

–

0.0

–

(100)

(100)
–

–
(80)
(100)
7.4

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
n/a
11.5

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
n/a
27.6

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
n/a
9.1

–
–

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

1  The Taxable Benefits figures used for Andy Briggs and Rakesh Thakrar includes ongoing taxable benefits only.
2 

 The Taxable Benefits figures reflect a change in approach to reporting from 2022 whereby the benefits under the ShareSave and Share Incentive Plan (previously included within the LTIP figure 
within the Single Figure Table) are now included within Taxable Benefits instead. 
 The increase in fees for Non-Executive Directors of the company reflects the increases in base fees from 2022 to 2023 and fees in relation to chairing a committee and membership of a committee 
as well as changes to the membership of a committee. See page 128 for further details on fees and taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the AIP.

3 

4  No taxable benefit received in the prior year and therefore not possible to calculate a percentage change.
5  Eleanor Bucks, Mark Gregory and David Scott, are newly appointed Directors and therefore it is not possible to calculate a percentage change.
6  Whilst Alistair Barbour, Kory Sorenson and Stephanie Bruce resigned from the Board in 2023, their details have been included as they were active members during the year.

For both Executive Directors the figures shown above reflect the change in the total salary figures as disclosed in the Single Figure Table for  
the years 2022 and 2023. As the disclosures reflect salary earned during 2023 compared to salary earned during 2022 the figures shown above 
do not therefore equate to 4%. The agreed increase of 4% of salary was applied to the salaries of both Executive Directors in April 2023.

The reduction in taxable benefits figure reflects a lower premium for private medical cover in 2023 (whilst retaining the same level of cover).  
The reduction for Rakesh also reflects that the 2022 figure included a gain under his ShareSave Scheme; there was no such gain in 2023.

The change in Annual Incentive for both Executive Directors reflects the increase in maximum potential incentive for the 2023 performance year 
from 150% to 200% of salary. 

With regard to the figures for the wider employee population:
• The pay review in April 2023 was operated using a consistent approach with a pay budget of 6%. As in 2022, the pay budget was focused 

on colleagues at lower grades ensuring a higher increase for this population compared to more senior colleagues. Additional salary increases 
were awarded throughout the year, where appropriate, to ensure consistency, internal relativities, and to retain talent. A separate exercise 
was also undertaken to review all senior management compensation to ensure market alignment. As part of this review, car allowance was 
removed and an appropriate sum in lieu of this was added to base salary. The changes made as a result of this exercise have impacted the 
figure shown above. 

• The change to the taxable benefits figure compared to 2022 is largely as a result of: (i) a reduction in the PMI premium for 2023; (ii) the removal 
of car allowance where appropriate; and (iii) the post-pandemic £1,000 payment to all colleagues below senior management and the working 
from home allowance were not continued beyond 2022. As in previous years, ShareSave and Share Incentive Plan values are not included 
in the wider employee population figures.

• The increase in annual incentive payments compared to 2022 relates primarily to the fact that bonuses are salary linked. Over 2023 base 

salaries increased on average by 8.9% driven by the high inflation environment in the UK over this period and other factors described under 
both the pay review paragraph above and the CEO Ratio on page 130.

130

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

131

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Distribution statement
The DRR Regulations require each quoted company to provide a comparison between profits distributed by way of dividend and overall 
expenditure on pay.

Relative importance (£m)

Proﬁts distributed by way of dividend (% change +4%)
Overall expenditure on pay (% change +9%)

611

508

664

527

2022

2023

Profit distributed by way of dividend has been taken as the dividend paid and proposed in respect of the relevant financial year. For 2023 this  
is the Interim dividend paid (£260 million) and the recommended Final dividend of 26.65 pence per share multiplied by the total share capital 
issued at the date of the Annual Report and Accounts as set out in note D1 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. No share 
buy-backs were made in the year.

Overall expenditure on pay has been taken as employee costs as set out in note C5 ‘Expenses’ in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
Expenditure on pay has increased by 9% in the period reflecting the impact of the continued planned expansion of key areas in the Pensions 
and Savings and Retirement Solutions business, the acquisition of the Sun Life of Canada UK business, as well as the impact of a 6% pay increase 
to the wider workforce and the resulting higher share scheme costs. These increases have been partly offset by the impact from the Group’s 
Transition and Transformation programme which has reduced headcount within the customer teams in 2023.

Wider workforce pay
Alignment to wider workforce
The Committee considers a range of factors when setting the remuneration for Executive Directors, one of which is the alignment with 
remuneration practices across the wider workforce. Phoenix provides colleagues across the Group with a competitive reward package  
with details of each element included in the table below. 

Salary 

Executive Directors and Executive Committee
Salaries are reviewed annually and increases are typically in line with  
or less than the wider employee population.

Senior Management

Wider workforce
Base salary is the basis for a  
competitive total reward package  
for all employees, and these are  
reviewed annually with engagement  
from employee representatives. 

Regular benchmarking exercises are 
carried out to ensure salaries remain 
competitive against the market.

We are an accredited Living Wage 
employer and all employees are paid  
at least the Real Living Wage.

Benefits and Pension All employees are eligible to participate in our range of flexible benefits and wellbeing initiatives in respective markets.

Core benefits include private medical cover, 12 times life assurance cover, group income protection and a range of flexible 
benefits. The level of core benefits is the same across all grades. 

Colleagues can participate in a share matching plan under the Phoenix SIP and, in the UK, the Phoenix ShareSave Scheme.

AIP

Deferral

LTIP

Holding period

SOGs

All employees are automatically enrolled in the Company’s Mastertrust pension scheme with a 10% core contribution and 2% 
matching contribution (plus salary sacrifice uplift of 10% of the employee contribution). Payment in lieu of contribution, reduced 
for the impact of employer’s NIC is permitted where lifetime or annual limits are reached. Separate occupational pension 
schemes with varying contribution rates operate in Ireland and Germany. 
All permanent and fixed-term employees are eligible to participate in an AIP which is based on Group measures, business unit 
performance (where applicable) and personal objectives. Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Half of any AIP award is subject  
to deferral into shares for  
a three- year period. 

One third of any AIP award  
is subject to deferral into shares  
for a three-year period. 

Deferral where required on an  
individual basis for Solvency II purposes. 

Malus and clawback  
provisions apply.
Senior executives participate in a LTIP with a three-year performance period  
and vesting is subject to Group performance outcomes.

Malus and clawback  
provisions apply.

Measures and targets for long-term incentive plans are consistent for all participants 
and measured over a three-year period.

Malus and clawback  
provisions apply.

A number of colleagues with exceptional 
achievements during the performance 
year are considered for a long-term 
incentive award in the form of Phoenix 
shares with a vesting period of three years.

Malus and clawback provisions apply.
A two-year holding period after the 
vesting date also applies for LTIPs.
Shareholding requirements ensure 
greater alignment with interests  
of shareholders.
• 
• 
• 

 350% of salary for Group CEO 
 300% of salary for Group CFO
 150% of salary for ExCo members

No holding period.

Not applicable.

No SOGs required.

Not applicable.

Consideration of employee pay
When determining the Remuneration policy and remuneration for our Executive Directors, the Committee took into consideration the pay  
and benefits of the wider workforce to ensure that our reward offering remains competitive, attractive, and suitably aligned to our Group 
performance, while supporting our values and purpose of helping people secure a life of possibilities. 

We have a reward policy that is broadly consistent for all levels of employees, with the same remuneration principles guiding reward decisions  
for all Group colleagues, including Executive Directors. The AIP and LTIP performance metrics are the same for Executive Directors as for other 
eligible colleagues, with a higher proportion of total remuneration for the Executive Directors linked to corporate performance. For certain 
areas, business unit aligned metrics are also included in their AIP. Pay for the wider colleague base is driven primarily by market practice 
and there is a standard benefit offering across all levels, except where the external market drives differences based on role accountability. 
Colleagues are also eligible to participate in the Group’s success through our share schemes (ShareSave and Share Incentive Plan) on the  
same basis as those offered to Executive Directors. 

132

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

133

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

We offer benefits which engage and retain our existing colleagues, as well as attract new talent to the organisation. To support this, we offer a 
transparent flexible and tailored reward package that is competitive in the market, with clear principles around pay, alongside comprehensive 
benefits and wellbeing support. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion agenda remains an integral underpin to our approach to reward and to support 
colleague we have extended our Private Medical Insurance for all colleagues to include the addition of IVF treatment and neurodiversity support. 

In 2023 we completed a holistic review of our reward framework to ensure it is appropriate for a business of our size, scale and potential.  
This work included externally benchmarking all roles and career levels to ensure alignment with the external market. A thorough process  
of validation and independent review was undertaken to ensure all colleagues are treated fairly. A number of changes to our grade structure 
were introduced to help accurately define and reward the contribution every role makes. In response to colleague feedback, we also  
published a refreshed and Group-wide set of pay ranges for 2024, rigorously benchmarked using external pay data and designed to give 
greater transparency and confidence on pay at Phoenix Group.  To conclude this extensive remuneration review, we have committed that  
any colleague below the minimum of their pay range will have their fixed pay increased to that minimum level, as a priority, in the 2024 fixed  
pay review. We are a proud Real Living Wage employer, and are committed to ensuring that these pay ranges, which are reviewed annually,  
will always be at or above the Real Living Wage.

Equal pay and consistency of treatment for all colleagues, irrespective of gender or ethnicity, are integral guiding principles of the reward 
practices across the Group. The remuneration principles and framework are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure these are aligned with  
the Group’s purpose, values and sustainability strategy. Maggie Semple, our Designated Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement,  
has joined the Remuneration Committee in 2024 and will provide additional input to the Committee on the views of the wider workforce.  
Further details of Maggie Semple’s engagement with the workforce throughout 2023 are shown on pages 108 to 110 of the Corporate 
governance report.

Payments for loss of office – Audited information
No payments were made to Directors in 2023 for loss of office.

Payments to past directors – Audited information
No payments were made to past Directors in 2023.

The tables above have been included to comply with UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.8. In the event of cessation of a Non-Executive Director’s appointment 
(excluding the Chair of the Group Board) they would be entitled to a one-month notice period. The Chair of the Group Board, as detailed in his 
letter of appointment, would be entitled to a six-month notice period.

Dilution
The Group monitors the number of shares issued under the Group’s employee share plans and their impact on dilution limits. The Group’s 
current practice is for all the executive share plans to use market purchase shares which are held in the Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) on 
exercise of any awards. There is a dividend waiver in place for all shares held in the Trust. For the Group’s all-employee ShareSave Scheme only, 
new shares are issued. Therefore the usage of shares compared to the 10% dilution limits (in any rolling ten-year period) set by the Investment 
Association in respect of all share plans as at 31 December 2023 is 1.39% and no shares count towards the dilution limit for executive plans only 
(5% in any rolling ten-year period). 

Advice provided to the Committee
During the year, the Committee received independent remuneration advice from its appointed adviser, PwC, which is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group (the professional body for remuneration consultants) and adheres to its code of conduct. The Remuneration 
Committee was satisfied that the advice provided by PwC was objective and independent.

PwC also provided general consultancy services to management during the year including support on other Board and Risk matters and 
technical advice regarding share schemes. Separate teams within PwC provided unrelated services in respect of tax, assurance, risk consulting, 
sustainability and transaction support during the year. The Committee is satisfied that these activities did not compromise the independence  
or objectivity of the advice it has received from PwC as Remuneration Committee advisers.

PwC’s fees for work relating to the Committee for 2023 were £142,844 which included continued support for the renewal of the Remuneration 
policy. These were charged on the basis of the firm’s standard terms of business for advice provided. 

The Committee assesses the performance of its advisers regularly, the associated level of fees and reviews the quality of advice provided  
to ensure that it is independent of any support provided to Management.

Directors’ service contracts
The dates of contracts and letters of appointment and the respective notice periods for Directors are as follows:

The Group CEO, Group HR Director, Executive Reward Director and Group Finance Director, attend by invitation various Committee meetings 
during the year. No Executive is ever permitted to participate in discussions or decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.

Executive Directors’ service contracts

Name
Andy Briggs
Rakesh Thakrar

Date of service contract
07 November 2019
06 March 2020

Notice period from either party (months)
12
12

Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards as long as these are not 
deemed to interfere with the business of the Group. They are also entitled to retain any external fees. 

Andy Briggs is a board member of the Association of British Insurers and is the UK Government’s Business Champion for Older Workers.  
He received no payment for either appointment. 

Rakesh Thakrar is a Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Board Audit Committee and a member of the Risk Committee of Bupa Insurance 
Limited and Bupa Insurance Services Limited for which he received payment of £76,959 in 2023 on a pro-rated basis. He remains as a Director 
of Mythili Magha for which no payments are received.

Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment 

Name
Nicholas Lyons
Karen Green
Eleanor Bucks
Mark Gregory
Hiroyuki Iioka
Katie Murray
John Pollock
Belinda Richards
David Scott
Maggie Semple
Nicholas Shott

Date of current appointment 
/re-appointment letter 
8 November 2023
12 May 2023
23 November 2023 
9 March 2023
24 July 2023
1 April 2022
31 October 2022
1 October 2023
11 May 2023
9 May 2022
31 October 2022

Date of expiry of current 
appointment/ 
re-appointment letter1
1 December 2026
30 June 2026
1 December 2026
31 March 2026
23 July 2026
1 April 2025
30 August 2025
30 September 2026
10 May 2026
31 May 2025
30 August 2025

Unexpired term 
(months)
6
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

1 

 The date of expiry refers to each individual Directors’ letter of appointment which covers a three-year term. All Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM on 14 May 2024. 

The Committee consults with the Chief Risk Officer (without Management present) on a regular basis. The Chief Risk Officer is asked to detail 
the extent to which the Group has operated within its stated risk appetite during the year and to keep the Committee informed of any risk-related 
concerns that required the Committee to consider using its judgement to moderate incentive plan outcomes. The Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee also sits on the Risk Committee to enable additional linkage between risk matters and remuneration outcomes.

Voting outcomes on remuneration matters
The table below shows the votes cast to approve the Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2022 and the Directors’ 
Remuneration policy at the 2023 AGM held on 4 May 2023.

To approve the Directors’ Remuneration report for the year  
ended 31 December 2023 (2023 AGM)
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration policy (2023 AGM)

767,333,037
764,184,513

99.20
98.81

6,157,257
9,241,995

0.80
1.19

152,575
216,361

For

Against

Abstentions

Number

% of votes cast

Number

% of votes cast

Number

Approval
This report in its entirety has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:

Nicholas Shott
Remuneration Committee Chair

Approved by the Board on 21 March 2024

134

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

135

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

The Directors’ Remuneration policy 

This appendix contains the Directors’ Remuneration policy approved 
by the Group’s shareholders at the Group’s 2023 AGM. It applies for  
a period of three years, until the 2026 AGM, unless a revised policy  
is approved by shareholders before then.

General policy
The Remuneration policy for Executive Directors is summarised in the table below along with the policy on the Chair’s and the Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees. Further details on the Remuneration policy can be found in the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts on pages 122 to 125.

Remuneration principles 

The Group’s overall positioning on remuneration for Executive Directors has been set with reference to the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, best practice and feedback received from shareholders during consultation.

An appropriate balance is maintained between fixed and variable components of remuneration.

Remuneration is aligned to the long-term success of the Group.

Remuneration takes account of the risk profile of the Group.

Remuneration supports a strong pay for performance culture.

Our Remuneration policy benchmarks the total target remuneration for the Executive Directors using appropriate market data sets which are 
consistent with those used for other roles in the Group.

This section does not form part of the Remuneration policy and is for information only.

How our Remuneration policy addresses the following factors set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
Clarity and simplicity
• The reward framework seeks to embed simplicity and transparency in the design and delivery of remuneration. Both the Corporate element 

and the Strategic Scorecard relating to the AIP have transparent, measurable metrics.

• We have included diagrams and charts in this Remuneration report to improve clarity for readers regarding the alignment of Executive 

remuneration with shareholders and our strategy.

Risk
• The Committee undertakes an annual review of risk before confirming the outcomes for the AIP to ensure that there are no risk-related 

concerns that require the moderation of AIP outcomes. 

•  Malus and clawback operate in respect of the AIP and LTIPs (see page 123 in the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts for details on trigger events).

• The Committee may apply discretion to override formulaic outcomes if they are considered inconsistent with the underlying performance 

of the Group.

Proportionality
• A high percentage of rewards are delivered in the form of shares, meaning Executive Directors are strongly aligned with shareholders

• Executive Directors are required to hold shares from LTIP awards for two years following vesting which provides focus on sustainable 

share price growth. Significant deferral levels under the AIP further align remuneration outcomes to shareholders.

Predictability
• The range of potential award levels to individual Executive Directors is set out in the scenario chart on page 118 which also demonstrates 

the impact of potential share price growth by 50% over the three-year performance period until LTIP vesting. 

Alignment to culture
•  We have engaged with our employees through Peakon (our employee engagement survey), PCRF (our colleague representative forum), 

our many employee networks, and our Designated Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement to develop our values and to improve our 
understanding of what is required to become a high-performing organisation. Our remuneration philosophy supports our purpose and core values.

Remuneration policy table

Element and purpose in 
supporting strategic objectives

Base Salary
This is the core element of pay  
which supports the recruitment  
and retention of Executive Directors  
and reflects the individual’s role and 
position within the Group as well as  
their capability and contribution.

Benefits 
To provide other benefits valued by 
recipient.

Pension
To provide retirement benefits which 
keep Phoenix Group competitive within 
the marketplace and provide for the 
future of our employees.

Policy and operation 

Maximum

Performance measures

• Base salaries are reviewed each 

• Salary levels are specific to the role 

• N/A

and individual. 

• Maximum salary will be the median level 
of salaries for CEOs in the FTSE31–100 
(currently £812,000), provided that this 
figure may be increased in line with UK 
RPI inflation for the duration of this policy.

• However, when reviewing salaries for 

Executive Directors, the Remuneration 
Committee will also review the salaries, 
and salary increases, for senior 
management and employees in relevant
countries to maintain consistency. 
Percentage increases for Executive 
Directors will not exceed that of the 
broader employee population, other 
than in specific circumstances identified 
by the Remuneration Committee 
(e.g. in response to a substantial 
change in responsibilities). 

• It is not possible to prescribe the likely 
change in the cost of insured benefits 
or the cost of some of the other reported 
benefits year-to-year, but the provision 
of benefits will normally operate. 
• The Remuneration Committee will 

monitor the costs in practice and ensure 
that the overall costs do not increase 
by more than the Remuneration 
Committee considers to be appropriate 
in all the circumstances.

• Relocation expenses are subject 
to a maximum limit of £50,000.

• N/A

• Pension contributions for Executive 
Directors are aligned with the wider 
workforce rate which is currently 
12% of salary (reduced to 10.6% when 
taken as cash in lieu of contribution).

• N/A

year against companies of similar 
size and complexity. Both salary levels 
and overall remuneration are set by 
reference to the median data of 
comparators which the Remuneration 
Committee considers to be suitable 
based on index, size and sector. 
• The Remuneration Committee uses 
this data as a key reference point 
in considering the appropriate level 
of salary. Other relevant factors 
including corporate and individual 
performance and any changes in an 
individual’s role and responsibilities,
and the level of salary increases 
awarded to other employees of the 
Group are also considered.

• Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
• Changes to base salaries normally 

take effect from 1 April.

• The Group provides market competitive 
benefits in kind. Details of the benefits 
provided in each year will be set 
out in the Implementation Report. 
The Remuneration Committee 
reserves discretion to introduce new 
benefits where it concludes that it is 
in the interests of the Group to do 
so, having regard to the particular 
circumstances and to market practice.

• Where appropriate, the Group will 

meet certain costs relating to Executive 
Director relocations and other 
exceptional expenses.

• The Group provides a competitive 

employer sponsored defined 
contribution pension plan.

• All Executive Directors are eligible to 

participate in the Defined Contribution 
Pension Plan available to all new joiners 
or they may opt to receive the 
contribution in cash if they are impacted 
by the relevant lifetime or annual limits. 
Any such cash payments are reduced 
for the effect of employers’ National 
Insurance Contributions.

• Phoenix will honour the pensions 
obligations entered into under all 
previous policies in accordance with 
the terms of such obligations.

136

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

137

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Remuneration policy table

Element and purpose in 
supporting strategic objectives

Annual Incentive Plan (‘AIP’) and  
Deferred Bonus Share Scheme (‘DBSS’)
To motivate employees and incentivise 
delivery of annual performance targets 
aligned to strategy.

Policy and operation 

Maximum

Performance measures

• The maximum annual incentive level for 
an Executive Director is 200% of base 
salary per annum.

• AIP levels and the appropriateness 
of measures are reviewed annually 
to ensure they continue to support the 
Group’s strategy.

• AIP outcomes are paid in cash in one 

tranche (less the deferred share award).

• At least 50% of any annual AIP award 

is to be deferred into shares for a 
period of three years although the 
Remuneration Committee reserves 
discretion to alter the current practice 
of deferral (whether by altering the 
portion deferred, the period of deferral 
or whether amounts are deferred into 
cash or shares). Such alterations may 
be required to ensure compliance with 
regulatory guidelines for pay within the 
insurance sector, but will not otherwise 
reduce the current deferral level or 
the period of deferral.

• Deferral of AIP outcomes into shares 
is currently made under the DBSS.
• Awards under DBSS will be in the 
form of awards to receive shares 
for nil-cost. 

• DBSS awards are typically made 
automatically each year on the 
fourth dealing day following the 
announcement of annual results, 
using the average of the preceding 
three dealing days’ share prices 
to calculate the number of shares 
in awards.

• The three-year period of deferral 
will run to the third anniversary of 
the award date.

• Dividend entitlements will accrue over 
the three-year deferral period and be 
delivered as additional vesting shares.

• Malus/clawback provisions apply to 

the AIP and to amounts deferred under
DBSS as explained in the notes to 
this table.

• The performance measures applied 

to AIP will be set by the Remuneration 
Committee and may be financial or 
non-financial and corporate, divisional 
or individual and in such proportions as
it considers appropriate. However, the 
weighting of financial performance 
measures will not be reduced below 
60% of total AIP potential in any year 
for the duration of this policy.
• In respect of the financial and 

non-financial performance measures, 
attaining the threshold performance 
level produces a £nil annual 
incentive payment.

• On-target performance on all measures 

produces an outcome of 50% of 
maximum annual incentive opportunity. 
However, the Remuneration Committee 
reserves the right to adjust the threshold 
and target levels for future financial 
years in light of competitive practice.
• The AIP operates subject to three levels 

of moderation:
–  either through management 

guidance or consensus forecasts). 
Recognising that the business of 
the Group is to engage in corporate 
activity, the Remuneration Committee
may adjust targets during the year 
to take account of such activity 
and ensure the targets continue 
to reflect performance as 
originally intended.

–  There is a specific adjustment 
factor of 80%–120% of the 
provisional outturn whereby the 
Remuneration Committee may 
adjust the provisional figure 
(but subject to any over-riding 
cap) to take account of its broad 
assessment of performance 
both against pre-set targets, risk 
considerations, and more generally, 
of the wider universe of stakeholders.
With respect to financial performance 
measures, this assessment will include 
consideration of the quality of how 
particular outcomes were achieved.

–  The AIP remains a discretionary 

arrangement and the Remuneration 
Committee reserves discretion to 
adjust the outturn (from zero to 
any cap) should it consider that 
to be appropriate. In particular, 
the Remuneration Committee may 
operate this discretion in respect 
of any risk concern.

Remuneration policy table

Element and purpose in 
supporting strategic objectives

Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
To motivate and incentivise delivery  
of sustained performance over the 
long-term in line with our strategy  
and purpose, and to promote  
alignment with shareholders’ interests,  
the Group operates the Phoenix  
Group Holdings plc LTIP.

All-employee share plans 
To encourage share ownership by 
employees, thereby allowing them to 
participate in the long-term success  
of the Group and align their interests  
with those of the shareholders.

Policy and operation 

Maximum

Performance measures

• The Remuneration Committee may 
set such performance measures for 
LTIP awards as it considers appropriate 
(whether financial or non-financial 
and whether corporate, divisional 
or individual). 

• The Remuneration Committee retains 
discretion to adjust the weightings or 
substitute metrics but would expect 
to consult with its major shareholders 
regarding any material changes of the 
current performance measures applied
for LTIP awards made to Executive 
Directors or the relative weightings 
between these performance measures.

• For every LTIP award, appropriate 

disclosures regarding the proposed 
performance conditions will be made 
in the annual Implementation Report.
• Once set, performance measures and 
targets will generally remain unaltered 
unless events occur which, in the 
Remuneration Committee’s opinion, 
make it appropriate to make adjustments 
to the performance measures to ensure 
alignment with strategic objectives, 
provided that any adjusted 
performance measure is, in its opinion, 
neither materially more nor less difficult 
to satisfy than the original measure.
• For each part of an LTIP award subject 
to a specific performance condition, 
the threshold level of vesting will be 
no more than 25% of that part of the 
LTIP award.

• The performance period for LTIP 

awards will be at least three years, but 
the Remuneration Committee reserves 
discretion to lengthen the applicable 
performance periods for LTIP awards.

• Consistent with normal practice, 
such awards are not subject to 
performance conditions.

• The formal limit under the LTIP is 300% 
of base salary per annum (and 400% 
per annum in exceptional cases).
• The Remuneration Committee’s 

practice is to make LTIP awards to 
Executive Directors each year over 
shares with a value (as at the award date) 
of up to 275% of the CEO’s annual base 
salary and 200% of the CFO’s annual 
base salary although discretion is 
reserved to make awards up to the 
maximum levels for the policy as 
stated above.

• Awards under the LTIP may be in 

any of the forms of awards to receive 
shares for nil-cost (as described for 
DBSS above).

• LTIP awards are typically made 
automatically each year on the 
fourth dealing day following the 
announcement of annual results, using 
the average of the preceding three 
dealing days’ share prices to calculate 
the number of shares in awards.

• The vesting period will be at least three 
years and run until the third anniversary 
of the award date (unless a longer 
vesting period is introduced).

• A holding period will apply so that 

Executive Directors may not normally 
exercise vested LTIP awards until the 
fifth anniversary of the award date.
• Dividend entitlements will accrue until 

the end of the holding period in respect 
of performance vested shares and be 
delivered as additional vesting shares.
• Malus/clawback provisions apply on 
a basis consistent with the equivalent 
provisions in the AIP and DBSS and 
as explained in the notes to this table.

• The Group will honour the vesting 

of all awards granted under previous 
policies in accordance with the terms 
of such awards.

• Executive Directors are able to 

• ShareSave – the Remuneration 

participate in all-employee share 
plans on the same terms as other 
Group employees as required by 
HMRC legislation.

Committee has the facility to allow 
individuals to save up to a maximum of 
£500 each month (or such other level 
as permitted by HMRC legislation) for 
a fixed period of three or five years. 
At the end of the savings period, 
individuals may use their savings to 
buy ordinary shares in the Group at 
a discount of up to 20% of the market 
price set at the launch of each scheme.

• Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) – the 

Remuneration Committee has the 
facility to allow individuals to have the 
opportunity to purchase, out of their 
pre-tax salary, shares in the Group and 
receive one matching share for every 
purchased share up to a maximum of 
£50. The maximum saving is £150 each 
month (or up to such level as permitted 
by the Group in line with HMRC 
legislation). SIP also has the facility 
to allow for reinvestment of dividends 
in further shares, or the award of 
additional free shares (up to the limits 
as permitted by HMRC legislation).1

1  Updated from two matching shares to correct a typographical error.

138

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

139

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ Remuneration report continued

Directors’ report

Remuneration policy table

Element and purpose in 
supporting strategic objectives

Shareholding guidelines 
To encourage share ownership by the 
Executive Directors over the long-term, 
including post cessation of employment, 
and ensure interests are aligned.

Chair of the Group Board and 
Non-Executive Director fees

Policy and operation 

Maximum

Performance measures

• Executive Directors are expected to 

• N/A

• N/A

retain all shares (net of tax) which vest 
under the DBSS and under the LTIP 
(or any other discretionary long-term 
incentive arrangement introduced in 
the future) until such time as they hold 
a minimum of 350% of base salary 
in shares for the CEO and 300% of 
base salary in shares for the CFO. 

• Only beneficially owned shares, vested 

share awards, and unvested share 
awards not subject to performance 
conditions (discounted for anticipated 
tax liabilities), may be counted for 
the purposes of the guidelines. 
Share awards subject to performance 
conditions do not count prior to vesting.

• Once shareholding guidelines have 

been met, individuals are expected to 
retain these levels as a minimum. The 
Remuneration Committee will review 
shareholdings annually in the context 
of this policy.

• Post cessation of employment, 

Executive Directors are expected to 
retain the lower of their full level of 
employment shareholding guideline or 
their actual shareholding at termination 
for a period of two years.

•  The fees paid to the Chair of the 

• The aggregate fees of the Chair of 

•  N/A

the Group Board and Non-Executive 
Directors will not exceed the limit from 
time to time prescribed within the 
Group’s Articles of Association for 
such fees (currently £2 million per 
annum in aggregate).

• The Group reserves the right to vary 
the structure of fees within this limit 
including, for example, introducing 
time-based fees or reflecting the 
establishment of new Board or 
subsidiary company committees.

Group Board and the fees of the other 
Non-Executive Directors are set to be 
competitive with other listed companies 
of equivalent size and complexity.

•  The Group does not adopt a quantitative 

approach to pay positioning and 
exercises judgement as to what it 
considers to be reasonable in all the 
circumstances as regards quantum.

•  Additional fees are paid to Non-
Executive Directors who chair or 
are a member of a Board committee, 
or sit on the board of a subsidiary 
company or on the Solvency II Model 
Governance Committee, and to the 
Senior Independent Director (‘SID’) 
and Designated NED for 
Workforce Engagement. 

•  Fees are paid monthly in cash.
•  Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors 
are reviewed annually with any changes
normally taking effect from 1 January. 
Additional reviews may take place in 
exceptional circumstances, such as 
following major corporate events, to 
ensure that fees remain appropriate 
in the context of the Group’s size and 
complexity and to reflect the time 
commitment required.

The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 December 2023. 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc is incorporated in England and Wales (registered 
no. 11606773) and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.

Shareholders

Dividends

Dividends for the year ended  
31 December 2023

Share capital

Issued share capital

Authority to purchase  
own shares

Dividends for the year are as follows:

Ordinary shares

Paid Interim dividend

Recommended Final dividend

Total ordinary dividend

26.0p per share (2022: 24.8p per share) 

26.65p per share (2022: 26.0p per share)

52.65p per share (2022: 50.8p per share)

Dividends declared in respect of the Company’s ordinary shares must be capable of being cancelled  
and withheld or deferred at any time prior to payment. This is so that the Company’s ordinary shares can  
be counted towards Group capital. Accordingly, the Final dividend will be declared on a conditional basis 
and the Directors reserve the right to cancel or defer the recommended dividend. The Directors do not 
expect to exercise this right other than where they believe that it may be necessary to do so as a result  
of legal or regulatory requirements.

The issued share capital of the Company increased by 1,185,942 shares during 2023 which related to shares 
issued under the Company’s ShareSave Scheme.

At 31 December 2023, the issued ordinary share capital totalled 1,001,538,419. Subsequently, 9,467 ordinary 
shares have been issued in 2024 in connection with the Company’s ShareSave Scheme to bring the total  
in issue to 1,001,547,886 at the date of this Directors’ report. Full details of the issued and fully paid share 
capital as at 31 December 2023 and movements in share capital during the period are presented in note D1 
to the IFRS consolidated financial statements.

At the Company’s 2023 AGM, shareholders approved the renewal of the Company’s authority to make 
purchases of up to 100,045,720 of its own shares and make payment for the redemption or purchase of its 
own shares in any manner permitted by the Companies Act 2006 including without limitation, out of capital, 
profits, share premium or the proceeds of a new issue of shares. The authority was not used and none of the 
Company’s ordinary shares were purchased by the Company during 2023. The authority will expire at the 
2024 AGM. A resolution to renew this authority shall be proposed in the 2024 AGM Notice of Meeting.

Treasury shares

The Company held no treasury shares during the year or up to the date of this Directors’ report.

Rights and obligations  
attached

The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s  
Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’) which are available on the Company’s website at 
www.thephoenixgroup.com.

Phoenix Group Employee 
Benefit Trust (‘EBT’)

Where the EBT holds shares for unvested awards, the voting rights for these shares are exercisable  
by the trustees of the EBT at their discretion, taking into account the recommendations of the Group.

Restrictions on transfer  
of shares

Substantial shareholdings

Under the Articles, the Directors may, in certain circumstances, refuse to register transfers of shares. Certain 
restrictions on the transfer of shares may be imposed from time to time by applicable laws and regulations 
(for example, insider trading laws), and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA and Phoenix Group’s own 
share dealing rules whereby Directors and certain employees of the Group require individual authorisation 
to deal in the Company’s ordinary shares.

Information provided to the Company pursuant to Chapter 5 of the FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules (‘DTR’) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s  
website. As at 31 December 2023, the following interests with voting rights in the ordinary share capital  
of the Company had been notified to it under DTR 5. No changes have occurred in respect of the holdings 
below between 31 December 2023 and 21 March 2024.

Name

MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc.

abrdn plc

BlackRock, Inc.

Kingdom Holding Company

Number of voting 
rights in shares

Percentage of 
shares in issue

144,877,304

107,025,201

51,251,518

50,051,192

14.48%

10.70%

5.12% 

 5.00%

140

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

141

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Shareholders continued

AGM

2024 AGM

Investor communications

Investor communications

Board

The AGM of the Company will be held at Floor 22, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 100 Bishopsgate, 
London, EC2P 2SR on 14 May 2024 at 10am. A separate Notice of Meeting convening this AGM will be 
distributed to shareholders in due course and will include an explanation of the items of business to be 
considered at the meeting.

The Company’s Annual Report, together with the Company’s Half Year Report and other public 
announcements and presentations, are designed to present a fair, balanced and understandable  
view of Phoenix Group’s activities and prospects. These are available on the Company’s website  
at www.thephoenixgroup.com, along with a wide range of relevant information for private and  
institutional investors, including the Company’s financial calendar.

Board membership

The membership of the Board of Directors during 2023 is given within the Corporate governance report  
on pages 64 to 67, which is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report.

Related party transactions

Appointment, re-election  
and removal of Directors

During 2023, and up to the date of this Directors’ report, the following changes to the Board took place:
• Mark Gregory was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2023.
• Stephanie Bruce, abrdn plc Shareholder Nominated Director, retired as a Director on 11 May 2023.
• David Scott, abrdn plc Shareholder Nominated Director, was appointed as a Director on 11 May 2023.
• Kory Sorenson retired as a Director on 30 June 2023.
• Nicholas Lyons returned from his sabbatical as Chair of the Group Board on 1 December 2023.
•

 Alastair Barbour stepped down as Chair of the Group Board on 30 November 2023 and retired 
as a Director on 31 December 2023.

• Eleanor Bucks was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2023.

Details of related party transactions which took place during the year with Directors of the Company and 
consolidated entities where Directors are deemed to have significant influence, are provided in note I4  
to the IFRS consolidated financial statements.

The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles. These state that  
a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by a resolution of the Directors.  
If appointed by a resolution of the Directors, the Director concerned holds office only until the conclusion  
of the next AGM following their appointment.

In accordance with the 2018 Code, Directors must stand for election/re-election annually.

The Board of Directors will be unanimously recommending that all of the Directors should be put forward  
for election/re-election at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 14 May 2024.

The Articles give details of the circumstances in which Directors will be treated as having automatically  
vacated their office and also state that the Company’s shareholders may remove a Director from office  
by passing an ordinary resolution.

Director powers and authorities The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act 2006, the provisions of the Articles  

and by any valid directions given by shareholders by way of special resolution.

Directors’ remuneration  
and interests

Directors’ indemnities

The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue securities and grant options over or otherwise dispose  
of shares under the Articles.

A report on Directors’ remuneration is presented within the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages  
111 to 140 including details of their interests in shares and share options or any rights to subscribe  
for shares in the Company.

The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of its Directors whereby the Company has 
agreed to indemnify each Director against all losses incurred by them in the exercise, execution or discharge 
of their powers or duties as a Director of the Company, provided that the indemnity shall not apply when 
prohibited by any applicable law.

The deeds of indemnity remain in force as at the date of signature of this Directors’ report.

Directors’ conflicts of interest

The Board has established procedures for handling conflicts of interest in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and the Articles. See page 70 of the Corporate governance report for more detail.

Directors’ and Officers’  
liability insurance

On an ongoing basis, Directors are responsible for informing the Group Company Secretary of any new, 
actual or potential conflicts that may arise.

The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover which is renewed annually.

As part of its comprehensive assessment 
as to whether Phoenix Group is a Going 
concern, the Board has considered 
financial projections over the period to 
31 March 2025, which demonstrate the 
ability of Phoenix Group to withstand 
market shocks in a range of severe but 
plausible stress scenarios.

Rakesh Thakrar, Group Chief Financial Officer

Governance

Going concern

Phoenix Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out  
in the Strategic report. The Strategic report includes details of Phoenix Group’s cash flow and solvency position, including sensitivities for both, 
alongside details of any key events affecting the Company (and its consolidated subsidiaries) since the end of the financial year. Principal risks 
and their mitigation are detailed on pages 50 to 57. In addition, the IFRS consolidated financial statements include, amongst other things, notes 
on Phoenix Group’s borrowings (note E5), management of its financial risk including market, credit and liquidity risk (note E6), its commitments and 
contingent liabilities (notes I5 and I6) and its capital management (note I3). The Strategic report (on pages 20 to 23) sets out the business model 
and how Phoenix Group creates value for shareholders and policyholders.

As part of its comprehensive assessment as to whether Phoenix Group is a Going concern, the Board has considered financial projections  
over the period to 31 March 2025, which demonstrate the ability of Phoenix Group to withstand market shocks in a range of severe but  
plausible stress scenarios. Further details of these stress scenarios are included in the Viability statement on pages 58 and 59, but they include  
a recessionary economic stress that reflects a further increase in inflation, additional credit downgrades and falling equity and property values.  
The projections demonstrate that appropriate levels of capital would remain in the Life Companies under both the base and reasonably 
foreseeable stress scenarios, thus supporting cash generation in the Going concern period. In addition, the Board noted Phoenix Group’s 
access to additional funding through its undrawn £1.75 billion revolving credit facility. The stresses do not give rise to any material uncertainties 
over Phoenix Group’s ability to continue as a Going concern.

The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that Phoenix Group has adequate resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and 
continue in operational existence over the period to 31 March 2025, the period covered by the Going concern assessment. Thus, they continue 
to adopt the Going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.

The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in relation to the IFRS financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Viability statement

The Viability statement, as required by the 2018 Code, has been undertaken for a period of three years to align to Phoenix Group’s business 
planning and is detailed on pages 58 and 59. 

Corporate governance statement

The disclosures required by section 7.2 of the FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can be found in the Corporate  
governance report on pages 60 to 147 which is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report and comprises the Company’s  
Corporate governance statement.

The 2018 Code applies to the Company and details on the Company’s compliance with the Code are included in the Corporate governance 
report on page 68. The 2018 Code is available on the website of the FRC – www.frc.org.uk. The new UK Corporate Governance Code 2024 
was published in January 2024 and will become effective 1 January 2025 and 1 January 2026 for Provision 29. Phoenix Group will ensure  
that compliance with the 2024 Code is appropriately measured and disclosed.

The disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the following matters are set out in the Strategic report, as below:

Our strategy and  
future developments

Our people and diversity

The Company’s strategy and priorities for 2023 are highlighted  
in the ‘Our strategic priorities’ section of the Strategic report.

• See pages 24 to 29 of the 

Strategic report.

The Company’s People strategy for colleagues is detailed  
in the Group’s Sustainability Report. The Company’s diversity  
and inclusion targets for colleagues are also detailed in the  
Group Sustainability Report, with highlights set out in the  
Strategic report.

• See pages 28, 29 and 63. 
• See the Sustainability Report 
on the Company’s website. 

142

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

143

Corporate governanceCorporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Governance continued

Disability

Our people and engagement

Our business relationships

Phoenix Group has an Equal Opportunities and Diversity 
Framework which ensures full and fair consideration is given  
to applications from, and the continuing employment and  
training of, disabled people. Phoenix Group also has a Reasonable 
Adjustments guidelines which sets out Phoenix Group’s duty to 
make reasonable adjustments to help ensure that all colleagues 
can access opportunities and thrive in employment. In addition, 
Phoenix Group has a Dignity at Work policy which sets out its 
commitment to creating a work environment free of discrimination 
where everyone is treated with dignity and respect. One of our 
colleague inclusion networks, ‘Enable’ promotes the interests of 
colleagues with disabilities and other long-term health conditions.

Details of how the Company has engaged with employees  
during the year can be found in the Stakeholder engagement 
section of the Strategic report and ‘Engagement in action’ section 
of the Corporate governance report. In addition, details of how  
the Board has considered the interests of employees in key 
decision-making can be found in the Section 172 statement 
included in the Strategic report and the Corporate governance 
report. Information about how the Board has engaged with the 
workforce can also be found in the Corporate governance report. 

During the year, information about Phoenix Group’s performance 
and market trends impacting Phoenix Group was shared via an 
all-employee intranet. In addition, colleagues were invited to 
participate in Phoenix Group’s ShareSave Scheme, advertised 
through the all-employee intranet.

Details of how the Company has engaged with its customers, 
suppliers and others can be found in the Stakeholder Engagement 
section of the Strategic report. In addition, details of how the 
Board has considered the need to foster the Company’s business 
relationships with suppliers, customers and others can be found  
in the Section 172 statement included in the Strategic report on 
page 11 and Corporate governance report on pages 74 to 77.

•  See the Company’s website  

for more information.

•  See page 11 of the Strategic  

report and pages 108 to 110 of the 
Corporate governance report (for 
colleague engagement) and pages 
74 to 77 (for Section 172 statement).

•  See pages 74 to 77  

(for Section 172 statement). 

Greenhouse gas  
(‘GHG’) emissions

All disclosures concerning Phoenix Group’s GHG emissions  
are contained in the Group’s Streamlined Energy and Carbon 
Reporting (‘SECR’) Statement forming part of the Strategic report.

•  See pages 42 and 43  
of the Strategic report.

Other disclosures required within this Corporate governance statement are set out below:

Task Force on Climate related 
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)

In accordance with LR 9.8.6R, climate-related financial disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations 
and Recommended Disclosures are contained in the Climate Report, a summary of which has been included 
in the Strategic report on pages 44 and 45 due to their strategic importance.

Board diversity  
– gender and ethnicity

During 2023, significant progress has been made in further embedding the recommendations of the  
TCFD and aligned with the expectations of the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 3/19. In light of this progress,  
the recognised strategic importance of climate risks and opportunities and the increasing need for 
transparent climate reporting, Phoenix Group has published a standalone Climate Report which is  
available on the Company’s website.

In accordance with LR 9.8.6R, a statement on Board diversity targets and numerical data on the ethnic 
background and gender of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee are included in the Corporate 
governance report on page 85. Data was collated through the standard process for preparing Phoenix Group’s 
annual submission to the Department for Business & Trade (formerly BEIS) in respect of the Parker Review: 
FTSE 350 Ethnic Diversity Data Submission and FTSE Women Leaders review, under applicable data 
protection laws.

Governance continued

Energy usage and Carbon 
Emissions under the  
Companies (Directors’  
Report) and Limited Liability 
Partnerships (Energy and 
Carbon Report) Regulations 
2018 (SI 2018/1155)

Phoenix Group’s SECR statement on the Group’s UK and global energy consumption and GHG emissions 
for the financial year 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023, and the 2022 comparative year is contained  
in the Strategic report on pages 42 and 43.

Branches

The Company, through its subsidiaries, has established branches in Germany, Hong Kong and Ireland.

Political donations

Phoenix Group is a politically neutral organisation and, as further explained below, did not make any  
political donations or incur any political expenditure (within the ordinary meaning of those words) in  
2023. The Company regularly engages with regulators and policymakers (including those associated  
with political parties and governments) to listen and to contribute to discussions on a wide range of matters. 
Such engagement is an important part of our strategy and contributes to initiatives enabling the UK in its 
goal of reaching net zero by 2050. Further information on how we engage with stakeholders can be found 
on pages 74 to 77; and our Sustainability and Climate Reports, which include information on our own net 
zero ambitions can be found on our website at www.thephoenixgroup.com. 

Due to the broad definition of political donations under the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) and as a matter 
of good governance and transparency, we have provided information on areas of expenditure incurred as  
a result of this engagement which may be regarded as falling within the scope of the Companies Act 2006. 

During the year ended 31 December 2023, Phoenix Group exhibited at, sponsored, and held events at, 
conferences organised by political parties, spending a total of £63,982.40. This included sponsorship  
of events at the Labour Party Annual Conference (£24,000), Conservative Party Annual Conference 
(£29,396.40) and Scottish National Party Annual Conference (£9,936). The Company also contributed 
£650 to a pensioners fair run the Member of Parliament for the Wythall region, in which the Group has  
an office. These events allow Phoenix Group to present its views on a non-partisan basis to politicians from 
across the political spectrum and non-political stakeholders such as NGOs and other listed and non-listed 
companies. These payments do not indicate support for any political party. At the 2024 AGM, Phoenix 
Group will be seeking renewal from shareholders of the existing authority approved at the 2023 AGM. 
More details are contained in the Notice of Meeting which can be found on the Company’s website at  
www.thephoenixgroup.com.

Articles of Association

Changes to the Articles require prior shareholder approval by special resolution. 

Re-appointment of  
the External Auditor

Disclosure of information  
to External Auditor

The Articles are available on the Company’s website at www.thephoenixgroup.com/about-us/governance.

Following a full tender process in respect of external audit services that took place in 2021, the Audit Committee 
recommended to the Board that KPMG be appointed as the Company’s Auditor, commencing with the 
financial period starting from 1 January 2024. As outgoing Auditor, EY will provide the Company with  
a Statement of Reasons, as required by the 2006 Act, which will be circulated to shareholders as a 
supplement to the Notice of Meeting ahead of the 2024 AGM on 14 May 2024. 

There is no cap on Auditor liability in place in relation to audit work carried out on the IFRS consolidated 
financial statements and the Group’s UK subsidiaries’ individual financial statements.

Details of fees paid to EY during 2023 for audit and non-audit work are disclosed in note C6 to the IFRS 
consolidated financial statements.

The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they  
are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s External Auditor is unaware and 
that each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s External Auditor is aware of  
that information.

Group Company Secretary

The Group Company Secretary during the period was Kulbinder Dosanjh. 

Fair, balanced and 
understandable

In accordance with the 2018 Code, the Directors confirm that they have reviewed the Annual Report  
and consider that it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess Phoenix Group’s position, performance, business model and strategy.

144

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Phoenix Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

145

Corporate governanceCorporate governance